FILE:S/S-8K-20050818171618.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
 
Founder's Grants
 
On August 12, 2005, in connection with the completion of the merger (the "Merger") of Nextel Communications, Inc. ("Nextel") with and into S-N Merger Corp. (the "Surviving Corporation"), a wholly owned subsidiary of Sprint Corporation ("Sprint") which changed its name to Sprint Nextel Corporation ("Sprint Nextel"), Sprint Nextel awarded to members of its board of directors and its employees 10 restricted stock units, which represent the right to receive 10 shares of Sprint Nextel common stock, par value $2.00 per share, one year from the date of the award. The award will vest immediately if an outside director ceases to be a member of the Sprint Nextel board of directors, or an employee becomes eligible for severance benefits under an applicable Sprint Nextel severance or change of control plan. Termination of employment for any other reason, including retirement, death or disability, will terminate the award. Awards to employees who become employees of the local telecommunications business expected to be spun-off from Sprint Nextel (the "New Local Company") will continue, unless the New Local Company grants a similar award to its employees, in which case the awards to those employees will terminate. Holders of the awards are not eligible to receive any cash or non-cash dividends that may be declared on Sprint Nextel common stock until the underlying shares are delivered following vesting.
 
Acceleration of Option Vesting
 
On August 12, 2005, amendments to the option agreements of Thomas N. Kelly, Sprint Nextel's Chief Strategy Officer and formerly Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of Nextel, were adopted to provide for the immediate vesting of all such stock options, which represent the right to acquire 580,269 shares of Sprint Nextel common stock.
 
Amendment to the Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan
 
On August 12, 2005, amendments to the Sprint Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (the "SERP") were adopted, pursuant to which persons employed by Nextel prior to the merger were precluded from participation and accruals under all benefit formulas of the SERP will cease on December 31, 2005 for each participant, except for any participant who is specifically designated to provide services to Sprint Nextel in connection with the New Local Company or a participant to which Sprint Nextel is obligated to provide benefit accruals as of the date of the Merger under an employment agreement.
 
Outside Director Compensation
 
On August 12, 2005, the board of directors of Sprint Nextel approved a compensation program for outside directors of Sprint Nextel. Pursuant to the compensation program, outside directors will receive an annual cash retainer of $70,000 and board and committee meeting fees of $2,000 per meeting ($1,000 for telephonic meetings). The compensation program also provides that the chairs of the Audit Committee, Human Capital and Compensation Committee and other committees will receive additional annual retainers of $20,000, $15,000, and $10,000, respectively. In addition, the two co-lead independent directors will receive additional annual retainers of $75,000. Outside directors will also receive an annual grant of $100,000 in restricted stock units that vests one year after grant and telecommunications services and products.
 
Executive Compensation
 
On August 12, 2005, the Human Capital and Compensation Committee of the board of directors of Sprint Nextel established base salaries for 2006, short-term incentive/annual cash bonus ("STI") targets for 2006, long-term incentive ("LTI") targets for 2006 and synergy targets for the two-year period commencing January 1, 2006 for the executive officers of Sprint Nextel other than Messrs. Donahue, Forsee and Hesse.
 
The base salary increases range from $8,800 to $150,000, the STI targets and the LTI targets range from 50% to 130% of base salary and 200% to 721% of base salary, respectively, and the synergy targets range from $300,000 to $1,500,000. The performance objectives for the STI, LTI and two-year synergy bonuses have yet to be established, but it is anticipated that such objectives will be based on the operating plans of Sprint Nextel following the Merger. It is anticipated that the actual incentive amounts paid under each of the STI, LTI and two-year synergy bonus programs will be based on actual results in relation to the established performance objectives, and such payments may be greater or less than the targets that have been established.
 
The following table includes specific information regarding each executive officer of Sprint and Nextel that was named in each company's summary compensation table for 2004, included in the joint proxy statement/prospectus, dated June 10, 2005, filed as part of Sprint's registration statement on Form S-4 (Registration Statement No. 333-123333), who is an executive officer of Sprint Nextel.
 
 
Guarantee Supplemental Indenture
 
The information reported below under Item 2.03 with respect to the Guarantee Supplemental Indenture (as defined below) is incorporated into this Item 1.01 by reference.
 
Item 2.01 Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets.
 
On August 12, 2005, the Merger was consummated. Former Nextel common stockholders will receive 1.26750218 shares of Sprint Nextel common stock and $0.84629198 in cash in exchange for each share of Nextel common stock they own.
 
 
Assumption of Nextel Indentures
 
On August, 12, 2005, in connection with the completion of the Merger, the Surviving Corporation executed supplemental indentures (the "Supplemental Indentures") to become obligated under the indenture, dated January 26, 2000, between Nextel and BNY Midwest Trust Company, as Trustee, relating to Nextel's 5.25% Convertible Senior Redeemable Notes due 2010 (the "Convertible Notes," and such indenture, the "Convertible Notes Indenture"), the indenture, dated January 26, 2001, between Nextel and BNY Midwest Trust Company, as Trustee, relating to Nextel's 9.5% Senior Serial Redeemable Notes due 2011 (the "9.5% Senior Notes," and such indenture, the "9.5% Senior Notes Indenture), and the indenture, dated as of July 31,
 
2003, between Nextel and BNY Midwest Trust Company, as Trustee (the "2003 Senior Notes Indenture," and together with the Convertible Notes Indenture and the 9.5% Senior Notes Indenture, the "Nextel Indentures"), including the obligations specified in each of the forms of notes issued thereunder. The material terms of the Convertible Notes Indenture, the 9.5% Senior Notes Indenture and the 2003 Senior Notes Indenture and forms of notes thereunder are as follows:
 
Convertible Notes Indenture
 
At June 30, 2005, the balance of the Convertible Notes was approximately $607 million. Under the Convertible Notes Indenture, cash interest on the principal amount of the Convertible Notes is payable semi-annually in arrears on January 15 and July 15 of each year, at a rate of 5.25% per annum. The Convertible Notes are convertible at the option of the holders, prior to redemption or maturity, at a conversion price of $57.23 per share (subject to adjustment upon the occurrence of certain events), into a combination of Sprint Nextel common stock and cash, the allocation of which would be based on shares of Sprint Nextel common stock and cash received in exchange for each share of Nextel common stock owned by former Nextel common stockholders in connection with the Merger. The Convertible Notes are redeemable at the Surviving Corporation's option at specified redemption prices plus accrued interest. The Convertible Notes rank equally with all of the Surviving Corporation's unsubordinated and unsecured indebtedness. The indebtedness under the Convertible Notes may be accelerated in an Event of Default (as defined in the Convertible Notes Indenture).
 
9.5% Senior Notes Indenture
 
At June 30, 2005, the balance of the 9.5% Senior Notes was approximately $88 million. Under the 9.5% Senior Notes Indenture, cash interest on the principal amount of the notes is payable semi-annually in arrears on February 1 and August 1 of each year, at a rate of 9.5% per annum. The notes are redeemable at the Surviving Corporation's option commencing February 1, 2006 at specified redemption prices plus accrued interest. The notes rank equally with all of the Surviving Corporation's unsubordinated and unsecured indebtedness. The indebtedness under the 9.5% Senior Notes may be accelerated in an Event of Default (as defined in the 9.5% Senior Notes Indenture).
 
2003 Senior Notes Indenture
 
Six series of senior notes have been issued and currently are outstanding under the 2003 Senior Notes Indenture. Prior to August 8, 2005, the following three series of senior notes were issued and outstanding:
 
 
 
 
On August 8, 2005, in accordance with the terms and conditions of an exchange offer commenced by the issuer on July 11, 2005 and which expired at Midnight, New York time, on August 5, 2005, and pursuant to the 2003 Senior Notes Indenture, Nextel accepted for exchange (i) $2,126,849,000 of the Series A Notes for an equal aggregate principal amount of newly issued 7.375% Senior Serial Redeemable Notes due 2015, Series D (the "Series D Notes"); (ii) $1,464,229,000 of the Series B Notes for an equal aggregate principal amount of newly issued 6.875% Senior Serial Redeemable Notes due 2013, Series E (the "Series E Notes"); and (iii) $1,157,164,500 of the outstanding Series C Notes for an equal aggregate principal amount of newly issued 5.95% Senior Serial Redeemable Notes due 2014, Series F (the "Series F Notes" and, collectively with the Series D Notes and the Series E Notes, the "Exchange Notes").
 
The material terms of the Series A Notes and Series D Notes, the Series B Notes and Series E Notes, and the Series C Notes and Series F Notes, including their respective interest rates, maturities and redemption terms, are substantially the same, except with respect to certain covenants. The indebtedness under the Original Notes and the Exchange Notes may be accelerated in an Event of Default (as defined in the 2003 Senior Notes Indenture).
 
Series A Notes and Series D Notes
 
At August 8, 2005, the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the Series A Notes and Series D Notes was approximately $2.14 billion. Cash interest on these notes is payable semiannually in arrears on February 1 and August 1 at an annual rate of 7.375%. The Surviving Corporation may choose to redeem some or all of these notes commencing on August 1, 2008 at an initial redemption price of 103.688% of the aggregate principal amount of these notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest. On or before August 1, 2006, the Surviving Corporation may choose to redeem a portion of the principal amount of the outstanding notes using the proceeds of one or more sales of qualified equity securities at a redemption price of 107.375% of the notes' principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of redemption, so long as specified amounts of the principal amount of notes remain outstanding immediately following the redemption. These notes are senior unsecured indebtedness of the Surviving Corporation and rank equal in right of payment with all of the Surviving Corporation's other unsubordinated, unsecured indebtedness.
 
Series B Notes and Series E Notes
 
At August 8, 2005, the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the Series B Notes and Series E Notes was approximately $1.47 billion. Cash interest on these notes is payable semiannually in arrears on April 30 and October 31 at an annual rate of 6.875%. The Surviving Corporation may choose to redeem some or all of these notes commencing October 31, 2008 at an initial redemption price of 103.438% of the aggregate principal amount of these notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest. On or before October 31, 2006, the Surviving Corporation may choose to redeem a portion of the principal amount of the outstanding notes using the proceeds of one or more sales of qualified equity securities at a redemption price of 106.875% of the notes' principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of redemption, so long as specified amounts of the principal amount of notes remain outstanding immediately following the redemption. These notes are senior unsecured indebtedness of the Surviving Corporation and rank equal in right of payment with all of the Surviving Corporation's other unsubordinated, unsecured indebtedness.
 
Series C Notes and Series F Notes
 
At August 8, 2005, the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the Series C Notes and Series F Notes was approximately $1.17 billion. Cash interest on these notes is payable semiannually in arrears on March 15 and September 15 at an annual rate of 5.95%. The Surviving Corporation may choose to redeem some or all of these notes commencing on March 15, 2009 at an initial redemption price of 102.975% of the aggregate principal amount of these notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest. On or before March 15, 2007, the Surviving Corporation may choose to redeem a portion of the principal amount of the outstanding notes using the proceeds of one or more sales of qualified equity securities at a redemption price of 105.95% of the notes' principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of redemption, so long as a specified principal amount of notes remains outstanding immediately following the redemption. These notes are senior unsecured indebtedness of the Surviving Corporation and rank equal in right of payment with all of the Surviving Corporation's other unsubordinated, unsecured indebtedness.
 
The foregoing descriptions are qualified in their entirety by reference to each of the Nextel Indentures and the Supplemental Indentures, which are filed as Exhibits 4.1.1, 4.1.2, 4.2.1, 4.2.2, 4.3.1, 4.3.2, 4.3.3 and 4.3.4 hereto and incorporated herein by reference, and the forms of the Original Notes and the Exchange Notes, which are filed as Exhibits 4.4, 4.5, 4.6, 4.7, 4.8 and 4.9 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
 
Guarantee Supplemental Indenture
 
On August 12, 2005, the Surviving Corporation, Sprint Nextel and BNY Midwest Trust Company executed a supplemental indenture (the "Guarantee Supplemental Indenture") to the 2003 Senior Notes Indenture, pursuant to which Sprint Nextel guaranteed the payment obligations of the Surviving Corporation under the Exchange Notes. The indebtedness under the Exchange Notes may be accelerated in an Event of Default (as defined in the 2003 Senior Notes Indenture). BNY Midwest Trust Company has pre-existing relationships with Nextel, including serving as trustee under the Nextel Indentures. The foregoing description of the Guarantee Supplemental Indenture does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Guarantee Supplemental Indenture, which is filed as Exhibit 4.3.5 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
 
Assumption of Nextel Credit Facility
 
In connection with the completion of the Merger, on August 12, 2005, the Surviving Corporation entered into an assumption agreement (the "Assumption Agreement") in favor of JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., pursuant to which the Surviving Corporation succeeded to Nextel under the second amended and restated credit agreement (the "Credit Agreement"), dated July 15, 2004, as amended, among Nextel, Nextel Finance Company ("Nextel Finance"), the other Restricted Companies party thereto, the Lenders Party thereto, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent and Collateral Agent (collectively, the "Other Parties"), as amended by amendment no. 1, dated February 15, 2005 (the "Credit Agreement Amendment"), to the Credit Agreement, and the tranche A term loan agreement ("Term Loan A"), dated January 28, 2005, among Nextel, Nextel Finance, and the Other Parties. The material terms of the Credit Agreement, Term Loan A and the Credit Agreement Amendment are as follows.
 
As of June 30, 2005, the bank credit facility provided for a total secured financing capacity of up to $6.2 billion, which consisted of a $4.0 billion revolving loan facility that matures on July 31, 2009, of which $1.0 billion had been borrowed and $2.5 billion had been utilized in connection with the issuance of letters of credit, and a $2.2 billion term loan, all of which had been borrowed. Under the terms of Term Loan A, the interest rate automatically will adjust to the applicable rate under the Credit Agreement (the London Interbank Offered Rate ("LIBOR") plus 100 basis points) on December 31, 2005. Term Loan A will mature on February 1, 2010, at which time the principal of Term Loan A will be payable in one installment, and is subject to the terms and conditions of the revolving credit facility, including provisions that allow the lenders to declare borrowings due immediately in the event of default. The Credit Agreement Amendment, among other things, modified the definition of "Change in Control" to exclude the Merger.
 
The foregoing descriptions do not purport to be complete and are qualified in their entirety by reference to the Assumption Agreement, Credit Agreement, Term Loan A and the Credit Agreement Amendment, which are filed as Exhibits 4.10, 4.11, 4.12 and 4.13 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 3.03 Material Modification to Rights of Security Holders
 
On August 12, 2005, the amendment (the "Amendment") to the Second Amended and Restated Rights Agreement, dated as of March 16, 2004, became effective. The Amendment was described under Item 3.03 of Sprint's current report on Form 8-K, filed on June 14, 2005, and such description is incorporated herein by reference. The incorporated description of the Amendment does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Amendment, which is filed as Exhibit 4.14 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
 
In connection with the completion of the Merger, on August 12, 2005, the board of directors of Sprint appointed Keith J. Bane, William E. Conway, Jr., Timothy M. Donahue, Frank M. Drendel, V. Janet Hill, William E. Kennard and Stephanie M. Shern to the board of directors of Sprint Nextel, effective immediately after the completion of the Merger, for terms expiring at the next annual meeting of stockholders of Sprint Nextel. Messrs. Bane, Conway, Donahue, Drendel and Kennard, Mrs. Hill and Ms. Shern served on the board of directors of Nextel prior to the completion of the Merger.
 
The following board committee appointments have been made: Messrs. Bane, Conway and James J. Hance, Jr. and Ms. Linda Koch Lorimer have been named to the Audit Committee; Messrs. Bane, Conway, Irvine O. Hockaday, Jr. and William H. Swanson have been named to the Finance Committee; Messrs. Conway, Donahue, Gary D. Forsee and Hockaday have been named to the Executive Committee; Messrs. Gordon M. Bethune, Drendel and Swanson and Mrs. Hill have been named to the Human Capital and Compensation Committee; Ms. Lorimer, Mrs. Hill and Messrs. Hockaday and Kennard have been named to the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee.
 
Messrs. Conway and Hockaday have been designated as the two co-lead independent directors.
 
In connection with and effective upon the completion of the Merger, on August 12, 2005, Dr. E. Linn Draper, Jr., Deborah A. Henretta and Louis W. Smith resigned from the board of directors of Sprint.
 
In connection with the completion of the Merger, on August 12, 2005, the board of directors of Sprint Nextel appointed Mr. Donahue as Chairman of the Board, Gary D. Forsee as President and Chief Executive Officer, Len J. Lauer as Chief Operating Officer, Paul N. Saleh as Chief Financial Officer, and William G. Arendt as Controller. The information regarding the background of these officers required by Item 401(b), (d) and (e) and Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K, as well as descriptions of the employment agreements of such persons, is set forth (i) under the caption "Executive Officers of the Registrant" in Part I of Nextel's annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004, filed on March 15, 2005; (ii) in Item 10(b) of Part I of Sprint's annual report on Form 10-K/A for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004, filed on April 29, 2005; and (iii) under the captions "Sprint Annual MeetingProposal 6. Election of DirectorsCertain Relationships and Other Transactions," "Sprint Annual MeetingProposal 6. Election of DirectorsEmployment ContractsEmployment Contract with Mr. Forsee and Employment Contracts with Mr. Fuller and Mr. Lauer," "Nextel Annual MeetingProposal 3. Election of DirectorsEmployment Agreements" and "Nextel Annual MeetingProposal 3. Election of DirectorsCertain Relationships and Related Party TransactionsNII Holdings, Nextel Partners and Loan Transaction" in the joint proxy statement/prospectus, dated June 10, 2005, filed as part of Sprint's registration statement on Form S-4 (Registration Statement No. 333-123333), and such information and descriptions are filed as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
Effective August 12, 2005, Robert J. Dellinger, who served as Sprint's Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and John P. Meyer, who served as Sprint's Senior Vice President and Controller, are no longer serving in such capacities.
 
Item 5.03 Amendments to Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws
 
In connection with the completion of the Merger, the articles of incorporation and bylaws of Sprint Nextel were amended effective August 12, 2005. The bylaws were amended to limit the ability of the
 
board of directors to remove the Chairman for three years following the effective date of the Merger except by a two-thirds vote, to establish the directors who will constitute the Executive Committee of the board of directors and to add provisions regarding the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer, as contemplated by the agreement and plan of merger, dated as of December 15, 2004, by and among Sprint, Nextel and the Surviving Corporation. The amended and restated articles of incorporation and the amended and restated bylaws of Sprint Nextel are filed as Exhibits 3.1 and 3.2 hereto.
 
Item 8.01 Other Events.
 
In connection with the completion of the Merger, Sprint Nextel has assumed and/or become obligated in connection with the agreements or plans set forth as Exhibits 99.2 through 99.16 in Item 9.01(c) of this report.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(a) Financial Statements of Business Acquired.
 
The financial statements specified in Rule 3-05(b) of Regulation S-X were included in Nextel's annual report on 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004, filed on March 15, 2005, and Nextel's quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2005, filed on July 29, 2005. Portions of those reports containing the required financial statements are filed as Exhibits 99.17 and 99.18, respectively, and incorporated herein by reference.
 
(b) Pro Forma Financial Information.
 
To be filed by amendment if required.
 
(c) Exhibits.
 
The following exhibits are filed with this report:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: August 18, 2005
 
 
 

Exhibit 3.1
 
 
 
 
1. The name of the Corporation before these Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation were filed was Sprint Corporation. The Corporation was originally incorporated in the State of Kansas on November 15, 1938 under the name of United Utilities, Inc.
 
2. The Board of Directors of the Corporation adopted resolutions (i) providing for the adoption of these Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of the Corporation, which amend and restate the Corporation's Articles of Incorporation in their entirety, and (ii) declaring the advisability of these Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of the Corporation. The resolutions further directed that these Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation be submitted to the stockholders of the Corporation for their consideration and approval at the 2005 annual meeting of stockholders.
 
3. Pursuant to the resolutions and to notice and in accordance with the bylaws of the Corporation and the laws of the State of Kansas, the meeting of stockholders was held and the stockholders considered these Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation.
 
4. At the meeting, these Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation were duly adopted in accordance with the provisions of K.S.A. Section 17 -6605.
 
5. These Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of the Corporation became effective upon filing pursuant to the laws of the State of Kansas.
 
6. At the time of effectiveness of these Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of the Corporation, (i) the FON Common Stock, Series 1, par value $2.00 per share, of the Corporation was hereby automatically redesignated and changed into Common Stock, Series 1, par value $2.00 per share, of the Corporation, and (ii) the FON Common Stock, Series 2, par value $2.00 per share, of the Corporation was hereby automatically redesignated and changed into Common Stock, Series 2, par value $2.00 per share, of the Corporation.
 
7. At the time of effectiveness of these Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of the Corporation, the text of the Articles of Incorporation of the Corporation, as previously restated and amended, was hereby amended and restated to read in its entirety as follows:
 
 
The name of the Corporation is SPRINT NEXTEL CORPORATION.
 
 
The Corporation is organized for profit, and the purpose for which it is formed is to engage in any lawful act or activity for which corporations may be organized under the Kansas General Corporation Code (the "General Corporation Code").
 
 
The Corporation's registered office is located at 200 S.W. 30
th
Street, Topeka, Shawnee County, Kansas 66611; Corporation Service Company is the registered agent at said address.
 
 
The Corporation shall have perpetual existence.
 
Section 1. The number of Directors shall not be less than eight nor more than 20 as may be determined from time to time by the affirmative vote of a majority of the Board of Directors.
Number of Directors.
 
Section 2. . (a) The holders of Voting Securities of the Corporation shall have the right to elect that number of Directors equal to the excess of (x) the total number of Directors over (y) the number of Directors, if any, that the holders of Preferred Stock, voting separately by class or series, are entitled to elect in accordance with the provisions of ARTICLE SIXTH.
Election of Directors
 
(b) Whenever the holders of any one or more series of Preferred Stock shall have the right, voting separately by class or series, to elect Directors at an annual or special meeting of stockholders, the election, term of office, filling of vacancies and other features of such directorships shall be governed by the terms of these Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of the Corporation (as further amended, restated or modified from time to time, these "Articles of Incorporation") applicable thereto.
 
Section 3. . (a) Each Director of the Corporation shall be elected for a one-year term. A Director shall hold office until the next annual meeting of stockholders and until a successor has been elected and qualified to serve, except in case of the Director's prior death, resignation, retirement, disqualification or removal from office.
Term of Office
 
(b) Except as provided in Section 2(b), any vacancy on the Board of Directors (whether resulting from an increase in the total number of Directors, the departure of one of the Directors or otherwise) may be filled by the affirmative vote of a majority of the Directors then in office, that at any time when there is only one such Director so elected and then serving, such Director may fill such vacancy and, , that at any time when there are no such Directors then serving, the stockholders entitled to elect the Director who will fill such vacancy shall have the right to fill such vacancy.
provided
provided
further
 
Section 4. (a) Except to the extent prohibited by law or as set forth in these Articles of Incorporation or the Bylaws, the Board of Directors shall have the right (which, to the extent exercised, shall be exclusive) to establish the rights, powers, duties, rules and procedures that from time to time shall govern the Board of Directors and each of its members, including, without limitation, the vote required for any action by the Board of Directors, and that from time to time shall affect the Directors' power to manage the business and affairs of the Corporation. Except to the extent required by law or as set forth in these Articles of Incorporation or the Bylaws, no Bylaw shall be adopted by stockholders which shall impair or impede the implementation of the foregoing.
Rights, Powers, Duties, Rules and Procedures; Amendment of Bylaws.
 
(b) The Board of Directors is expressly authorized and empowered, in the manner provided in the Bylaws of the Corporation, to adopt, amend and repeal the Bylaws of the Corporation in any respect to the full extent permitted by the General Corporation Code not inconsistent with the General Corporation Code or with these Articles of Incorporation.
 
Section 5. Certain capitalized terms used in this ARTICLE FIFTH without definition have the meanings set forth in Section 9 of ARTICLE SIXTH.
Definitions.
 
 
Section 1. The total number of shares of capital stock which may be issued by the Corporation is 6,620,000,000, and the designation of each class or series, the number of authorized shares of each class or series and the par value of the shares of each class or series, are as follows:
Authorized Shares.
 
Section 2.
General Provisions.
 
Section 2.1. No holder of shares of capital stock of any class or series of the Corporation or holder of any security or obligation convertible into shares of capital stock of any class or series of the Corporation shall have any preemptive right whatsoever to subscribe for, purchase or otherwise acquire shares of capital stock of any class or series of the Corporation, whether now or hereafter authorized; that this provision shall not (i) prohibit the Corporation from granting, contractually or otherwise, to any such holder, rights similar to preemptive rights entitling such holder to purchase additional securities of the Corporation or (ii) otherwise limit or otherwise modify any rights of any such holder pursuant to any such contract or other agreement. Stockholders of the Corporation shall not be entitled to cumulative voting of their shares in elections of Directors.
Preemptive Rights; Cumulative Voting.
provided
 
Section 2.2. . Notwithstanding any other provision of these Articles of Incorporation to the contrary, outstanding shares of Voting Common Stock Beneficially Owned by Aliens may be redeemed by the Corporation, by action duly taken by the Board of Directors (with the approval of a majority of the Continuing Directors (as defined in ARTICLE SEVENTH) at a meeting at which at least seven Continuing Directors are present, except that no such approval of the Continuing Directors shall be required if: (i) the Fair Price Provisions have been deleted in their entirety or (ii) the transaction in question is not a "Business Combination" within the meaning of the Fair Price Provisions), to the extent necessary or advisable, in the judgment of the Board of Directors, for the Corporation or any of its Subsidiaries to comply with the requirements of Section 310.
Redemption of Shares Held by Aliens
 
The terms and conditions of such redemption shall be as follows, subject in any case to any other rights of a particular Alien or of the Corporation pursuant to any contract or agreement between such Alien and the Corporation:
 
(a) except as provided in Section 2.2(f), the redemption price of the shares to be redeemed pursuant to this Section 2.2 shall be equal to the Market Price of such shares on the third Business Day before the date notice of such redemption is given pursuant to Section 2.2(d), that, except as provided in Section 2.2(f), such redemption price as to any Alien who purchased such shares of Voting Common Stock after November 21, 1995 and within one year before the Redemption Date shall not (unless otherwise determined by the Board of Directors) exceed the purchase price paid by such Alien for such shares;
provided
 
(b) the redemption price of such shares may be paid in cash, Redemption Securities or any combination thereof;
 
(c) if less than all of the shares Beneficially Owned by Aliens are to be redeemed, the shares to be redeemed shall be selected in such manner as shall be determined by the Board of Directors, which may include selection first of the most recently purchased shares thereof, selection by lot or selection in any other manner determined by the Board of Directors to be equitable;
 
(d) the Corporation shall give notice of the Redemption Date at least 30 days before the Redemption Date to the record holders of the shares selected to be redeemed (unless waived in writing by any such holder) by delivering a written notice by first class mail, postage pre-paid, to the holders of record of the shares selected to be redeemed, addressed to such holders at their last address as shown upon the stock transfer books of the Corporation (each such notice of redemption specifying the date fixed for redemption, the redemption price, the place or places of payment and that payment will be made upon presentation and surrender of the certificates representing such shares), that the Redemption Date may be the date on which written notice is given to record holders if the cash or Redemption Securities necessary to effect the redemption have been deposited in trust for the benefit of such record holders and subject to immediate withdrawal by them upon surrender of the stock certificates for their shares to be redeemed;
provided
 
(e) on the Redemption Date, unless the Corporation shall have defaulted in paying or setting aside for payment the cash or Redemption Securities payable upon such redemption, any and all rights of Aliens in respect of shares so redeemed (including without limitation any rights to vote or participate in dividends), shall cease and terminate, and from and after such Redemption Date such Aliens shall be entitled only to receive the cash or Redemption Securities payable upon redemption of the shares to be redeemed; and
(f) such other terms and conditions as the Board of Directors shall determine to be equitable, that, if any shares of Series 2 Common Stock are redeemed pursuant to this Section 2.2, the redemption price of any such shares redeemed shall be the Market Price of a share of Series 1 Common Stock on the Redemption Date.
provided
 
Any notice that is mailed as herein provided shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the holder of shares to be redeemed received such notice, and failure to give such notice by mail, or any defect in such notice, to holders of shares designated for redemption shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other shares.
 
Section 2.3. (a) The Corporation may by written notice require a Person that is a holder of record of Voting Common Stock or that the Corporation knows to have, or has reasonable cause to believe has, Beneficial Ownership of Voting Common Stock, to certify that, to the knowledge of such Person:
Beneficial Ownership Inquiry.
 
(i) no Voting Common Stock as to which such Person has record ownership or Beneficial Ownership is Beneficially Owned by Aliens; or
 
(ii) the number and series of shares of Voting Common Stock owned of record or Beneficially Owned by such Person that are owned of record or Beneficially Owned by Persons that are Aliens are as set forth in such certificate.
 
(b) With respect to any Voting Common Stock identified by such Person in response to Section 2.3(a)(ii) above, the Corporation may require such Person to provide such further information as the Corporation may reasonably require in order to implement the provisions of Section 2.2.
 
(c) For purposes of applying Section 2.2 with respect to any Voting Common Stock, if any Person fails to provide the certificate or other information to which the Corporation is entitled pursuant to this Section 2.3, the Corporation in its sole discretion may presume that the Voting Common Stock in question is, or is not, Beneficially Owned by Aliens.
 
Section 2.4. The Board of Directors shall have the power and duty to construe and apply the provisions of Sections 2.2 and 2.3 and, with respect to shares of Voting Common Stock, to make all determinations necessary or desirable to implement such provisions, including but not limited to: (a) the number of shares of Voting Common Stock that are Beneficially Owned by any Person; (b) whether a Person is an Alien; (c) the application of any other definition of these Articles of Incorporation to the given facts; and (d) any other matter relating to the applicability or effect of Section 2.2.
Factual Determinations.
 
Section 3. .
Voting Powers
 
Section 3.1. (a) Except as otherwise provided by law or as expressly set forth in ARTICLE FIFTH and this ARTICLE SIXTH, each share of Voting Common Stock shall be entitled to vote, as provided in Section 3.2, on all matters in respect of which the holders of Voting Common Stock are entitled to vote, and, except as otherwise provided by the terms of any outstanding Non-Voting Stock or any outstanding series of Preferred Stock, the holders of Voting Common Stock shall vote together with the holders of all other classes or series of capital stock which have general voting power on all such matters as a single class; , , that holders of Voting Common Stock, voting together as a separate class in accordance with Section 3.2(b), shall be entitled to vote upon a proposed amendment to these Articles of Incorporation if such amendment would (A) increase or decrease the aggregate number of authorized shares of Voting Common Stock, (B) increase or decrease the par value of the shares of Voting Common Stock or (C) alter or change the powers, preferences or special rights of the shares of Voting Common Stock so as to affect them adversely.
General.
provided
however
 
(b) Except as otherwise provided by law, the holders of Non-Voting Common Stock shall have no right to vote on any matters to be voted on by the stockholders of the Corporation, that the holders of Non-Voting Common Stock shall have the right to vote, as a separate class, on any Fundamental Change in which shares of Non-Voting Common Stock would be treated differently from shares of Series 1 Common Stock (other than a Fundamental Change in which the only difference in such treatment is that the holders of Series 1 Common Stock would be entitled to receive equity securities with full voting rights and the holders of Non-Voting Common Stock would be entitled to receive equity securities that have voting rights substantially identical to the voting rights of the Non-Voting Common
provided
Stock and that are convertible (i) with respect to holders of Non-Voting Common Stock other than Motorola, upon any Voting Conversion Event or (ii) with respect to Motorola, upon a Motorola Conversion Event, in each case on a share for share basis into the Voting Securities to which the holders of the Series 1 Common Stock are entitled, but which are otherwise identical to such Voting Securities).
 
(c) The Board of Directors is authorized to adopt resolutions requiring the approval of any class or series of capital stock, alone or together with any other class or series of capital stock, as a condition precedent, or condition subsequent, to the approval, adoption, authorization or consummation of any action, transaction or any other matter by or involving the Corporation, and no provision contained in these Articles of Incorporation shall be interpreted to limit or restrict such authority in any way.
 
Section 3.2. . (a) Except in those situations specified in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this Section 3.2, on each matter to be voted on by the holders of Voting Common Stock,
Number of Votes
 
(i) each outstanding share of Series 1 Common Stock is entitled to one vote; and
 
(ii) each outstanding share of Series 2 Common Stock is entitled to 10% of one vote.
 
(b) In any vote in which holders of Voting Common Stock are entitled, either by law or by the provisions of these Articles of Incorporation, to vote together as a separate class and are voting as a separate class, each outstanding share of Voting Common Stock is entitled to one vote, that in any vote in which the holders of Voting Common Stock vote together as a separate class solely because the shares of Voting Common Stock are the only Voting Securities of the Corporation that are outstanding, or are the only securities of the Corporation entitled to vote on such matter, and neither the law nor these Articles of Incorporation entitle the Voting Common Stock to vote as a separate class, the vote per share in Section 3.2(a) shall apply.
provided
 
(c) In addition to the foregoing provisions of this Section 3, (i) if shares of only one series of Voting Common Stock are outstanding on the record date for determining the holders of Voting Common Stock entitled to vote on any matter, then each share of that series shall be entitled to one vote and (ii) if any series of Voting Common Stock votes as a single class with respect to any matter, each share of that series shall, for purposes of such vote, be entitled to one vote on such matter.
 
(d) In any vote in which the holders of the Non-Voting Common Stock are entitled, either by law or by the provisions of these Articles of Incorporation, to vote together as a separate class and are voting as a separate class, each share of Non-Voting Common Stock shall be entitled to one vote.
 
Section 4. If any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation occurs, then after payment or provision for payment of the debts and other liabilities of the Corporation, including the liquidation preferences of any series of Preferred Stock, the holders of Corporation Common Stock shall be entitled to receive the remaining assets of the Corporation on a pro rata basis. Neither the merger nor consolidation of the Corporation, nor the transfer of all or part of its assets, shall be deemed to be a voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation within the meaning of this Section 4.
Liquidation Rights.
 
Section 5. Dividends may be declared and paid upon each class and series of Corporation Common Stock, subject to the limitations provided for in this Section 5 and in Section 10, as the Board of Directors may determine.
Dividends.
 
Section 5.1. . Dividends on Corporation Common Stock may be declared and paid only out of the funds of the Corporation legally available therefor.
Generally
 
The holders of shares of any Applicable Stock shall be entitled to receive, when and if declared by the Board of Directors in accordance with this Section 5.1, dividends in respect of such Applicable Stock equivalent on a per share basis to those payable on any Other Stock. Dividends on shares of Applicable Stock shall be payable on the same date fixed for payment of the corresponding dividend on shares of the Other Stock and shall be in an amount per share equal to the full per share amount of any cash dividend paid on shares of such Other Stock, plus the full per share amount (payable in kind) of any non cash dividend paid on shares of such Other Stock, that if the Corporation shall declare and pay any dividend on shares of any Other Stock payable in shares of such Other Stock, or in options,
provided
warrants or rights to acquire shares of such Other Stock, or in securities convertible into or exchangeable for shares of such Other Stock, then in each case, the Corporation shall declare and pay, at the same time that it declares and pays any such dividend, an equivalent dividend per share on the Applicable Stock payable in shares of such Applicable Stock, or equivalent corresponding options, warrants or rights to acquire shares of such Applicable Stock, or equivalent corresponding securities convertible into or exchangeable for shares of such Applicable Stock.
 
Section 5.2. . Subject to this Section 5, the Board of Directors may declare and pay dividends or distributions of shares of Corporation Common Stock (or Convertible Securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for shares of Corporation Common Stock) on shares of Corporation Common Stock or shares of Preferred Stock only as follows: dividends or distributions of (a) shares of Series 1 Common Stock (or Convertible Securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for shares of Series 1 Common Stock) on shares of Series 1 Common Stock, as well as on Preferred Stock, (b) shares of Series 2 Common Stock (or Convertible Securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for shares of Series 2 Common Stock) on shares of Series 2 Common Stock, as well as on Preferred Stock and (c) shares of Non-Voting Common Stock (or Convertible Securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for shares of Non-Voting Common Stock) on shares of Non-Voting Common Stock, as well as on Preferred Stock.
Share Distributions
 
Section 6.
No Dilution or Impairment; Certain Tender Offers.
 
(a) No reclassification, subdivision or combination of the outstanding shares of Applicable Stock shall be effected directly or indirectly (including, without limitation, any reclassification, subdivision or combination effected pursuant to a consolidation, merger or liquidation) unless at the same time shares of each Other Stock are reclassified, subdivided or combined on an equal per share basis so that the holders of shares of each Other Stock (i) are entitled, in the aggregate, to a number of Votes representing the same percentage of the Voting Power of the Corporation relative to such Applicable Stock as were represented by the shares of such Other Stock outstanding immediately before such reclassification, subdivision or combination and (ii) maintain all of the rights associated with such Other Stock set forth in these Articles of Incorporation, including without limitation the right to receive dividends and other distributions (including liquidating and other distributions) that are equivalent to those payable per share in respect of shares of such Applicable Stock, subject to the limitations, restrictions and conditions on such rights contained herein.
 
(b) Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, in the case of any consolidation or merger of the Corporation with or into any other entity (other than a merger which does not result in any reclassification, conversion, exchange or cancellation of the Series 1 Common Stock) or any reclassification of the Series 1 Common Stock into any other form of capital stock of the Corporation, whether in whole or in part, each holder of Series 2 Common Stock, shall, after such consolidation, merger or reclassification, have the right (but not the obligation), by notice delivered to the Corporation or any successor thereto within 90 days after the consummation of such consolidation, merger or reclassification, to convert each share of Series 2 Common Stock held by such holder into the kind and amount of shares of stock and other securities and property which such holder would have been entitled to receive upon such consolidation, merger or reclassification if such holder had converted its shares of Series 2 Common Stock into Series 1 Common Stock immediately before such merger, consolidation or reclassification. The Corporation shall not effect, directly or indirectly, any such reclassification, subdivision or combination of outstanding shares of Series 1 Common Stock unless it delivers to the holders of Series 2 Common Stock written notice of its intent to take such action at least ten Business Days before taking such action.
 
(c) If the Board of Directors shall determine not to oppose a tender offer by a Person other than a Cable Holder for Voting Securities of the Corporation representing not less than 35% of the Voting Power of the Corporation, and the terms of such tender offer do not permit the holders of Series 2 Common Stock to sell an equal or greater percentage of their shares as the holders of Series 1 Common Stock are permitted to sell taking into account any proration, then each holder of Series 2 Common Stock shall have the right (but not the obligation) to deliver to the Corporation a written notice requesting conversion of certain shares of Series 2 Common Stock designated by such holder of Series 2 Common Stock into Series 1 Common Stock, upon which delivery each share of Series 2 Common Stock so designated in such notice shall automatically convert (without the payment of any consideration) into one duly issued, fully paid and nonassessable share of Series 1 Common Stock, that (i) unless the Series 2 Common Stock shall have otherwise been converted into Series 1 Common Stock pursuant to Section 7 upon or before the consummation or abandonment of the transaction contemplated by such tender offer, immediately following the consummation of such transaction or the delivery by the Corporation to each holder of Series 2 Common Stock of a notice that such transaction has been abandoned, each share of Series 1 Common Stock held by a holder of Series 2
Exclusionary Tender Offers.
provided
Common Stock shall automatically reconvert (without the payment of any consideration) into one duly issued, fully paid and nonassessable share of Series 2 Common Stock, and (ii) only those shares of Series 2 Common Stock related to shares of Series 1 Common Stock that were not so reconverted shall be deemed for any purpose under these Articles of Incorporation to have been converted into Series 1 Common Stock pursuant to this subparagraph (c) and the Series 2 Common Stock so reconverted shall be deemed to have been at all times outstanding shares of Series 2 Common Stock.
 
(d) The Corporation shall not conduct an issuer tender offer (as defined on November 23, 1998 in Rule 13e-4 under the Exchange Act) with respect to the Series 1 Common Stock unless (i) such tender offer provides for the participation of the holders of Series 2 Common Stock on an equal basis with the Series 1 Common Stock and (ii) the Corporation accepts for repurchase the number of shares tendered by the holders of Series 1 Common Stock and Series 2 Common Stock in proportion to the number of shares of each such series tendered; that the terms of this subparagraph (d) shall not prevent the Corporation from administering in good faith an "odd-lot" program in connection with such issuer tender offer and shall not apply to customary acquisitions of Voting Common Stock made by the Corporation on the open market for purposes of maintaining stock option plans of the Corporation.
Issuer Tender Offers.
provided
 
Section 7.
Automatic Conversion of Series 2 Common Stock.
 
(a) . If the total number of Converted Votes represented by the aggregate number of issued and outstanding shares of Series 2 Common Stock is below one percent (1%) of the outstanding Voting Power of the Corporation for more than 90 consecutive days (the date on which such 90-day period ends, the "Conversion Trigger Date"), then each outstanding share of Series 2 Common Stock will automatically convert (without the payment of any consideration) into one duly issued, fully paid and nonassessable share of Series 1 Common Stock, such conversion to take place on the 90th day following the Conversion Trigger Date.
Below One Percent Voting Power
 
(b) . Upon any Transfer of shares of Series 2 Common Stock (other than a Transfer to a Cable Holder) each such share so Transferred shall automatically convert (without the payment of any consideration) into one duly issued, fully paid and nonassessable share of Series 1 Common Stock as of the date of such Transfer.
Certain Transfers
 
(c) Exchange of Stock Certificates; Effect of Automatic Conversion of All Series 2 Common Stock, etc.
 
(i) Immediately upon the conversion of shares of Series 2 Common Stock into shares of Series 1 Common Stock pursuant to this Section 7 (such shares so converted hereinafter referred to as the "Converted Series Shares"), the rights of the holders of such Converted Series Shares, as such, shall cease and the holders thereof shall be treated for all purposes as having become the record owners of the shares of Series 1 Common Stock issuable upon such conversion (the "Newly Issued Shares"), that such Persons shall be entitled to receive when paid any dividends declared on the Converted Series Shares as of a record date preceding the time the Converted Series Shares were converted (the "Series Conversion Time") and unpaid as of the Series Conversion Time. If the stock transfer books of the Corporation are closed at the Series Conversion Time, such Person or Persons shall be deemed to have become such holder or holders of record of the Newly Issued Shares at the opening of business on the next succeeding day on which such stock transfer books are open.
provided
 
(ii) As promptly as practicable after the Series Conversion Time, upon the delivery to the Corporation of the certificates formerly representing Converted Series Shares, the Corporation shall deliver or cause to be delivered, to or upon the written order of the record holder of such certificates, a certificate or certificates representing the number of duly issued, fully paid and nonassessable Newly Issued Shares into which the Converted Series Shares formerly represented by such certificates have been converted in accordance with the provisions of this Section 7.
 
(iii) The Corporation shall pay all United States federal, state or local documentary, stamp or similar issue or transfer taxes payable in respect of the issue or delivery of Newly Issued Shares upon the conversion of Converted Series Shares pursuant to this Section 7, that the Corporation shall not be required to pay any tax which may be payable in respect of any registration of Transfer involved in the issue or delivery of Newly Issued Shares in a name other than that of the registered holder of shares converted or to be converted, and no such issue or delivery shall be made unless and until the person requesting such issue has paid to the Corporation the amount of any such tax or has established, to the satisfaction of the Corporation, that such tax has been paid.
provided
(iv) The Corporation shall at all times reserve and keep available, out of the aggregate of its authorized but unissued Series 1 Common Stock, and issued Series 1 Common Stock held in its treasury, for the purpose of effecting the conversion of the Series 2 Common Stock contemplated hereby, the full number of shares of Series 1 Common Stock then deliverable upon the conversion of all outstanding shares of Series 2 Common Stock.
 
Section 8.
Optional Conversion of Non-Voting Common Stock.
 
(a) Upon the occurrence (or, with respect to clause (i) of this Section 8(a), the expected occurrence) of: (i) any Voting Conversion Event, with respect to holders of Non-Voting Common Stock other than Motorola, or any distribution or sale by Motorola described in Section 8(c)(i) hereof (a "Motorola Transfer"), each share of Non-Voting Common Stock which is being or has been distributed, disposed of or sold (or is expected to be distributed, disposed of or sold) in connection with such Voting Conversion Event or such Motorola Transfer shall be convertible at the option of the holder thereof into one duly issued, fully paid and nonassessable share of Series 1 Common Stock; or (ii) any Motorola Conversion Event described in Section 8(c)(ii) hereof, any or all of the shares of Non-Voting Common Stock held by Motorola shall be convertible at its option into one duly issued, fully paid and nonassessable share of Series 1 Common Stock.
 
(b) "Voting Conversion Event" means:
 
(i) any public offering or public sale of securities of the Corporation (including a public offering registered under the Securities Act and a public sale pursuant to Rule 144 of the Commission or any similar rule then in force);
 
(ii) any sale of securities of the Corporation to a Person or Group if, after such sale, such Person or Group in the aggregate would own or control securities which possess in the aggregate the Voting Power to elect a majority of the Board of Directors ( that such sale has been approved by the Board of Directors or a committee thereof);
provided
 
(iii) any sale of securities of the Corporation to a Person or Group if, after such sale, such Person or Group in the aggregate would own or control securities of the Corporation (excluding any Non-Voting Common Stock being converted and disposed of in connection with such Voting Conversion Event) which possess in the aggregate the Voting Power to elect a majority of the Board of Directors;
 
(iv) any sale of securities of the Corporation to a Person or Group if, after such sale, such Person or Group would not, in the aggregate, own, control or have the right to acquire more than two percent (2%) of the outstanding securities of any class of Voting Securities; and
 
(v) any distribution, disposition or sale of any securities of the Corporation to a Person or Group in connection with a merger, consolidation or similar transaction if, after such transaction, such Person or Group will own or control securities which constitute in the aggregate the Voting Power to elect a majority of the surviving corporation's directors ( that the transaction has been approved by the Board of Directors or a committee thereof).
provided
 
(c) "Motorola Conversion Event" shall mean:
 
(i) any distribution, disposition or sale of shares of Non-Voting Common Stock by Motorola not prohibited under Section 7.14 of the Motorola Agreement;
 
(ii) the existence of circumstances which, in Motorola's judgment, constitute or are likely to cause or result in a material adverse development with respect to the business, properties, operations or financial condition of the Corporation and its subsidiaries and which otherwise cause conversion of the shares of Non-Voting Common Stock held by Motorola into shares of Voting Common Stock to be reasonably necessary to protect Motorola's interests as a stockholder of the Corporation,
 
that the occurrence of any Motorola Conversion Event shall be determined by Motorola, in its sole judgment by notice to the Corporation, which notice shall be binding upon the Corporation. Notwithstanding
provided
the foregoing, in no event shall a Motorola Conversion Event described in clause (ii) be deemed to have occurred unless and until there shall have been a downgrade in the Corporation's credit rating to below B-, as determined by Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, or B3, as determined by Moody's Investor's Services, after the earlier of 15 days following the date of the ILEC Separation (as defined in the Merger Agreement) or December 31, 2006.
 
(d) Subject to Section 8(a), (i) a holder, other than Motorola, of Non-Voting Common Stock will be entitled to convert shares of Non-Voting Common Stock into shares of Series 1 Common Stock in connection with any Voting Conversion Event and Motorola will be entitled to convert shares of Non-Voting Common Stock into shares of Series 1 Common Stock in connection with any Motorola Transfer, if such holder reasonably believes that such Voting Conversion Event or Motorola Transfer, as the case may be, will be consummated and a written request for conversion from any holder of Non-Voting Common Stock to the Corporation stating such holder's reasonable belief that a Voting Conversion Event or Motorola Transfer, as the case may be, shall occur shall be conclusive and shall obligate the Corporation to effect such conversion in a timely manner so as to enable each such holder to distribute, dispose of or sell such shares of Series 1 Common Stock in connection with such Voting Conversion Event or Motorola Transfer, as the case may be; that the Corporation will not cancel the shares of Non-Voting Common Stock so converted before the tenth day following such Voting Conversion Event or Motorola Transfer and will reserve such shares until such tenth day for reissuance in compliance with the following proviso; and that, if any shares of Non-Voting Common Stock are converted into shares of Series 1 Common Stock in connection with a Voting Conversion Event or a Motorola Transfer and any such shares of Series 1 Common Stock are not actually distributed, disposed of or sold pursuant to such Voting Conversion Event or Motorola Transfer, such shares of Series 1 Common Stock which were not so distributed, disposed of or sold shall be promptly converted back into the same number of shares of Non-Voting Common Stock and (ii) Motorola, at its election, will be entitled to convert any or all of its shares of Non-Voting Common Stock into shares of Series 1 Common Stock upon the occurrence of any Motorola Conversion Event described in Section 8(c)(ii) hereof.
provided
provided
further
 
(e) Each conversion of shares of Non-Voting Common Stock into shares of Series 1 Common Stock will be effected by the surrender of the certificate or certificates representing the shares to be converted at the principal office of the Corporation at any time during normal business hours, together with a written notice by the holder of such shares of Non-Voting Common Stock stating that such holder desires to convert the shares, or a stated number of the shares, of Non-Voting Common Stock represented by such certificate or certificates into shares of Series 1 Common Stock. Such notice shall also state the name or names (with addresses) and denominations in which the certificate or certificates for such Series 1 Common Stock are to be issued. Such conversion will be deemed to have been effected as of the close of business on the date on which such certificate or certificates have been surrendered and such notice has been received, and at such time the rights of the holder of the converted shares of Non-Voting Common Stock as such holder will cease and the person or persons in whose name or names the certificate or certificates for such shares of Series 1 Common Stock are to be issued upon such conversion will be deemed to have become the holder or holders of record of the shares of Series 1 Common Stock represented thereby.
 
(f) Promptly after such surrender and the receipt of such written notice, the Corporation will issue and deliver in accordance with the surrendering holder's instructions each of the following:
 
(i) the certificate or certificates representing the shares of Series 1 Common Stock issuable upon such conversion; and
 
(ii) a certificate representing any shares of Non-Voting Common Stock which were represented by the certificate or certificates delivered to the Corporation in connection with such conversion but which were not converted into shares of Series 1 Common Stock.
 
(g) The issuance of certificates representing shares of Series 1 Common Stock received upon conversion of shares of Non-Voting Common Stock will be made without charge to the holders of such shares for any issuance tax in respect thereof or other cost incurred by the Corporation in connection with such conversion and the related issuance of Series 1 Common Stock.
 
(h) The Corporation will not close its books against the transfer of shares of Corporation Common Stock in any manner which would interfere with the timely conversion of any shares of Non-Voting Common Stock.
(i) The Corporation shall at all times reserve and keep available, out of the aggregate of its authorized but unissued Series 1 Common Stock, and issued Series 1 Common Stock held in its treasury, for the purpose of effecting the conversion of the Non-Voting Common Stock, the full number of shares of Series 1 Common Stock then deliverable upon conversion of all outstanding shares of Non-Voting Common Stock. If, at the time of conversion of any Non-Voting Common Stock, the Series 1 Common Stock is listed on any national securities exchange or automated quotation system of the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc., the Corporation will cause the Series 1 Common Stock issued in such conversion to be listed on such exchange or automated quotation system within 60 days of such conversion, subject to official notice of issuance.
 
(j) Subject to Section 8(d), upon the retirement of shares of Non-Voting Common Stock, (i) such shares shall not resume the status of authorized and unissued shares of that class, (ii) such shares shall not be reissued and (iii) upon the execution, acknowledgment and filing of a certificate in accordance with K.S.A. Sections 17-6003 and 17-6603 (or any successor provisions) stating that the reissuance of such shares is prohibited, identifying the shares and reciting their retirement, then the filing of such certificate shall have the effect of amending these Articles of Incorporation so as to reduce accordingly the number of authorized shares of Non-Voting Common Stock or if such retired shares constitute all of the authorized shares of such class, then the filing of such certificate shall have the effect of amending these Articles of Incorporation automatically so as to eliminate all references to such class of stock therefrom.
 
Section 9. For purposes of ARTICLE FIFTH and ARTICLE SIXTH of these Articles of Incorporation, the following terms have the following meanings (with terms defined in the singular having comparable meaning when used in the plural and vice versa), unless the context otherwise requires.
Definitions.
 
"Affiliate" means, with respect to any Person, any other Person that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, Controls or is Controlled by, or is under common Control with, such Person.
 
"Alien" means "aliens," "their representatives," "a foreign government or representatives thereof" or "any corporation organized under the laws of a foreign country" as such terms are used in Section 310(b)(4) of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, or as hereafter may be amended, or any successor provision of law.
 
"Applicable Law" means all applicable provisions of all (a) constitutions, treaties, statutes, laws (including common law), rules, regulations, ordinances or codes of any Governmental Authority and (b) orders, decisions, injunctions, judgments, awards and decrees of any Governmental Authority.
 
"Applicable Stock" means the Series 1 Common Stock, the Series 2 Common Stock or the Non-Voting Common Stock.
 
"Associate" has the meaning ascribed to such term in Rule 12b-2 under the Exchange Act.
 
"Beneficial Owner" (including, with its correlative meanings, "Beneficially Own" and "Beneficial Ownership"), with respect to any securities, means any Person which:
 
(a) has, or any of whose Affiliates or Associates has, directly or indirectly, the right to acquire (whether such right is exercisable immediately or only after the passage of time) such securities pursuant to any agreement, arrangement or understanding (whether or not in writing), including, without limitation, upon the exercise of conversion rights, exchange rights, warrants or options, or otherwise;
 
(b) has, or any of whose Affiliates or Associates has, directly or indirectly, the right to vote or dispose of (whether such right is exercisable immediately or only after the passage of time) or has "beneficial ownership" of (as determined pursuant to Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act but including all such securities which a Person has the right to acquire beneficial ownership of whether or not such right is exercisable within the 60-day period specified therein) such securities, including pursuant to any agreement, arrangement or understanding (whether or not in writing); or
 
(c) has, or any of whose Affiliates or Associates has, any agreement, arrangement or understanding (whether or not in writing) for the purpose of acquiring, holding, voting or disposing of any securities which are Beneficially Owned, directly or indirectly, by any other Person (or any Affiliate thereof),
that before the conversion thereof (other than during the 90-day period following the Conversion Trigger Date set forth in Section 7 of ARTICLE SIXTH), a holder of Series 2 Common Stock shall not be deemed to beneficially own the shares of Series 1 Common Stock issuable upon conversion thereof.
provided
 
"Board of Directors" means the board of directors of the Corporation.
 
"Business Day" means any day other than a day on which commercial banks in The City of New York are required or authorized by law to be closed.
 
"Bylaws" means the Bylaws of the Corporation as amended or supplemented from time to time.
 
"Cable Holder" means any of:
 
(i) Tele-Communications, Inc., a Delaware corporation, Comcast Corporation, a Pennsylvania corporation, or Cox Communications, Inc., a Delaware corporation;
 
(ii) any Affiliate of an entity identified in clause (i) of this definition;
 
(iii) any successor (by operation of law or otherwise) of an entity identified in clauses (i) or (ii) of this definition so long as such successor remains an Affiliate of an entity identified in clause (i) or (ii);
 
(iv) any entity Controlled by two or more entities identified in clauses (i) through (iii) of this definition or this clause (iv) even if such entity is not considered an Affiliate of any individual entity so identified; and
 
(v) for purposes of Section 7(b) of ARTICLE SIXTH only, with respect to any Transfer of shares of Series 2 Common Stock, the transferee of such shares if (A) at the time of such Transfer, the transferor was a Cable Holder under any of the clauses (i) through (iv) of this definition, (B) after giving effect to such Transfer, the transferee was an Associate of the transferor, and (C) immediately before such Transfer, the transferee was identified in writing by the transferor as a "Cable Holder" under this clause (v).
 
"Closing Price" means, with respect to a security on any day, the last sale price, regular way, or in case no such sale takes place on such day, the average of the closing bid and asked prices, regular way, in either case as reported in the principal consolidated transaction reporting system with respect to securities listed or admitted to trading on The New York Stock Exchange, Inc. or, if such security is not listed or admitted to trading on such exchange, as reported in the principal consolidated transaction reporting system with respect to securities listed on the principal national securities exchange on which the security is listed or admitted to trading or, if the security is not listed or admitted to trading on any national securities exchange, the last quoted sale price or, if not so quoted, the average of the high bid and low asked prices in the over-the-counter market, as reported by the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. Automated Quotations System or such other system then in use, or, if on any such date such security is not quoted by any such organization, the average of the closing bid and asked prices as furnished by a professional market maker making a market in the security selected in good faith by the Board of Directors. If the security is not publicly held or so listed or publicly traded, "Closing Price" means the Fair Market Value of such security.
 
"Commission" means the United States Securities and Exchange Commission or any Governmental Authority succeeding to any of its principal functions.
 
"Control" means, with respect to a Person or Group, any of the following:
 
(a) ownership by such Person or Group of Votes entitling it to exercise in the aggregate more than 35% of the Voting Power of the entity in question; or
 
(b) possession by such Person or Group of the power, directly or indirectly, (i) to elect a majority of the board of directors (or equivalent governing body) of the entity in question, or (ii) to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of or with respect to the entity in question, whether through ownership of securities, by contract or otherwise.
"Converted Series Shares" has the meaning set forth in Section 7(c) of ARTICLE SIXTH.
 
"Converted Votes" means, on any particular day, in the case of a share of Series 2 Common Stock, one vote per share.
 
"Convertible Securities" at any time means any securities of the Corporation or of any subsidiary thereof (other than shares of Corporation Common Stock), including warrants and options, outstanding at such time that by their terms are convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for or evidence the right to acquire any shares of any class or series of Corporation Common Stock, whether convertible, exchangeable or exercisable at such time or a later time or only upon the occurrence of certain events, pursuant to antidilution provisions of such securities or otherwise.
 
"Corporation Common Stock" means the Voting Common Stock and the Non-Voting Common Stock.
 
"Director" means a member of the Board of Directors.
 
"Exchange Act" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the Commission promulgated thereunder.
 
"Fair Market Value" means, with respect to any asset, shares or other property, the cash price at which a willing seller would sell and a willing buyer would buy such asset, shares or other property in an arm's-length negotiated transaction without undue time restraints, as determined in good faith by a majority of the Independent Directors.
 
"Fair Price Provisions" means ARTICLE SEVENTH of these Articles of Incorporation, and any successor provision thereto.
 
"Fundamental Change" means any merger, consolidation, reorganization or reclassification of the Corporation or its shares of capital stock, any amendment to these Articles of Incorporation or any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.
 
"Governmental Authority" means any federation, nation, state, sovereign or government, any federal, supranational, regional, state or local political subdivision, any governmental or administrative body, instrumentality, department or agency or any court, tribunal, administrative hearing body, arbitration panel, commission or other similar dispute resolving panel or body, and any other entity exercising executive, legislative, judicial, regulatory or administrative functions of a government.
 
"Group" means any group within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act.
 
"Independent Director" means any member of the Board of Directors who (a) is not an officer or employee of the Corporation or any of its Subsidiaries, (b) is not a former officer of the Corporation or any of its Subsidiaries, (c) does not, in addition to such person's role as a Director, act on a regular basis, either individually or as a member or representative of an organization, serving as a professional adviser, legal counsel or consultant to the Corporation or its Subsidiaries, if, in the opinion of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the "Nominating Committee") or the Board of Directors if a Nominating Committee is not in existence, such relationship is material to the Corporation or the organization so represented or such person, and (d) does not represent, and is not a member of the immediate family of, a person who would not satisfy the requirements of the preceding clauses (a), (b) and (c) of this sentence. A person who has been or is a partner, officer or director of an organization that has customary commercial, industrial, banking or underwriting relationships with the Corporation or any of its Subsidiaries that are carried on in the ordinary course of business on an arms-length basis and who otherwise satisfies the requirements set forth in clauses (a), (b), (c) and (d) of the first sentence of this definition may qualify as an Independent Director, unless, in the opinion of the Nominating Committee or the Board of Directors if a Nominating Committee is not in existence, such person is not independent of the management of the Corporation or any of its Subsidiaries, or the relationship would interfere with the exercise of independent judgment as a member of the Board of Directors. A person who otherwise satisfies the requirements set forth in clauses (a), (b), (c) and (d) of the first sentence of this definition and who, in addition to fulfilling the customary director's role, also provides additional services directly for the Board of Directors and is separately compensated therefor, would nonetheless qualify as an Independent Director.
"Lien" means any mortgage, pledge, security interest, adverse claim, encumbrance, lien (statutory or otherwise) or charge of any kind (including any agreement to give any of the foregoing, any conditional sale or other title retention agreement, any lease in the nature thereof, and the filing of or agreement to give any financing statement under the Uniform Commercial Code or similar Applicable Law of any jurisdiction) or any other type of preferential arrangement for the purpose, or having the effect, of protecting a creditor against loss or securing the payment or performance of an obligation.
 
"Market Price" means with respect to a security on any date, the Closing Price of such security on the Trading Day immediately before such date. The Market Price shall be deemed to be equal to, in the case of a share of Series 2 Common Stock, the Market Price of a share of Series 1 Common Stock. The Market Price of any options, warrants, rights or other securities convertible into or exercisable for Series 2 Common Stock shall be equal to the Market Price of options, warrants, rights or other securities convertible into or exercisable for Series 1 Common Stock upon the same terms and otherwise containing the same terms as such options, warrants, rights or other securities convertible into or exercisable for Series 2 Common Stock.
 
"Merger" means the merger of Nextel Communications, Inc. with and into S-N Merger Corp. pursuant to the Merger Agreement.
 
"Merger Agreement" means the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated December 15, 2004, by and among the Corporation, Nextel Communications, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and S-N Merger Corp., a Delaware corporation wholly owned by the Corporation, as amended.
 
"Motorola" means Motorola, Inc., a Delaware corporation, or any Affiliate thereof.
 
"Motorola Agreement" means the Agreement and Plan of Contribution and Merger, dated August 4, 1994, by and among Nextel Communications, Inc., a Delaware corporation, Motorola, Inc. and ESMR Sub, Inc., a Delaware corporation.
 
"Motorola Conversion Event" has the meaning set forth in Section 8(c) of ARTICLE SIXTH.
 
"NNM" means The Nasdaq Stock Market, Inc.
 
"Non-Voting Common Stock" has the meaning set forth in Section 1 of ARTICLE SIXTH.
 
"Other Stock" means, with respect to any class or series of Applicable Stock, Corporation Common Stock other than such class or series of Applicable Stock.
 
"Person" means an individual, a partnership, an association, a joint venture, a corporation, a business, a trust, any entity organized or existing under Applicable Law, an unincorporated organization or any Governmental Authority.
 
"Preferred Stock" has the meaning set forth in Section 1 of ARTICLE SIXTH.
 
"Redemption Date" means the date fixed by the Board of Directors for the redemption of any shares of capital stock of the Corporation pursuant to Section 2.2 of ARTICLE SIXTH.
 
"Redemption Securities" means any debt or equity securities of the Corporation, any of its Subsidiaries, or any combination thereof having such terms and conditions as shall be approved by the Board of Directors and which, together with any cash to be paid as part of the redemption price pursuant to Section 2.2(b) of ARTICLE SIXTH, in the opinion of an investment banking firm of recognized national standing selected by the Board of Directors (which may be a firm which provides other investment banking, brokerage or other services to the Corporation), have a Market Price, at the time notice of redemption is given pursuant to Section 2.2(d) of ARTICLE SIXTH, at least equal to the redemption price required to be paid by Section 2.2(a) of ARTICLE SIXTH.
 
"Section 310" means Section 310 of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended (or any successor provision of law).
"Securities Act" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the Commission promulgated thereunder.
 
"Series 1 Common Stock" has the meaning set forth in Section 1 of ARTICLE SIXTH.
 
"Series 2 Common Stock" has the meaning set forth in Section 1 of ARTICLE SIXTH.
 
"Subsidiary" means, with respect to any Person (the "Parent"), any other Person in which the Parent, one or more direct or indirect Subsidiaries of the Parent, or the Parent and one or more of its direct or indirect Subsidiaries (a) have the ability, through ownership of securities individually or as a group, ordinarily, in the absence of contingencies, to elect a majority of the directors (or individuals performing similar functions) of such other Person, and (b) own more than 50% of the equity interests.
 
"Trading Day" means, with respect to any security, any day on which the principal national securities exchange on which such security is listed or admitted to trading or the NNM, if such security is listed or admitted to trading thereon, is open for the transaction of business (unless such trading shall have been suspended for the entire day) or, if such security is not listed or admitted to trading on any national securities exchange or the NNM, any day other than a Saturday, Sunday or a day on which banking institutions in the State of New York are authorized or obligated by law or executive order to close.
 
"Transfer" means any act pursuant to which, directly or indirectly, the ownership of the assets or securities in question is sold, transferred, conveyed, delivered or otherwise disposed, but shall not include (a) any grant of Liens, (b) any conversion or exchange of any security of the Corporation pursuant to a merger or other business combination involving the Corporation or (c) any transfer of ownership of assets to the surviving entity pursuant to any merger or other business combination.
 
"Vote" means, with respect to any entity, the ability to cast a vote at a stockholders', members' or comparable meeting of such entity with respect to the election of directors, managers or other members of such entity's governing body, or the ability to cast a general partnership or comparable vote.
 
"Voting Common Stock" means the Series 1 Common Stock and the Series 2 Common Stock.
 
"Voting Power" means, with respect to any entity as at any date, the aggregate number of Votes outstanding as at such date in respect of such entity.
 
"Voting Securities" means, with respect to an entity, any capital stock or debt securities of such entity if the holders thereof are ordinarily, in the absence of contingencies, entitled to a Vote, even though the right to such Vote has been suspended by the happening of such a contingency, and in the case of the Corporation, shall include, without limitation, the Voting Common Stock.
 
Section 10. General Provisions Relating to Preferred Stock.
 
Section 10.1. The Preferred Stock may be issued from time to time in one or more series, each of such series to have such voting powers (full or limited or without voting powers), designation, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights and qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof as are stated and expressed herein, or in a resolution or resolutions providing for the issue of such series adopted by the Board of Directors as hereinafter provided.
 
Section 10.2. Authority is hereby granted to the Board of Directors, subject to the provisions of ARTICLE SIXTH, to create one or more series of Preferred Stock and, with respect to each series, to fix or alter as permitted by law, by resolution or resolutions providing for the issue of such series:
 
(a) the number of shares to constitute such series and the distinctive designation thereof;
(b) the dividend rate on the shares of such series, the dividend payment dates, the periods in respect of which dividends are payable ("dividend periods"), whether such dividends shall be cumulative, and if cumulative, the date or dates from which dividends shall accumulate;
 
(c) whether or not the shares of such series shall be redeemable, and, if redeemable, on what terms, including the redemption prices which the shares of such series shall be entitled to receive upon the redemption thereof;
 
(d) whether or not the shares of such series shall be subject to the operation of retirement or sinking funds to be applied to the purchase or redemption of such shares for retirement and, if such retirement or sinking fund or funds be established, the annual amount thereof and the terms and provisions relative to the operation thereof;
 
(e) whether or not the shares of such series shall be convertible into, or exchangeable for, shares of any other class or classes or of any series of the same or any other class or classes of stock of the Corporation and the conversion price or prices or rate or rates, or the rate or rates at which such exchange may be made, with such adjustments, if any, as shall be stated and expressed or provided in such resolution or resolutions;
 
(f) the voting power, if any, of the shares of such series; and
 
(g) such other terms, conditions, special rights and protective provisions as the Board of Directors may deem advisable.
 
Section 10.3. No dividend shall be declared and set apart for payment on any series of Preferred Stock in respect of any dividend period unless there shall likewise be or have been paid, or declared and set apart for payment, on all shares of Preferred Stock of each other series entitled to cumulative dividends at the time outstanding which rank equally as to dividends with the series in question, dividends ratably in accordance with the sums which would be payable on the said shares through the end of the last preceding dividend period if all dividends were declared and paid in full.
 
Section 10.4. If upon any dissolution of the Corporation, the assets of the Corporation distributable among the holders of any one or more series of Preferred Stock which are (i) entitled to a preference over the holders of the Corporation Common Stock upon such dissolution and (ii) rank equally in connection with any such distribution, shall be insufficient to pay in full the preferential amount to which the holders of such shares shall be entitled, then such assets, or the proceeds thereof, shall be distributed among the holders of each such series of the Preferred Stock ratably in accordance with the sums which would be payable on such distribution if all sums payable were discharged in full.
 
Section 10.5. In the event that the Preferred Stock of any series shall be redeemable, then, at the option of the Board of Directors, the Corporation may at such time or times as may be specified by the Board of Directors as provided in Section 10.2(c) redeem all, or any number less than all, of the outstanding shares of such series at the redemption price thereof and on the other terms fixed herein or by the Board of Directors as provided in said Section 10.2(c) (the sum so payable upon any redemption of Preferred Stock being herein referred to as the "redemption price").
 
Section 10.6. Preferred Stock - Sixth Series
 
(a) . The shares of such Series shall be designated as "Preferred Stock-Sixth Series, Junior Participating" (hereafter "Sixth Series") and the shares constituting such series shall number 3,000,000.
Designation and Amount
 
(b)
Dividends.
 
(i) Subject to the prior and superior rights of the holders of any shares of any other series of Preferred Stock of the Corporation, or any similar stock ranking prior and superior to the shares of the Sixth Series with respect to dividends, the holders of shares of the Sixth Series, in preference to the holders of Corporation Common Stock and any shares of stock ranking junior (as to dividends) to the shares of the Sixth Series (collectively with such Corporation Common Stock, "Junior Stock"), shall be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the Board of Directors out of funds legally available for the purpose, quarterly dividends payable in cash, on January 1, April 1, July 1 and October 1 in each year (each such date being referred to herein as a "Quarterly Dividend Payment Date") in an amount (rounded to the nearest cent) per share equal to the greater
of (A) $100.00 or (B) subject to the provision for adjustment hereinafter set forth, 2,000 times the aggregate per share amount of all cash dividends, plus 2,000 times the aggregate per share amount (payable in cash, based upon the fair market value at the time the non-cash dividend or other distribution is declared as determined in good faith by the Board of Directors) of all non-cash dividends or other distributions, other than a dividend payable in shares of Series 1 Common Stock or a subdivision of the outstanding shares of Series 1 Common Stock (by reclassification or otherwise), declared (but not withdrawn) on the Series 1 Common Stock since the immediately preceding Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, or, with respect to the first Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, since the first issuance of any share or fraction of a share of the Sixth Series.
 
(ii) In the event the Corporation shall (A) declare any dividend on Series 1 Common Stock payable in shares of Series 1 Common Stock, (B) subdivide the outstanding Series 1 Common Stock or (C) combine the outstanding Series 1 Common Stock into a smaller number of shares, then in each such case the per share amount to which holders of shares of the Sixth Series would be entitled immediately before such event under clause (B) of paragraph (i) of this Section 10.6(b) shall be adjusted by multiplying such amount by a fraction the numerator of which is the number of shares of Series 1 Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the number of shares of Series 1 Common Stock that were outstanding immediately before such event.
 
(iii) The Corporation shall declare a dividend or distribution on the Sixth Series as provided above in paragraph (i) of this Section 10.6(b) immediately after it declares a dividend or distribution on the Series 1 Common Stock (other than a dividend payable in shares of Series 1 Common Stock); , , that in the event no dividend or distribution shall have been declared on the Series 1 Common Stock during the period between any Quarterly Dividend Payment Date and the next subsequent Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, the minimum quarterly dividend of $100.00 on the Sixth Series shall nevertheless be payable on such subsequent Quarterly Dividend Payment Date.
provided
however
 
(iv) Dividends shall begin to accrue and be cumulative on outstanding shares of Sixth Series from the Quarterly Dividend Payment Date next preceding the date of issue of such shares of Sixth Series, unless the date of issue of such shares of Sixth Series is before the record date for the first Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, in which case dividends on such shares shall begin to accrue from the date of issue of such shares, or unless the date of issue is a Quarterly Dividend Payment Date or is a date after the record date for the determination of holders of shares of Sixth Series entitled to receive a quarterly dividend and before such Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, in either of which cases such dividends shall begin to accrue and be cumulative from such Quarterly Dividend Payment Date. Accrued but unpaid dividends shall cumulate but shall not bear interest. Dividends paid on the shares of Sixth Series in an amount less than the total amount of such dividends at the time accrued and payable on such shares shall be allocated pro rata on a share-by-share basis among all such shares at the time outstanding. The Board of Directors may fix a record date for the determination of holders of shares of the Sixth Series entitled to receive payment of a dividend or distribution declared thereon, which record date shall not be more than 10 days before the date fixed for the payment thereof.
 
(c) . Except as prescribed by law and in addition to the rights provided for in ARTICLE SIXTH of these Articles of Incorporation and subject to the provision for adjustment hereinafter set forth, the holders of the shares of the Sixth Series shall be entitled to 2,000 votes for each share held. In the event the Corporation shall (i) declare any dividend on Series 1 Common Stock payable in shares of Series 1 Common Stock, (ii) subdivide the outstanding Series 1 Common Stock or (iii) combine the outstanding Series 1 Common Stock into a smaller number of shares, then in each such case the number of votes per share to which holders of shares of the Sixth Series would be entitled immediately before such event shall be adjusted by multiplying such number by a fraction the numerator of which is the number of shares of Series 1 Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the number of shares of Series 1 Common Stock that were outstanding immediately before such event. Except as otherwise provided in these Articles of Incorporation, in any Certificate of Designation establishing a series of Preferred Stock or any similar stock or otherwise required by law, the holders of the shares of the Sixth Series and the holders of Voting Common Stock shall vote together as one class on all matters submitted to a vote of stockholders of the Corporation.
Voting Rights
(d)
Certain Restrictions.
 
(i) Whenever quarterly dividends or other dividends or distributions payable on the shares of the Sixth Series as provided in Section 10.6(b) are in arrears, thereafter and until all accrued and unpaid dividends and distributions, whether or not declared, on shares of the Sixth Series outstanding shall have been paid in full, the Corporation shall not:
 
(A) declare or pay dividends (except a dividend payable in Corporation Common Stock and/or any other Junior Stock) on, make any other distributions on, or redeem or purchase or otherwise acquire for consideration any shares of Junior Stock;
 
(B) declare or pay dividends on or make any other distribution on any shares of stock ranking on a parity (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) with the shares of the Sixth Series, except dividends paid ratably on the shares of the Sixth Series and all such parity stock on which dividends are payable or in arrears in proportion to the total amounts to which the holders of all such shares are then entitled;
 
(C) redeem or purchase or otherwise acquire for consideration any shares ranking on a parity (either as to dividends or upon dissolution, liquidation or winding up) with the shares of the Sixth Series, that the Corporation may at any time redeem, purchase or otherwise acquire shares of such parity stock in exchange for shares of Junior Stock; or
provided
 
(D) purchase or otherwise acquire for consideration any shares of the Sixth Series, or any shares of stock ranking on a parity (either as to dividends or upon dissolution, liquidation or winding up) with the shares of the Sixth Series, except in accordance with a purchase offer made in writing or by publication (as determined by the Board of Directors) to all holders of such shares upon such terms as the Board of Directors, after consideration of the respective annual dividend rates and other relative rights and preferences of the respective series and classes, shall determine in good faith will result in fair and equitable treatment among the respective series or classes.
 
(ii) The Corporation shall not permit any subsidiary of the Corporation to purchase or otherwise acquire for consideration any shares of stock of the Corporation unless the Corporation could, under paragraph (A) of this Section 10.6(d), purchase or otherwise acquire such shares at such time and in such manner.
 
(e) . Any shares of the Sixth Series purchased or otherwise acquired by the Corporation in any manner whatsoever shall be retired and canceled promptly after the acquisition thereof. All such shares shall upon their cancellation become authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock and may be reissued as part of a new series of Preferred Stock to be created by resolution or resolutions of the Board of Directors, subject to the conditions and restrictions on issuance set forth in this Section 10.6, elsewhere in the Articles of Incorporation, in any other Certificate of Designation establishing a series of Preferred Stock or any similar stock or as otherwise required by law.
Reacquired Shares
 
(f)
Liquidation, Dissolution Or Winding Up.
 
(i) In the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, the holders of the shares of the Sixth Series shall be entitled to receive, in preference to the holders of stock ranking junior (as to the amount payable upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) to the Sixth Series, the greater of (A) $1,000.00 per share, plus accrued and unpaid dividends to the date of distribution, whether or not earned or declared, or (B) an amount per share, subject to the provision for adjustment hereinafter set forth, equal to 2,000 times the aggregate amount to be distributed per share to holders of Series 1 Common Stock. In the event the Corporation shall (x) declare any dividend on Series 1 Common Stock payable in shares of Series 1 Common Stock, (y) subdivide the outstanding Series 1 Common Stock or (z) combine the outstanding Series 1 Common Stock into a smaller number of shares, then in each such case the amount to which holders of shares of the Sixth Series would be entitled immediately before such event pursuant to clause (B) of the preceding sentence shall be adjusted by multiplying such amount by a fraction the numerator of which is the number of shares of Series 1 Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the number of shares of Series 1 Common Stock that were outstanding immediately before such event.
(ii) In the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, the holders of stock ranking on a parity (as to the amount payable upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) with the Sixth Series shall not receive any distributions except for distributions made ratably on the Sixth Series and all other such parity stock in proportion to the total amounts to which the holders of all such shares are entitled upon such liquidation, dissolution or winding up.
 
(g) In case the Corporation shall enter into any consolidation, merger, combination or other transaction in which the shares of Series 1 Common Stock are exchanged for or changed into other stock or securities, cash and/or any other property, then in any such case the shares of the Sixth Series shall at the same time be similarly exchanged or changed in an amount per share (subject to the provision for adjustment hereinafter set forth) equal to 2,000 times the aggregate amount of stock, securities, cash and/or any other property (payable in kind), as the case may be, into which or for which each share of Series 1 Common Stock is changed or exchanged. In the event the Corporation shall (i) declare any dividend on Series 1 Common Stock payable in shares of Series 1 Common Stock, (ii) subdivide the outstanding Series 1 Common Stock or (iii) combine the outstanding Series 1 Common Stock into a smaller number of shares, then in each such case the amount to which holders of shares of the Sixth Series would be entitled immediately before such event pursuant to the preceding sentence with respect to the exchange or change of shares of the Sixth Series shall be adjusted by multiplying such amount by a fraction the numerator of which is the number of shares of Series 1 Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the number of shares of Series 1 Common Stock that were outstanding immediately before such event.
Consolidation, Merger, Etc.
 
(h) The shares of the Sixth Series shall rank junior to all other series of the Preferred Stock as to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets, unless the terms of any such series shall provide otherwise. Nothing herein shall preclude the Board of Directors of the Corporation from creating any additional series of Preferred Stock or any similar stock ranking on a parity with or prior to the shares of the Sixth Series as to the payment of dividends or distribution of assets.
Ranking.
 
(i) . Shares of the Sixth Series may be issued in fractions of a share which shall entitle the holder, in proportion to such holder's fractional shares, to exercise voting rights, receive dividends, participate in distributions and to have the benefit of all other rights of holders of shares of the Sixth Series.
Fractional Shares
 
Section 10.7.
Preferred Stock-Seventh Series Convertible.
 
(a) . The shares to constitute the Seventh Series of Preferred Stock shall number 300,000 shares. The designation thereof shall be "Preferred Stock-Seventh Series, Convertible" (hereinafter "Seventh Series"). Shares of the Seventh Series shall rank junior as to dividends and upon liquidation to shares of any other Preferred Stock designated as senior to the Seventh Series as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up ("Senior Stock"), and shall have a preference over the shares of the Corporation Common Stock and any other class or series of Junior Stock.
Amount, Rank and Designation
 
(b) . Holders of record of shares of the Seventh Series will be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the Board of Directors of the Corporation, out of funds legally available for the payment of dividends, cumulative cash dividends ("Preferred Dividends") payable at the rate of $6.73 per share quarterly in arrears on each September 30, December 31, March 31 and June 30 (each a "Dividend Payment Date") or, if any such date is not a Business Day, the Preferred Dividends due on such Dividend Payment Date shall be paid on the next succeeding Business Day. Preferred Dividends on the Seventh Series shall be cumulative and shall accumulate from the date of original issuance of the Seventh Series. Preferred Dividends shall be payable to holders of record as they appear on the stock transfer books of the Corporation, net of any amounts required to be withheld for or with respect to taxes, on such record dates, not more than 60 days preceding the payment date thereof, as shall be fixed by the Board of Directors. Preferred Dividends payable on the Seventh Series for any period less than a full quarterly dividend period shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months and the actual number of days elapsed in any period less than one month. Preferred Dividends shall accrue on a daily basis whether or not there are funds of the Corporation legally available for the payment of such dividends and whether or not such Preferred Dividends are declared. Accrued but unpaid Preferred Dividends shall accumulate as of the Dividend Payment Date on which they first become payable, but no interest shall accrue on accumulated but unpaid Preferred Dividends. Before any dividends on the Corporation Common Stock or any other class or series of stock of the Corporation ranking junior to the Seventh Series as to dividends shall be paid or declared and set apart for payment, the holders of shares of the Seventh Series shall be entitled to receive the full accumulated cash dividends for all quarterly dividend periods ending on or before the date on
Dividends
which any dividend on any such class or series of stock ranking junior to the Seventh Series as to dividends is declared or is to be paid.
 
(c)
Conversion.
 
(i) Each holder of shares of Seventh Series may at such holder's option at any time convert any or all of such holder's shares of Seventh Series into (A) if such holder is a Cable Holder, shares of Series 2 Common Stock, and (B) if such holder is not a Cable Holder, shares of Series 1 Common Stock. All references herein to shares of Series 2 Common Stock issuable upon conversion of shares of Seventh Series shall be deemed to refer to shares of Series 1 Common Stock if the holder of such Seventh Series is not a Cable Holder. Such shares of Seventh Series shall be convertible into a number of fully paid and nonassessable whole shares of Series 2 Common Stock as is equal to the aggregate Liquidation Preference of the shares of Seventh Series surrendered for conversion divided by the Initial Conversion Price (as adjusted from time to time, the "Conversion Price"). In case of the redemption of any shares of the Seventh Series, such right of conversion shall cease and terminate as to the shares duly called for redemption at the close of business on the date fixed for redemption, unless the Corporation defaults in the payment of the redemption price plus all accrued and unpaid dividends. If the Corporation defaults with respect to such payment, the right to convert the shares designated for redemption shall terminate at the close of business on the business day next preceding the date that such default is cured. Upon conversion the Corporation shall make no payment or adjustment on account of dividends accrued or in arrears on the Seventh Series surrendered for conversion.
 
(ii) Holders of shares of Seventh Series at the close of business on a record date for any payment of declared Preferred Dividends shall be entitled to receive the Preferred Dividends payable on those shares of Seventh Series on the corresponding Dividend Payment Date notwithstanding the conversion pursuant to this section of those shares of Seventh Series following such record date and before the close of business on such Dividend Payment Date. Except as provided in the preceding sentence, upon any conversion of shares of Seventh Series, the Corporation shall make no payment of or allowance of unpaid Preferred Dividends, whether or not in arrears, on such shares of Seventh Series, or for previously declared dividends or distributions on the shares of Series 2 Common Stock issued upon conversion.
 
(iii) Conversion of shares of Seventh Series may be effected by delivering certificates evidencing such shares of Seventh Series, together with written notice of conversion stating the number of shares to be converted and a proper assignment of such certificates to the Corporation or in blank, to the office of the transfer agent for the Seventh Series or to any other office or agency maintained by the Corporation for that purpose and otherwise in accordance with conversion procedures established by the Corporation. Each conversion shall be deemed to have been effected immediately before the close of business on the date on which the foregoing requirements shall have been satisfied. The Corporation shall as promptly as practicable after any conversion pursuant to this section issue and deliver to the converting holder a certificate or certificates representing the number of whole shares of Series 2 Common Stock into which such shares of Seventh Series were converted. Upon conversion of less than the entire number of the shares of Seventh Series represented by any certificate, the Corporation shall issue and deliver to the converting holder a new certificate representing the number of shares of Seventh Series not converted. The Corporation shall effect such conversion as soon as practicable; that the Corporation shall not be required to convert shares of Seventh Series, and no surrender of shares of Seventh Series shall be effective for that purpose, while the stock transfer books of the Corporation for the Series 2 Common Stock are closed for any reason, but the surrender of shares of Seventh Series for conversion during any period while such books are so closed shall become effective for conversion immediately upon the reopening of such books, as if the conversion had been made on the date such shares of Seventh Series were surrendered, and at the Conversion Price in effect on the date of such surrender.
provided
 
(iv) No fraction of a share of Series 2 Common Stock shall be issued upon any conversion. In lieu of the fraction of a share to which the holder of shares of the Seventh Series surrendered for conversion would otherwise be entitled, such holder shall receive, as soon as practicable after the date of conversion, an amount in cash equal to the same fraction of the market value of a full share of Series 1 Common Stock. For the purposes of this subparagraph, the market value of a share of Series 1 Common Stock shall be the Closing Price of such a share on the day immediately preceding the date upon which such shares of Seventh Series are surrendered for conversion.
(v) The Conversion Price in effect at any time shall be subject to adjustment as follows:
 
(A) If the Corporation shall: (1) pay a dividend on the Voting Common Stock in shares of Voting Common Stock, (2) subdivide the outstanding shares of Voting Common Stock into a greater number of shares, (3) combine the outstanding shares of Voting Common Stock into a smaller number of shares, (4) pay a dividend on the Voting Common Stock in shares of its capital stock (other than Voting Common Stock) or (5) issue any shares of its capital stock by reclassification of the shares of Voting Common Stock (other than any reclassification by way of merger or binding share exchange that is subject to Section 10.7(c)(v)(H)), then the Conversion Price in effect at the time of the record date for such dividend or of the effective date of such subdivision, combination or reclassification shall be proportionately adjusted so that if the holder elects to convert shares of Seventh Series after such time, the holder thereof shall be entitled to receive the aggregate number of shares of capital stock which, if such conversion had occurred immediately prior to such time, he would have owned upon such conversion and been entitled to receive by virtue of such dividend, subdivision, combination or reclassification. Such adjustment shall be made successively whenever any event listed above shall occur. Subject to Section 10.7(c)(v)(F) for a dividend or distribution, the adjustment shall become effective immediately after the record date for the dividend or distribution, and for a subdivision, combination or reclassification, the adjustment shall become effective immediately after the effective date of the subdivision, combination or reclassification.
 
(B) If the Corporation shall issue rights or warrants to the holders of the Voting Common Stock entitling them (for a period expiring within 45 days after the record date for the determination of stockholders entitled to receive such rights or warrants) to subscribe for or purchase shares of Voting Common Stock (or Convertible Securities) at a price per share (or having a conversion price per share, after adding thereto an allocable portion of the Conversion Price of the right or warrant to purchase such Convertible Securities, computed on the basis of the maximum number of shares of Voting Common Stock issuable upon conversion of such Convertible Securities) less than the Current Market Price per share on the Determination Date, the Conversion Price shall be adjusted by multiplying the Conversion Price in effect immediately prior to such record date by a fraction, of which the numerator shall be the number of shares of Voting Common Stock outstanding on such record date plus the number of shares which the aggregate offering price of the total number of shares of Voting Common Stock so offered (or the aggregate initial conversion price of the Convertible Securities so offered, after adding thereto the aggregate conversion price of the rights or warrants to purchase such Convertible Securities) to holders of Voting Common Stock (and to holders of Convertible Securities referred to in the following paragraph if the distribution to which this paragraph (B) applies is also being made to such holders) would purchase at such Current Market Price, and of which the denominator shall be the number of shares of Voting Common Stock outstanding on such record date plus the number of additional shares of Voting Common Stock so offered for subscription or purchase (or into which the Convertible Securities so offered are initially convertible). The adjustment contemplated by this paragraph (B) shall be made successively whenever any such rights or warrants are issued and shall become effective immediately after the close of business on such record date; , , to the extent that shares of Voting Common Stock (or Convertible Securities) have not been issued when such rights or warrants expire (or, in the case of rights or warrants to purchase Convertible Securities which have been exercised, if all of the shares of Voting Common Stock issuable upon conversion of such Convertible Securities have not been issued prior to the expiration of the conversion right thereof), the Conversion Price shall be readjusted to the Conversion Price which would then be in effect had the adjustments made upon the issuance of such rights or warrants been made upon the basis of delivery of only the number of shares (or Convertible Securities) actually issued upon the exercise of such rights or warrants (or the conversion of such Convertible Securities).
provided
however
 
For purposes of this paragraph (B) the number of shares of Voting Common Stock outstanding on any record date shall be deemed to include the maximum number of shares of Voting Common Stock the issuance of which would be necessary to effect the full exercise, exchange or conversion of all Convertible Securities outstanding on such record date which are then exercisable, exchangeable or convertible at a price (before giving effect to any adjustment to such price for the distribution to which this paragraph (B) is being applied) equal to or less than the Current Market Price per share of Voting Common Stock on the applicable Determination Date, if all of such Convertible Securities were deemed to have been exercised, exchanged or converted immediately prior to the opening of business on such record date. In case any subscription price may be paid in a consideration part or all of which shall be in a form other than cash, the value of such consideration shall be as determined by the Board of Directors of the Corporation.
(C) If the Corporation shall distribute to the holders of Voting Common Stock evidences of its indebtedness or assets or subscription rights or warrants (excluding (x) dividends or distributions referred to in Section 10.7(c)(v)(A) and distributions of rights or warrants referred to in Section 10.7(c)(v)(B) and (y) cash dividends or other cash distributions, unless such cash dividends or cash distributions are Extraordinary Cash Dividends), the Conversion Price shall be adjusted by multiplying the Conversion Price in effect immediately prior to the record date for the determination of stockholders entitled to receive such distribution by a fraction, of which the numerator shall be the number of shares of Voting Common Stock outstanding on such record date multiplied by the Current Market Price on the Determination Date, less the fair market value (as determined by the Board of Directors of the Corporation) on such record date of the evidences of indebtedness, assets (including Extraordinary Cash Dividends), subscription rights or warrants to be distributed to the holders of Voting Common Stock (and to the holders of Convertible Securities referred to below if the distribution to which this paragraph (C) applies is also being made to such holders), and of which the denominator shall be the number of shares of Voting Common Stock outstanding on such record date multiplied by such Current Market Price. For purposes of this paragraph (C), the number of shares of Voting Common Stock outstanding on any record date shall be deemed to include the maximum number of shares of Voting Common Stock the issuance of which would be necessary to effect the full exercise, exchange or conversion of all Convertible Securities outstanding on such record date which are then exercisable, exchangeable or convertible at a price (before giving effect to any adjustment to such price for the distribution to which this paragraph (C) is being applied) equal to or less than the Current Market Price per share of Voting Common Stock on the applicable Determination Date, if all of such Convertible Securities were deemed to have been exercised, exchanged or converted immediately prior to the opening of business on such record date.
 
For purposes of this paragraph (C), the term "Extraordinary Cash Dividend" shall mean any cash dividend with respect to the Voting Common Stock the amount of which, together with the aggregate amount of cash dividends on the Voting Common Stock to be aggregated with such cash dividend in accordance with the following provisions of this paragraph, equals or exceeds the threshold percentage set forth below in the following sentence. If, upon the date prior to the Ex-Dividend Date with respect to a cash dividend on the Voting Common Stock, the aggregate of the amount of such cash dividend together with the amounts of all cash dividends on the Voting Common Stock with Ex-Dividend Dates occurring in the 365 consecutive day period ending on the date prior to the Ex-Dividend Date with respect to the cash dividend to which this provision is being applied (other than any such other cash dividends with Ex-Dividend Dates occurring in such period for which a prior adjustment to the Conversion Price was previously made under this paragraph (C)) equals or exceeds on a per share basis five percent (5%) of the average of the Closing Prices during the period beginning on the date after the first such Ex-Dividend Date in such period and ending on the date prior to the Ex-Dividend Date with respect to the cash dividend to which this provision is being applied (except that if no other cash dividend has had an Ex-Dividend Date occurring in such period, the period for calculating the average of the Closing Prices shall be the period commencing 365 days prior to the date immediately prior to the Ex-Dividend Date with respect to the cash dividend to which this provision is being applied), such cash dividend together with each other cash dividend with an Ex-Dividend Date occurring in such 365-day period that is aggregated with such cash dividend in accordance with this paragraph shall be deemed to be an Extraordinary Cash Dividend.
 
The adjustment pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this paragraph (C) shall be made successively whenever any distribution to which this paragraph (C) applies is made, and shall become effective immediately after the record date for the determination of stockholders entitled to receive the distribution.
 
(D) If this Section 10.7(c)(v) requires adjustments to the Conversion Price under more than one of clause (4) of the first sentence of paragraph (A), paragraph (B) or paragraph (C), and the record dates for the distribution giving rise to such adjustments shall occur on the same date, then such adjustments shall be made by applying, first, the provisions of paragraph (A), second the provisions of paragraph (C) and, third, the provisions of paragraph (B).
 
(E) No adjustment in the Conversion Price shall be required unless such adjustment would require an increase or decrease of at least one percent (1%) thereof; , that any adjustments which by reason of this paragraph (E) are not required to be made shall be carried forward and taken into account in any subsequent adjustment. All calculations under this Section 10.7(c)(v) shall be made to the nearest cent or to the nearest one-hundredth of a share, as the case may be.
provided, however
(F) In any case in which this Section 10.7(c)(v) shall require that an adjustment in the Conversion Price be made effective as of the record date for a specified event, the Corporation may elect to defer until the occurrence of such event (x) issuing to the holder of the Seventh Series the shares, if any, issuable upon such conversion over and above the shares, if any, issuable upon such conversion on the basis of the Conversion Price in effect prior to such adjustment, if the Seventh Series is converted after such record date, and (y) paying to the holder cash or its check in lieu of any fractional interest to which the holder would be entitled pursuant to Section 10.7(c)(iv); , , that the Corporation shall deliver to the holder a due bill or other appropriate instrument evidencing the holder's right to receive such additional shares and such cash upon the occurrence of the event requiring such adjustment.
provided
however
 
(G) If the Corporation consolidates with or merges into, or transfers (other than by mortgage or pledge) its properties and assets substantially as an entirety to, another Person or the Corporation is a party to a merger or binding share exchange which reclassifies or changes its outstanding Voting Common Stock, or the Voting Common Stock is converted into another class or series of capital stock of the Corporation, the Corporation (or its successor in such transaction) or the transferee of such properties and assets shall make appropriate provision so that the holder's certificate representing shares of Seventh Series shall thereafter be convertible, upon the terms and conditions specified in the certificates, for the kind and amount of securities, cash or other assets receivable upon such transaction by a holder of the number of shares of Voting Common Stock purchasable upon conversion of the holder's Seventh Series immediately before the effective date of such transaction (assuming, to the extent applicable, that such holder of Voting Common Stock failed to exercise any rights of election with respect thereto, and received per share the kind and amount of securities, cash or other assets received per share of Voting Common Stock by a plurality of the nonelecting shares of Voting Common Stock); and in any such case, if necessary, the provisions set forth in this Section 10.7(c)(v) with respect to the rights and interests thereafter of the holder of the Seventh Series shall be appropriately adjusted so as to be applicable, as nearly as may reasonably be, to any such other securities or assets thereafter deliverable on the conversion of the holder's Seventh Series. The subdivision or combination of the Voting Common Stock at any time outstanding into a greater or lesser number of shares of Voting Common Stock shall not be deemed to be a reclassification of the Voting Common Stock for the purposes of this subsection. The Corporation shall not effect any such consolidation, merger, transfer or binding share exchange unless prior to or simultaneously with the consummation thereof the successor (if other than the Corporation) resulting from such consolidation or merger or the Person purchasing such assets or other appropriate Person shall assume, by written instrument, the obligation to deliver to the holders of the Seventh Series such securities, cash or other assets as, in accordance with the foregoing provisions, the holder may be entitled to purchase and the other obligations in this Section 10.7.
 
The Corporation may make such reductions in the Conversion Price, in addition to those required by paragraphs (A), (B) and (C) of this Section 10.7(c)(v), as it shall in its sole discretion determine to be advisable.
 
(H) Subject to Section 10.7(c)(v)(E) and to the remaining provisions of this Section 10.7(c)(v)(H), in the event that a holder of Seventh Series would be entitled to receive upon conversion thereof pursuant to this Section 10.7(c)(v) any Redeemable Capital Stock and the Corporation redeems, exchanges or otherwise acquires all of the outstanding shares or other units of such Redeemable Capital Stock (such event being a "Redemption Event"), then, from and after the effective date of such Redemption Event, the holders of shares of Seventh Series then outstanding shall be entitled to receive upon conversion of such shares, in lieu of shares or units of such Redeemable Capital Stock, the kind and amount of shares of stock and other securities and property receivable upon the Redemption Event by a holder of the number of shares or units of such Redeemable Capital Stock into which such shares of Seventh Series could have been converted immediately prior to the effective date of such Redemption Event (assuming, to the extent applicable, that such holder failed to exercise any rights of election with respect thereto and received per share or unit of such Redeemable Capital Stock the kind and amount of stock and other securities and property received per share or unit by a plurality of the non-electing shares or units of such Redeemable Capital Stock), and (from and after the effective date of such Redemption Event) the holders of the Seventh Series shall have no other conversion rights under these provisions with respect to such Redeemable Capital Stock.
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the redemption price for the shares of such Redeemable Capital Stock is paid in whole or in part in Redemption Securities, and the Mirror Preferred Stock Condition is met, the Seventh Series shall not be convertible into such Redemption Securities and, from and after the applicable redemption date, the holders of
any shares of Seventh Series that have not been exchanged for Mirror Preferred Stock and Exchange Preferred Stock shall have no conversion rights under these provisions except for any conversion right that may have existed immediately prior to the effective date of the Redemption Event with respect to any shares of stock (including the Voting Common Stock) or other securities or property other than the Redeemable Capital Stock so redeemed. The Corporation shall use all commercially reasonable efforts to ensure that the Mirror Preferred Stock Condition is satisfied. The "Mirror Preferred Stock Condition" will be satisfied in connection with a redemption of any Redeemable Capital Stock into which the Seventh Series is then convertible if appropriate provision is made so that the holders of the Seventh Series have the right to exchange their shares of Seventh Series on the effective date of the Redemption Event for Exchange Preferred Stock of the Corporation and Mirror Preferred Stock of the issuer of the Redemption Securities. The sum of the initial liquidation preferences of the shares of Exchange Preferred and Mirror Preferred Stock delivered in exchange for a share of Seventh Series will equal the Liquidation Preference of a share of Seventh Series on the effective date of the Redemption Event. The Mirror Preferred Stock will have an aggregate initial liquidation preference equal to the product of the aggregate Liquidation Preference of the shares of Seventh Series exchanged therefor and the quotient of (x) the product of the amount of shares of the Redeemable Capital Stock for which each share of Seventh Series is then convertible to be redeemed (determined immediately prior to the effective date of the Redemption Event) and the average of the daily Closing Prices of the Redeemable Capital Stock for the period of ten consecutive trading days ending on the third trading day prior to the effective date of the Redemption Event, divided by (y) the sum of the amount determined pursuant to clause (x), plus the fair value of the shares of stock or other securities or property (other than the Redeemable Capital Stock being redeemed) that would have been receivable by a holder of Seventh Series upon conversion thereof immediately prior to the effective date of the Redemption Event (such fair value to be determined in the case of stock or other securities with a Closing Price in the same manner as provided in clause (x) and otherwise by the Board of Directors in the exercise of its judgment). The shares of Exchange Preferred Stock will have an aggregate initial liquidation preference equal to the difference between the aggregate Liquidation Preference of the shares of Seventh Series exchanged therefor and the aggregate initial liquidation preference of the Mirror Preferred Stock. No shares of Exchange Preferred Stock will be issued in exchange for the Seventh Series if the shares of Exchange Preferred Stock would have no Liquidation Preference as a result of the above formula.
 
(I) If the Corporation effects a Spin Off, the Corporation shall make appropriate provision so that the holders of the Seventh Series have the right to exchange their shares of Seventh Series on the effective date of the Spin Off for Exchange Preferred Stock of the Corporation and Mirror Preferred Stock of the issuer of the Spin Off Securities. The sum of the initial liquidation preference of the shares of Exchange Preferred Stock and Mirror Preferred Stock delivered in exchange for a share of Seventh Series will equal the Liquidation Preference of a share of Seventh Series on the effective date of the Spin Off. The Mirror Preferred Stock will have an aggregate liquidation preference equal to the product of the aggregate Liquidation Preference of the shares of Seventh Series exchanged therefor and the quotient of (x) the product of the number (or fraction) of Spin Off Securities that would have been receivable upon such Spin Off by a holder of the number of shares of Voting Common Stock issuable upon conversion of a share of Seventh Series immediately prior to the effective date of the Spin Off and the average of the daily Closing Prices of the Spin Off Securities for the period of ten consecutive trading days commencing on the tenth trading day following the effective date of the Spin Off, divided by (y) the sum of the amount determined pursuant to clause (x), plus the fair value of the shares of Voting Common Stock and other securities or property (other than Spin Off Securities) that would have been receivable by a holder of a share of Seventh Series in the Spin Off following conversion thereof immediately prior to the effective date of the Spin Off (such fair value to be determined in the case of Voting Common Stock or other securities with a Closing Price in the same manner as provided in clause (x) and otherwise by the Board of Directors in the exercise of its judgment). The shares of Exchange Preferred Stock will have an aggregate initial liquidation preference equal to the difference between the aggregate Liquidation Preference of the shares of Seventh Series exchanged therefor and the aggregate initial liquidation preference of the Mirror Preferred Stock. No shares of Exchange Preferred Stock will be issued in exchange for the Seventh Series if the shares of Exchange Preferred Stock would have no Liquidation Preference as a result of the above formula. From and after the effective date of such Spin Off, the holders of any shares of Seventh Series that have not been exchanged for Mirror Preferred Stock and Exchange Preferred Stock as provided above shall have no conversion rights under these provisions with respect to such Spin Off Securities.
 
(vi) The Corporation shall pay any and all documentary stamp or similar issue or transfer taxes payable in respect of the issue or delivery of shares of Voting Common Stock on the conversion of Seventh Series; , , that the Corporation shall not be required to pay any tax that may be payable in respect of any registration of transfer involved in the issue or delivery of shares of Voting Common Stock in a name other
provided
however
than that of the registered holder of Seventh Series converted or to be converted, and no such issue or delivery shall be made unless and until the person requesting such issue has paid to the Corporation the amount of any such tax or has established, to the satisfaction of the Corporation, that such tax has been paid.
 
(d) . Subject to prior payment of preferred amounts to which any Senior Stock is entitled, in the event of any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation the holders of the Seventh Series will be entitled to receive out of the assets of the Corporation available for distribution to stockholders, before any distribution of the assets shall be made to the holders of the Corporation Common Stock or any other class or series of stock ranking junior to the Seventh Series upon liquidation, the sum of U.S. $1,000 per share (the "Liquidation Preference"), plus in each case any accumulated unpaid dividends (whether or not declared), to the date of final distribution. If upon any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation the amounts payable with respect to the Seventh Series and any other Parity Stock are not paid in full, the holders of the Seventh Series and such Parity Stock will share ratably in any distribution of assets in proportion to the full preferential amounts to which they are entitled. After payment of the full amount of the liquidating distribution to which they are entitled, the holders of Seventh Series shall not be entitled to any further participation in any distribution of assets by the Corporation. A consolidation or merger of the Corporation with or into one or more other corporations (whether or not the Corporation is the corporation surviving such consolidation or merger), or a sale, lease or exchange of all or substantially all of the assets of the Corporation, shall not be deemed to be a voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution, or winding up of the Corporation. Notice of a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation shall be filed at each office or agency maintained for the purpose of conversion of the Seventh Series, and shall be mailed to the holders of Seventh Series at their last addresses as they shall appear on the stock transfer books of the Corporation, at least 20 business days before any such action, stating the date on which any such action is expected to become effective. The failure to give or receive the notice required by this section or any defect therein shall not affect the legality or validity of any such action.
Liquidation Rights
 
(e)
Redemption.
 
(i) . The Corporation may at its option redeem the Seventh Series in whole or in part at any time or from time to time, at a redemption price equal to the Liquidation Preference per share of Seventh Series, plus any accumulated unpaid dividends (whether or not declared) up to but excluding such redemption date. If less than all the outstanding Seventh Series is to be redeemed, the shares to be redeemed shall be selected pro rata as nearly as practicable or by lot, or by such other method as may be determined by the Board of Directors to be equitable, without regard to whether the shares to be redeemed are convertible into Series 1 Common Stock or Series 2 Common Stock. Shares so redeemed shall be cancelled and upon such cancellation shall be deemed to be authorized and unissued shares of Preferred Stock, without par value, of the Corporation but shall not be reissued as shares of the same series.
General
 
(ii) . To the extent permitted by law, the Corporation shall redeem, on November 23, 2008 (or, if such day is not a Business Day, on the first Business Day thereafter) (subject to extension as provided in the last sentence of this Section 10.7(e)(ii), the "Mandatory Redemption Date"), all remaining shares of Seventh Series then outstanding, at the redemption price of $1,000 for each share outstanding, plus an amount in cash equal to all accrued but unpaid dividends thereon to the Mandatory Redemption Date. Prior to authorizing or making such redemption with respect to the Seventh Series, the Corporation, by resolution of the Board of Directors shall, to the extent of funds legally available therefor, declare a dividend on the Seventh Series payable on the Mandatory Redemption Date in an amount equal to any accrued and unpaid dividends on the Seventh Series as of such date and, if the Corporation does not have sufficient legally available funds to declare and pay all dividends accrued at the time of such redemption, any remaining accrued and unpaid dividends shall be added to the redemption price. After paying any accrued and unpaid dividends pursuant to the foregoing sentence, if the funds of the Corporation legally available for redemption of shares of the Seventh Series then required to be redeemed are insufficient to redeem the total number of such shares then outstanding, those funds which are legally available shall be used to redeem the maximum possible number of shares of the Seventh Series. At any time and from time to time thereafter, when additional funds of the Corporation are legally available to discharge its obligation to redeem all of the outstanding shares of Seventh Series required to be redeemed pursuant to this section (the "Mandatory Redemption Obligation"), such funds shall be immediately used to discharge such Mandatory Redemption Obligation until the balance of such shares have been redeemed. If and so long as the Mandatory Redemption Obligation shall not be fully discharged, (x) dividends on any remaining outstanding shares of Seventh Series shall continue to accrue and be added to the dividend payable pursuant to the third preceding sentence and
Mandatory Redemption
(y) the Corporation shall not declare or pay any dividend or make any distribution on any Parity Stock or Junior Stock. With respect to any Exchange Preferred Stock or Mirror Preferred Stock, the Mandatory Redemption Date shall be the later to occur of (i) November 23, 2008, and (ii) the fifth anniversary of the date of issuance of such Exchange Preferred Stock or Mirror Preferred Stock.
 
(iii) . The Corporation will provide notice of any redemption of shares of Seventh Series to holders of record of the Seventh Series to be redeemed not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the date fixed for such redemption. Such notice shall be provided by first-class mail postage prepaid, to each holder of record of the Seventh Series to be redeemed, at such holder's address as it appears on the stock transfer books of the Corporation. Each such mailed notice shall state, as appropriate, the following:
Notice
 
(A) the redemption date;
 
(B) the number of shares of Seventh Series to be redeemed and, if fewer than all the shares held by any holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be redeemed from such holder;
 
(C) the redemption price;
 
(D) the place or places where certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for redemption;
 
(E) the amount of full cumulative dividends per share of Seventh Series to be redeemed accrued and unpaid up to but excluding such redemption date, and that dividends on shares of Seventh Series to be redeemed will cease to accrue on such redemption date unless the Corporation shall default in payment of the redemption price plus such full cumulative dividends accrued and unpaid thereon;
 
(F) the name and location of any bank or trust company with which the Corporation will deposit redemption funds pursuant to subsection (v) below;
 
(G) the then effective Conversion Price (as determined under Section 10.7(c)); and
 
(H) that the right of holders to convert shares of Seventh Series to be redeemed will terminate at the close of business on the date fixed for redemption (unless the Corporation shall default in the payment of the redemption price and such full cumulative dividends accrued and unpaid thereon).
 
Any notice that is mailed as set forth above shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the holder of shares of Seventh Series receives such notice, and failure to give such notice by mail, or any defect in such notice, to the holders of any shares designated for redemption shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other shares of Seventh Series.
 
(iv) . Upon surrender in accordance with the aforesaid notice of the certificate for any shares so redeemed (duly endorsed or accompanied by appropriate instruments of transfer if so required by the Corporation), the holders of record of such shares shall be entitled to receive the redemption price, without interest, plus full cumulative dividends thereon accrued and unpaid up to but excluding such redemption date out of funds legally available therefor. If fewer than all the shares represented by any such certificate are redeemed, a new certificate representing the unredeemed shares shall be issued without cost to the holder thereof.
Mechanics of Redemption
 
(v) . On the date of any redemption being made pursuant to this section, the Corporation shall, and at any time after notice of such redemption shall have been mailed and before the date of redemption the Corporation may, deposit for the benefit of the holders of shares of Seventh Series to be redeemed the funds necessary for such redemption with a bank or trust company in the City of New York having a capital and surplus of at least $1 billion, with instructions to such bank or trust company to pay the full redemption amounts as provided herein to the holders of shares of Seventh Series upon surrender of certificates for such shares; , , that the making of such deposit shall not release the Corporation from any of its obligations hereunder. Any moneys so deposited by the Corporation and
Redemption Funds
provided
however
unclaimed at the end of two years from the date designated for such redemption shall revert to the general funds of the Corporation and, upon demand, such bank or trust company shall pay over to the Corporation such unclaimed amounts and thereupon such bank or trust company shall be relieved of all responsibility in respect thereof and any holder of shares of Seventh Series so redeemed shall look only to the Corporation for the payment of the full redemption amounts, as provided herein.
 
(vi) . Notice of redemption having been given as aforesaid, upon the deposit pursuant to subsection (v) of the full redemption amounts as provided herein in respect of all shares of Seventh Series then to be redeemed, notwithstanding that any certificates for such shares shall not have been surrendered in accordance with subsection (iv), from and after the date of redemption designated in the notice of redemption: (A) the shares represented thereby shall no longer be deemed outstanding, (B) the rights to receive dividends thereon shall cease to accrue and (C) all rights of the holders of such shares of Seventh Series shall cease and terminate, excepting only the right to receive the full redemption amounts as provided herein without interest thereon. If the funds deposited are not sufficient for redemption of the shares of the Seventh Series that were to be redeemed, then no certificates evidencing such shares shall be deemed surrendered and such shares shall remain outstanding and the rights of holders of shares of Seventh Series shall continue to be those of holders of shares of the Seventh Series.
Rights
After Redemption
 
(vii) . Any provision of this section to the contrary notwithstanding, in the event that any quarterly dividend payable on the Seventh Series shall be in arrears and until all such dividends in arrears shall have been paid or declared and set apart for payment, the Corporation shall not redeem any shares of Parity Stock or Junior Stock unless all outstanding shares of Seventh Series are simultaneously redeemed and shall not purchase or otherwise acquire any shares of Seventh Series or any Parity Stock or Junior Stock except (A) by conversion into or exchange for stock ranking junior as to dividends or (B) in accordance with a purchase or exchange offer made by the Corporation to all holders of record of Seventh Series and such Parity Stock upon the same terms as to holders of any series and, in the case of offers relating to more than one series, upon such terms as the Board of Directors or, to the extent permitted by applicable law, any authorized committee thereof, after consideration of the respective annual dividend rates and other relative rights and preferences of the respective series of stock, determines will result in fair and equitable treatment as between such series, which determination shall be conclusive.
Restrictions on Redemption and Purchase
 
(f) . If the Corporation: (i) takes any action which would require any adjustment to the Conversion Price or the number of shares issuable upon a Conversion; (ii) is a party to a consolidation, merger or binding share exchange, or transfers all or substantially all of its assets to another person or entity, and any stockholders of the Corporation must approve the transaction; or (iii) voluntarily or involuntarily dissolves, liquidates or winds up, then, in any such event, the Corporation shall give to the holders of record of the Seventh Series, at least 10 days prior to any record date or other date set for definitive action if there shall be no record date, a written notice by first class mail, postage prepaid, to such holders at their last address as shown upon the stock transfer books of the Corporation, stating the record date for and anticipated effective date of such action or event and, if applicable, whether the Corporation will adjust the Conversion Price or the number of shares issuable upon a Conversion. Notwithstanding the foregoing, notice shall be given no later than the time any required notice of such action or event is given to the holders of Corporation Common Stock.
Advance Notice of Certain Transactions
 
(g) . The Corporation shall at all times keep available and reserved for the purpose of issuance upon conversion of shares of Seventh Series the number of shares of its Voting Common Stock required for conversion of the outstanding and any reserved shares of the Seventh Series. The Corporation shall take all corporate and other actions necessary to ensure that all shares of Voting Common Stock issuable on conversion of Seventh Series will upon issuance be duly and validly authorized and issued, fully paid and nonassessable.
Reservation of Shares
 
(h) . If at any time the full cumulative dividends on shares of the Seventh Series have not been paid or declared and set aside for payment for the current and all past quarterly dividend periods, the Corporation (a) will not declare, or pay, or set apart for payment any dividends or make any distribution, on any class or series of Parity Stock or Junior Stock; (b) will not redeem, purchase or otherwise acquire, or permit any subsidiary to purchase or otherwise acquire, any shares of any class or series of Parity Stock or Junior Stock; that notwithstanding the foregoing, the Corporation may at any time redeem, purchase or otherwise acquire shares of Junior Stock in exchange for, or out of the net cash proceeds from the substantially simultaneous sale of, other shares of Junior
Certain Protective Provisions
provided
Stock; and (c) will not redeem pursuant to redemption rights in the terms of such stock any Parity Stock unless at the same time it redeems all the shares of the Seventh Series.
 
(i) . Except as otherwise required by law, each outstanding share of the Seventh Series shall be entitled to vote on all matters in respect of which the holders of the Voting Common Stock of the Corporation are entitled to vote, and the holders of the Seventh Series shall vote together with the holders of all other classes or series of capital stock that have general voting power on all such matters as a single class; , , that the affirmative vote or consent of two-thirds of the votes to which the holders of the outstanding shares of the Seventh Series are entitled shall be necessary for authorizing, effecting or validating the amendment, alteration or repeal of any or the provisions of the Articles of Incorporation or of any amendment thereto (including any certificate of designation or any similar document relating to any series of Preferred Stock of the Corporation), which would materially and adversely affect the voting powers, preferences, rights, powers or privileges, qualifications, limitations and restrictions of the Seventh Series; , , that neither (i) the creation, issuance, or increase in the amount of authorized shares of any series of Preferred Stock nor (ii) the consummation of any transaction described in Section 10.7(c) in which the voting powers, preferences, rights, powers or privileges, qualifications, limitations and restrictions of the Seventh Series are addressed as contemplated by such section will (in either such case) be deemed to materially and adversely affect such voting powers, preferences, rights, powers or privileges, qualifications, limitations and restrictions of the Seventh Series.
Voting Rights
provided
however
provided
however
 
On each matter to be voted on by the holders of the Seventh Series, each outstanding share of the Seventh Series is entitled to a number of votes equal to the number of votes that could be cast with respect to such matter by the holder of that number of shares of the series of Voting Common Stock into which such share of Seventh Series could be converted if the requirements for conversion under Section 10.7(c)(iii) had been satisfied by such voting party on the record date for determining the shareholders of the Corporation who are entitled to vote with respect to such matter.
 
(j) . As used in this Section 10.7 only:
Definitions
 
(i) the term "Affiliate" has the meaning given to such term in the Restructuring Agreement;
 
(ii) the term "Cable Holder" means any of (A) TeleCommunications, Inc., a Delaware corporation, Comcast Corporation, a Pennsylvania corporation, or Cox Communications, Inc., a Delaware corporation, (B) any Affiliate of an entity identified in clause (A) of this definition, (C) any successor by operation of law of an entity identified in clauses (A) or (B) of this definition or (D) any entity controlled by two or more entities identified in clauses (A) through (C) of this definition or this clause (D) even if such entity is not considered an Affiliate of any individual entity so identified;
 
(iii) the term "close of business" means 5:00 p.m. local New York City time on a Business Day;
 
(iv) the term "Closing Price" for a security, on any day, means the last sale price, regular way, per share of such security as reported on the New York Stock Exchange on such day, or, in case no such sale takes place on such day, the average of the closing bid and asked prices, regular way, of such security on the New York Stock Exchange, in either case as reported on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Transactions Tape, or if such security is not then listed or admitted to trading on such exchange, on the principal national securities exchange on which such security is then listed or admitted to trading, or if such security is not then listed or admitted to trading on any national securities exchange, as quoted through the National Market tier of the NNM;
 
(v) "Convertible Securities" means any or all options, warrants, securities and rights which are convertible into or exercisable or exchangeable for Voting Common Stock at the option of the holder thereof, or which otherwise entitle the holder thereof to subscribe for, purchase or otherwise acquire Voting Common Stock.
(vi) "Current Market Price", on the Determination Date for any issuance of rights or warrants or any distribution in respect of which the Current Market Price is being calculated, means the average of the daily Closing Prices of the Series 1 Common Stock for the shortest of:
 
(A) the period of 30 consecutive Trading Days commencing 45 Trading Days before such Determination Date;
 
(B) the period commencing on the date next succeeding the first public announcement of the issuance of rights or warrants or the distribution in respect of which the Current Market Price is being calculated and ending on the last full Trading Day before such Determination Date; and
 
(C) the period, if any, commencing on the date next succeeding the Ex-Dividend Date with respect to the next preceding issuance of rights or warrants or distribution for which an adjustment is required by the provisions of clause (4) of the first sentence of Section 10.7(c)(v)(A), Section 10.7(c)(v)(B) or Section 10.7(c)(v)(C), and ending on the last full Trading Day before such Determination Date.
 
If the record date for an issuance of rights or warrants or a distribution for which an adjustment is required by the provisions of clause (4) of the first sentence of Section 10.7(c)(v)(A), Section 10.7(c)(v)(B) or Section 10.7(c)(v)(C) (the "preceding adjustment event") precedes the record date for the issuance or distribution in respect of which the Current Market Price is being calculated and the Ex-Dividend Date for such preceding adjustment event is on or after the Determination Date for the issuance or distribution in respect of which the Current Market Price is being calculated, then the Current Market Price shall be adjusted by deducting therefrom the fair market value (on the record date for the issuance or distribution in respect of which the Current Market Price is being calculated), as determined in good faith by the Board of Directors, of the capital stock, rights, warrants, assets or evidences of indebtedness issued or distributed in respect of each share of Series 1 Common Stock in such preceding adjustment event. Further, in the event that the Ex-Dividend Date (or in the case of a subdivision, combination or reclassification, the effective date with respect thereto) with respect to a dividend, subdivision, combination or reclassification to which clauses (1), (2), (3) or (4) of the first sentence of Section 10.7(c)(v)(A) applies occurs during the period applicable for calculating the Current Market Price, then the Current Market Price shall be calculated for such period in a manner determined in good faith by the Board of Directors to reflect the impact of such dividend, subdivision, combination or reclassification on the Closing Prices of the Series 1 Common Stock during such period.
 
For purposes of this Section 10.7, the Current Market Price of a share of Series 2 Common Stock as of any Determination Date shall be the Current Market Price of a share of Series 1 Common Stock as of such Determination Date;
 
(vii) "Determination Date" for any issuance of rights or warrants or any distribution to which Section 10.7(c)(v)(B) or 10.7(c)(v)(C) applies means the earlier of (A) the record date for the determination of stockholders entitled to receive the rights or warrants or the distribution to which such section applies and (B) the Ex-Dividend Date for such right, warrants or distribution;
 
(viii) "Exchange Preferred Stock" means a series of convertible preferred stock of the Corporation having terms, conditions, designations, dividend rights, voting powers, rights on liquidation and other preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights, and qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof that are identical, or as nearly so as is practicable in the judgment of the Board of Directors, to those of the Seventh Series for which such Exchange Preferred Stock is exchanged, except that (A) the liquidation preference will be determined as provided in Section 10.7(c)(v)(H) or Section 10.7(c)(v)(I), as applicable, (B) the running of any time periods pursuant to the terms of the Seventh Series shall be tacked to the corresponding time periods in the Exchange Preferred Stock and (C) the Exchange Preferred Stock will not be convertible into, and the holders will have no conversion rights thereunder with respect to, (x) in the case of a redemption of Redeemable Capital Stock, the Redeemable Capital Stock redeemed, or the Redemption Securities issued, in the Redemption Event, and (y) in the case of a Spin Off, the Spin Off Securities;
 
(ix) "Ex-Dividend Date" shall mean the date on which "ex-dividend" trading commences for a dividend, an issuance of rights or warrants or a distribution to which any of Section 10.7(c)(v)(A), Section 10.7(c)(v)(B) or Section 10.7(c)(v)(C) applies in the over-the-counter market or on the principal exchange on which the Series 1 Common Stock is then quoted or listed;
 
(x) the term "Initial Conversion Price" shall be an amount equal to $30.7466.
(xi) the term "Junior Stock" means any stock ranking junior as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up to the Seventh Series;
 
(xii) the term "Mirror Preferred Stock" means convertible preferred stock issued by (A) in the case of a redemption of Redeemable Capital Stock, the issuer of the applicable Redemption Securities, and (B) in the case of a Spin Off, the issuer of the applicable Spin Off Securities and having terms, designations, conditions, dividend rights, voting powers, rights on liquidation and other preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights, and qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof that are identical, or as nearly so as is practicable in the judgment of the Board of Directors, to those of the Seventh Series for which such Mirror Preferred Stock is exchanged, except that (1) the liquidation preference will be determined as provided in Section 10.7(c)(v)(H) or Section 10.7(c)(v)(I), as applicable, (2) the running of any time periods pursuant to the terms of the Seventh Series shall be tacked to the corresponding time periods in the Mirror Preferred Stock and (3) the Mirror Preferred Stock shall be convertible into the kind and amount of Redemption Securities or Spin Off Securities, as applicable, and other securities and property that the holder of a share of Seventh Series in respect of which such Mirror Preferred Stock is issued pursuant to the terms hereof would have received (x) in the case of the redemption of Redeemable Capital Stock, upon such redemption had such share of Seventh Series been converted immediately prior to the effective date of the Redemption Event and (y) in the case of a Spin Off, in such Spin Off had such share of Seventh Series been converted immediately before the record date for such Spin Off;
 
(xiii) the term "Parity Stock" means any stock ranking on a parity as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up with the Seventh Series;
 
(xiv) the term "record date" means such date as from time to time fixed by the Board of Directors with respect to the receipt of dividends, the receipt of a redemption price upon redemption or the taking of any action or exercise of any voting rights;
 
(xv) the term "Redeemable Capital Stock" means a class or series of capital stock of the Corporation that provides by its terms a right in favor of the Corporation to call, redeem, exchange or otherwise acquire all of the outstanding shares or units of such class or series;
 
(xvi) the term "Redemption Securities" means, with respect to the redemption of any Redeemable Capital Stock, stock of a Subsidiary of the Corporation that is distributed by the Corporation in payment, in whole or in part, of the redemption price of such Redeemable Capital Stock;
 
(xvii) the term "Restructuring Agreement" means that Restructuring and Merger Agreement, dated as of May 26, 1998, among the Corporation, Tele-Communications, Inc., Comcast Corporation, Cox Communications, Inc. and certain of their respective Affiliates;
 
(xviii) the term "Spin Off" means the distribution of stock of a Subsidiary of the Corporation as a dividend to all holders of Voting Common Stock.
 
(xix) the term "Spin Off Securities" means stock of a Subsidiary of the Corporation that is distributed to holders of Voting Common Stock in a Spin Off.
 
(xx) the term "Subsidiary" means, with respect to any person, any corporation, limited liability company, partnership or other legal entity more than 50% of whose outstanding voting securities or membership, partnership or other ownership interests, as the case may be, are directly or indirectly owned by such person.
 
(xxi) the term "Trading Day" means a day on which the principal national securities exchange on which the Series 1 Common Stock is listed or admitted to trading, or the NNM, as applicable, if the Series 1 Common Stock is not listed or admitted to trading on any national securities exchange, is open for the transaction of business (unless such trading shall have been suspended for the entire day) or, if the Series 1 Common Stock is not listed or admitted to trading on any national securities exchange or the NNM, any Business Day; and
(xxii) the term "Transfer" means any act pursuant to which, directly or indirectly, the ownership of the assets or securities in question is sold, transferred, conveyed, delivered or otherwise disposed, but shall not include (a) any grant of Liens or (b) any conversion or exchange of any security of the Corporation pursuant to a merger or other business combination involving the Corporation.
 
Section 10.8. Preferred Stock- Ninth Series Zero Coupon Convertible Preferred Stock Due 2013
 
(a) . There is hereby created out of the authorized and unissued shares of preferred stock of the Corporation a class of preferred stock designated as the "Ninth Series Zero Coupon Convertible Preferred Stock Due 2013" (hereinafter, the "Ninth Series"). The shares constituting such series shall number 232,745. The liquidation preference of the Ninth Series shall increase to $1,000 per share on the Mandatory Redemption Date.
Designation
 
(b) . The Ninth Series shall, with respect to payments of dividends, if any, and distributions upon the liquidation, winding-up and dissolution of the Corporation, rank: (i) senior to (A) all classes of Corporation Common Stock and (B) any capital stock of the Corporation that expressly provides that it will be junior to the Ninth Series as to dividends, including the Sixth Series, and distributions upon the liquidation, winding-up and dissolution of the Corporation (collectively referred to herein, together with all classes of Corporation Common Stock, as the "Junior Securities"); (ii) on a parity with (A) the Seventh Series and (B) each class of capital stock or series of Preferred Stock hereafter created by the Board of Directors the terms of which expressly provide that such class or series will rank on a parity with the Ninth Series as to dividend rights and rights upon the liquidation, winding-up and dissolution of the Corporation (collectively referred to as "Parity Securities"); (iii) subject to Ninth Series Approval Rights (as defined in subparagraph (f)(ii)(A)), junior to each class of capital stock or series of Preferred Stock hereafter created by the Corporation, the terms of which have been approved by the Holders in accordance with subparagraph (f)(ii)(A) and which expressly provide that such class or series will rank senior to the Ninth Series as to dividend rights and rights upon liquidation, winding-up and dissolution of the Corporation (collectively referred to as "Senior Securities").
Rank
 
(c) . (i) Other than the Special Dividend described in subparagraph (i)(i) hereof, Holders shall not be entitled to receive dividends on the Ninth Series. The Liquidation Preference on the Ninth Series will accrete from the Effective Date at an annual rate of 9.25%, compounded quarterly on each March 23, June 23, September 23 and December 23, commencing on the first such date following the Effective Date, and shall be determined as set forth in the definition of "Liquidation Preference" in this Section 10.8. The Liquidation Preference shall cease to accrete in respect of the Ninth Series on the Mandatory Redemption Date or on the date of its earlier redemption, repurchase or conversion unless the Corporation shall have failed to pay the relevant redemption price or repurchase price or effect any such conversion on the date fixed for any such redemption, repurchase or conversion.
Dividends and Liquidation Preference
 
(ii) Unless the Corporation is not in default in respect of its obligations described in paragraphs (e)(ii) or (g) hereof, (w) no dividend (other than a dividend payable solely in shares of Junior Securities or options, warrants or rights to purchase Junior Securities) shall be declared or paid upon, or any sum set apart for the payment of dividends upon, any Parity Securities or Junior Securities, (x), no other distribution shall be declared or made upon, or any sum set apart for the payment of any distribution upon, any Parity Securities or Junior Securities, (y) no Parity Securities or Junior Securities shall be purchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired or retired for value (excluding an exchange for shares of other Parity Securities or Junior Securities or a purchase, redemption or other acquisition from the proceeds of a substantially concurrent sale of Junior Securities, and the repurchase of Junior Securities (including options, warrants or other rights to acquire such Junior Securities) from employees or former employees of the Corporation or its subsidiaries for consideration not to exceed $500,000 in the aggregate in any fiscal year) by the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries, and (z) no monies shall be paid into or set apart or made available for a sinking or other like fund for the purchase, redemption or other acquisition or retirement for value of any Parity Securities or Junior Securities by the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries.
 
(d) . (i) Upon any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the affairs of the Corporation, after payment in full of the liquidation preference (and any accrued and unpaid dividends) on any Senior Securities, each Holder will be entitled, on an equal basis with the holders of any outstanding Parity Securities, to payment out of the assets of the Corporation available for distribution of an amount equal to the Liquidation Preference of the shares of the Ninth Series held by such Holder, to the date fixed for liquidation, dissolution or winding up, before any distribution is made on any Junior Securities, including, without limitation, the Corporation Common Stock. Neither the voluntary sale, conveyance, exchange or transfer (for cash, shares of stock,
Liquidation Rights
securities or other consideration) of all or substantially all of the property or assets of the Corporation nor the consolidation or merger of the Corporation with or into one or more corporations will be deemed to be a voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the Corporation, unless such sale, conveyance, exchange, transfer, consolidation or merger shall be in connection with a liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the business of the Corporation or reduction or decrease in capital stock.
 
(ii) If, upon any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, the amounts payable with respect to the Ninth Series and all other Parity Securities are not paid in full, the Holders and holders of Parity Securities shall share equally and ratably in any distribution of assets of the Corporation in proportion to the full liquidation preference and accumulated and unpaid dividends to which each is entitled. After payment of the full amount of the Liquidation Preference to which they are entitled, the Holders shall not be entitled to any further participation in any distribution of assets of the Corporation.
 
(e) . (i) . (A) The shares of the Ninth Series may be redeemed (subject to contractual and other restrictions and the legal availability of funds therefor) at any time (any such date, an "Optional Redemption Date"), at the Corporation's option, in whole or in part, in the manner provided in subparagraph (e)(iii), at a redemption price equal to the Liquidation Preference thereof on the Optional Redemption Date, upon not less than 7 days' notice of redemption given by mail to the Holders; that the Corporation may condition consummation of any such optional redemption (if it is to be effected by a redemption of shares of the Ninth Series for cash) on the occurrence of any event and/or satisfaction of any condition identified as such in the relevant Redemption Notice to the Holders, and may withdraw such Redemption Notice (and thereby terminate its obligation to effect such optional redemption) by written notice to that effect given by mail to the Holders at least 3 days prior to the relevant Optional Redemption Date. If not so withdrawn, such redemption will no longer be conditional. The Corporation may, at its option, in lieu of paying the redemption price in cash, pay the redemption price or a portion thereof in Series 1 Common Stock or in a combination of cash and Series 1 Common Stock.
Redemption
Optional Redemption
provided
 
(B) In the event of a redemption pursuant to subparagraph (e)(i)(A) hereof of only a portion of the then outstanding shares of the Ninth Series, the Corporation shall effect such redemption as it determines, pro rata according to the number of shares of the Ninth Series held by each Holder, that the Corporation may redeem such shares held by any Holder of fewer than 100 shares of the Ninth Series by lot or otherwise without regard to such pro rata redemption requirement, as may be determined by the Corporation in its sole discretion.
provided
 
(ii) . The shares of the Ninth Series will be subject to mandatory redemption (subject to the legal availability of funds therefor but without regard to any contractual or other restrictions with respect thereto), in the manner provided in subparagraph (e)(iii), in whole on the Mandatory Redemption Date, at a redemption price equal to the Liquidation Preference thereof on the Mandatory Redemption Date. The Corporation may, at its option, in lieu of paying the redemption price in cash, pay the redemption price or a portion thereof in Series 1 Common Stock or in a combination of cash and Series 1 Common Stock.
Mandatory Redemption
 
(iii) . (A) At least 7 days prior to the date fixed for any redemption of the Ninth Series, written notice (the "Redemption Notice") shall be given by first-class mail, postage prepaid, to each Holder of record on the record date fixed for such redemption of the Ninth Series at such Holder's address as the same appears on the stock transfer books of the Corporation, that no failure to give such notice nor any deficiency therein shall affect the validity of the procedure for the redemption of any shares of the Ninth Series to be redeemed except as to the Holder or Holders to whom the Corporation has failed to give said notice or except as to the Holder or Holders whose notice was defective. The Redemption Notice shall state:
Procedures for Redemption
provided
 
(1) whether the redemption is pursuant to subparagraph (e)(i)(A) or (e)(ii) hereof;
 
(2) the redemption price expressed as a percentage of the Liquidation Preference;
 
(3) whether all or less than all the outstanding shares of the Ninth Series are to be redeemed and the total number of shares of the Ninth Series being redeemed;
 
(4) the number of shares of the Ninth Series held, as of the appropriate record date, by the Holder that the Corporation intends to redeem;
(5) the date fixed for redemption;
 
(6) that the Holder is to surrender to the Corporation, at the place or places where certificates for shares of the Ninth Series are to be surrendered for redemption, in the manner and at the price designated, his certificate or certificates representing the shares of the Ninth Series to be redeemed; and
 
(7) that the Liquidation Preference of shares of the Ninth Series to be redeemed shall cease to accrete on such Redemption Date unless the Corporation defaults in the payment of the redemption price.
 
(B) Each Holder shall surrender the certificate or certificates representing such shares of the Ninth Series to the Corporation, duly endorsed if required, in the manner and at the place designated in the Redemption Notice. The full redemption price for such shares of the Ninth Series shall be payable in cash and/or Series 1 Common Stock, at the option of the Corporation, to the Person whose name appears on such certificate or certificates as the owner thereof, and each surrendered certificate shall be canceled and retired. In the event that less than all of the shares represented by any such certificate are redeemed, a new certificate shall be issued representing the unredeemed shares.
 
(C) On and after any Redemption Date, that the Corporation has made available at the office of the Transfer Agent a sufficient amount of cash or securities to effect the redemption, the Liquidation Preference will cease to accrete on the Ninth Series called for redemption, such shares shall no longer be deemed to be outstanding and all rights of the holders of such shares as Holders shall cease except the right to receive the cash and/or Series 1 Common Stock deliverable upon such redemption, without interest from the Redemption Date.
provided
 
(f) . (i) Holders, except as otherwise required under Kansas law or as set forth below, shall not be entitled or permitted to vote on any matter required or permitted to be voted upon by the stockholders of the Corporation.
Voting Rights
 
(ii) (A) So long as any shares of the Ninth Series are outstanding, the Corporation shall not authorize, create (by way of reclassification or otherwise) or issue any Senior Securities or any obligation or security convertible or exchangeable into or evidencing a right to purchase shares of any class or series of Senior Securities without the affirmative vote or consent of the Holders of a majority of the then outstanding shares of the Ninth Series, except that the Corporation may issue shares of Senior Securities without the approval of such Holders in exchange for, or the proceeds of which are used to redeem or repurchase, all shares of the Ninth Series then outstanding (or less than all such shares pursuant to a partial redemption made in accordance with subparagraph (e)(i) or repurchase that is made available to all Holders on a pro rata basis) or any debt of the Corporation (such approval rights, herein referred to as "Ninth Series Approval Rights"); that, solely in the case of Senior Securities issued in exchange for, or the proceeds of which are used to redeem or repurchase, less than all shares of the Ninth Series then outstanding, the aggregate liquidation preference of such Senior Securities shall not exceed the aggregate Liquidation Preference of, premium and accrued and unpaid dividends on, and expenses in connection with the refinancing of, the shares of the Ninth Series so exchanged, redeemed or repurchased.
provided
 
(B) So long as any shares of the Ninth Series are outstanding, the Corporation shall not amend these Articles of Incorporation so as to affect adversely the specified rights, preferences, privileges or voting rights of Holders, or to authorize the issuance of any additional shares of the Ninth Series, without the affirmative vote of at least a majority of the outstanding shares of the Ninth Series, voting separately as one class, given in person or by proxy, by resolution adopted at an annual or special meeting.
 
(C) Except as set forth in subparagraph (f)(ii)(B) hereof, (1) the creation, authorization or issuance of any shares of any Junior Securities or Parity Securities, or (2) the increase or decrease in the amount of authorized capital stock of any class, including any Preferred Stock, shall not require the consent of the Holders and shall not, unless not complying with subparagraph (f)(ii)(B) hereof, be deemed to affect adversely the rights, preferences, privileges or voting rights of the Holders.
(iii) (A) If (1) the Corporation fails to comply with its obligations set forth in paragraph (g) hereof or (2) the Corporation defaults in the payment of the Liquidation Preference of any share of the Ninth Series payable on the Mandatory Redemption Date, then the number of Directors constituting the Board of Directors shall be immediately and automatically adjusted to permit the Holders of a majority of the then outstanding shares of the Ninth Series, voting separately as one class, to elect two Directors. Each event described in clauses (1) and (2) of this subparagraph (f)(iii)(A) is a "Voting Rights Triggering Event."
 
(B) The right of the Holders voting separately as one class to elect two Directors as described in subparagraph (f)(iii)(A) shall continue until such time as (1) in the event such right arises due to failure by the Corporation to comply with its obligations set forth in paragraph (g), the Corporation remedies any such failure and (2) in the event such right arises due to a default by the Corporation in the payment of the Liquidation Preference of any share of the Ninth Series on the Mandatory Redemption Date, the Corporation remedies such default, at which time the term of any Directors elected pursuant to subparagraph (f)(iii)(A) hereof shall terminate and the number of Directors constituting the Board of Directors shall be reduced to the number necessary to reflect the termination of the right of the Holders to elect Directors, subject always to the same provisions for the renewal and divestment of such special voting rights in the case of any future Voting Rights Triggering Event. At any time after voting power to elect Directors shall have become vested and be continuing in the Holders pursuant to subparagraph (f)(iii)(A) hereof, or if vacancies shall exist in the offices of Directors elected by the Holders, a proper officer of the Corporation may, and upon the written request of the Holders of record of at least 25% of the shares of the Ninth Series then outstanding addressed to the Secretary of the Corporation shall, call a special meeting of the Holders, for the purpose of electing the Directors which such Holders are entitled to elect. If such meeting shall not be called by the proper officer of the Corporation within 30 days after personal service of said written request upon the Secretary of the Corporation, or within 30 days after mailing the same within the United States by certified mail, addressed to the Secretary of the Corporation at its principal executive offices, then the Holders of record of at least 25% of the outstanding shares of the Ninth Series may designate in writing one of their number to call such meeting at the expense of the Corporation, and such meeting may be called by the Person so designated upon the notice required for the annual meetings of stockholders of the Corporation and shall be held at the place for holding the annual meetings of stockholders or such other place in the United States as shall be designated in such notice. Notwithstanding the provisions of this subparagraph (f)(iii)(B), no such special meeting shall be called if any such request is received less than 40 days before the date fixed for the next ensuing annual or special meeting of stockholders of the Corporation. Any Holder so designated shall have, and the Corporation shall provide to such designated Holder, access to the lists of Holders for purposes of calling a meeting pursuant to the provisions of this subparagraph (f)(iii)(B).
 
(C) At any meeting held for the purpose of electing Directors at which the Holders shall have the right, voting separately as one class, to elect Directors as aforesaid, the presence in person or by proxy of Holders of at least a majority of the outstanding shares of the Ninth Series shall be required to constitute a quorum of the Ninth Series.
 
(D) Any vacancy occurring in the office of a Director elected by the Holders may be filled by the remaining Director elected by such Holders unless and until such vacancy shall be filled by such Holders.
 
(iv) In any case in which the Holders shall be entitled to vote pursuant to this paragraph (f) or pursuant to Kansas law, each Holder shall be entitled to one vote for each share of the Ninth Series held. Any action that may be taken hereunder by the Holders at a meeting may be taken by unanimous written consent of the Holders.
 
(g) . (i) A Change of Control shall be deemed to have occurred at such time after the Effective Date if there shall occur:
Change of Control
 
(x) the acquisition by any Person of beneficial ownership, directly or indirectly, through a purchase, merger or other acquisition transaction or series of transactions, of shares of capital stock of the Corporation entitling such Person to exercise 50% or more of the total voting power of all shares of capital stock of the Corporation entitled to vote generally in elections of Directors, other than any such acquisition by the Corporation, any subsidiary of the Corporation or any employee benefit plan of the Corporation; or
(y) any consolidation of the Corporation with, or merger of the Corporation into, any other Person, any merger of another Person into the Corporation, or any sale or transfer of all or substantially all of the assets of the Corporation to another Person (other than (a) any such transaction (A) which does not result in any reclassification, conversion, exchange or cancellation of outstanding shares of Corporation Common Stock and (B) pursuant to which holders of Corporation Common Stock immediately prior to such transaction have the entitlement to exercise, directly or indirectly, 50% or more of the total voting power of all shares of capital stock (or equivalent unit of ownership interest) entitled to vote generally in the election of Directors (or other equivalent governing body) of the continuing or surviving Person immediately after such transaction and (b) any merger which is effected solely to change the jurisdiction of incorporation of the Corporation and results in a reclassification, conversion or exchange of outstanding shares of Corporation Common Stock solely into Common Shares of the surviving entity in such merger);
 
, , that a Change of Control shall not be deemed to have occurred if either (a) the closing price per share of the Series 1 Common Stock for any five Trading Days within the period of 10 consecutive Trading Days ending immediately after the later of the Change of Control or the public announcement of the Change of Control (in the case of a Change of Control under clause (x) above) or ending immediately before the Change of Control (in the case of a Change of Control under clause (y) above) shall equal or exceed 105% of the effective conversion price in effect on each such Trading Day (i.e., the Liquidation Preference on such Trading Day, divided by the Conversion Rate in effect on such Trading Day), or (b) all of the consideration (excluding cash payments for fractional shares) in the transaction or transactions constituting the Change of Control consists of Common Shares (or equivalent securities) traded on a national or regional securities exchange or quoted on the NNM and as a result of such transaction or transactions the Ninth Series becomes convertible solely into such Common Shares (or equivalent securities).
provided
however
 
"Beneficial ownership" shall be determined in accordance with Rule 13d-3 promulgated by the Commission under the Exchange Act.
 
(ii) Within 30 days after the occurrence of any Change of Control, the Corporation shall mail a notice (by first class mail, postage prepaid) to each Holder (the "Change of Control Corporation Notice") with a copy to the Transfer Agent stating that a Change of Control has occurred and that a special tender right has arisen as a result thereof.
 
(iii) (A) If a Change of Control occurs, the Corporation shall be required to make an offer (a "Change of Control Offer") to each Holder to acquire any or all of such Holder's shares of the Ninth Series on a date (an "Acquisition Date") that is not more than 45 days after the date of the Change of Control at a tender price equal to the Liquidation Preference thereof on the Acquisition Date. The Corporation may, at its option, in lieu of paying the tender price in cash, pay the tender price or a portion thereof in Series 1 Common Stock or in a combination of cash and Series 1 Common Stock.
 
(B) To exercise the special tender right set forth in subparagraph (g)(iii)(A), a Holder must deliver on or before the 30th day after the date of the Change of Control Corporation Notice written notice to the Transfer Agent of the Holder's exercise of such right, together with, in the case of shares of the Ninth Series held in definitive form, the Ninth Series certificates with respect to which the right is being exercised. In the case of shares of the Ninth Series held in book entry form, the applicable procedures of the depositary for the shares of Ninth Series with respect to redemption of shares by an issuer will apply. Any such notice by the Holder may be withdrawn by the Holder by a written notice of withdrawal delivered to the Transfer Agent prior to the close of business on the Acquisition Date. The notice of withdrawal shall state the number of shares of the Ninth Series and the certificate numbers of the Ninth Series certificates as to which the withdrawal notice relates and the number of shares, if any, which remain subject to the Holder's notice of exercise.
 
(C) With respect to any Change of Control, the Change of Control Corporation Notice shall also specify (w) the tender price and the purchase date, which shall be 45 days after the date of the Change of Control Corporation Notice; (x) that the Liquidation Preference of any shares of the Ninth Series not tendered or converted will continue to accrete in accordance with the terms hereof; (y) that, unless the Corporation defaults in the payment of the tender price, the Liquidation Preference of all shares of the Ninth Series accepted for payment pursuant to this paragraph (g) shall cease to accrete on and after the Acquisition Date and all rights of the Holders accepted for payment shall terminate on and after the Acquisition Date and (z) a description of the procedures to be followed by such Holder in order to have its shares of the Ninth Series repurchased.
(D) On the Acquisition Date, the Corporation shall, to the extent lawful, (1) accept for payment shares of the Ninth Series tendered pursuant to this paragraph (g) and (2) promptly mail to each Holder of Ninth Series so accepted payment in an amount equal to the tender price for such shares and, unless the Corporation defaults in the payment for the shares of the Ninth Series tendered pursuant to this paragraph (g), the Liquidation Preference shall cease to accrete with respect to the shares of the Ninth Series tendered and all rights of Holders of such tendered shares shall terminate, except for the right to receive payment therefor, on the Acquisition Date. The Corporation shall publicly announce the results of its Change of Control Offer on or as soon as practicable after the Acquisition Date.
 
(iv) (A) The Corporation shall comply with Rule 13e-4 under the Exchange Act and any securities laws and regulations to the extent such laws and regulations are applicable to the repurchase of shares of the Ninth Series in connection with a Change of Control.
 
(B) In the event the Corporation elects to pay all or a portion of the tender price in Series 1 Common Stock, upon determination of the actual number of shares of Series 1 Common Stock to be paid in lieu of cash in accordance with paragraph (h), the Corporation will publicly announce such determination and file a Current Report on Form 8-K with the Commission containing the information in such public announcement.
 
(C) If the Transfer Agent holds money or securities sufficient to pay the tender price on the Business Day following the Acquisition Date, then, on and after the Acquisition Date, each share of the Ninth Series tendered to the Corporation will cease to be outstanding and the Liquidation Preference thereon shall cease to accrete whether or not book-entry transfer of such Ninth Series is made or such Ninth Series is delivered to the Transfer Agent, and all other rights of the Holder thereof shall terminate (other than the right to receive the tender price, without interest, upon book-entry transfer or delivery of the Ninth Series certificate).
 
(D) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this paragraph (g), the Corporation shall not be required to make a Change of Control Offer following a Change of Control if a third party makes the Change of Control Offer in the manner, at the times and otherwise in compliance with the requirements set forth in this paragraph (g) applicable to a Change of Control Offer made by the Corporation and purchases all shares of the Ninth Series validly tendered and not withdrawn pursuant to this paragraph (g).
 
(h) . (i) If the Corporation elects to pay any redemption price or tender price, in whole or in part, in Series 1 Common Stock, the number of shares to be delivered in respect of the portion of such redemption price or tender price to be paid in Series 1 Common Stock shall be equal to such portion of the redemption price or tender price divided by the Market Price of the Series 1 Common Stock. No fractional shares of Series 1 Common Stock will be delivered upon any acquisition of Ninth Series by the Corporation through the delivery of Series 1 Common Stock in payment, in whole or in part, of the redemption price or tender price. Instead, the Corporation, at its option, will either round up to full shares or pay cash based on the Market Price for all fractional shares of Series 1 Common Stock. The Corporation may elect to pay the redemption price or tender price in Series 1 Common Stock only if the Series 1 Common Stock is listed on a United States national or regional stock exchange or quoted by the NNM.
Payments in Series 1 Common Stock
 
(ii) At least 23 Trading Days prior to any Redemption Date or Acquisition Date, the Corporation must give notice (a "Corporation Notice") to the Holders of its intention to pay the redemption price or tender price, or any portion thereof, in Series 1 Common Stock (specifying the percentage thereof). Upon determination of the actual number of shares of Series 1 Common Stock in accordance with the foregoing provisions, the Corporation will publicly announce such determination and file a Current Report on Form 8-K with the Commission containing the information in such public announcement.
 
(iii) The Corporation's right to pay the redemption price or tender price (or a portion thereof) in Series 1 Common Stock is subject to: (1) the delivery by the Corporation of a timely Corporation Notice of its election to purchase all or a specified percentage of the Ninth Series with Series 1 Common Stock as provided herein; (2) the registration of resales of the Series 1 Common Stock under the Securities Act, if required for the Series 1 Common Stock to be freely tradeable (assuming the Holder thereof is not an Affiliate of the Corporation); (3) the issuance of such Series 1 Common Stock being in compliance with other applicable federal and state securities laws, if any; and (4) the receipt by the Transfer Agent of an officers' certificate and an opinion of counsel each stating that (A) the terms of the issuance of the Series 1 Common Stock are in
conformity with the terms hereof and (B) the shares of Series 1 Common Stock to be issued by the Corporation in payment of the specified percentage of the tender price or redemption price have been duly authorized and, when issued and delivered pursuant to the terms hereof in payment of the tender price or redemption price, will be validly issued, fully paid and nonassessable, and, in the case of such officers' certificate, stating that conditions (1), (2) and (3) above have been satisfied (and setting forth the Sale Price of a share of Series 1 Common Stock on each Trading Day during the period during which the Market Price is calculated and ending on the Acquisition Date or Redemption Date as applicable) and, in the case of such opinion of counsel, stating that conditions (2) and (3) above have been satisfied.
 
If such conditions are not satisfied by the applicable Acquisition Date or Redemption Date, the Corporation will pay the tender price or redemption price on such Acquisition Date or Redemption Date entirely in cash (except as provided in paragraph (g)).
 
(i) . (i) A Holder may convert its shares of the Ninth Series into Series 1 Common Stock and cash (as provided below), unless previously redeemed or repurchased, at any time prior to the close of business on December 23, 2013; that if a share of the Ninth Series is called for redemption, the Holder may convert it only until the close of business on the applicable Redemption Date unless the Corporation defaults in the payment of the redemption price. Shares of the Ninth Series which a Holder has tendered for acquisition by the Corporation or, as described in paragraph (g), a third party acquiror pursuant to an offer to acquire, may be converted only if such Ninth Series is withdrawn in accordance with the terms of such offer.
Conversion
provided
 
Each share of the Ninth Series will initially be convertible into (a) shares of Series 1 Common Stock at an initial Conversion Rate (the "Conversion Rate") equal to the product of (1) the conversion rate in effect with respect to the Nextel Communications, Inc. Series B Preferred Stock immediately prior to the consummation of the Merger times (2) the number of shares of Series 1 Common Stock into which each share of Nextel Class A common stock is converted pursuant to the Merger Agreement, subject to adjustment upon the occurrence of certain events, as described below, and (b) an amount in cash (the "Merger Cash") equal to the product of (1) the conversion rate in effect with respect to the Nextel Communications, Inc. Series B Preferred Stock immediately prior to the consummation of the Merger times (2) the amount of cash (if any) into which each share of Nextel Class A common stock is converted pursuant to the Merger Agreement (excluding any cash payable in lieu of fractional shares). As promptly as practicable on or after the Conversion Date, the Corporation will (x) issue and deliver to the Transfer Agent a certificate or certificates for the number of full shares of Series 1 Common Stock issuable upon conversion, with any fractional shares rounded up to full shares or, at the Corporation's option, paid in cash in lieu of any fraction of a share, based on the Sale Price of the Series 1 Common Stock on the Trading Day preceding the Conversion Date and (y) deliver to the Transfer Agent the amount of Merger Cash (if any) payable upon conversion. In addition, if a Holder elects to convert, the Corporation will pay to such Holder, contemporaneously with the delivery of Series 1 Common Stock issuable upon conversion, the sum of $30.00 per share of Ninth Series (the "Special Dividend").
 
(ii) The Corporation's delivery to the Holder of (x) the number of shares of Series 1 Common Stock into which the Ninth Series is convertible (together with the cash payment, if any, in lieu of fractional shares of Series 1 Common Stock), (y) the amount of Merger Cash (if any) into which the Ninth Series is convertible and (z) the Special Dividend will be deemed to satisfy the Corporation's obligation to pay the Liquidation Preference on the Ninth Series.
 
(iii) To convert certificated Ninth Series into Series 1 Common Stock and Merger Cash, a Holder must (i) complete and manually sign the conversion notice on the back of the Ninth Series certificate (or complete and manually sign a facsimile thereof) and deliver such notice to the Transfer Agent, (ii) surrender the Ninth Series certificate to the Transfer Agent, (iii) if required, furnish appropriate endorsements and transfer documents, and (iv) if required, pay all transfer or similar taxes. The date on which all of the foregoing requirements have been satisfied is the "Conversion Date."
 
(iv) All shares of Series 1 Common Stock delivered upon conversion of the Ninth Series shall be validly issued and fully paid and nonassessable and shall be free from preemptive rights and free of any lien or adverse claim.
(v) The Conversion Rate shall be subject to adjustments from time to time as follows:
 
(A) If the Corporation shall hereafter pay a dividend or make a distribution in Series 1 Common Stock to all holders of any outstanding Series 1 Common Stock, the Conversion Rate shall be increased by multiplying such Conversion Rate by a fraction of which the denominator shall be the number of shares of Series 1 Common Stock outstanding (including the number of shares of Series 1 Common Stock issuable upon conversion of all then outstanding shares of capital stock of the Corporation) at the close of business on the Record Date (as defined in subparagraph (viii) below) fixed for such dividend or distribution and of which the numerator shall be the sum of such number of outstanding shares of Series 1 Common Stock and the total number of shares of Series 1 Common Stock constituting such dividend or other distribution, such increase to become effective immediately after the opening of business on the day following the Record Date fixed for the determination of shareholders entitled to receive such dividend or distribution. If any dividend or distribution of the type described in this subparagraph (v)(A) is declared but not so paid or made, the Conversion Rate shall again be adjusted to the Conversion Rate which would then be in effect if such dividend or distribution had not been declared.
 
(B) If the Corporation shall offer or issue rights, options or warrants to all holders of its outstanding Series 1 Common Stock entitling them to subscribe for or purchase Series 1 Common Stock at a price per share less than the average market price (determined as provided in subparagraph (viii) below) on the Record Date fixed for the determination of shareholders entitled to receive such rights, options or warrants, the Conversion Rate shall be adjusted so that the same shall equal the rate determined by multiplying the Conversion Rate in effect at the opening of business on the date after such Record Date by a fraction of which the denominator shall be the number of shares of Series 1 Common Stock outstanding (including the number of shares of Series 1 Common Stock issuable upon conversion of all then outstanding shares of capital stock of the Corporation) at the close of business on the Record Date plus the number of shares of Series 1 Common Stock which the aggregate subscription or purchase price of the total number of shares of Series 1 Common Stock subject to such rights, options or warrants would purchase at such average market price and of which the numerator shall be the number of shares of Series 1 Common Stock outstanding (including the number of shares of Series 1 Common Stock issuable upon conversion of all then outstanding shares of capital stock of the Corporation) at the close of business on the Record Date plus the total number of additional shares of Series 1 Common Stock subject to such rights, options or warrants for subscription or purchase. Such adjustment shall become effective immediately after the opening of business on the day following the Record Date fixed for determination of shareholders entitled to purchase or receive such rights, options or warrants. To the extent that shares of Series 1 Common Stock are not delivered pursuant to such rights, options or warrants, upon the expiration or termination of such rights, options or warrants the Conversion Rate shall again be adjusted to be the Conversion Rate which would then be in effect had the adjustments made upon the issuance of such rights, options or warrants been made on the basis of delivery of only the number of shares of Series 1 Common Stock actually delivered. If such rights, options or warrants are not so issued, the Conversion Rate shall again be adjusted to be the Conversion Rate which would then be in effect if such Record Date fixed for the determination of shareholders entitled to receive such rights, options or warrants had not been fixed. In determining whether any rights, options or warrants entitle the holders to subscribe for or purchase Series 1 Common Stock at less than such average market price, and in determining the aggregate offering price of such shares of Series 1 Common Stock, there shall be taken into account any consideration received for such rights, options or warrants, with the value of such consideration, if other than cash, to be determined by the Board of Directors. In lieu of the foregoing adjustment the Corporation may make adequate provision so that each Holder shall have the right to receive upon conversion of a share of the Ninth Series (or any portion thereof) the amount of such rights, options or warrants such Holder would have received had such Holder converted such share of the Ninth Series (or portion thereof) immediately prior to such Record Date.
 
(C) If the outstanding shares of Series 1 Common Stock shall be subdivided into a greater number of shares of Series 1 Common Stock, the Conversion Rate in effect at the opening of business on the day following the day upon which such subdivision becomes effective shall be proportionately increased and, conversely, if the outstanding shares of Series 1 Common Stock shall be combined into a smaller number of shares of Series 1 Common Stock, the Conversion Rate in effect at the opening of business on the day following the day upon which such combination becomes effective shall be proportionately reduced, such increase or reduction, as the case may be, to become effective immediately after the opening of business on the day following the day upon which such subdivision or combination becomes effective.
(D) In case the Corporation shall issue any Series 1 Common Stock or Right (as defined in subparagraph (viii) below) (excluding (i) any Right issued in any of the transactions described in subparagraphs (v)(A) or (v)(B) above, (ii) Series 1 Common Stock issued pursuant to (x) any Rights outstanding on the Effective Date or (y) a Right, if on the date such Right was issued, the exercise, conversion or exchange price per share of Series 1 Common Stock with respect thereto was at least equal to the then average market price of the Series 1 Common Stock and (iii) any Series 1 Common Stock or Right issued as consideration when any corporation or business is acquired, merged into or becomes part of the Corporation or a subsidiary of the Corporation in an arm's-length transaction between the Corporation and another Person approved by the Board of Directors and, if such Person is an Affiliate of the Corporation, approved by a majority of the members of the Board of Directors who are neither (A) officers or employees of the Corporation nor (B) Affiliates of such other Person) at a price per share of Series 1 Common Stock (determined in the case of any such Right, by dividing (x) the total consideration receivable by the Corporation in consideration of the sale and issuance of such Right, plus the total consideration payable to the Corporation upon exercise, conversion or exchange thereof, by (y) the total number of shares of Series 1 Common Stock covered by such Right) that is lower than the average market price per share of Series 1 Common Stock in effect immediately prior to such sale or issuance, then the number of shares of Series 1 Common Stock thereafter issuable upon conversion of each share of the Ninth Series shall be determined by multiplying the Conversion Rate by a fraction, the numerator of which shall be the number of shares of Series 1 Common Stock outstanding (including the number of shares of Series 1 Common Stock issuable upon conversion of all then outstanding shares of capital stock of the Corporation) immediately after such sale or issuance and the denominator of which shall be the number of shares of Series 1 Common Stock outstanding (including the number of shares of Series 1 Common Stock issuable upon conversion of all then outstanding shares of capital stock of the Corporation) immediately prior to such sale or issuance plus the number of shares of Series 1 Common Stock which the aggregate consideration received (determined as provided below) for such sale or issuance would purchase at such average market price per share of Series 1 Common Stock. For purposes of this subparagraph (v)(D), the number of shares of Series 1 Common Stock which the holder of any such Right shall be entitled to subscribe for or purchase shall be deemed to be issued and outstanding as of the date of such sale and issuance and the consideration received by the Corporation therefor shall be deemed to be the consideration received by the Corporation for such Right, plus the consideration or premiums stated in such Right to be paid for the Series 1 Common Stock covered thereby. In case the Corporation shall sell and issue Series 1 Common Stock or any Right for a consideration consisting, in whole or in part, of property other than cash or its equivalent, then in determining the "price per share of Series 1 Common Stock" and the "consideration received by the Corporation" for purposes of the first sentence of this subparagraph (v)(D), the Board of Directors shall determine, in good faith, the fair value of said property, which determination shall be evidenced by a resolution of the Board of Directors. In case the Corporation shall sell and issue any Right together with one or more other securities as part of a unit at a price per unit, then in determining the "price per share of Series 1 Common Stock" and the "consideration received by the Corporation" for purposes of the first sentence of this subparagraph (v)(D), the Board of Directors shall determine, in good faith, the fair value of the Right then being sold as part of such unit.
 
(E) If the Corporation shall, by dividend or otherwise, distribute to all holders of its Series 1 Common Stock evidences of its indebtedness, shares of any class of capital stock, or other property (including securities, but excluding (i) any rights, options or warrants referred to in subparagraph (v)(B) of this paragraph (i), (ii) any dividend or distribution paid exclusively in cash and (iii) any dividend or distribution referred to in subparagraph (v)(A) of this paragraph (i), the Conversion Rate shall be adjusted by multiplying the Conversion Rate in effect immediately prior to the close of business on the Record Date fixed for the determination of shareholders entitled to receive such distribution by a fraction of which the denominator shall be the average market price per share of the Series 1 Common Stock on such Record Date less the then fair market value (as determined by the Board of Directors, whose determination shall be conclusive and described in a resolution of the Board of Directors) of the portion of the assets, shares or evidences of indebtedness so distributed applicable to one share of Series 1 Common Stock and the numerator shall be such average market price per share of the Series 1 Common Stock, such adjustment to become effective immediately prior to the opening of business on the day following such Record Date; , , that, in the event the then fair market value (as so determined) of the portion of the distributed assets or securities applicable to one share of Series 1 Common Stock is equal to or greater than the average market price of the Series 1 Common Stock on the Record Date, in lieu of the foregoing adjustment, adequate provision shall be made so that each Holder shall have the right to receive upon conversion of a share of the Ninth Series (or any portion thereof) the amount of
provided
however
distributed assets or securities such Holder would have received had such Holder converted such share of the Ninth Series (or portion thereof) immediately prior to such Record Date. If such dividend or distribution is not so paid or made, the Conversion Rate shall again be adjusted to be the Conversion Rate which would then be in effect if such dividend or distribution had not been declared. If the Board of Directors determines the fair market value of any distribution for purposes of this subparagraph (E) by reference to the actual or when issued trading market for any securities comprising such distribution, it must in doing so consider the prices in such market over the same period used in computing the average market price per share pursuant to subparagraph (viii)(A).
 
(F) If the Corporation shall, by dividend or otherwise, make a Cash Distribution in an aggregate amount that, combined together with (1) the aggregate amount of any other Cash Distributions made within the 12 months preceding the date of payment of such current Cash Distribution in respect of which no adjustment pursuant to this subparagraph (v)(F) or subparagraph (v)(G) has been previously made and (2) the aggregate amount of any Excess Purchase Payments made within the 12 months preceding the date of payment of such current Cash Distribution in respect of which no adjustment pursuant to this subparagraph (v)(F) or subparagraph (v)(G) has been previously made, exceeds 10% of the Corporation's Market Capitalization on the Record Date for such current Cash Distribution (the amount of such excess being the "Distribution Excess Amount"), then, and in each such case, immediately after the close of business on the Record Date for such current Cash Distribution, the Conversion Rate shall be adjusted by multiplying the Conversion Rate in effect at the close of business on such Record Date by a fraction (I) the denominator of which shall be equal to the average Sale Prices per share of Series 1 Common Stock for the 10 consecutive Trading Days immediately prior to such Record Date less an amount equal to the quotient of (x) the Distribution Excess Amount divided by (y) the number of shares of Series 1 Common Stock outstanding on such Record Date plus the number of shares of Series 1 Common Stock issuable upon conversion of all the shares of capital stock of the Corporation outstanding on such Record Date and (II) the numerator of which shall be equal to the average Sale Prices per share of Series 1 Common Stock for the 10 consecutive Trading Days immediately prior to such Record Date. If such current Cash Distribution is not made, the Conversion Rate shall again be adjusted to be the Conversion Rate which would then be in effect if such current Cash Distribution had not been declared.
 
(G) If the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries shall make Excess Purchase Payments with respect to any tender offer in an aggregate amount that, combined together with (1) the aggregate amount of any other Excess Purchase Payments made within the 12 months preceding such current Excess Purchase Payment in respect of which no adjustment pursuant to subparagraph (v)(F) or this subparagraph (v)(G) has been previously made and (2) the aggregate amount of any Cash Distributions made within the 12 months preceding such current Excess Purchase Payment in respect of which no adjustment pursuant to subparagraph (v)(F) or this subparagraph (v)(G) has been previously made, exceeds 10% of the Corporation's Market Capitalization as of the Expiration Date for such tender offer (the amount of such excess being the "Tender Excess Amount"), then, and in each such case, immediately prior to the opening of business on the day after the Expiration Date, the Conversion Rate shall be adjusted by multiplying the Conversion Rate in effect at the close of business on the Expiration Date by a fraction (I) the denominator of which shall be equal to the average Sale Prices per share of Series 1 Common Stock for the 10 consecutive Trading Days immediately prior to the Expiration Date less an amount equal to the quotient of (x) the Tender Excess Amount divided by (y) the number of shares of Series 1 Common Stock outstanding on such Expiration Date plus the number of shares of Series 1 Common Stock issuable upon conversion of all the shares of capital stock of the Corporation outstanding on such Expiration Date (but excluding any shares purchased in such tender offer) and (II) the numerator of which shall be equal to the average Sale Prices per share of Series 1 Common Stock for the 10 consecutive Trading Days immediately prior to the Expiration Date. If the Corporation is obligated to purchase shares pursuant to any such tender offer, but the Corporation is permanently prevented by applicable law from effecting any such purchases or all such purchases are rescinded, the Conversion Rate shall again be adjusted to be the Conversion Rate which would then be in effect if such tender offer had not been made.
 
(vi) No adjustment in the Conversion Rate shall be required unless such adjustment would require an increase or decrease of at least 1% in such rate then in effect; , , that any adjustments that would otherwise be required to be made shall be carried forward and taken into account in any subsequent adjustment. Except as stated above, the Conversion Rate will not be adjusted for the issuance of Series 1 Common Stock or any securities convertible into or exchangeable for Series 1 Common Stock or carrying the right to purchase any of the foregoing. All calculations under subparagraph (i)(v) shall be made by the
provided
however
Corporation and shall be made to the nearest cent or to the nearest one-hundredth of a share, as the case may be. No adjustment need be made for a change in the par value of the Series 1 Common Stock.
 
(vii) The Corporation will provide to the Holders reasonable notice (which obligation may be satisfied by means of a public announcement and the filing of a Current Report on Form 8-K with the Commission containing the information in such public announcement) of any event that would result in an adjustment to the Conversion Rate pursuant to this paragraph (i) so as to permit the Holders to effect a conversion of Ninth Series into shares of Series 1 Common Stock prior to the occurrence of such event.
 
(viii) For purposes of this paragraph (i), the following terms shall have the meaning indicated:
 
(A) "average market price" means the average of the daily Sale Prices per share of Series 1 Common Stock for the 10 consecutive Trading Days immediately prior to the date in question.
 
(B) "Cash Distribution" means the distribution by the Corporation to all holders of its Series 1 Common Stock of cash (excluding any cash that is part of a distribution referred to in subparagraph (v)(E) or cash distributed upon a merger or consolidation described in subparagraph (i)(xii)).
 
(C) "Excess Purchase Payment" means the excess, if any, of (x) the amount of cash plus the fair market value (as determined by the Board of Directors, whose determination shall be conclusive and set forth in a board resolution) of any non-cash consideration required to be paid with respect to one share of Series 1 Common Stock acquired or to be acquired in a tender offer made by the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries for all or any portion of the Series 1 Common Stock over (y) the Sale Price per share of Series 1 Common Stock on the Trading Day next succeeding the Expiration Date for such tender offer.
 
(D) "Expiration Date" for any tender offer means the last day tenders of Series 1 Common Stock can be made pursuant to a tender offer by the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries for all or a portion of the Series 1 Common Stock.
 
(E) "Market Capitalization" means, with respect to any specified date, the product of (x) the average Sale Prices per share of Series 1 Common Stock for the 10 consecutive Trading Days immediately prior to such date times (y) the number of shares of Series 1 Common Stock outstanding on such date plus the number of shares of Series 1 Common Stock issuable upon conversion of all the shares of capital stock of the Corporation outstanding on such date.
 
(F) "Record Date" shall mean, with respect to any dividend, distribution or other transaction or event in which the holders of Series 1 Common Stock have the right to receive any cash, securities or other property or in which the Series 1 Common Stock (or other applicable security) is exchanged for or converted into any combination of cash, securities or other property, the date fixed for determination of shareholders entitled to receive such cash, securities or other property (whether such date is fixed by the Board of Directors or by statute, contract or otherwise).
 
(G) "Right" shall mean any right, option or warrant to subscribe for or purchase Series 1 Common Stock.
 
(ix) Whenever the Conversion Rate is adjusted as herein provided, the Corporation shall promptly file with the Transfer Agent an Officers' Certificate setting forth the Conversion Rate after such adjustment and setting forth a brief statement of the facts requiring such adjustment. Promptly after delivery of such certificate, the Corporation shall prepare a notice of such adjustment of the Conversion Rate setting forth the adjusted Conversion Rate and the date on which each adjustment is effective and shall mail such notice of such adjustment of the Conversion Rate to each Holder at such Holder's last address appearing on the register of Holders maintained by the Transfer Agent within 20 days of the effective date of such adjustment. Failure to deliver such notice shall not affect the legality or validity of any such adjustment.
 
(x) In any case in which this paragraph provides that an adjustment shall become effective immediately after a Record Date for an event, the Corporation may defer until the occurrence of such event issuing to any Holder of any shares of the Ninth Series converted after such Record Date and before the occurrence of such
event the additional Series 1 Common Stock issuable upon such conversion by reason of the adjustment required by such event over and above the Series 1 Common Stock issuable upon such conversion before giving effect to such adjustment. In the case of any such deferral, if the event triggering an adjustment under subparagraph (i)(v) does not occur, the Conversion Rate in respect of any conversion effected during such deferral period shall be the Conversion Rate in effect immediately prior to the Record Date for the relevant event and such additional shares of Series 1 Common Stock subject to deferral shall not be issued in respect of such conversion.
 
(xi) For purposes of this paragraph (i), the number of shares of Series 1 Common Stock at any time outstanding shall not include shares held in the treasury of the Corporation but shall include shares issuable in respect of scrip certificates issued in lieu of fractions of Series 1 Common Stock. The Corporation shall not pay any dividend or make any distribution on Series 1 Common Stock held in the treasury of the Corporation.
 
(xii) In the case of (x) any reclassification of the Series 1 Common Stock or (y) a consolidation or merger involving the Corporation or a sale or conveyance to another corporation of the property and assets of the Corporation as an entirety or substantially as an entirety, in each case as a result of which holders of Series 1 Common Stock shall be entitled to receive stock, securities, other property or assets (including cash) with respect to or in exchange for such Series 1 Common Stock, the conversion right with respect to the then outstanding shares of the Ninth Series will be changed into the right to convert such Ninth Series into the kind and amount of shares of stock, securities or other property or assets (including cash) which they would have owned or been entitled to receive upon such reclassification, consolidation, merger, sale or conveyance had such Ninth Series been converted immediately prior to such reclassification, consolidation, merger, sale or conveyance at the then effective Conversion Rate applicable to the Ninth Series, assuming that a Holder would not have exercised any rights of election as to the stock, securities or other property or assets (including cash) receivable in connection therewith.
 
(xiii) Without limiting the Corporation's right and ability to take any other action with respect to the Ninth Series or any portion thereof, the Corporation from time to time may, to the extent permitted by law, increase the Conversion Rate by any amount for any period of at least 20 days if the Board of Directors has made a determination, in its sole discretion, that such increase would be in the best interests of the Corporation, which determination shall be conclusive. The Corporation will give notice of such increase at least 15 days prior to the increase. The Corporation may, at its option, make such increases in the Conversion Rate, in addition to and subject to those set forth above, as the Board of Directors deems advisable to avoid or diminish any income tax to holders of Series 1 Common Stock resulting from any dividend or distribution of stock or rights to acquire stock or from any event treated as such for income tax purposes.
 
(xiv) Without limiting any other exception contained in paragraph (i), and in addition thereto, no adjustment under subparagraph (v)(D) need be made for:
 
(A) grants of Rights or issuances of Series 1 Common Stock to employees, officers or independent directors of the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries (and issuances of Series 1 Common Stock upon the exercise, exchange or conversion of any such Rights) pursuant to the terms of any incentive equity, stock purchase or similar plan maintained or sponsored by the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries, so long as such plan has been approved by the Board of Directors;
 
(B) issuances of Rights or Series 1 Common Stock in bona fide public offerings or private placements pursuant to Section 4(2) of the Securities Act, Regulation D thereunder or Regulation S under the Securities Act, involving at least one investment bank of national reputation (provided any such private placement is to 10 or more beneficial holders); or
 
(C) any issuance of Rights or Series 1 Common Stock if the Corporation committed to issue such Rights or Series 1 Common Stock prior to their issuance for an amount of consideration per share of Series 1 Common Stock (determined in the case of a Right as set forth in subparagraph (v)(D)) not less than the Sale Price of the Series 1 Common Stock on the date of such commitment.
 
(j) . (i) At any time, if the Corporation reasonably believes that any shares of the Ninth Series are held by or on account of a Non-U.S. Holder, such Ninth Series will be subject to mandatory conversion (a
Mandatory Conversion
"Mandatory Conversion"), at the option of the Corporation, upon written notice (a "Mandatory Conversion Notice") to such Non-U.S. Holder. In addition, upon any (x) optional redemption by the Corporation of a Holder's shares of the Ninth Series, (y) tender by a Holder of any of such Holder's shares of the Ninth Series for acquisition thereof by the Corporation, or (z) exercise by a Holder of any of its conversion rights, the Corporation reasonably believes that any such Holder is a Non-U. S. Holder, the shares of the Ninth Series held by such Holder will be subject to Mandatory Conversion, and such Mandatory Conversion will preempt any conversion or tender rights that any such Non-U.S. Holder would otherwise have in respect of its shares of the Ninth Series.
 
(ii) The Mandatory Conversion Notice will be mailed to the Non-U.S. Holder's address as it appears on the stock transfer records of Holders maintained by the Transfer Agent and shall specify the number of the shares of the Ninth Series subject to such notice, the certificate numbers of such shares (if such shares are held in certificated form by such Non-U.S. Holder) and the basis for the Corporation's belief that any such Holder is a Non-U.S. Holder. Such Holder's shares of the Ninth Series will be deemed to have been converted as of the date of the Mandatory Conversion Notice unless such Holder has established within 10 days after the date of any such notice by written documentation or other evidence to the Corporation's reasonable satisfaction that it is a U.S. Holder.
 
(iii) The Corporation will (i) issue and deliver to the Transfer Agent a certificate or certificates for the full number of shares of Series 1 Common Stock issuable upon the Mandatory Conversion, with any fractional shares rounded up to full shares or, at the Corporation's option, paid in cash in lieu of any fraction of a share, based on the Sale Price of the Series 1 Common Stock on the Trading Day preceding the applicable Mandatory Conversion Notice, and (ii) deliver to the Transfer Agent cash in an amount equal to the Merger Cash (if any) payable upon Mandatory Conversion. Any Mandatory Conversion will be conducted in accordance with the conversion procedures described under paragraph (i). The Corporation's delivery to the Holder of the number of shares of Series 1 Common Stock and the amount of Merger Cash (if any) into which such Holder's shares of the Ninth Series are convertible hereunder (together with the cash payment, if any, in lieu of fractional shares of Series 1 Common Stock, if any) will be deemed to satisfy the Corporation's obligation to pay the Liquidation Preference on the Ninth Series to the applicable Conversion Date.
 
(iv) If the Transfer Agent holds, in accordance herewith, Series 1 Common Stock (together with the cash payment, if any, in lieu of fractional shares of Series 1 Common Stock, if any) sufficient to pay the conversion price and the amount of Merger Cash (if any) payable upon conversion on the date of the Mandatory Conversion Notice with respect to any shares of the Ninth Series, then, on and after such date, such shares of the Ninth Series will cease to be outstanding and the Liquidation Preference thereon shall cease to accrete whether or not book-entry transfer of such Ninth Series is made or such Ninth Series is delivered to the Transfer Agent, and all other rights of the Holder shall terminate (other than the right to receive the Series 1 Common Stock, Merger Cash, if any, and cash, if any, for fractional shares upon delivery of the Ninth Series certificate or book-entry transfer of such shares of the Ninth Series to the Transfer Agent).
 
(k) . (i) The Corporation may amend this Section 10.8 with the consent of the Holders of a majority of the shares of the Ninth Series then outstanding (including consents obtained in connection with a tender offer or exchange offer for the Ninth Series) and any past default or failure to comply with any provisions of this Section 10.8 may also be waived with the consent of such Holders. Notwithstanding the foregoing, however, without the consent of the Holders of at least 66 2/3% of the then outstanding shares of the Ninth Series, an amendment or waiver may not (with respect to any shares of the Ninth Series held by a non-consenting Holder): (A) alter the voting rights with respect to the Ninth Series or reduce the number of shares of the Ninth Series whose Holders must consent to an amendment, supplement or waiver of the terms of the Ninth Series, (B) reduce the amount of or rate of accretion of the Liquidation Preference of any share of the Ninth Series or adversely alter the provisions with respect to the redemption of the Ninth Series, or make any change that adversely affects the right to convert the Ninth Series or the right to require the Corporation to purchase the Ninth Series, (C) make any share of the Ninth Series payable in money other than United States dollars, (D) make any change in the provisions of this Section 10.8 relating to waivers of the rights of Holders to receive the Liquidation Preference on the Ninth Series or (E) make any change in the foregoing amendment and waiver provisions.
Amendment, Supplement and Waiver
 
(ii) Notwithstanding the foregoing, without the consent of any Holder, the Corporation may (to the extent permitted by Kansas law) amend or supplement this Section 10.8 to cure any ambiguity, defect or inconsistency, to provide for uncertificated shares of the Ninth Series in addition to or in place of certificated
shares of the Ninth Series or to make any change that would provide any additional rights or benefits to the Holders or to make any change that the Board of Directors determines, in good faith, is not materially adverse to the Holders.
 
(l) . No shares of the Ninth Series shall have any rights of preemption whatsoever as to any securities of the Corporation, or any warrants, rights or options issued or granted with respect thereto, regardless of how such securities or such warrants, rights or options may be designated, issued or granted.
Preemptive Rights
 
(m) . Shares of Ninth Series that have been issued and reacquired in any manner, including shares purchased or redeemed or exchanged, shall (upon compliance with any applicable provisions of the laws of Kansas) have the status of authorized but unissued shares of preferred stock of the Corporation undesignated as to series and may be designated or redesignated and issued or reissued, as the case may be, as part of any series of preferred stock of the Corporation, that any issuance of such shares as Ninth Series must be in compliance with the terms hereof.
Reissuance of Ninth Series
provided
 
(n) . If any payment, redemption, repurchase or conversion shall be required by the terms hereof to be made on a day that is not a Business Day, such payment, redemption or conversion shall be made on the immediately succeeding Business Day.
Business Day
 
(o) . As used in this Section 10.8 only, the following terms shall have the following meanings (with terms defined in the singular having comparable meanings when used in the plural and vice versa), unless the context otherwise requires. The words "herein," "hereof" and "hereunder" and words of similar import, shall be construed to refer to this Section 10.8 as amended from time to time.
Definitions
 
"Accrual Date" means each March 23, June 23, September 23 and December 23 ending on December 23, 2013.
 
"Acquisition Date" has the meaning set forth in subparagraph (g)(iii) hereof.
 
"Affiliate" of any specified Person means any other Person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with such Person. For the purposes of this definition, "control" when used with respect to any specified Person means the power to direct the management and policies of such Person, directly or indirectly, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise; and the terms "controlling" and "controlled" have meanings correlative to the foregoing.
 
"Change of Control Corporation Notice" has the meaning set forth in subparagraph (g)(ii) hereof.
 
"Common Shares" of any Person means capital stock of such Person that does not rank prior, as to the payment of dividends or as to the distribution of assets upon any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of such Person, to shares of capital stock of any other class of such Person.
 
"Conversion Date" has the meaning set forth in subparagraph (i)(iii) hereof.
 
"Conversion Rate" has the meaning set forth in subparagraph (i)(i) hereof.
 
"Corporation Notice" has the meaning set forth in subparagraph (h)(ii) hereof.
 
"Effective Date" means the date on which shares of the Ninth Series are first issued under this Section 10.8.
 
"Holder" means a registered holder of shares of the Ninth Series.
 
"Junior Securities" has the meaning set forth in paragraph (b) hereof.
"Liquidation Preference" for each share of the Ninth Series for any specified date shall be as follows:
 
(i) if such specified date occurs on one of the following Accrual Dates, the Liquidation Preference per share will equal the amount set forth below for such Accrual Date:
 
 
(ii) if the specified date occurs between two Accrual Dates, (x) the Liquidation Preference will equal the sum of (a) the Liquidation Preference for the Accrual Date immediately preceding such specified date and (b) an amount equal to the product of (1) the Liquidation Preference for the immediately following Accrual Date less the Liquidation Preference for the immediately preceding Accrual Date multiplied by (2) a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of days from (but including) the immediately preceding Accrual Date to (but excluding) the specified date, using a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months, and the denominator of which is 90.
 
"Mandatory Conversion" has the meaning set forth in subparagraph (j)(i) hereof.
 
"Mandatory Conversion Notice" has the meaning set forth in subparagraph (j)(i) hereof.
 
"Mandatory Redemption Date" means December 23, 2013.
 
"Market Price" means the average of the Sale Prices of the Series 1 Common Stock for the 20 Trading Day period ending on the third Business Day prior to the applicable Acquisition Date or Redemption Date if the third Business Day prior to the applicable Acquisition Date or Redemption Date is a Trading Day or, if it is not a Trading Day, then on the last Trading Day prior to such third Business Day. The Market Price shall be appropriately adjusted to take into account the occurrence during the period commencing on the first of such Trading Days during such 20 Trading Day period and ending on such Acquisition Date or Redemption Date of certain events that would result in an adjustment of the Conversion Rate pursuant to subparagraphs (i)(v)(A), (i)(v)(C) and (i)(v)(E) hereof.
 
"Merger Cash" has the meaning set forth in subparagraph (i)(i) hereof.
 
"Ninth Series" has the meaning set forth in paragraph (a) hereof.
 
"Ninth Series Approval Rights" has the meaning set forth in subparagraph (f)(ii)(A) hereof.
 
"Non-U.S. Holder" means any Holder that is not a U.S. Holder.
 
"Optional Redemption Date" has the meaning set forth in subparagraph (e)(i)(A) hereof.
"Parity Securities" has the meaning set forth in paragraph (b) hereof.
 
"Redemption Notice" has the meaning set forth in subparagraph (e)(iii)(A) hereof.
 
"Sale Price" of the Series 1 Common Stock on any date means the closing per share sale price (or if no closing sale price is reported, the average bid and ask prices or, if more than one in either case, the average of the average bid and average ask prices) on such date as reported in the composite transactions for the principal United States securities exchange on which Series 1 Common Stock is traded or, if the Series 1 Common Stock is not listed on a United States national or regional stock exchange, as reported by the NNM.
 
"Senior Securities" has the meaning set forth in paragraph (b) hereof.
 
"Transfer Agent" means UMB Bank, n.a. or such other transfer agent as shall be appointed by the Corporation from time to time as transfer agent for the Ninth Series and/or the Series 1 Common Stock, and who is designated as such in a written notice sent by the Corporation to the Holders.
 
"U.S. Holder" means a beneficial owner of Ninth Series that is, for United States federal income tax purposes, (i) a citizen or individual resident of the United States; (ii) a corporation (or other entity treated as a corporation) created in or under the laws of the United States or of any State thereof, (iii) an estate the income of which is subject to United States federal income taxation regardless of its source; (iv) a trust if a court within the United States is able to exercise primary supervision over the administration of the trust and one or more United States persons have the authority to control all substantial decisions of the trust (including certain trusts in existence on August 20, 1996 and treated as United States persons prior to such date that timely elected to continue to be treated as United States persons); or (v) a partnership that is created or organized in or under the laws of the United States or of any State thereof.
 
"Voting Rights Triggering Event" has the meaning set forth in subparagraph (f)(iii)(A) hereof.
 
(p) . No transfer of shares of the Ninth Series shall be effective until such transfer is reflected on the stock transfer books for the Ninth Series maintained by the Transfer Agent.
Transfer of Shares
 
 
Section 1. In addition to any affirmative vote required by law or these Articles of Incorporation, and except as expressly provided in Section 2 of this ARTICLE SEVENTH, the affirmative vote of the holders of 80% of the outstanding shares of the Corporation entitled to vote in an election of Directors shall be required for the approval or authorization of any Business Combination (as hereinafter defined).
 
Section 2. The provisions of Section 1 of this ARTICLE SEVENTH shall not be applicable if:
 
(a) The Business Combination shall have been approved by a majority of the Continuing Directors (as hereinafter defined); , , that such approval shall only be effective if obtained at a meeting of Directors at which at least seven Continuing Directors are present; or
provided
however
 
(b) The Business Combination is a merger or consolidation and the cash or Fair Market Value (as hereinafter defined) of the property, securities or other consideration to be received per share by the stockholders of each class of stock of the Corporation in the Business Combination, if applicable, is not less than the highest per share price paid by the Interested Stockholder (as hereinafter defined), with appropriate adjustments for stock splits, stock dividends and like distributions, in the acquisition by the Interested Stockholder of any of its holdings of each class of the Corporation's capital stock.
 
Section 3. For purposes of this ARTICLE SEVENTH:
 
(a) The term "Business Combination" means:
 
(i) any merger or consolidation of the Corporation or any subsidiary of the Corporation with (a) any Interested Stockholder or (b) any other corporation (whether or not itself an Interested Stockholder) which is,
or after such merger or consolidation would be, an Affiliate (as defined on October 1, 1982 in Rule 12b-2 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act")) of an Interested Stockholder;
 
(ii) any sale, lease, exchange, mortgage, pledge, transfer or other disposition (in one transaction or a series of transactions) to or with any Interested Stockholder or any Affiliate of any Interested Stockholder of any assets of the Corporation or any subsidiary of the Corporation that have an aggregate Fair Market Value of $1,000,000 or more;
 
(iii) the issuance or transfer by the Corporation or any subsidiary of the Corporation (in one transaction or a series of transactions) of any securities of the Corporation or any subsidiary of the Corporation to any Interested Stockholder or any Affiliate of any Interested Stockholder in exchange for cash, securities or other property (or a combination thereof) having an aggregate Fair Market Value of $1,000,000 or more;
 
(iv) the adoption of any plan or proposal for the liquidation or dissolution of the Corporation proposed by or on behalf of an Interested Stockholder or any Affiliate of any Interested Stockholder; or
 
(v) any reclassification of securities (including any reverse stock split), or recapitalization of the Corporation, or any merger or consolidation of the Corporation with any of its subsidiaries or any other transaction (whether or not with or into or otherwise involving an Interested Stockholder) which has the effect, directly or indirectly, of increasing the proportionate share of the outstanding shares of any class of equity or convertible securities of the Corporation or any subsidiary which is directly or indirectly owned by any Interested Stockholder or any Affiliate of any Interested Stockholder.
 
(b) The term "Continuing Director" means any member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation who is unaffiliated with the Interested Stockholder and was a member of the Board of Directors prior to the time that the Interested Stockholder became an Interested Stockholder, and any successor of a Continuing Director if the successor is unaffiliated with the Interested Stockholder and is recommended or elected to succeed a Continuing Director by a majority of Continuing Directors, that such recommendation or election shall only be effective if made at a meeting of Directors at which at least seven Continuing Directors are present.
provided
 
(c) The term "Fair Market Value" means:
 
(i) in the case of stock, the highest closing sale price during the 30-day period immediately preceding the date in question of a share of such stock on the Composite Tape for New York Stock Exchange-listed stocks, or, if such stock is not quoted on the Composite Tape, on the New York Stock Exchange, or, if such stock is not listed on such Exchange, on the principal United States securities exchange registered under the Exchange Act on which such stock is listed, or, if such stock is not listed on any such exchange, the highest closing bid quotation with respect to a share of such stock during the 30-day period preceding the date in question on the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. Automated Quotations System or any system then in use, or if no such quotations are available, the fair market value on the date in question of a share of such stock as determined in good faith by a majority of Continuing Directors, that such determination shall only be effective if made at a meeting of Directors at which at least seven Continuing Directors are present; or
provided
 
(ii) in the case of property or securities other than cash or stock, the fair market value of such property or securities on the date in question as determined in good faith by a majority of Continuing Directors, that such determination shall only be effective if made at a meeting of Directors at which at least seven Continuing Directors are present.
provided
 
(d) The term "Interested Stockholder" means and includes, as of the date of any proposed Business Combination, any individual, corporation, partnership or other person or entity which, together with its "Affiliates" and "Associates" (as defined on October 1, 1982 in Rule 12b-2 under the Exchange Act), "Beneficially Owns" (as defined on October 1, 1982 in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act) in the aggregate 10% or more of the outstanding shares of the Corporation entitled to vote in an election of Directors, and any Affiliate or Associate of any such individual, corporation, partnership or other person or entity.
 
Section 1. Any direct or indirect purchase or other acquisition by the Corporation of any Equity Security (as hereinafter defined) of any class at a price above Market Price (as hereinafter defined) from any Interested Securityholder (as hereinafter defined) who has beneficially owned any Equity Security of the class to be purchased for less than two years prior to the date of such purchase or any agreement in respect thereof shall, except as hereinafter expressly provided, require the affirmative vote of the holders of at least a majority of the voting power of the then outstanding shares of capital stock of the Corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors (the "Voting Stock"), excluding Voting Stock beneficially owned by such Interested Securityholder, voting together as a single class (it being understood that for the purposes of this ARTICLE EIGHTH, each share of the Voting Stock shall have the number of votes granted to it pursuant to ARTICLE SIXTH of these Articles of Incorporation). Such affirmative vote shall be required notwithstanding the fact that no vote may be required, or that a lesser percentage may be specified, by law or any agreement with any national securities exchange, or otherwise, but no such affirmative vote shall be required with respect to (i) any purchase or other acquisition of securities made as part of a tender or exchange offer by the Corporation to purchase securities of the same class made on the same terms to all holders of such securities and complying with the applicable requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the rules and regulations thereunder (or any subsequent provisions replacing such Act, rules or regulations), (ii) any purchase, redemption, conversion or other acquisition by the Corporation of Series 2 Common Stock or Ninth Series (each as defined in ARTICLE SIXTH) from a holder thereof pursuant to the provisions of these Articles of Incorporation or (iii) any purchase, redemption, conversion or other acquisition by the Corporation of Non-Voting Common Stock from a holder thereof.
Prevention of "Greenmail."
 
Section 2. . For the purposes of this ARTICLE EIGHTH:
Certain Definitions
 
(a) A "person" means any individual, firm, corporation or other entity.
 
(b) "Interested Securityholder" means any person (other than the Corporation or any corporation of which a majority of any class of Equity Security is owned, directly or indirectly, by the Corporation) who or which:
 
(i) is the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of five percent (5%) or more of the class of securities to be acquired; or
 
(ii) is an Affiliate of the Corporation and at any time within the two-year period immediately prior to the date in question was the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of five percent (5%) or more of the class of securities to be acquired; or
 
(iii) is an assignee or has otherwise succeeded to any shares of the class of securities to be acquired which were at any time within the two-year period immediately prior to the date in question beneficially owned by an Interested Securityholder, if such assignment or succession shall have occurred in the course of a transaction or transactions not involving a public offering within the meaning of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
 
(c) A person shall be a "beneficial owner" of any security of any class of the Corporation:
 
(i) which such person or any of its Affiliates or Associates (as hereinafter defined) beneficially owns, directly or indirectly; or
 
(ii) which such person or any of its Affiliates or Associates has (a) the right to acquire (whether such right is exercisable immediately or only after the passage of time), pursuant to any agreement, arrangement or understanding or upon the exercise of conversion rights, exchange rights, warrants or options, or otherwise, or (b) any right to vote pursuant to any agreement, arrangement or understanding; or
 
(iii) which are beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, by any other person with which such person or any of its Affiliates or Associates has any agreement, arrangement or understanding for the purpose of acquiring, holding, voting or disposing of any security of any class of the Corporation.
(d) For the purposes of determining whether a person is an Interested Securityholder pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section 2, the relevant class of securities outstanding shall be deemed to comprise all such securities deemed owned through application of paragraph (c) of this Section 2, but shall not include other securities of such class which may be issuable pursuant to any agreement, arrangement or understanding, or upon exercise of conversion rights, warrants or options, or otherwise.
 
(e) "Affiliate" or "Associate" shall have the respective meanings ascribed to such terms in Rule 12b-2 of the General Rules and Regulations under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as in effect on October 1, 1982.
 
(f) "Equity Security" shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in Section 3(a)(11) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as in effect on January 1, 1985.
 
(g) "Market Price" means the highest closing sale price during the thirty-day period immediately preceding the date in question, of a share of any Equity Security on the Composite Tape for New York Stock Exchange issues or, if such Equity Security is not quoted on the Composite Tape or is not listed on such Exchange, on the principal United States security exchange registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, on which such Equity Security is listed, or, if such Equity Security is not listed on any such exchange, the highest closing bid quotation with respect to a share of such Equity Security during the thirty-day period preceding the date in question on the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. Automated Quotations System or any system then in use, or, if no such quotations are available, the fair market value on the date in question of a share of such Equity Security.
 
Section 3. . The Board of Directors of the Corporation shall have the power to determine the application of, or compliance with, this ARTICLE EIGHTH, including, without limitation: (i) whether a person is an Interested Securityholder; (ii) whether a person is a beneficial owner of any Equity Security; and (iii) the Market Price of any Equity Security. Any decision or action taken by the Board of Directors arising out of or in connection with the construction, interpretation and effect of this ARTICLE EIGHTH shall lie within its absolute discretion and shall be conclusive and binding, except in circumstances involving bad faith.
Compliance
 
 
No Director of the Corporation shall be personally liable to the Corporation or its stockholders for monetary damages for breach of fiduciary duty by such Director as a Director; , , that this ARTICLE NINTH shall not eliminate or limit the liability of a Director to the extent provided by applicable law (i) for any breach of the Director's duty of loyalty to the Corporation or its stockholders, (ii) for acts or omissions not in good faith or which involve intentional misconduct or a knowing violation of law, (iii) under the provisions of K.S.A. Section 17-6424, and amendments thereto (or any successor provision), or (iv) for any transaction from which the Director derived an improper personal benefit. No amendment to or repeal of this ARTICLE NINTH shall apply to or have any effect on the liability or alleged liability of any Director of the Corporation for or with respect to any acts or omissions of such Director occurring prior to such amendment or repeal.
provided
however
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, we have hereunto set our hands and affixed the seal of said Corporation this 11th day August 2005.
 

Exhibit 3.2
 
 
 
 
S 1. The name of the Corporation shall be the name set forth in the Articles of Incorporation.
ECTION
 
S 2. Offices for the transaction of business of the Corporation may be located at such places as the Board of Directors may from time to time determine or as the business of the Corporation may from time to time require.
ECTION
 
 
 
S 1. All certificates of stock shall be signed by the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer and President or a Vice President and by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary, and sealed with the corporate seal or a facsimile thereof. Any or all of the signatures may be a facsimile.
ECTION
 
S 2. Transfers of stock shall be made on the books of the Corporation upon the surrender of the old certificate properly endorsed, and said old certificate shall be cancelled before a new certificate is issued.
ECTION
 
S 3. A new certificate of stock may be issued in the place of any certificate theretofore issued, alleged to have been lost or destroyed, and the Corporation may, in its discretion, require the owner of the lost or destroyed certificate, or its legal representative, to give a bond sufficient to indemnify the Corporation against any claim that may be made against it on account of the alleged loss of any certificate.
ECTION
 
S 4. No holder of shares of any class of this Corporation, or holder of any securities or obligations convertible into shares of any class of this Corporation, shall have any preemptive right whatsoever to subscribe for, purchase or otherwise acquire shares of this Corporation of any class, whether now or hereafter authorized; , , that nothing in this SECTION 4 of Article II shall prohibit the Corporation from granting, contractually or otherwise, to any such holder, the right to purchase additional securities of the Corporation.
ECTION
provided
however
 
S 5. The Kansas Control Share Acquisition Act, K.S.A. Sections 17-1286 through 17-1298, does not apply to control share acquisitions of shares of the Corporation.
ECTION
 
 
 
S 1. The annual meeting of the stockholders of the Corporation shall be held on the third Tuesday of April in each year or such other date and at such location, either within or without the State of Kansas, as may from time to time be determined by the Board of Directors and stated in the notice of the meeting. At such meeting the stockholders shall elect directors in the manner provided in the Articles of
ECTION
 
Incorporation of the Corporation. The stockholders may transact such other business at such annual meeting as may properly come before the meeting.
 
S 2. A special meeting of the stockholders or the holders of any one or more classes of the capital stock of the Corporation entitled to vote as a class or classes with respect to any matter, as required by law or as provided in the Articles of Incorporation, may be called only by, and may be at any time and place determined by, the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer and President or the Board of Directors.
ECTION
 
S 3. Notice of the time and place of all annual meetings of stockholders and of the time, place and purpose of all special meetings of stockholders shall be sent not less than ten (10) nor more than sixty (60) days before the date set for such meeting, to each stockholder of record entitled to notice of such meeting. Without limiting the manner by which notice otherwise may be given effectively to stockholders, any notice to stockholders given by the Corporation shall be effective if given by a form of electronic transmission consented to by the stockholder to whom notice is given.
ECTION
 
S 4. Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors at an annual meeting of the stockholders may be made by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or may be made at an annual meeting of stockholders by any stockholder of the Corporation who is entitled to vote for the election of Directors at the meeting in compliance with the notice procedures set forth in this SECTION 4 of ARTICLE III. Such nominations, other than those made by or at the direction of the Board of Directors, shall be made pursuant to timely notice in writing to the Secretary of the Corporation. To be timely, a stockholder's notice shall be delivered to or mailed and received at the principal office of the Corporation not less than one hundred twenty (120) days nor more than one hundred fifty (150) days before the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting; , , that in the event that the date of the annual meeting is advanced by more than thirty (30) days or delayed by more than sixty (60) days from such anniversary date, notice by the stockholder to be timely must be so delivered and received not earlier than the 150
ECTION
provided
however
th
day before such annual meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the 120
th
day before such annual meeting or the 10
th
day following the day on which public announcement of the date of such annual meeting is first made. Such stockholder's notice to the Secretary shall set forth (a) as to each person whom the stockholder proposes to nominate for election or re-election as a Director, (i) the name, age, business address and residence address of the person, (ii) the principal occupation or employment of the person, (iii) the class and number of shares of capital stock of the Corporation which are beneficially owned by the person and (iv) any other information relating to the person that is required to be disclosed in solicitations for proxies for election of Directors pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"); and (b) as to the stockholder giving the notice (i) the name and record address of the stockholder and (ii) the class and number of shares of capital stock of the Corporation which are beneficially owned by the stockholder. The Corporation may require any proposed nominee to furnish such other information as may reasonably be required by the Corporation to determine the eligibility of such proposed nominee to serve as Director of the Corporation. No person shall be eligible for election as a Director of the Corporation at an annual meeting of the stockholders unless such person has been nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth herein. If the facts warrant, the chairperson of the annual meeting shall determine and declare to the meeting that a nomination does not satisfy the requirements set forth in the preceding sentence and the defective nomination shall be disregarded. Nothing in this SECTION 4 of Article III shall be construed to affect the requirements for proxy statements of the Corporation under Regulation 14A of the Exchange Act.
 
S 5. At any annual meeting of the stockholders, only such business shall be conducted as shall have been properly brought before the meeting. To be properly brought before an annual meeting, business must be (a) specified in the notice of meeting (or any supplement thereto) given by or at the
ECTION
 
direction of the Board of Directors, (b) otherwise properly brought before the annual meeting by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (c) otherwise properly brought before the annual meeting by a stockholder. For business to be properly brought before a meeting by a stockholder, the stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in writing to the Secretary of the Corporation. To be timely, a stockholder's notice shall be delivered to or mailed and received at the principal office of the Corporation not less than one hundred twenty (120) days nor more than one hundred fifty (150) days before the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting; , , that in the event that the date of the annual meeting is advanced by more than thirty (30) days or delayed by more than sixty (60) days from such anniversary date, notice by the stockholder to be timely must be delivered and received not earlier than the 150
provided
however
th
day before such annual meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the 120
th
day before such annual meeting or the 10
th
day following the day on which public announcement of the date of such annual meeting is first made. Such stockholder's notice to the Secretary shall set forth (a) as to each matter the stockholder proposes to bring before the annual meeting, a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the meeting and the reasons for conducting such business at the meeting, and (b) as to the stockholder giving the notice (i) the name and record address of the stockholder, (ii) the class and number of shares of capital stock of the Corporation which are beneficially owned by the stockholder and (iii) any material interest of the stockholder in such business. No business shall be conducted at an annual meeting of the stockholders unless proposed in accordance with the procedures set forth herein. The chairperson of an annual meeting shall, if the facts warrant, determine and declare to the meeting that business was not properly brought before the meeting in accordance with the foregoing procedure and such business shall not be transacted. To the extent this SECTION 5 of Article III shall be deemed by the Board of Directors or the Securities and Exchange Commission, or finally adjudged by a court of competent jurisdiction, to be inconsistent with the right of stockholders to request inclusion of a proposal in the Corporation's proxy statement for its annual meeting pursuant to Rule 14a-8 promulgated under the Exchange Act, such rule shall prevail.
 
S 6. At any special meeting of stockholders, only such business shall be conducted as shall have been properly brought before the meeting. To be properly brought before a special meeting of stockholders, business must be (a) specified in the notice of meeting (or any supplement thereto) given by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (b) otherwise properly brought before the meeting by or at the direction of the Board of Directors. The chairperson of the meeting shall, if the facts warrant, determine and declare to the meeting that business was not properly brought before the meeting in accordance with the foregoing procedures and such business shall not be transacted.
ECTION
 
S 7. The Chairman of the Board, or in his absence or inability to act, the Chief Executive Officer and President, or in his absence or inability to act, a Vice President shall preside as chairperson of the meeting at all stockholders' meetings. The chairperson of the meeting shall have authority on his own motion to adjourn the meeting without the approval of the stockholders who are present in person or represented by proxy and entitled to vote. The Board of Directors of the Corporation may, to the extent not prohibited by law, adopt such rules and regulations for the conduct of the meeting of stockholders as it deems appropriate. Except to the extent inconsistent with the rules and regulations adopted by the Board of Directors, the chairperson of the meeting of stockholders shall have the right and authority to prescribe rules, regulations and procedures and to do all acts as, in the judgment of the chairperson, are appropriate for the proper conduct of the meeting.
ECTION
 
S 8. Except as otherwise provided in the Articles of Incorporation of the Corporation, at each meeting of the stockholders, each stockholder shall be entitled to cast one vote for each share of voting stock standing of record on the books of the Corporation, in the stockholder's name, and may cast such vote either in person or by proxy.
ECTION
 
S 9. Except as otherwise provided in the Articles of Incorporation of the Corporation, each stockholder shall have the right to vote, in person or by proxy, a number of votes equal to the number of shares of stock owned by the stockholder for each Director to be elected. Stockholders shall not be entitled to cumulative voting of their shares of record in elections of Directors.
ECTION
 
S 10. At any meeting held for the purpose of electing directors, the presence in person or by proxy of the holders of at least a majority of the then outstanding voting shares of the Corporation shall be required and be sufficient to constitute a quorum for the election of directors. At a meeting held for any purpose other than the election of directors, shares representing a majority of the votes entitled to be cast on such matter, present in person or represented by proxy, shall constitute a quorum. In the absence of the required quorum at any meeting of stockholders, a majority of such holders present in person or by proxy shall have the power to adjourn the meeting, from time to time, without notice (except as required by law) other than an announcement at the meeting, until a quorum shall be present.
ECTION
 
S 11. At each of the annual stockholders' meetings, one of the executive officers of the Corporation shall submit a statement of the business done during the preceding year, together with a report of the general financial condition of the Corporation.
ECTION
 
S 12. A stockholder may appoint a proxy to vote for the stockholder by submission of (i) an appointment form signed by the stockholder or the stockholder's attorney-in-fact or (ii) an electronic or telephonic transmission that contains or is accompanied by information from which it can be reasonably verified that the transmission was authorized by the stockholder or by the stockholder's attorney-in-fact. An appointment of proxy is effective when an appointment form or an electronic or telephonic transmission is received by the person authorized to tabulate votes for the Corporation. The proxy has the same power to vote as that possessed by the stockholder, unless the appointment form or electronic or telephonic transmission contains an express limitation on the power to vote or direction as to how to vote the shares on a particular matter, in which event, the Corporation must tabulate the votes in a manner consistent with that limitation or direction.
ECTION
 
 
 
S 1. The business and affairs of the Corporation shall be managed by or under the direction of a Board consisting of such number of Directors as is determined from time to time in accordance with the provisions of the Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws of the Corporation.
ECTION
 
S 2. Each Director upon election shall qualify by fulfilling any prerequisite to qualification that may be set forth in the Articles of Incorporation of the Corporation.
ECTION
 
S 3. The Board of Directors shall elect one Director to serve as Chairman of the Board. The Chairman of the Board shall preside at all meetings of the Directors at which the Chairman of the Board is present. In the event of the absence or inability to act of the Chairman of the Board at any such meeting, the Chief Executive Officer and President shall preside at such meeting and, in his absence or inability to act, the Board of Directors shall select another Director to preside at such meeting. The removal of the Chairman of the Board during the three-year period following the effective date of these Bylaws (the "Effective Date") shall require a vote of more than two-thirds of the entire Board of Directors.
ECTION
 
S 4. Special meetings of the Board of Directors may be called at any time or place by the Chairman of the Board or by the Chief Executive Officer and President, and in the absence or inability of
ECTION
 
either of them to act, by a Vice President, and may also be called by any two members of the Board of Directors. By unanimous consent of the Directors, special meetings of the Board of Directors may be held without notice, at any time and place.
 
S 5. Notice of all regular and special meetings of the Board of Directors, the Executive Committee, or any committee established pursuant to SECTION 12 of ARTICLE IV (an "") shall be provided to each Director or member of such committee, as the case may be, by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary or by the Chairman of the Board, or, in the case of the Executive Committee or Other Committee, by the secretary or the chairperson of the committee, by a means reasonably calculated to be received at least seven (7) days before the time fixed for such meeting; , , that notice of special meetings of the Board of Directors, the Executive Committee or any Other Committee may be given by telephone, telegraph, telefax, telex or electronic transmission to each Director or member of such committee, as the case may be, at least twenty-four (24) hours before the time fixed for such meeting, or on such shorter notice as the person or persons calling the meeting may reasonably deem necessary or appropriate under the circumstances. Participation by Directors in any regular or special meeting of the Board of Directors shall be in person unless otherwise provided in the notice of the meeting or otherwise determined by the Chairman of the Board or the Board of Directors, in which case, participation by means of conference telephone or similar communications equipment which allows all persons participating in such meeting to hear each other shall constitute presence in person at such meeting.
ECTION
Other Committee
provided
however
 
S 6. Except as otherwise provided in the Articles of Incorporation of the Corporation, a quorum for the transaction of business at any meeting of the Board of Directors or any committee of the Board of Directors shall consist of a majority of the members of the Board of Directors or of such committee, but the Directors present, although less than a quorum, shall have the power to adjourn the meeting from time to time or to some future date to the extent not prohibited by law.
ECTION
 
S 7. At least annually, the Directors shall elect the officers of the Corporation and shall fix the salaries of the Chairman of the Board (in his capacity as an officer of the Corporation), the Chief Executive Officer and President and the other officers which the Board of Directors determines are key to the Corporation's business.
ECTION
 
S 8. The Board of Directors from time to time, as they may deem proper, shall have authority to appoint a general manager, counsel or attorneys and other employees for such length of time and upon such terms and conditions and at such salaries as they may deem necessary and/or advisable.
ECTION
 
S 9. The members of the Board of Directors shall receive compensation for their services as determined by the Board of Directors in such amount as may be reasonable and proper and consistent with the time and service rendered. The members of the Board of Directors shall receive the reasonable expenses necessarily incurred in the attendance of meetings and in the transaction of business for the Corporation.
ECTION
 
S 10.
ECTION
 
(a) Indemnification.
 
(1) The Corporation shall indemnify any person who was or is a party or is threatened to be made a party to any threatened, pending or completed action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative (other than an action by or in the right of the Corporation) by reason of the fact that such person is or was a Director, officer or employee of the Corporation, or is or was serving at the
Actions Other Than Those by or in the Right of the Corporation.
 
request of the Corporation as a director, officer or employee of any other enterprise, against expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred by such person in connection with such action, suit or proceeding if such person acted in good faith and in a manner such person reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Corporation (or such other corporation or organization), and, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, had no reasonable cause to believe such person's conduct was unlawful. The termination of any action, suit or proceeding by judgment, order, settlement, conviction, or upon a plea of nolo contendere or its equivalent, shall not, of itself, create a presumption that the person did not act in good faith and in a manner which such person reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Corporation, and, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, had reasonable cause to believe that such person's conduct was unlawful.
 
(2) The Corporation shall indemnify any person who was or is a party or is threatened to be made a party to any threatened, pending or completed action or suit by or in the right of the Corporation to procure a judgment in its favor by reason of the fact that such person is or was a Director, officer or employee of the Corporation, or is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer or employee of any other enterprise, against expenses (including attorneys' fees) actually and reasonably incurred by such person in connection with the defense or settlement of such action or suit if such person acted in good faith and in a manner such person reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Corporation (or such other corporation or organization) and except that no indemnification shall be made in respect of any claim, issue or matter as to which such person shall have been adjudged to be liable to the Corporation (or such other corporation or organization) unless and only to the extent that the court in which such action or suit was brought shall determine upon application that, despite the adjudication of liability but in view of all the circumstances of the case, such person is fairly and reasonably entitled to indemnity for such expenses which such court shall deem proper.
Action by or in the Right of the Corporation.
 
(3) Notwithstanding, and without limitation of, any other provision of this SECTION 10 of Article IV, to the extent that a Director, officer or employee of the Corporation has been successful on the merits or otherwise in defense of any action, suit or proceeding referred to in paragraph (1) or (2) of this SECTION 10(a) of Article IV, or in defense of any claim, issue or matter therein, such Director, officer or employee shall be indemnified against expenses (including attorneys' fees) actually and reasonably incurred by such person in connection therewith.
Successful Defense of Action.
 
(4) Any indemnification under paragraph (1) or (2) of this SECTION 10(a) of Article IV (unless ordered by a court) shall be made by the Corporation only as authorized in the specific case upon a determination that indemnification of the Director, officer or employee is proper in the circumstances because such Director, officer or employee has met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in said paragraph. Such determination shall be made (i) by a majority vote of a quorum consisting of Directors who were not parties to the action, suit or proceeding, (ii) if a quorum of disinterested Directors is not obtainable, or, even if obtainable, if a quorum of disinterested Directors so directs, by independent legal counsel in a written opinion, or (iii) by the stockholders.
Determination Required.
 
(5) Expenses incurred in defending a civil or criminal action, suit or proceeding may be paid by the Corporation in advance of the final disposition of such action, suit or proceeding upon receipt of a satisfactory undertaking by or on behalf of the Director, officer or employee to repay such amount if it shall ultimately be determined that such person is not entitled to be indemnified by the Corporation as authorized in this SECTION 10(a) of Article IV.
Advance of Expenses.
 
(b) The Corporation may purchase and maintain insurance on behalf of any person who is or was a Director, officer or employee of the Corporation, or is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer or employee of any other enterprise against any liability asserted against such person and incurred by such person in any such capacity, or arising out of such person's status as such, whether or not the Corporation would have the power to indemnify him against such liability under the provisions of SECTION 10(a) of Article IV. The risks insured under any insurance policies purchased and maintained on behalf of any person as aforesaid or on behalf of the Corporation shall not be limited in any way by the terms of this SECTION 10 of Article IV and to the extent compatible with the provisions of such policies, the risks insured shall extend to the fullest extent permitted by law, common or statutory.
Insurance.
 
(c) The indemnifications and rights provided by, or granted pursuant to, this SECTION 10 of Article IV shall not be deemed exclusive of any other indemnifications, rights or limitations of liability to which any person may be entitled under any Bylaw, agreement, vote of stockholders or disinterested Directors, or otherwise, either as to action in such person's official capacity or as to action in another capacity while holding office, and they shall continue although such person has ceased to be a Director, officer or employee of the Corporation or ceased to be serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer or employee of any other enterprise and shall inure to the benefit of such person's heirs, executors and administrators. The authorization to purchase and maintain insurance set forth in section 10(b) of Article IV shall likewise not be deemed exclusive.
Nonexclusivity; Duration.
 
(d) The rights granted by this SECTION 10 of Article IV are vested in each person entitled to indemnification as a bargained-for, contractual condition of the person's serving or having served as a director, officer or employee of the Corporation or serving or having served at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer or employee of any other enterprise and, while this SECTION 10 of Article IV may be amended or repealed, no amendment or repeal may release, terminate or adversely affect the rights of any person under this SECTION 10 of Article IV with respect to any act taken or the failure to take any act by any person before the amendment or repeal or with respect to any action, suit or proceeding with respect to such act or failure to act filed after the amendment or repeal.
Vesting of Rights.
 
(e) For purposes of this SECTION 10 of Article IV, references to:
Definitions.
 
(1) "other enterprises" or "other enterprise" includes, without limitation, any other corporation, limited liability company, partnership, joint venture, trust or employee benefit plan;
 
(2) "director, officer or employee of any other enterprise" includes, without limitation, any person performing similar functions or fiduciary functions with respect to any other enterprise, whether incorporated or unincorporated;
 
(3) "fines" includes any excise taxes assessed against a person with respect to an employee benefit plan;
 
(4) "serving at the request of the Corporation" includes any service as a director, officer or employee which imposes duties on, or involves services by, the director, officer or employee with respect to an employee benefit plan, its participants or beneficiaries (including, without limitation, serving as an agent or trustee for an employee benefit plan, serving as a member of an employee benefit plan committee or serving in any other fiduciary capacity with respect to an employee benefit plan); and a person who acted in good faith and in a manner the person reasonably believed to be in the interest of the participants and beneficiaries of an employee benefit plan is considered to have acted in a manner "not opposed to the best interests of the Corporation" as referred to in this SECTION 10 of Article IV.
 
(f) Severability. If any provision of this SECTION 10 of Article IV or the application of any provision of this SECTION 10 of Article IV to any person or circumstance is held invalid, illegal or unenforceable for any reason, the remaining provisions of this SECTION 10 of Article IV and the application of the provisions to other persons or circumstances will not be affected thereby and, to the fullest extent possible, the court finding any provision invalid, illegal or unenforceable is directed to modify and construe the provision so as to render it valid and enforceable as against all persons or entities and to give the maximum possible protection to persons subject to indemnification within the bounds of validity, legality and enforceability. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, if any director, officer or employee of the Corporation, or any person who is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer or employee of any other enterprise, is entitled under any provision of this SECTION 10 of Article IV to indemnification by the Corporation for some or a portion of the judgments, amounts paid in settlement, attorneys' fees, excise taxes or penalties, fines or other expenses actually and reasonably incurred by the person in connection with any threatened, pending or completed action, suit or proceeding (including, without limitation, the investigation, defense, settlement or appeal of any action, suit or proceeding), whether civil, criminal, administrative, investigative or appellate, but not, for the total amount, the Corporation will indemnify the person for the portion to which the person is entitled.
 
S 11. The Chief Executive Officer and President of the Corporation, together with no more than five additional Directors (one of which, during the three-year period following the Effective Date, shall be the Chairman of the Board), shall constitute an Executive Committee of the Board of Directors. The Executive Committee between regular meetings of the Board of Directors shall manage the business and property of the Corporation and shall have the same power and authority as the Board of Directors; , , that the Executive Committee shall not act (other than to make recommendations) in those cases where it is provided by law, the Articles of Incorporation of the Corporation or the Bylaws that any vote or action in order to bind the Corporation shall be taken by the Board of Directors.
ECTION
provided
however
 
S 12. The Board of Directors may form any committee other than the Executive Committee described in SECTION 11 of this Article IV. Any committee so formed, to the extent provided in the resolution of the Board of Directors pursuant to which it was formed or in the Bylaws or pursuant to the statutes of Kansas, shall have and may exercise all the powers and authority of the Board of Directors. Participation by Directors in any committee meeting, including the Executive Committee meetings, shall be in person unless otherwise provided in the notice of the committee meeting or otherwise determined by the committee chairperson, in which case, participating by means of conference telephone or similar communications equipment which allows all persons participating in the meeting to hear each other shall constitute presence in person at such meeting. Each committee, including the Executive Committee, shall keep a record of its proceedings.
ECTION
 
 
 
S 1. The officers of this Corporation shall be a Chairman of the Board (subject to SECTION 2 of this Article V), a Chief Executive Officer and President, as many Vice Presidents as the Board of Directors may from time to time deem advisable and one or more of which may be designated Executive Vice President or Senior Vice President, a Secretary, a Treasurer, such Assistant Secretaries and Assistant Treasurers as the Board of Directors may from time to time deem advisable and such other officers as the Board of Directors may from time to time deem advisable and designate. Any number of offices may be held by the same person, unless otherwise prohibited by law, the Articles of Incorporation of the Corporation or the Bylaws.
ECTION
 
S 2. During the two-year period following the Effective Date, the Chairman of the Board shall be a member of the Board of Directors and an officer of the Corporation and the general counsel, the chief strategy officer and the head of regulatory and public affairs of the Corporation shall report to the Chairman of the Board. In addition, during such period the members of the Office of Integration and the chief technology officer of the Corporation shall report jointly to the Chairman of the Board and the Chief Executive Officer and President. At the conclusion of the two-year period following the Effective Date, the Chairman of the Board shall cease to be an officer of the Corporation and all the duties and authority of the Chairman of the Board in his capacity as an officer of the Corporation pursuant to this SECTION 2 of Article V shall be assumed by the Chief Executive Officer and President. During the two-year period following the Effective Date, the removal of the Chairman of the Board as an officer of the Corporation, or any modification to the duties or authority of the Chairman of the Board in his capacity as an officer of the Corporation, shall require a vote of more than two-thirds of the entire Board of Directors.
ECTION
 
S 3. The Chief Executive Officer and President shall be a member of the Board of Directors and shall be an officer of the Corporation. Except for matters requiring Board authorization, the Chief Executive Officer and President shall have ultimate decision-making authority and shall have the general power and authority to supervise, coordinate and manage the business and activities of the Corporation, with such general executive powers and duties of supervision and management as are usually vested in such offices. The officers of the Corporation with primary authority for all corporate matters, other than those officers reporting directly to the Chairman of the Board and those officers reporting jointly to the Chairman of the Board and the Chief Executive Officer and President as provided in SECTION 2 of this Article V, shall report to the Chief Executive Officer and President. In the case of the incapacity of the Chairman of the Board or upon a vacancy in the office of Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer and President shall have the right and power to perform all duties and exercise all authority of the Chairman of the Board. The Chief Executive Officer and President shall report directly to the Board of Directors. During the four-year period following the Effective Date, the removal of the Chief Executive Officer and President, or any modification to the duties or authority of the Chief Executive Officer and President, shall require a vote of more than two-thirds of the entire Board of Directors.
ECTION
 
S 4. A Vice President shall have all the power and authority usually enjoyed by a person holding the office of Vice President. In case of the incapacity of the Chief Executive Officer and President or upon vacancy in the office of the Chief Executive Officer and President, the Chairman of the Board (during the two-year period following the Effective Date) or a Vice President, as designated by the Chairman of the Board, shall have the right and power to perform all duties and exercise all authority of the Chief Executive Officer and President.
ECTION
 
S 5. The Secretary shall oversee the issuance of notices of all Directors' and stockholders' meetings, and shall attend as appropriate and oversee the preparation and retention of the minutes of the same; shall have charge of all corporate books, records and papers; shall be custodian of the corporate seal; may attest with his signature, which may be a facsimile signature if authorized by the Board of Directors, and may impress with the corporate seal all written contracts of the Corporation; and shall perform all other duties as are incident to the office. Any Assistant Secretary may perform all duties of the Secretary and such other duties as may be required.
ECTION
 
S 6. The Treasurer shall have custody of all money and securities of the Corporation and shall along with the chief financial officer, controller or appropriate officer of finance, keep regular books of account and shall submit them to the Directors for their examination and approval annually; and semi-annually, or when directed by the Board of Directors, the Treasurer along with the chief financial officer, controller or appropriate officer of finance shall submit to each Director a statement of the condition of the business and accounts of the Corporation; and shall perform all such other duties as are incident to the
ECTION
 
office. Any Assistant Treasurer may perform all the duties of the Treasurer and such other duties as may be required.
 
S 7. Any officer or employee of the Corporation shall give such bond for the faithful performance of his duties in such sum, as and when the Board of Directors may direct.
ECTION
 
 
 
S 1. Except as otherwise provided in the Articles of Incorporation of the Corporation, the Bylaws may be amended, altered or repealed by the Board of Directors, subject to the power of stockholders to amend, alter or repeal the Bylaws; or the Bylaws shall be amended in such other manner as may from time to time be authorized by the laws of the State of Kansas; , , that the Board of Directors may only amend, alter or repeal, or adopt new Bylaw provisions that conflict with: (i) any provision of the Bylaws that at that time requires the vote of more than two-thirds of the entire Board of Directors for action to be taken thereunder or (ii) this proviso to SECTION 1 of Article VI, in any such case by a resolution adopted by a vote of more than two-thirds of the entire Board of Directors.
ECTION
provided
however
 
 
 
S 1. The corporate seal of this Corporation shall have inscribed thereon the name of the Corporation and its state of incorporation and the words, "SealIncorporated 1938".
ECTION
 
(Capitalized terms not otherwise defined in the Bylaws have the meanings ascribed to them in the Articles of Incorporation.)
 

Exhibit 4.3.5
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This FOURTH SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE (the "") dated as of August 12, 2005, between Nextel Communications, Inc. (formerly known as S-N Merger Corp.), a Delaware corporation and the successor to the obligations of the former Nextel Communications, Inc. (the "") under the Notes and the Indenture referred to below (the ""), Sprint Nextel Corporation, a Kansas corporation ("") and BNY Midwest Trust Company, as trustee under the Indenture referred to below (the "").
Fourth Supplemental Indenture
Predecessor
Successor
Sprint
Trustee
 
 
WHEREAS, the Predecessor, the Trustee, and in the case of the Third Supplemental Indenture, the Successor, have heretofore executed and delivered to the Trustee an Indenture dated July 31, 2003, as amended by the First Supplemental Indenture dated as of August 8, 2005, the Second Supplemental Indenture dated as of August 8, 2005 and the Third Supplemental Indenture dated as of August 12, 2005 (as so amended, the ""), providing for the issuance of an unlimited aggregate principal amount of the Predecessor's unsecured debentures, notes or other evidences of indebtedness, to be issued in one or more series, (the ""), of which (i) $10,211,000 aggregate principal amount of 7.375% Senior Serial Redeemable Notes due 2015, Series A; (ii) $8,671,000 aggregate principal amount of 6.875% Senior Serial Redeemable Notes due 2013, Series B; (iii) $12,722,000 aggregate principal amount of 5.95% Senior Serial Redeemable Notes due 2014, Series C, (iv) $2,126,849,000 aggregate principal amount of 7.375% Senior Serial Redeemable Notes due 2015, Series D; (v) $1,464,229,000 aggregate principal amount of 6.875% Senior Serial Redeemable Notes due 2013, Series E; and (vi) $1,157,164,500 aggregate principal amount of 5.95% Senior Serial Redeemable Notes due 2014, Series F Notes (the Series A, Series B and Series C, together, the "" the Series D, Series E and Series F Notes, together, the "" and, collectively with the Original Notes, the ""), have been issued and are outstanding on the date hereof;
Indenture
Securities
Original Notes,
Exchange Notes,
Notes
 
WHEREAS, on August 12, 2005, the Predecessor was merged (the "") with and into Successor, pursuant to the terms and conditions set forth in a Certificate of Merger filed with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware on August 12, 2005, resulting in Successor becoming the successor to and obligor on the Securities and all of the Predecessor's other obligations under the Indenture;
Merger
 
WHEREAS, pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Second Supplemental Indenture referred to above, the Predecessor agreed to seek from Sprint, upon consummation of the Merger, a guarantee (the "") of all the Predecessor's payment obligations under the Exchange Notes and the Indenture;
Sprint Guarantee
 
WHEREAS, on August 12, 2005, pursuant to the Third Supplemental Indenture referred to above, Successor expressly assumed all of the obligations of the Predecessor under the Notes and the Indenture, including (without limitation), the covenant of Predecessor to seek the Sprint Guarantee in respect of the Exchange Notes;
 
WHEREAS, the Successor desires to cause Sprint to guarantee the Successor's payment obligations under the Exchange Notes and the Indenture;
 
WHEREAS, Successor is a wholly owned subsidiary of Sprint and the Board of Directors of Sprint has determined it to be in the best interest of Sprint for Sprint to guarantee all the Successor's payment obligations under the Exchange Notes and the Indenture, in so far as the Indenture relates to the Exchange Notes, as Sprint will derive substantial direct and indirect benefits from so becoming a guarantor under the Indenture and the Exchange Notes;
 
WHEREAS, Section 901(11) of the Indenture provides that the Successor, when authorized by a Board Resolution, and the Trustee may, without the consent of the Holders, amend any provision of the Indenture that would provide additional rights or benefits to Holders of the Securities or that does not adversely affect the legal rights under the Indenture of such Holder;
 
WHEREAS, pursuant to Sections 901 and 903 of the Indenture, the Trustee and the Successor are authorized to execute and deliver this Fourth Supplemental Indenture;
 
NOW THEREFORE, for good and valuable consideration, the receipt of which is hereby acknowledged, the Successor, Sprint and the Trustee mutually covenant and agree for the equal and ratable benefit of the holders of the Exchange Notes only as follows:
 
1. . All capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to such terms set forth in the Indenture. For all purposes of this Fourth Supplemental Indenture, except as otherwise herein expressly provided or unless the context otherwise requires: (i) the terms and expressions used herein shall have the same meanings as corresponding terms and expressions used in the Indenture; and (ii) the words "herein," "hereof" and "hereby" and other words of similar import used in this Fourth Supplemental Indenture refer to this Fourth Supplemental Indenture as a whole and not to any particular section hereof.
Definitions
 
2. .
Sprint Guarantee
 
2.1 Sprint hereby, jointly and severally with any other Person who may also guarantee the Guaranteed Obligations (as defined below), unconditionally and irrevocably guarantees (the ""), on a senior unsecured basis, as a primary obligor and not as a surety, to each Holder of Exchange Notes and to the Trustee and its successors and assigns the full and punctual payment when due, whether at maturity, by acceleration, redemption or otherwise, of the principal of and interest on, if any, the Exchange Notes only if lawful, and all other monetary obligations of the Successor under the Indenture, in so far as such monetary obligations relate to the Exchange Notes (collectively, the ""). Sprint further agrees that the Guaranteed Obligations may be extended or renewed, in whole or in part, without notice or further assent from Sprint, and Sprint shall remain bound under its Guarantee and the Indenture, as amended hereby, notwithstanding any such extension or renewal. Failing payment when due of any amount so guaranteed for whatever reason, Sprint will be obligated to pay the same in full, or cause to be duly and punctually paid in full, without any demand or notice whatsoever.
Guarantee
Guaranteed Obligations
 
2.2 Sprint hereby waives presentation to, demand of payment from and protest to the Successor of any of the Guaranteed Obligations and also waives notice of protest for nonpayment. Sprint also hereby waives notice of any default by the Successor under the
 
Exchange Notes or the Indenture. Sprint agrees that its obligations under its Guarantee shall be continuing, absolute, full and unconditional under any and all circumstances, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, and shall not be discharged except by payment in full of the Exchange Notes, irrespective of:
 
(a) the value, genuineness, regularity, validity, enforceability, avoidance, subordination, discharge or disaffirmance of any of the Guaranteed Obligations, the Exchange Notes or the Indenture, or the absence of any action to enforce the same;
 
(b) any extension or waiver, at any time or from time to time, without notice to Sprint, of the time for compliance by the Successor with any of its obligations under the Exchange Notes or the Indenture;
 
(c) any substitution, release or exchange of any other guarantee of or security for any obligations of the Successor under the Exchange Notes or the Indenture;
 
(d) any recission, amendment or modification to any of the terms or provisions of the Exchange Notes or the Indenture;
 
(e) any law, regulation or order of any jurisdiction affecting any term of any of the Exchange Notes or the Indenture or the rights of any Holder of Exchange Notes or the Trustee with respect thereto;
 
(f) any failure to obtain any authorization or approval from, or other action by, to notify, or to file anything with, any governmental authority or regulatory body required in connection with the performance of the Guarantee by Sprint;
 
(g) the failure by any Holder of Exchange Notes or the Trustee to assert any claim or demand or to exercise any right or remedy against the Successor or any other guarantor of the Guaranteed Obligations or any other Person;
 
(h) the failure by any Holder of Exchange Notes or the Trustee to exercise any right or remedy against any collateral securing any of the Guaranteed Obligations; or
 
(i) any other circumstance whatsoever that might otherwise constitute a defense to or a legal or equitable discharge of Sprint's obligations, in its capacity as guarantor, under its Guarantee or of Sprint's obligations under the Exchange Notes and the Indenture.
 
2.3 Sprint's obligations under its Guarantee, the Indenture, and the Exchange Notes shall not be limited by any valuation, estimation or disallowance made in connection with any proceedings filed by or against Sprint under the United States Bankruptcy Code of 1978, as amended (the ""), whether pursuant to Section 502 of the Bankruptcy Code or any other section thereof. Sprint further agrees that, in its capacity as guarantor, none of the Holders of Exchange Notes shall be under any obligation to marshall any assets in favor of or against or in payment of any or all of the Guaranteed Obligations or the Exchange Notes. To the extent that Sprint makes a payment or payments on any or all of the Guaranteed Obligations and such payment or payments (or any part thereof) is or are subsequently invalidated, declared to be
Bankruptcy Code
 
fraudulent or preferential, set aside or required to be repaid to Sprint, its estate, trustee or receiver or any other party, including, without limitation, Sprint, under any bankruptcy law, state or federal law, common law or equitable cause, then to the extent of such payment or repayment, the Guaranteed Obligations (or, if applicable, such part thereof as had been paid, reduced or satisfied by such amount), shall be reinstated and revived and continued in full force and effect as of the date such initial payment, reduction or satisfaction occurred. Sprint waives all set-offs, counterclaims, reductions and diminutions of any obligation, and any defense of any kind or nature (other than, payment of the Guaranteed Obligations), that Sprint may have or assert against the Successor or any other Person, and all presentments, demands for performance, notices of nonperformance, protests, notices of protest, notices of dishonor and notices of acceptance of its Guarantee.
 
2.4 Sprint hereby unconditionally and irrevocably waives (i) any defense arising by reason of any claim or defense based upon an election of remedies by any Holder of Exchange Notes that in any manner impairs, reduces, releases or otherwise adversely affects the subrogation, reimbursement, exoneration, contribution or indemnification rights of Sprint or other rights of the Successor to proceed against the Successor or any other guarantor or any other Person or collateral, if any, and (ii) any defense based on any right of set-off or counterclaim against or in respect of the Guaranteed Obligations, the Exchange Notes or this Fourth Supplemental Indenture.
 
2.5 Sprint hereby waives any right to which it may be entitled to have its obligations under the Guarantee and the Indenture divided among it and other guarantors of the Guaranteed Obligations, if any, such that Sprint's obligations would be less than the full amount claimed. Sprint hereby waives any right to which it may be entitled to have the assets of the Successor or any other Person who became an "obligor" under the Exchange Notes or the Indenture first be used and depleted as payment of the obligations of the Successor or such other Person, respectively, under the Exchange Notes and the Indenture prior to any amounts being claimed from or paid by Sprint under its Guarantee. Sprint hereby waives any right to which it may be entitled to require that suit be instituted against the Successor or any other guarantor of the Guaranteed Obligations or "obligor" under the Exchange Notes or the Indenture prior to an action being initiated against Sprint. Sprint further agrees that the Guarantee constitutes a guarantee of payment when due (and not a guarantee of collection) and waives any right, in its capacity as guarantor, to require that any resort be had by any Holder of Exchange Notes or the Trustee to any security held for payment of the Guaranteed Obligations.
 
2.6 The failure to endorse the Guarantee on any Exchange Note shall not affect or impair the validity thereof.
 
2.7 Sprint's obligations under its Guarantee shall not be affected if any Holder of Exchange Notes is precluded for any reason (including, without limitation, the application of the automatic stay under Section 362 of the Bankruptcy Code) from enforcing or exercising any right or remedy with respect to the Exchange Notes, and Sprint shall pay to each affected Holder of Exchange Notes, upon demand, the amount that would otherwise have been due and payable had the exercise of such rights and remedies been permitted. In the event of any such application of the automatic stay under Section 362 of the Bankruptcy Code, the Exchange Notes shall forthwith become due and payable by Sprint for purposes of the Guarantee.
 
2.8 Sprint hereby agrees that, unless and until all obligations with respect to the Exchange Notes and the Indenture have been paid in full, in its capacity as guarantor, it shall have no right (whether direct or indirect) of subrogation (whether contractual, under Section 509 of the Bankruptcy Code or otherwise) to the claims of any Holder of Exchange Notes or the Trustee against the Successor or any other Person who became an "obligor" under the Exchange Notes or the Indenture in respect of any obligation with respect to the Exchange Notes or the Indenture, notwithstanding any payment or payments made by Sprint hereunder or any set-off or application of funds of Sprint or by the Holder of Exchange Notes; and Sprint hereby waives all contractual, statutory and common law rights of reimbursement, contribution or indemnity it may have against the Successor or any other such Person as the case may be, and any and all other rights of payment or recovery from the Successor or any other such Person, as the case may be, that it may now have or hereafter acquire until all Exchange Notes and all obligations under the Indenture in respect of the Exchange Notes have been paid in full (in which event such rights of payment or recovery shall be deemed to be in the form of a loan or loans made from the Sprint to the Successor or any other such Person, as the case may be. Sprint further agrees that as between Sprint, on the one hand, and the Holders of Exchange Notes and the Trustee, on the other hand, (1) the maturity of the Exchange Notes guaranteed hereby may be accelerated as provided in Article Five of the Indenture for the purposes of Sprint's Guarantee hereunder, notwithstanding any stay, injunction or other prohibition preventing such acceleration in respect of the Exchange Notes guaranteed pursuant to this Section 2, and (2) in the event of any declaration of acceleration of such Exchange Notes as provided in Article Five of the Indenture, such Exchange Notes (whether or not due and payable) will forthwith become due and payable by Sprint for the purpose of its Guarantee hereunder.
 
2.9 Except as otherwise specifically provided in Section 2.12 hereof with respect to the release of Sprint from its Guarantee hereunder, such Guarantee shall remain in full force and effect and be binding in accordance with and to the extent of its terms upon Sprint and the successors thereof, and shall inure to the benefit of (and be enforceable by) the Trustee and the Holders of Exchange Notes from time to time, or their respective successors or assignees, until the Indenture shall have been terminated and the principal of and interest, if any, on the Exchange Notes, and the obligations of Sprint in respect of the Guaranteed Obligations, have been satisfied by payment in full.
 
2.10 Payments made by Sprint pursuant to its Guarantee hereunder will be made to each Holder of Exchange Notes in the same manner, and to the same location, as payments to such Holder of Exchange Notes are required to be made pursuant to the provisions of the Indenture.
 
2.11 Sprint shall pay all reasonable costs and expenses (including reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses) paid or incurred by the Trustee or any Holder of Exchange Notes in connection with the enforcement of the Guarantee or any other rights of the Trustee or such Holder of Exchange Notes under the Exchange Notes, the Indenture or this Fourth Supplemental Indenture with respect to such Guarantee and the prosecution or defense of any action by or against any of the Holder of Exchange Notes in connection with the Guarantee, the Indenture or this Fourth Supplemental Indenture with respect to such Guarantee, whether involving Sprint or any other Person, including a trustee in bankruptcy; , , that Sprint shall have no such obligation in connection with any action brought by any Holder of Exchange Notes against
provided
however
 
Sprint to the extent that the Successor is the prevailing party in the judgment rendered in any such action; and that Sprint shall not be responsible for the fees and expenses of more than one firm of attorneys (in addition to any required local counsel).
provided
further
 
2.12 Sprint may, by execution and delivery to the Trustee of a supplemental indenture satisfactory to the Trustee, be released from its Guarantee upon the sale or other transfer of its capital stock or of all or substantially all of its assets to an entity that is not Sprint or a subsidiary of Sprint and which sale is otherwise in compliance with the Indenture, which release shall be effective without any action on the part of the Trustee or any Holder of Exchange Notes. Upon any such release, the Trustee shall deliver an appropriate instrument evidencing such release upon receipt of a request by Sprint accompanied by an Officers' Certificate certifying as to compliance with this Section 2.12. Any actions taken pursuant to this Section 2.12 shall not release the Successor as a primary obligor under the Indenture or the Securities.
 
3. . The Indenture be and hereby is amended as follows:
Amendments
 
3.1 Section 105. of the Indenture is hereby amended to add a new Clause (3) to the end thereof as follows:
 
"Sprint by the Trustee or by any Holder shall be sufficient for every purpose hereunder (unless otherwise herein expressly provided) if in writing and mailed, first-class postage prepaid, or dispatched for delivery (prepaid by the sender) by an overnight courier service with written evidence of delivery required, to Sprint addressed to it at 2001 Edmund Halley Drive, Reston, Virginia 20191, Attention: General Counsel, or at any other address previously furnished in writing to the Trustee by the Company."
 
4. . In case any provision in this Fourth Supplemental Indenture shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
Separability Clause
 
5. . The provisions of this Fourth Supplemental Indenture may not be amended, supplemented, modified or waived, unless otherwise provided in the Indenture, except by the execution of a supplemental indenture executed by the Successor, and, to the extent such amendment, supplement or waiver adversely affects the rights of any Holders, with the Required Consent of such Holders. Any such amendment or supplemental indenture shall comply with Article Nine of the Indenture. Notwithstanding the forgoing, the parties hereby acknowledge that any modification, amendment or waiver to Section 2 of this Fourth Supplemental Indenture shall not be deemed to adversely affect the rights of any Holders. Until an amendment, waiver or other action by Holders becomes effective, a consent thereto by a Holder of a Security hereunder is a continuing consent by the Holder and every subsequent Holder of that Security or portion of the Security that evidences the same obligation as the consenting Holder's Security, even if notation of the consent, waiver or action is not made on the Security. After an amendment, waiver or action becomes effective, it shall bind every Holder.
Modification, Amendment and Waiver
 
6. . Except as expressly amended hereby, the Indenture is in all respects ratified and confirmed and all the terms, conditions and provisions thereof shall remain in full force and effect. In the event of a conflict between the terms and conditions of the Indenture and the terms and conditions of this Fourth Supplemental Indenture, then the terms and conditions of this Fourth Supplemental Indenture shall prevail. This Fourth Supplemental Indenture shall form a part of the Indenture for all purposes, and every holder of Exchange Notes heretofore or hereafter authenticated and delivered shall be bound hereby.
Ratification of Indenture; Fourth Supplemental Indenture Part of the Indenture
 
7. . If any provision of this Fourth Supplemental Indenture limits, qualifies or conflicts with any provision of the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended (""), that is required under the TIA to be part of and govern any provision of this Fourth Supplemental Indenture, the provision of the TIA shall control. If any provision of this Fourth Supplemental Indenture modifies or excludes any provisions of the TIA that may be so modified or excluded, the provisions of the TIA shall be deemed to apply to the Indenture as so modified or to be excluded by this Fourth Supplemental Indenture, as the case may be.
Trust Indenture Act Controls
TIA
 
8. . THIS FOURTH SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, AS APPLIED TO CONTRACTS MADE AND PERFORMED WITHIN THE STATE OF NEW YORK WITHOUT GIVING EFFECT TO THE PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAW.
Governing Law
 
9. . The statements herein are deemed to be those of the Successor. The Trustee makes no representation as to the validity or sufficiency of this Fourth Supplemental Indenture.
Trustee Makes No Representation
 
10. . The parties may sign any number of copies of this Fourth Supplemental Indenture. Each signed copy shall be an original, but all of them together represent the same agreement. One signed copy is enough to prove this Fourth Supplemental Indenture.
Multiple Originals
 
11. . The Section headings herein are for convenience only and shall not effect the construction thereof.
Effect of Headings
 
12. . Any request, demand, authorization, notice, waiver, consent or communication to any of the parties shall be made as set forth in Sections 105 and 106 of the Indenture.
Notices
 
13. . All agreements of Issuer in respect of this Fourth Supplemental Indenture shall bind its successor.
Successors
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Fourth Supplemental Indenture has been duly executed by the Successor, Sprint and the Trustee as of the date first written above.
 
 
 

Exhibit 4.10
 
EXECUTION COPY
 
 
ASSUMPTION AGREEMENT dated as of August 12, 2005 by Nextel Communications, Inc. (formerly, S-N Merger Corp., ""), a Delaware corporation, wholly owned by Sprint Corporation, a Kansas corporation (""), in favor of JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (formerly known as JPMorgan Chase Bank), as administrative agent (in such capacity, the "") and collateral agent (in such capacity, the "") for the Lenders party to the Credit Agreement referred to below.
Merger Sub
Sprint
Administrative Agent
Collateral Agent
 
Nextel Communications, Inc. (""), Nextel Finance Company (the ""), the Restricted Companies party thereto, the Lenders party thereto, the Administrative Agent and the Collateral Agent are parties to a Credit Agreement dated as of July 15, 2004 (as amended and in effect on the date hereof, the ""), providing, subject to the terms and conditions thereof, for extensions of credit (by means of loans and letters of credit) to be made by said lenders to the Borrower in an aggregate principal or face amount not exceeding $6,200,000,000.
NCI
Borrower
Credit Agreement
 
Immediately prior to the execution and delivery of this Assumption Agreement, pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of December 15, 2004 (as amended and in effect on the date hereof, the ""), by and among Sprint, NCI and Merger Sub, Merger Sub filed a certificate of merger with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware, pursuant to which NCI merged with and into Merger Sub, with Merger Sub being the surviving corporation (the ""), and Merger Sub changed its name from "S-N Merger Corp." to "Nextel Communications, Inc.".
Merger Agreement
Merger
 
This Assumption Agreement is being delivered pursuant to Section 7.03 of the Credit Agreement to evidence the assumption by Merger Sub of all of the obligations of NCI under the Credit Agreement, the other Loan Documents and any Hedging Agreement to which any Lender (or any affiliate of any Lender) is a party and to provide for the substitution of "Merger Sub" for "NCI" under the Credit Agreement and the other Loan Documents. Accordingly, the parties hereto agree as follows:
 
Section 1. . Terms defined in the Credit Agreement are used herein as defined therein.
Definitions
 
Section 2. . As contemplated by Section 7.03 of the Credit Agreement, and without limiting the assumption of the obligations of NCI by Merger Sub that occurs by operation of law upon consummation of the Merger, effective upon consummation of the Merger, Merger Sub hereby (i) agrees that references to "NCI" under the Credit Agreement and the other Loan Documents shall be references to "Merger Sub", as successor to NCI pursuant to the Merger, and (ii) assumes all of the obligations, liabilities, responsibilities and duties of NCI under the Credit Agreement, the other Loan Documents and any Hedging Agreement to which any Lender (or any affiliate of any Lender) is a party, including the guarantee of the Guaranteed Obligations.
Assumption
Section 3. . Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, Merger Sub hereby represents and warrants to the Lenders that:
Representations and Warranties
 
(i) Merger Sub is duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware. Merger Sub has all requisite power and authority under its organizational documents to carry on its business as now conducted and, except where the failure to do so, individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect, is qualified to do business in, and is in good standing in, every jurisdiction where such qualification is required;
 
(ii) the Transactions are within the corporate power of Merger Sub and have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate and, if required, stockholder or other action on the part of Merger Sub. This Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by Merger Sub and constitutes a legal, valid and binding obligation of Merger Sub, enforceable in accordance with its terms, subject to applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other laws affecting creditors' rights generally and subject to general principles of equity, regardless of whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law;
 
(iii) the Transactions (a) do not require any consent or approval of, registration or filing with, or any other action by, any Governmental Authority, (b) will not violate any applicable law, policy or regulation or the charter, by-laws or other organizational documents of Merger Sub or any order of any Governmental Authority, (c) will not violate or result in a default under any indenture, agreement or other instrument binding upon Merger Sub, or any of its assets, or give rise to a right thereunder to require any payment to be made by Merger Sub, and (d) will not result in the creation or imposition of any Lien on any asset of Merger Sub;
 
(iv) neither Merger Sub nor any of its subsidiaries is (a) an "investment company" as defined in, or subject to regulation under, the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, or (b) a "holding company" as defined in, or subject to regulation under, the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935, as amended; and
 
(v) no Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing as of the date hereof.
 
Section 4. . Concurrently with the execution and delivery hereof and as contemplated by Section 7.03 of the Credit Agreement, Merger Sub shall deliver to the Administrative Agent (or Special Counsel) the following:
Delivery of Certain Documents
 
(i) a counterpart of this Assumption Agreement duly executed and delivered by Merger Sub;
 
(ii) a written opinion (addressed to each Agent and the Lenders and dated the date hereof) of King & Spalding LLP, in substantially the form attached hereto as Exhibit A;
 
(iii) a certificate, dated the date hereof and signed by the President, a Vice President or a Financial Officer of Merger Sub, certifying that the net worth (determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP) of Merger Sub immediately after giving effect to the Merger shall be greater than or equal to the net worth (so determined) of NCI immediately prior to giving effect thereto and that each of the representations and warranties set forth in Section 4.01, 4.02, 4.03 and 4.08 of the Credit Agreement are true and correct on the date hereof as if each reference therein to NCI were a reference to Merger Sub;
 
(iv) a certificate, dated the date hereof and signed by the President, a Vice President or a Financial Officer of the Borrower, certifying that at the time of and immediately after giving effect to the Merger, no Default has occurred and is continuing; and
 
(v) such other documents as the Administrative Agent or Special Counsel to the Agents may reasonably request, in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent.
 
Section 5. .
Miscellaneous
 
5.01 . Except as otherwise expressly provided in this Assumption Agreement, any provision of this Assumption Agreement may be modified or supplemented only by an instrument in writing signed by Merger Sub and the Administrative Agent.
Amendments, Etc
 
5.02 . This Assumption Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same instrument and any of the parties hereto may execute this Assumption Agreement by signing any such counterpart.
Counterparts
 
5.03 . This Assumption Agreement shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the law of the State of New York, without regard to conflicts of laws principles (other than 5-1401 of the New York General Obligations Law). Merger Sub hereby submits to the nonexclusive jurisdiction of the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York for the purposes of all legal proceedings arising out of or relating to this Assumption Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby. Merger Sub irrevocably waives, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, any objection which it may now or hereafter have to the laying of the venue of any such proceeding brought in such a court and any claim that any such proceeding brought in such court has been brought in an inconvenient forum.
Governing Law; Submission to Jurisdiction
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Merger Sub has caused this Assumption Agreement to be duly executed and delivered as of the day and year first above written.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Executive Officers of the Registrant
 
The following people are serving as our executive officers as of February 28, 2005. These executive officers were elected to serve until their successors have been elected. There is no family relationship between any of our executive officers or between any of these officers and any of our directors.
 
Mr. Donahue is 56 years old and has served as our Chief Executive Officer since July 1999. Mr. Donahue also has served as President since joining us in February 1996 and also served as Chief Operating Officer from February 1996 until July 1999. Mr. Donahue has served as one of our directors since June 1996. From 1986 to January 1996, Mr. Donahue held various senior management positions with AT&T Wireless Services, Inc., including Regional President for the Northeast. Mr. Donahue serves as a director of Nextel Partners and Eastman Kodak Company.
Timothy M. Donahue.
 
Mr. Saleh is 48 years old and has served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since September 2001. From June 1999 to August 2001, Mr. Saleh served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Disney International, a subsidiary of The Walt Disney Company. From April 1997 to June 1999, Mr. Saleh served as Senior Vice President and Treasurer of The Walt Disney Company. Prior to joining The Walt Disney Company, Mr. Saleh worked for twelve years with Honeywell Inc., where he was most recently Vice President and Treasurer.
Paul N. Saleh.
 
Mr. Kelly is 57 years old, joined us in April 1996 and has served as Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer since February 2003. From 1996 to February 2003, Mr. Kelly served as our Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer. Between 1993 and 1996, Mr. Kelly was Regional Vice President of Marketing for AT&T Wireless. Prior to joining AT&T Wireless, Mr. Kelly worked for twelve years with the marketing consulting firm of Howard Bedford Nolan, where he was most recently an Executive Vice President.
Thomas N. Kelly, Jr.
 
Mr. West is 59 years old, joined us in March 1996 and serves as Executive Vice President and Chief Technology Officer. Previously, Mr. West served in various senior positions with British Telecom plc for more than five years, most recently as Director of Value-Added Services and Corporate Marketing at Cellnet, which was a cellular communications subsidiary of British Telecom.
Barry J. West.
 
Mr. Kennedy is 53 years old and since January 2001 has served as Senior Vice President and General Counsel. From 1995 until January 2001, Mr. Kennedy was a member of the law firm Dow, Lohnes & Albertson, specializing in telecommunications law and regulatory policy.
Leonard J. Kennedy.
Mr. Arendt is 47 years old and has served as our Senior Vice President since February 2004 and as our Controller since May 1997. From May 1997 to February 2004, he also served as our Vice President. From June 1996 until May 1997, Mr. Arendt was Vice President and Controller for Pocket Communications, Inc., a PCS company. From September 1992 until June 1996, he was Controller for American Mobile Satellite Corporation. Previously, Mr. Arendt worked for thirteen years at Ernst & Young LLP.
William G. Arendt.
 
Mr. Lindahl is 41 years old and has served as our Vice President and Treasurer since May 2002. From August 1997 to May 2002, Mr. Lindahl served us in various capacities, including Assistant Treasurer and Director, Financial Planning & Analysis. Prior to joining us in August 1997, Mr. Lindahl held the position of Vice President, Financial Planning with Pocket Communications.
Richard S. Lindahl.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
There are no known family relationships between any of the persons named above or between any of these persons and any outside directors of Sprint. Officers are elected annually.
 
Certain Relationships and Other Transactions
 
Mr. Ausley, one of Sprint's Outside Directors who will not stand for re-election at the Sprint annual meeting, is an attorney and, until June 1, 2002, he was chairman at the law firm of Ausley & McMullen. In 2002, 2003 and 2004, Ausley & McMullen billed Sprint $283,377, $426,386 and $502,384, respectively, for legal services provided to certain affiliates, mainly in the areas of regulatory and litigation-related advice given primarily to the local division. Daniel M. Ausley, the son of Mr. Ausley, owned directly or indirectly a 50% interest in four entities that lease space on cellular telephone towers to numerous wireless providers, including Sprint's wireless division. In 2002, 2003 and 2004, Sprint paid an aggregate of $263,995, $214,260 and $214,260, respectively, to these entities. In 2004, Daniel Ausley disposed of his interests in these entities. The services provided by both Ausley & McMullen and the entities in which Mr. Ausley's son had an interest were provided on bases consistent with normal practices, on substantially the same terms as those prevailing at the time for comparable services and Sprint engaged their respective services in the ordinary course of business.
 
Dwayne Smith, the son of Mr. Smith, one of Sprint's Outside Directors who was determined by the board to be independent, is a Senior Negotiator in supply chain management at Sprint and until October 2004 was a Product Manager in long distance at Sprint. In 2002, 2003 and 2004 he received $62,190, $67,067 and $74,195, respectively, in salary and other compensation. Dwayne Smith's employment at Sprint preceded his father's election to the board. The compensation provided to Dwayne Smith is consistent with that provided to other employees with equivalent responsibilities at Sprint.
 
Mr. Hance, one of Sprint's Outside Directors who was determined by the board to be independent, was elected to the board on February 8, 2005 from a group of candidates presented to the board by the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee's independent search firm. Mr. Hance was a Vice Chairman of Bank of America Corporation until January 31, 2005. Bank of America Corporation is a financial services holding company, and in 2004 its investment banking subsidiary was retained to act as a co-advisor to Sprint in connection with Sprint's February 2005 agreement to lease certain of its wireless communications towers to Global Signal Inc. for approximately $1.2 billion in cash at the time of closing, with Sprint's commitment to sublease space on a substantial portion of those towers for a minimum of ten years. Bank of America Corporation is a committed lender under Sprint's revolving credit agreement and its Long Distance accounts receivable securitization facility. Bank of America Corporation also provides typical commercial banking services to Sprint and its subsidiaries. The services are provided on bases consistent with normal investment or commercial banking practices, on substantially the same terms as those prevailing at the time for comparable advisory roles, and the engagement was entered into in the ordinary course of business. Mr. Hance had no personal involvement with Sprint's engagement of Bank of America Corporation to provide these services or Bank of America Corporation's provision of these services. The total fees paid
by Sprint to Bank of America Corporation for investment and commercial banking services in 2004 and proposed to be paid in 2005 are significantly less than 0.1% of Bank of America Corporation's gross revenues for fiscal year 2004.
 
Sprint engages a relocation company that, among other things, purchases the former residences of executive and professional level employees to facilitate relocations made at Sprint's request. The relocation company then markets and sells the former residence without the involvement of the employee. Sprint receives any gain on the sale or reimburses the relocation company for any loss. Sprint is also responsible for costs associated with the maintenance and sale of the residence, including payment of a service fee to the relocation company. In 2003, Mr. Forsee, Sprint's Chairman and CEO, Mr. Janzen, Sprint's PresidentSprint Business Solutions, and Bruce Hawthorne, Sprint's Executive Vice President and Chief Staff Officer who left Sprint in February 2004, relocated to the Kansas City area. The relocation company purchased each officer's former residence at an appraised value. The purchase prices for Mr. Forsee's, Mr. Janzen's and Mr. Hawthorne's former residences were $2,920,000, $372,500 and $1,150,000, respectively. The relocation company later sold the residences for $2,200,000, $350,000 and $900,000, respectively. Sprint paid the relocation company for the difference between the purchase and sale price in each case. Mr. Janzen and Michael Stout, Sprint's Executive Vice PresidentChief Information Officer, received short-term equity advances under Sprint's relocation policy of $250,000 and $100,000, respectively, in connection with their relocations to the Kansas City area in 2003. These advances, secured by the equity in these executives' former residences, were provided by the relocation company under its agreement with Sprint. Under the terms of the agreement, Sprint paid interest to the relocation company at an annual rate of between 4% and 4.25%. In each case, the advances were outstanding for approximately three months. Mr. Janzen's advance was made on July 30, 2003, which Mr. Janzen repaid on October 14, 2003. Mr. Stout's advance was made on June 2, 2003, which Mr. Stout repaid on September 9, 2003. Sprint has discontinued its equity advance policy for executive officers.
 
Employment Contracts
 
Employment Contract with Mr. Forsee
 
In March 2003, Sprint entered into an employment contract with Mr. Forsee. Under the contract, Mr. Forsee is contractually entitled to an annual base salary of $1,100,000 and is eligible for all employee benefits made available generally to other senior executive officers of Sprint, including Sprint's Short-term Incentive Plan. After 2003, Mr. Forsee is not guaranteed the payment of any annual bonus except under certain circumstances related to the termination of his employment with Sprint, but he is contractually eligible for an annual target bonus opportunity of 150% of his base salary and a maximum bonus opportunity payout of 300% of his base salary. Subject to the contract requirements, the Compensation Committee reviews and sets Mr. Forsee's compensation, as described above in "Compensation Committee Report on Executive Compensation" beginning on page 130. For a description of the options and restricted stock units granted to Mr. Forsee under his employment contract, see "Summary Compensation Table" beginning on page 136. In 2004, Sprint reimbursed Mr. Forsee $28,862 for reasonable legal and professional fees incurred by him in connection with litigation relating to his taking the position of Chairman and CEO with Sprint, as required under the contract.
 
In the event Mr. Forsee's employment with Sprint is terminated, either by Sprint without cause or by Mr. Forsee for good reason, Mr. Forsee will receive his pro rata annual bonus and severance benefits equal to two times the sum of his annual base salary and his target annual bonus opportunity (three times that amount if the termination occurs during the 24-month period following a change in control, as defined in the agreement). The proposed merger with Nextel is not considered a change in control. In addition, in the event of such a termination, the options and restricted stock units discussed above will be subject to pro rata accelerated vesting (100% accelerated vesting if the termination is within the 24-month period following a change in control). In the event Mr. Forsee receives any payments deemed contingent on a change in control, he will not be subject to plan provisions that require a reduction of benefits to levels deductible under Section 280G of the Code, and if any excise tax is imposed on him by Section 4999 of the Code as a result of a change in control, Sprint will make him whole.
 
In December 2004, Mr. Forsee's employment agreement was amended to provide that upon completion of the proposed merger with Nextel, he would become the CEO and President of Sprint Nextel. Mr. Forsee waived his ability to claim that his relocation to Reston, Virginia and his loss of the Chairman's position would constitute a "Constructive Discharge" under his employment agreement. The amendment also confirms that the merger would not constitute a change in control. All other terms and conditions of the agreement remain unchanged.
 
Under the agreement, Mr. Forsee has agreed to certain covenants relating to competition, confidentiality, non-solicitation, non-disparagement and cooperation, his breach of which would
result in forfeiture of his rights to his non-qualified pension benefit, any unpaid severance benefits and all of his unvested equity-based awards described above that are then outstanding.
 
On March 15, 2005, the Compensation Committee approved a second amendment to Mr. Forsee's employment agreement of March 19, 2003, which is effective and conditioned on the completion of the merger. The amendment provides for: (1) an annual base salary of $1,400,000, subject to annual review for possible increase (but not decrease), (2) an annual short-term incentive target opportunity of not less than 170% of base salary, for an initial target opportunity of $2,380,000, with a maximum payout of 200% of the short-term incentive opportunity (the actual payout can range from 0200% of the target opportunity), and (3) an annual long-term performance-based incentive opportunity having a $10 million minimum target value for the first year following completion of the merger and a $10 million guideline target value for the second year. If the merger is completed in 2005, the short-term incentive target opportunity for 2005 will be the sum of $2,040,000 prorated for the portion of the year before the completion of the merger and $2,380,000 prorated for the portion of the year after the completion of the merger.
 
See "The MergerInterests of Sprint and Nextel Directors and Executive Officers in the MergerInterests of Sprint Directors and Executive Officers in the Merger" beginning on page 69.
 
Employment Contracts with Mr. Fuller and Mr. Lauer
 
Mr. Fuller and Mr. Lauer have each signed agreements that prohibit their performing services for a competitor for up to 18 months following termination of their employment. The agreements also provide severance under which they will receive 18 months of compensation and benefits following an involuntary termination of employment without cause or upon a constructive discharge following a diminution of their responsibilities or compensation, or a forced relocation in certain circumstances.
 
The agreements, which pre-date Sprint's current senior executive severance policy, provide enhanced severance benefits in the event Sprint terminates their employment without cause or they resign due to a diminution in responsibilities, authority, or compensation following a change in control of Sprint. The proposed merger with Nextel will not be a change of control under the agreements. Benefits include monthly salary payments for up to 35 months and an amount equal to the sum of the highest short-term plus the highest long-term incentive compensation awards received for the three performance periods before termination, paid in three installments. For purposes of the key management benefit plan, they will be deemed to have remained a Key Executive (as defined in the plan) until age 60 and interest will be credited to their accounts under the Executive Deferred Compensation Plan at the maximum rate allowed under the plan. In addition, Sprint will determine their retirement benefits assuming three years of additional service and will not impose on them any reduction to benefits for early retirement. The benefits also include life, disability, medical, and dental insurance coverage for up to 35 months following termination. Finally, these officers are not subject to plan provisions that require a reduction of benefits to levels deductible under Section 280G of the Code, and if any excise tax is imposed on them by Section 4999 of the Code as a result of a change in control, Sprint will make them whole.
 
Employment Agreements
 
Mr. Donahue
 
Nextel entered into an employment agreement with Mr. Donahue with an initial term of three years effective July 1, 2003. On the third anniversary of the effective date, and on each subsequent anniversary of the date of the agreement, the employment term shall be extended for an additional year unless 12 months prior thereto either party gives the other notice of non-renewal.
 
Mr. Donahue's employment agreement currently provides for an annual salary of $1,000,000, which may be increased by Nextel's compensation committee but may not be decreased, a minimum annual target bonus equal to 150% of his base salary, and a minimum target award under Nextel's long-term incentive plan of $2,700,000. Under the agreement, in August 2003, Mr. Donahue was granted 1,000,000 shares of deferred stock, one-third of which vest and become nonforfeitable on each of the first three anniversaries of the effective date of the agreement. Under the agreement, Mr. Donahue was also granted an option to purchase 250,000 shares of Nextel's class A common stock in 2004, which will vest over two years from the date of grant, the second half of which will vest no later than June 30, 2006, and is entitled to be granted an option to purchase 250,000 shares of Nextel's class A common stock in 2005, which will vest one year from the date of grant, but no later than June 30, 2006. In addition, Mr. Donahue is entitled to participate in incentive plans and to other benefits generally available to Nextel's other senior executives.
 
In the event of Mr. Donahue's death or permanent disability during the employment term, Nextel will pay an amount equal to Mr. Donahue's existing base salary for a period of 12 months and a pro rata portion of his bonus and long-term incentive awards, Nextel will make all benefit payments on his behalf for a period of 12 months (in the event of disability) and the vesting of his incentive equity awards will be accelerated. In the event Mr. Donahue is terminated without cause (as defined in the agreement) or terminates his employment for good reason (as defined in the agreement), then Nextel will pay Mr. Donahue an amount equal to his then-current base salary, bonus and benefits for a period of two years and his award under Nextel's long-term incentive plan, calculated at the greater of target or actual performance, and his options and deferred share grants will vest. Mr. Donahue is subject to specific confidentiality restrictions during his employment term and thereafter, and he is also subject to non-competition restrictions for a period of two years after the termination of his employment term.
 
On December 15, 2004, Mr. Donahue agreed not to claim that his change of title to and assignment of duties as the Chairman of Sprint Nextel pursuant to the merger agreement would be a basis for him to terminate his existing employment agreement for good reason. The waiver is effective for six months following completion of the merger. As of March 15, 2005, Mr. Donahue agreed that, for purposes of his employment agreement and his participation in the
Change of Control Severance Pay Plan, the waiver would be effective for a period of 12 months after completion of the merger and that he may resign from his position with Sprint Nextel for good reason based only upon the changes to his title and duties due to his assignment to the position of Chairman of Sprint Nextel, during the 12-month period commencing on the first anniversary of the completion of the merger.
 
As of March 15, 2005, and effective only upon the completion of the merger, Mr. Donahue's employment agreement was amended to provide that his salary would be increased to $1.4 million, from $1.2 million previously approved by the Nextel compensation committee, and his bonus target opportunity would be increased to not less than 170% of his base salary, with a maximum bonus opportunity of not more than 200% of his target bonus opportunity. For the year in which the merger is completed, Mr. Donahue's bonus would be equal to the sum of $1,800,000 prorated for the portion of the year before the completion of the merger and $2,380,000 prorated for the portion of the year subsequent to the completion of the merger. His agreement was also amended to provide for his participation in a long-term incentive plan with a minimum target value performance-based opportunity of $10 million in the first year following the completion of the merger and a $10 million guideline target value performance-based opportunity for the second year following the completion of the merger (which may be in the form of cash opportunity and/or equity-based awards). Upon Mr. Donahue's termination for good reason or without cause at any time or upon his resignation for any reason after the second anniversary of the completion of the merger, the portion of the awards consisting of stock options and service-based awards other than stock options would fully vest, he would have three years from the date of termination to exercise the stock options and the portion of the awards consisting of performance-based awards other than stock options would vest at the end of the performance period based on actual performance and the actual number of days in the performance period up to the date of Mr. Donahue's termination. Upon Mr. Donahue's resignation during the 12-month period beginning on the first anniversary of the completion of the merger for good reason based upon the changes to his title and duties due to his assignment to the position of Chairman of Sprint Nextel, no portion of the second long-term incentive award granted after the completion of the merger would vest, but he would be entitled to the other rights specified in his existing employment agreement with respect to his termination for good reason. Upon Mr. Donahue's death or disability, the long-term incentive awards would vest as though his employment was terminated without cause, except that the stock option portion of the award will be exercisable for one year after his death or disability. For additional information see "The MergerInterests of Sprint and Nextel Directors and Executive Officers in the Merger Interests of Nextel Directors and Executive Officers in the Merger" beginning on page 72 and "The Merger AgreementEmployee Matters" beginning on page 97.
Other Named Executive Officers
 
In April 2004, Nextel entered into employment agreements with Messrs. Kelly, Saleh, West and Kennedy, each with a term of three years. On the third anniversary of the effective date, and on each subsequent anniversary, the employment term shall be extended for an additional year unless 12 months prior thereto either party gives the other notice of nonrenewal. The agreements provide for the following compensation:
 
 
Under the terms of each agreement, each executive's current base salary may be increased by Nextel's compensation committee but may not be decreased. Under each agreement, the awards of shares of deferred stock will vest over various periods such that all awards shall be fully vested on the third anniversary of each applicable agreement. Each agreement provides that, upon a change of control (as defined in Nextel's Incentive Equity Plan), any unawarded deferred shares under that agreement will be awarded and the unvested portions of all deferred share awards under the agreement will become fully vested. For a discussion of the impact of the merger on the deferred share awards, see "The MergerInterests of Sprint and Nextel Directors and Executive Officers in the MergerInterests of Nextel Directors and Executive Officers in the Merger" beginning on page 72. Under each agreement, each applicable executive also is entitled to participate in Nextel's long-term incentive plan.
 
Under the terms of each agreement, in the event of the death or permanent disability of the executive during his employment term, Nextel will pay such executive an amount equal to his existing annual base salary and a pro rata portion of such executive's bonus and long-term incentive awards, Nextel will make all benefit payments on his behalf for a period of 12 months (in the event of disability) and the vesting of certain of his incentive equity awards will be accelerated. Each agreement also provides that, in the event the executive is terminated without cause (as defined in the agreement) or terminates his employment for good reason (as defined in the agreement), then Nextel will pay such executive an amount equal to his then-current base salary, bonus and benefits for a period of the greater of two years or the remainder of his employment term (or one year in the event of good reason termination due to relocation) and at least a pro rata portion of his minimum target award under Nextel's long-term incentive plan, his options and deferred share grants will vest and he will receive certain outplacement services (except in the event of a good reason termination due to relocation). Under the terms of each agreement, each executive is subject to specific confidentiality and non-competition restrictions during his employment term and after the termination of his employment term for a period of two years in the case of his non-competition restrictions and on a permanent basis with respect to his confidentiality restrictions.
 
Certain Relationships and Related Transactions
 
NII Holdings
 
NII Holdings, Nextel's former subsidiary, provides telecommunications services in selected Latin American markets. As of December 31, 2004, Nextel owned about 18% of the outstanding common stock of NII Holdings.
 
Under roaming agreements with NII Holdings, Nextel was charged $15 million during 2004 for its subscribers roaming on NII Holdings' network, net of roaming revenues earned. Nextel had a net payable due to NII Holdings of $2 million as of December 31, 2004.
 
In March 2004, Nextel tendered its $66 million of the NII Holdings 13% senior notes to NII Holdings in exchange for $77 million in cash.
 
Mr. Donahue was a director of NII Holdings until March 2004.
 
Nextel Partners
 
Under Nextel's roaming agreement with Nextel Partners, Nextel was charged $68 million during 2004 for its subscribers roaming on Nextel Partners' network, net of roaming revenues earned. Nextel also provides telecommunications switching services to Nextel Partners under a switch sharing agreement, for which Nextel earned $39 million in 2004. Nextel charged Nextel Partners $20 million in 2004 for administrative services provided under a services agreement. Nextel also earned $5 million in 2004 in royalty fees. Nextel had a net receivable due from Nextel Partners of $10 million as of December 31, 2004.
 
As of March 31, 2005, Mr. Donahue was a director of Nextel Partners.
 
Loan Transaction
 
In connection with the commencement of his employment with Nextel in August 2001, Nextel provided Mr. Saleh with a $200,000 interest free loan. Since that time, in accordance with its initial terms, this loan has been forgiven, including $50,000 in 2004. This loan was part of a compensation package designed to induce Mr. Saleh to join Nextel and to provide an incentive for him to remain in the company's employment.

Exhibit 99.6
 
 
This Second Amendment to the Nextel Communications, Inc. Change of Control Retention Bonus and Severance Plan, as amended, effective as of July 14, 1999 (the "Plan"), is made this 12th day of August, 2005, by Nextel Communications, Inc. (the "Company"), to be effective as specified herein.
 
 
WHEREAS, the Plan was amended by the First Amendment to the Plan, effective as of September 19, 2002;
 
WHEREAS, under the terms of that certain Agreement and Plan of Merger dated December 15, 2004, as amended, by and among Sprint Corporation ("Sprint"), the Company and S-N Merger Corp. (the "Merger Agreement"), the Company will merge with and into S-N Merger Corp. and become a subsidiary of Sprint (the "Merger"), and as of the Effective Time, Sprint shall be known as Sprint Nextel Corporation;
 
WHEREAS, the Merger will constitute a Change of Control for purposes of the Plan;
 
WHEREAS, the Plan will be maintained for a transitional period of time after the Effective Time (as defined in the Merger Agreement) until all benefits payable thereunder have been paid and will then automatically terminate pursuant to Section 2 of the Plan; and
 
WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 17 of the Plan, the Company wishes to amend the Plan, effective as of the Effective Time and contingent upon the Closing (as defined in the Merger Agreement), as set forth herein.
 
NOW THEREFORE, the Company hereby adopts this Second Amendment to the Plan, effective as of the Effective Time and contingent upon the Closing. In the event of a conflict between a provision that is changed by this Second Amendment and a provision of the Plan that is not changed by this Second Amendment, the provision changed by this Second Amendment shall govern and control. Unless otherwise defined herein, words and phrases used herein with initial capital letters shall have the meaning ascribed to such words and phrases in the Plan.
 
 
Section 1 of the Plan is hereby amended to add the following paragraphs as new paragraphs immediately at the end thereof:
 
Effective as of the Effective Time and Closing of the merger (the "Merger") of the Company with and into S-N Merger Corp. ("S-N Merger Corp."), a subsidiary of Sprint Corporation ("Sprint") pursuant to the terms of that certain Agreement and Plan of Merger dated December 15, 2004, as amended, by and among Sprint,
the Company and S-N Merger Corp., Sprint shall be known as Sprint Nextel Corporation and shall become the sponsor of the Plan.
 
Effective as of the Effective Time, all references in Section 16 and Section 17 of the Plan to "the Company" shall mean and refer to Sprint Nextel Corporation; , , that the foregoing shall not supersede the resolutions adopted by the Compensation Committee of Nextel Communications, Inc. on June 30, 2005, unless otherwise determined by Sprint Nextel Corporation.
provided
however
 
 
Section 3(c) of the Plan is hereby amended to add the following paragraph as a new paragraph immediately at the end thereof:
 
The Merger will constitute a Change of Control for purposes of the Plan. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of Section 3(c)(i), (ii), (iii) and (iv), effective as of the Effective Time and Closing of the Merger, after the Effective Time, the occurrence of any other event that would constitute (i) a Trigger Date (as defined in Section 4(a) of the Plan) or (ii) a Change of Control will have no effect and will not qualify as a Change of Control under the terms of the Plan.
 
 
Section 3(e) of the Plan is hereby amended in its entirety as follows:
 
"Covered Employee" means any individual who, prior to the Effective Time, was recognized by an Employer as a regular full-time employee of an Employer, was subject to U.S. income tax withholding and to whom the Plan applies pursuant to Section 4(a) below.
 
 
Section 4(a) of the Plan is hereby amended to add the following sentence immediately at the end thereof:
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Plan shall only apply to those individuals who, prior to the Effective Time, were recognized by an Employer as regular full-time salaried employees in any of the applicable salary grade levels.
 
 
The following is added as a new Section 19 of the Plan:
 
19. Tax Penalty Avoidance. The provisions of this Plan are not intended, and should not be construed, to be legal, business or tax advice. The Company, sponsor of the Plan, Employers, Covered Employees, Beneficiaries and any other party having any interest herein are hereby informed that the U.S. federal tax advice contained in this document (if any) is not intended or written to be used,
 
and cannot be used, for the purpose of (i) avoiding penalties under the Code or (ii) promoting, marketing or recommending to any party any transaction or matter addressed herein.
 
 
Except as specifically amended herein, the Plan shall remain unchanged, and as amended herein, shall continue in full force and effect until the Plan is automatically terminated pursuant to Section 2 of the Plan.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Second Amendment to be executed by an officer pursuant to the authority of its Board, as of the day and year first written above.
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.17
 
 
 
To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of
Nextel Communications, Inc.
Reston, Virginia
 
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Nextel Communications, Inc. and subsidiaries (the "Company") as of December 31, 2004 and 2003, and the related consolidated statements of operations, changes in stockholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2004. Our audits also included the financial statement schedules I and II listed in the Index at Item 15. These consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedules I and II are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the financial statements and the financial statement schedules I and II based on our audits.
 
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Nextel Communications, Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2004 and 2003, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2004, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also, in our opinion, the financial statement schedules referred to above, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, present fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein.
 
As discussed in note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company adopted the provisions of Emerging Issues Task Force Issue No. 00-21, "Accounting for Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables," in 2003. As discussed in note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company adopted the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets," in 2002.
 
We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2004, based on the criteria established in issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated March 14, 2005 expressed an unqualified opinion on management's assessment of the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting and an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting.
Internal Control  Integrated Framework
 
/s/ Deloitte & Touche LLP
 
McLean, Virginia
March 14, 2005
 
To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of
Nextel Communications, Inc.
Reston, Virginia
 
We have audited management's assessment, included in the Management's Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting listed in the Index at Item 9A, that Nextel Communications, Inc. and subsidiaries (the "Company") maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2004, based on criteria established in Internal Control  Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. The Company's management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on management's assessment and an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.
 
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, evaluating management's assessment, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinions.
 
A company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the company's principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by the company's board of directors, management, and other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. A company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
 
Because of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Also, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
 
In our opinion, management's assessment that the Company maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2004, is fairly stated, in all material respects, based on the criteria established in Internal Control  Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2004, based on the criteria established in Internal Control  Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.
 
We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedules as of and for the year ended December 31, 2004 of the Company and our report dated March 14, 2005 expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedules.
 
/s/ Deloitte & Touche LLP
 
McLean, Virginia
March 14, 2005
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. Summary of Operations and Significant Accounting Policies
 
We are a leading provider of wireless communications services in the United States. We provide a comprehensive suite of advanced wireless services, that include: digital wireless mobile telephone service, walkie-talkie features including our Nextel Direct Connect(R), and Nextel Nationwide Direct Connect(SM), and Nextel International Direct Connect(SM) walkie-talkie features, and wireless data transmission services. As of December 31, 2004, we provided service to over 16.2 million subscribers, which consisted of 15.0 million subscribers of Nextel-branded service and 1.2 million subscribers of Boost Mobile(TM)  branded pre-paid service.
Operations.
 
Our all-digital packet data network is based on integrated Digital Enhanced Network, or iDEN(R), wireless technology provided by Motorola, Inc. We, together with Nextel Partners, Inc., currently utilize the iDEN technology to serve 297 of the top 300 U.S. markets where about 260 million people live or work. Nextel Partners provides digital wireless communications services under the Nextel brand name in mid-sized and tertiary U.S. markets, and has the right to operate in 98 of the top 300 metropolitan statistical areas in the United States ranked by population. As of December 31, 2004, we owned about 32% of the outstanding common stock of Nextel Partners. In addition, as of December 31, 2004, we also owned about 18% of the outstanding common stock of NII Holdings, Inc, which provides wireless communications services primarily in selected Latin American markets. We have agreements with NII Holdings that enable our subscribers to use our Direct Connect walkie-talkie features in the Latin American markets that it serves as well as between the United States and those markets.
 
On December 15, 2004, we entered into a definitive agreement for a merger of equals with Sprint Corporation pursuant to which we will merge into a wholly-owned subsidiary of Sprint. The new company will be called Sprint Nextel Corporation. The merger is expected to close in the second half of 2005 and is subject to shareholder and regulatory approvals, as well as other customary closing conditions. As a result, there can be no assurances that the merger will be completed or as to the timing thereof.
 
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Nextel Communications, Inc. and its wholly owned and majority owned subsidiaries. All significant intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated in consolidation. We use the equity method to account for equity investments in unconsolidated companies in which we exercise significant influence over operating and financial policies but do not have control. We recognize all changes in our proportionate share of the unconsolidated affiliate's equity resulting from the affiliate's equity transactions as adjustments to our investment and stockholders' equity balances. We use the cost method to account for equity investments in unconsolidated companies in which we do not exercise significant influence over operating or financial policies and do not have a controlling interest. Additional information regarding our equity investments can be found in note 3.
Principles of Consolidation.
 
We prepare our financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, which require management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Due to the inherent uncertainty involved in making those estimates, actual results could differ from those estimates.
Use of Estimates.
 
Cash equivalents consist of time deposits and highly liquid short-term investments with maturities of 90 days or less at the time of purchase.
Cash and Cash Equivalents.
 
Supplemental cash flow information.
 
 
Marketable debt securities with maturities greater than 90 days and less than one year at the time of purchase are classified as short-term investments. Debt securities that we have the ability and intent to hold until maturity are accounted for as held-to-maturity securities and recorded at amortized cost. As of December 31, 2004 and 2003, our short-term investments consisted of commercial paper and corporate and government bonds.
Investments.
 
Marketable debt and equity securities intended to be held more than one year are classified within investments. All of our investments in marketable debt and equity securities are classified as available-for-sale as of the balance sheet date and are reported at fair value. Unrealized gains and losses, net of income tax, are recorded as other comprehensive income (loss). We report realized gains or losses, as determined on a specific identification basis, and other-than-temporary declines in value, if any, on available-for-sale securities in other income (expense). We record restricted investments in publicly traded companies intended to be held-to-maturity at amortized cost. We record equity investments in privately held companies at cost.
 
We assess declines in the value of individual investments to determine whether the decline is other-than-temporary and thus the investment is impaired. We make this assessment by considering available evidence, including changes in general market conditions, specific industry and individual company data, the length of time and the extent to which the market value has been less than cost, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the individual company and our intent and ability to hold the investment.
 
We establish an allowance for doubtful accounts receivable sufficient to cover probable and reasonably estimable losses. Because we have well over seven million accounts, it is not practical to review the collectibility of each account individually when we determine the amount of our allowance for doubtful accounts receivable each period. Therefore, we consider a number of factors in establishing the allowance for our portfolio of customers, including historical collection experience, current economic trends, estimates of forecasted write-offs, agings of the accounts receivable portfolio and other factors. When collection efforts on individual accounts have been exhausted, the account is written off by reducing the allowance for doubtful accounts.
Allowance for Doubtful Accounts.
 
Handsets and accessories are valued at the lower of cost or market. We determine cost by the first-in, first-out, or FIFO, method. Handset costs in excess of the revenues generated from handset sales, or handset subsidies, are expensed at the time of sale. We do not recognize the expected handset subsidies prior to the time of sale because we expect to recover the handset subsidies through service revenues. We account for rebates received from vendors in accordance with Emerging Issues Task Force, or EITF, Issue No. 02-16, "Accounting by a Reseller for Cash Consideration Received by a Vendor." Additional information can be found in " Customer Related Direct Costs." Each month, we estimate future handset purchases and related discounts. To the extent that such estimates change period to period, adjustments are made to our estimates of discounts earned, which could impact our cost of handset revenues. The amount of these discounts recorded for the year ended December 31, 2004 was less than 5% of our cost of handset and accessory revenues recorded for the year.
Handset and Accessory Inventory.
 
We record property, plant and equipment, including improvements that extend useful lives, at cost. We capitalize costs for network and non-network software, which are included in property, plant and equipment, developed or obtained for internal use when incurred during the application development stage. For those software projects that are under development, we periodically assess the probability of deployment into the business to determine if an impairment charge is required. The gross amount of assets recorded under capital lease and finance obligations included in property, plant and equipment is $6 million as of December 31, 2004 and $276 million as of December 31, 2003. Amortization of assets recorded under capital leases is recorded in depreciation expense. Maintenance and repairs are charged to operations as incurred.
Property, Plant and Equipment.
 
Network asset inventory and construction in progress includes materials, transmission and related equipment, labor, engineering, site development, interest and other costs relating to the construction and development of our network. Assets under construction are not depreciated until placed into service.
 
We calculate depreciation using the straight-line method based on estimated economic useful lives of up to 31 years for buildings, 3 to 20 years for network equipment and internal-use software and 3 to 12 years for non-network internal-use software, office
 
equipment and other assets. We amortize leasehold improvements over the shorter of the lease terms or the estimated useful lives of the assets. We periodically review the estimated economic useful lives and salvage value of our property, plant and equipment and make adjustments to those estimates after considering historical experience, capacity requirements, consulting with the vendor and assessing new product and market demands, strategic decisions or technology matters and other factors. When these factors indicate property, plant and equipment assets may not be useful for as long as originally anticipated, we depreciate the remaining book values over the remaining estimated useful lives. In the first quarter 2003, we shortened the estimated useful lives of some of our network assets. As a result of these changes in estimates, we recorded $79 million or $0.08 per common share of additional depreciation expense for the year ended December 31, 2003.
 
In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards, or SFAS, No. 143, "Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations, we record an asset retirement obligation and an associated asset retirement cost when we have a legal obligation in connection with the retirement of tangible long-lived assets. Our obligations under SFAS No. 143 arise from certain of our leases and relate primarily to the cost of removing our equipment from such lease sites.
Asset Retirement Obligations.
 
We capitalize costs for software products that will be sold, leased or otherwise marketed when technological feasibility has been established. At each balance sheet date, we evaluate the recoverability of the unamortized capitalized costs of these software products. We classify software products to be sold, leased or otherwise marketed as noncurrent other assets. As of December 31, 2004 and 2003, we had $93 million and $74 million in net unamortized software, respectively.
Capitalized Software to be Sold, Leased or Otherwise Marketed.
 
Effective January 1, 2002, we adopted SFAS No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets." Under SFAS No. 142, we are no longer required to amortize goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives, which consist of our Federal Communications Commission, or FCC, licenses. We are required to test these assets for impairment at least annually or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. We perform our annual review for impairment on October 1 of each year using a residual value approach. We measure the fair value of our 800 and 900 megahertz, or MHz, licenses by deducting the fair values of our net assets as well as the fair values of certain unrecorded identified intangible assets, other than these FCC licenses, from our reporting unit's fair value, which was determined using a discounted cash flow analysis. The analysis was based on our long-term cash flow projections, discounted at our corporate weighted average cost of capital. If the fair value of the goodwill or intangible asset is less than the carrying amount of the asset, a loss is recognized for the difference between the fair value and carrying value of the asset. Prior to 2002, we amortized our indefinite useful life assets and goodwill over their respective useful lives, which for our FCC licenses is 40 years and for the goodwill related to the acquisition of our Nextel stores is 10 years. For those intangible assets that have finite useful lives, we continue to amortize them over their estimated useful lives using the straight-line method. Additional information regarding our intangible assets and the adoption of SFAS No. 142 can be found in note 5.
Intangible Assets.
 
At the September 2004 meeting of the EITF, the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, staff announced that companies must use the direct value method to determine the fair value of their intangible assets acquired in business combinations completed after September 29, 2004. The SEC staff also announced that companies that currently apply the residual value approach for valuing intangible assets with indefinite useful lives for purposes of impairment testing, must use the direct value method by no later than the beginning of their first fiscal year after December 15, 2004. Under this new accounting guidance, we must perform an impairment test to measure the fair value of our 800 and 900 MHz licenses in the first quarter 2005 using the direct value method. As we have not yet completed an impairment test using the direct value method, we are unable to assess the impact on our financial statements of adopting this requirement. We will reflect an impairment charge, if any, resulting from the change to a direct value method as a cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle in our first quarter 2005 results.
 
We review our long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. If the total of the expected undiscounted future cash flows is less than the carrying amount of these assets, a loss, if any, is recognized for the difference between the fair value and carrying value of the assets. Impairment analyses, when performed, are based on our current business and technology strategy, our views of growth rates for our business, anticipated future economic and regulatory conditions and expected technological availability. For purposes of recognition and measurement of impairment losses, we group our long-lived assets with other assets and liabilities at the enterprise level, which for us is the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows are largely independent of the cash flows of other assets and liabilities.
Valuation of Long-Lived Assets.
 
From time to time, we use derivative instruments, consisting primarily of interest rate swap agreements, to manage our exposure to changes in the fair values or future cash flows of some of our long-term debt, which is caused by interest rate fluctuations. We do not use derivative instruments for trading or other speculative purposes.
Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities.
 
Derivative instruments designated in hedging relationships that mitigate exposure to changes in the fair value of our debt are considered fair value hedges. Derivative instruments designated in hedging relationships that mitigate exposure to the variability in future cash flows of our debt are considered cash flow hedges. We formally document all relationships between hedging instruments and hedged items and the risk management objective and strategy for each hedge transaction.
 
We record all derivatives in other assets or other liabilities on our balance sheet at their fair values. If the derivative is designated as a fair value hedge and the hedging relationship qualifies for hedge accounting, changes in the fair values of both the derivative and the hedged portion of our debt are recognized in interest expense in our statement of operations. If the derivative is designated as a cash flow hedge and the hedging relationship qualifies for hedge accounting, the effective portion of the change in fair value of the derivative is recorded in other comprehensive income (loss) and reclassified to interest expense when the hedged debt affects interest expense. The ineffective portion of the change in fair value of the derivative qualifying for hedge accounting and changes in the fair values of derivative instruments not qualifying for hedge accounting are recognized in interest expense in the period of the change. For hedge transactions that qualify for hedge accounting using the short-cut method, there is no net effect on our results of operations.
 
At inception of the hedge and quarterly thereafter, we perform a correlation assessment to determine whether changes in the fair values or cash flows of the derivatives are deemed highly effective in offsetting changes in the fair values or cash flows of the hedged items. If at any time subsequent to the inception of the hedge, the correlation assessment indicates that the derivative is no longer highly effective as a hedge, we discontinue hedge accounting and recognize all subsequent derivative gains and losses in the results of operations.
 
We amortize our debt financing costs as interest expense over the terms of the underlying obligations.
Debt Financing Costs.
 
Operating revenues primarily consist of wireless service revenues and revenues generated from handset and accessory sales. Service revenues primarily include fixed monthly access charges for mobile telephone, Nextel Direct Connect and other wireless services, variable charges for mobile telephone and Nextel Direct Connect usage in excess of plan minutes, long-distance charges derived from calls placed by our customers and activation fees. We recognize revenue for access charges and other services charged at fixed amounts ratably over the service period, net of credits and adjustments for service discounts, billing disputes and fraud or unauthorized usage. We recognize excess usage and long distance revenue at contractual rates per minute as minutes are used. As a result of the cutoff times of our multiple billing cycles each month, we are required to estimate the amount of subscriber revenues earned but not billed from the end of each billing cycle to the end of each reporting period. These estimates are based primarily on rate plans in effect and historical minutes of use. We recognize revenue from handset sales when title to the handset passes to the customer. In addition, we recognize the portion of the activation fees allocated to the handset unit of accounting in the statement of operations when title to the handset passes to the customer. We defer the portion of the activation fees allocated to the service unit of accounting, together with an equal amount of costs, and recognize such deferred fees and costs on a straight-line basis over the contract life in the statement of operations.
Revenue Recognition.
 
Effective July 1, 2003, we adopted EITF Issue No. 00-21, "Accounting for Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables." Accordingly, for all handset sale arrangements entered into beginning in the third quarter 2003, we recognize revenue when title to the handset passes to the customer. Prior to July 1, 2003, in accordance with Staff Accounting Bulletin, or SAB, No. 101, "Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements," we recognized revenue from handset sales on a straight-line basis over the then expected customer relationship period of 3.5 years, beginning when title to the handset passed to the customer. Accordingly, on July 1, 2003, we reduced our current assets and liabilities by about $563 million and our noncurrent assets and liabilities by about $783 million, representing substantially all of the revenues and costs associated with the original sale of the handsets that were deferred under SAB No. 101. The cumulative effect of adopting EITF Issue No. 00-21 did not materially impact our statements of operations. We have recognized revenue from accessory sales when title passes upon delivery of the accessory to the customer in all reporting periods included in the financial statements.
 
Upon the adoption of EITF Issue No. 00-21 effective July 1, 2003, we recognize the cost of handset revenues when title to the handset passes to the customer. Other customer related direct costs, such as commissions are expensed as incurred. Prior to July 1, 2003, we recognized the costs of handset revenues over the then expected customer relationship period of 3.5 years in amounts equivalent to revenues recognized from handset sales and handset costs in excess of the revenues generated from handset sales, or subsidies, were expensed at the time of sale.
Customer Related Direct Costs.
 
In 2004, we purchased 6 million shares of our class B common stock from Motorola for $141 million in cash. We account for treasury stock under the cost method. In 2005, we converted these shares into shares of our class A common stock pursuant to the terms of our certificate of incorporation.
Treasury Stock.
 
We account for stock-based compensation for employees and non-employee members of our board of directors in accordance with Accounting Principles Board, or APB, Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees." Under APB Opinion No. 25, compensation expense is calculated on a straight-line basis over the vesting period and is based on the intrinsic value on the measurement date, calculated as the difference between the fair value of our class A common stock and the relevant exercise price. We account for stock-based compensation for non-employees, who are not members of our board of directors, at fair value using a Black-Scholes option-pricing model in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation" and other applicable accounting principles. We recorded stock-based compensation expense of $15 million during 2004, $15 million during 2003 and $13 million during 2002. In addition, in February 2004, we elected to settle $21 million of obligations under our long-term incentive plan with deferred shares as permitted by that plan. See note 12.
Stock-Based Compensation.
 
We comply with the disclosure provisions of SFAS No. 123 and SFAS No. 148, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation  Transition and Disclosure." Consistent with the provisions of SFAS No. 123 as amended, had compensation costs been determined based on the fair value of the awards granted since 1995, our income available to common stockholders and earnings per common share would have been as follows:
 
 
Additional information regarding the assumptions used in our calculation of the fair value of the awards can be found in note 12.
 
Costs related to advertising and other promotional expenditures are expensed as incurred. Advertising costs totaled $642 million during 2004, $462 million during 2003 and $345 million during 2002.
Advertising Costs.
 
Research and development costs are fully expensed as incurred.
Research and Development.
 
In May 2002, we began accounting for our investment in NII Holdings and its non-U.S. subsidiaries and affiliates under the equity method, and in November 2003, we began accounting for our investment in NII Holdings under the cost method. Prior to the change to the equity method, results of operations for our non-U.S. subsidiaries and affiliates were translated from the designated functional currency to the U.S. dollar using average exchange rates during the period, while assets and liabilities were translated at the exchange rate in effect at the reporting date. Resulting gains or losses from translating foreign currency financial statements were reported as other comprehensive income (loss). The effects of changes in exchange rates between the designated functional currency and the currency in which a transaction is denominated were recorded as foreign currency transaction gains (losses). We no longer have any significant non-U.S. subsidiaries and affiliates.
Foreign Currency.
 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on the temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities, applying enacted statutory tax rates in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to reverse. Future tax benefits, such as net operating loss carryforwards, are recognized to the extent that realization of these benefits is considered to be more likely than not. Additional information regarding income taxes can be found in note 9.
Income Taxes.
 
Basic earnings per common share is calculated by dividing income available to common stockholders by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings per common share adjusts basic earnings per common share for the effects of potentially dilutive common shares. Potentially dilutive common shares primarily include the dilutive effects of shares issuable under our equity plans computed using the treasury stock method and the dilutive effects of shares issuable upon the conversion of our convertible senior notes and convertible preferred stock computed using the if-converted method.
Earnings Per Common Share.
 
 
About 8.2 million shares issuable upon the assumed conversion of our convertible senior notes could potentially dilute earnings per share in the future but were excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings per common share for the year ended December 31, 2004 due to their antidilutive effects. Additionally, about 65.8 million shares issuable under our incentive and other equity plans that could also potentially dilute earnings per share in the future were excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings per common share for the year ended December 31, 2004 as the exercise prices exceeded the average market price of our class A common stock.
 
About 38.5 million shares issuable upon the assumed conversion of our convertible senior notes and zero coupon convertible preferred stock could potentially dilute earnings per share in the future but were excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings per common share for the year ended December 31, 2003 due to their antidilutive effects. Additionally, about 62.7 million shares issuable under our incentive and other equity plans that could also potentially dilute earnings per share in the future were excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings per common share for the year ended December 31, 2003 as the exercise prices exceeded the average market price of our class A common stock.
 
About 8.4 million shares issuable upon the assumed conversion of our convertible senior notes could potentially dilute earnings per share in the future but were excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings per common share for the year ended December 31, 2002 due to their antidilutive effects. Additionally, about 84.3 million shares issuable under our incentive and other equity plans that could also potentially dilute earnings per share in the future were excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings per common share for the year ended December 31, 2002 as the exercise prices exceeded the average market price of our class A common stock.
 
We have reclassified some prior period amounts to conform to our current year presentation.
Reclassifications.
 
We believe that the geographic and industry diversity of our customer base minimizes the risk of incurring material losses due to concentrations of credit risk.
Concentrations of Risk.
 
Motorola is our primary source of network equipment and manufactures all of the handsets we sell, other than the BlackBerry devices, which are manufactured by Research in Motion, or RIM. We expect to continue to rely principally on Motorola or its licensees for the manufacture of handsets and a substantial portion of the equipment necessary to construct, enhance and maintain our iDEN network. Accordingly, we must rely on Motorola to develop handsets and equipment capable of supporting the features and services we plan to offer to our customers. In addition, because we are one of a limited number of wireless carriers that have deployed
 
iDEN technology, we bear a substantially greater portion of the costs associated with the development of new equipment and features than would be the case if our network utilized a more widely adopted technology platform. If Motorola fails or refuses to develop and deliver system infrastructure and handsets or enhancements that we require on a timely, cost- effective basis, we may not be able to adequately service our existing subscribers or add new subscribers and may not be able to offer competitive services; thereby materially and adversely affecting our results. If Motorola is unable or unwilling to provide handsets and related equipment and software applications, or to develop new technologies or features for us due to changes in our relationship, or if Motorola fails or refuses to do so on a timely, cost-effective basis, we may not be able to adequately service our existing subscribers or add new subscribers and may not be able to offer competitive services. If Motorola fails or refuses to provide its cooperation and support in connection with the FCC's reconfiguration process related to the 800 MHz spectrum band, then our ability to satisfy our obligations under the Report and Order described in note 15 would be adversely affected.
 
We also have arrangements with several third party outsourcing vendors that provide services related to such activities as customer care, customer billing and network construction. An adverse change in the ability of any such vendor to provide services to us could adversely affect our operations.
 
We operate in a highly regulated environment subject to rapid technological and competitive changes. To the extent that there are changes in economic conditions, technology or the regulatory environment, our business plans could change, which could affect the recoverability of certain assets.
 
Restatement of Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
Like other companies, we have reviewed our accounting practices with respect to leasing transactions. We have concluded that there was an error in our practices related to the determination of the lease term under certain leases that relate primarily to our cell sites. We have historically used the initial non-cancelable portion of the lease as the lease term, excluding any renewal periods. We have determined that SFAS No. 13, "Accounting for Leases", requires consideration of renewal periods when the existence of a "penalty", as defined in SFAS No. 13, would require us to conclude at the inception of the lease that there was reasonable assurance that one or more of the renewal options would be exercised. We considered a number of factors in determining whether a penalty, as defined in SFAS No. 13, existed such that the exercise of one or more of the renewal options would be reasonably assured at the inception of the lease. The primary factor that we considered is that a significant dollar amount of leasehold improvements at a lease site would be impaired by non-renewal after the initial non-cancelable portion of the lease. The result of our assessment was to increase the lease term as defined in SFAS No. 13 for most of our operating leases. As we recognize rent expense on our operating leases on a straight-line basis and many of our leases contain escalating rent payments over the term of the lease, the impact of this change in lease term was to increase deferred rent liability at December 31, 2003 by approximately $92 million.
 
NII Holdings has advised us that it will restate certain financial results for the year ended December 31, 2003 and for the two months ended December 31, 2002. During the period November 2002 through October 2003, we owned on average 33% of the common stock of NII Holdings and accounted for our investment under the equity method. Accordingly, we have restated our consolidated statements of operations for the years ended December 31, 2003 and December 31, 2002 to reflect our percentage share of these adjustments. Although these adjustments did not impact our operating income for 2003 or 2002, they increased our losses on the line item "Equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates, net" by $18 million in 2003 and by $7 million in 2002 and decreased our "Income available to common stockholders" by $8 million in 2003 and by $7 million in 2002 in our consolidated statements of operations.
 
The combined effect of these two changes were increases to accumulated deficit of $107 million and $81 million as of December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively, and an increase to accumulated deficit of $55 million as of January 1, 2002.
 
The following is a summary of the effects of the restatement on our (a) consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2003, (b) consolidated statements of operations and cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002 and (c) consolidated statements of changes in stockholders' equity as of December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
New Accounting Pronouncements.
 
In January 2003, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, issued FASB Interpretation No. 46, "Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities  an interpretation of ARB No. 51," to address perceived weaknesses in accounting for entities commonly known as special-purpose or off-balance-sheet. In addition to numerous FASB Staff Positions written to clarify and improve the application of Interpretation No. 46, the FASB announced a deferral for certain entities, and an amendment to Interpretation No. 46 entitled FASB Interpretation No. 46R, "Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities." Interpretation No. 46 establishes consolidation criteria for entities for which "control" is not easily discernable under Accounting Research Bulletin No. 51, "Consolidated Financial Statements," which is based on the premise that equity holders control the entity by virtue of voting rights. Interpretation No. 46 provides guidance for identifying the party with a controlling financial interest resulting from arrangements or financial interests rather than from voting interests. Interpretation No. 46 defines the term variable interest entity, or VIE, and is based on the premise that if a business enterprise absorbs a majority of the VIE's expected losses and/or receives a majority of its expected residual returns (measures of risk and reward), that enterprise (the primary beneficiary) has a controlling financial interest in the VIE. Under Interpretation No. 46, the assets, liabilities, and results of the activities of the VIE should be included in the consolidated financial statements of the primary beneficiary. We were required to apply the provisions of Interpretation No. 46R in the first quarter 2004. As we did not have any VIEs during 2004, the adoption of this new method of accounting for VIEs did not affect our financial condition or results of operations.
FASB Interpretation No 46.
 
In September 2004, the EITF issued Topic D-108, "Use of the Direct Method to Value Intangible Assets". In EITF Topic D-108, the SEC staff announced that companies must use the direct value method to determine the fair value of their intangible assets acquired in business combinations completed after September 29, 2004. The SEC staff also announced that companies that currently apply the residual value approach for valuing intangible assets with indefinite useful lives for purposes of
EITF Topic D-108.
 
impairment testing must use the direct value method by no later than the beginning of their first fiscal year after December 15, 2004. As permitted we performed our annual impairment test as of October 1, 2004 to measure the fair value of our 800 and 900 MHz FCC licenses in our national footprint using the residual value approach. Under this new accounting guidance, we must perform an impairment test to measure the fair value of our 800 and 900 MHz licenses in the first quarter 2005 using the direct value method. As we have not yet completed an impairment test using the direct value method, we are unable to assess the impact on our financial statements of adopting this requirement. We will reflect an impairment charge, if any, resulting from the change to a direct value method as a cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle in our first quarter 2005 results.
 
In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 123R (revised 2004), "Share-Based Payment." The statement is a revision of FASB Statement No. 123, "Accounting for Stock Based Compensation" and supercedes APB Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees." The statement focuses primarily on accounting for transactions in which we obtain employee services in share-based payment transactions. This statement requires a public company to measure the cost of employee services received in exchange for an award of equity instruments based on the grant-date fair value of the award. This standard is scheduled to become effective in the first interim reporting period beginning after June 15, 2005. Assuming that the effective date is not delayed, we will apply this new standard to our interim reporting period beginning July 1, 2005. We have not yet determined the amount of impact on the consolidated statements of operations following adoption and subsequent to 2005 or the transition method we will use.
SFAS No. 123R.
 
2. Supplemental Balance Sheet Information
 
 
3. Investments
 
 
NII Holdings provides wireless communications services using iDEN technology primarily in selected Latin American markets. In November 2002, NII Holdings, which prior to that time had been our substantially wholly-owned subsidiary, completed its reorganization under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, having filed a voluntary petition for reorganization in May 2002 in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the District of Delaware after it and one of its subsidiaries defaulted on credit and vendor finance facilities. Prior to its bankruptcy filing, NII Holdings was accounted for as one of our consolidated subsidiaries. As a result of NII Holdings' bankruptcy filing in May 2002, we began accounting for our investment in NII Holdings using the equity method. In accordance with the equity method of accounting, we did not recognize equity losses of NII Holdings after May 2002 as we had already recognized $1,408 million of losses in excess of our investment in NII Holdings through that date. NII Holdings' net operating results through May 2002 have been presented as equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates, as permitted under the accounting rules governing a mid-year change from consolidating a subsidiary to accounting for the investment using the equity method.
NII Holdings.
 
Upon NII Holdings' emergence from bankruptcy in November 2002, we recognized a non-cash pre-tax gain on deconsolidation of NII Holdings in the amount of $1,218 million consisting primarily of the reversal of equity losses we had recorded in excess of our investment in NII Holdings, partially offset by charges recorded when we consolidated NII Holdings, including, among other items, $185 million of cumulative foreign currency translation losses. At the same time, we began accounting for our new ownership interest in NII Holdings using the equity method, under which we recorded our proportionate share of NII Holdings' results of operations. In November 2003, we sold 3.0 million shares of NII Holdings common stock, which generated $209 million in net proceeds and a gain of $184 million, based on an average per share carrying amount.
 
In 2004, we tendered NII Holdings' 13% notes that we owned to NII Holdings, in exchange for $77 million in cash resulting in a $28 million realized gain in other (expense) income in the accompanying condensed consolidated statements of operations. As of December 31, 2004, we accounted for the shares of NII Holdings common stock as an available-for-sale investment. A portion of our investment in NII Holdings was reclassified to other current assets as of December 31, 2004. As of December 31, 2004, we owned about 18% of the outstanding common stock of NII Holdings.
 
Under roaming agreements with NII Holdings, we expensed $21 million during 2004, $8 million during 2003 and $7 million during 2002 for our subscribers roaming on NII Holdings' networks and earned roaming revenues of $6 million during 2004 and $1 million during 2003 and 2002 for NII Holdings' subscribers roaming on our network. We recorded the roaming revenues we earned from NII Holdings as service revenues and we recorded the roaming expenses we were charged as cost of service. We had a net payable due to NII Holdings of $2 million as of December 31, 2004 and we had a net receivable due from NII Holdings of $1 million as of December 31, 2003. All payments due to and due from NII Holdings are settled in accordance with customary commercial terms for comparable transactions.
 
Timothy M. Donahue, a member of our board of directors and our President and Chief Executive Officer, was a director of NII Holdings until March 2004.
 
Nextel Partners provides digital wireless communications services under the Nextel brand name in mid-sized and tertiary U.S. markets having the right to operate in 98 of the top 300 metropolitan statistical areas in the United States ranked by population. In January 1999, we entered into agreements with Nextel Partners and other parties, including Motorola, relating to the formation, capitalization, governance, financing and operation of Nextel Partners. As part of those transactions in 1999, we sold assets and transferred specified FCC licenses to Nextel Partners in exchange for equity interests in Nextel Partners having a total agreed value of $140 million and cash of $142 million, which also included the reimbursement of costs and net operating expenses.
Nextel Partners.
 
As a result of Nextel Partners' initial public offering in February 2000, our equity interest was converted into voting class B common stock and our total ownership interest was diluted. As a result of the initial public offering and subsequent transactions, including our purchase from Motorola in 2004 of about 5.6 million shares of Nextel Partners common stock, we owned about 32% of the outstanding common stock of Nextel Partners as of December 31, 2004. We account for our investment in Nextel Partners using the equity method. As of December 31, 2004, assuming conversion of our class B shares of Nextel Partners into class A shares of Nextel Partners, the market value of our investment is about $1,654 million.
 
We entered into the relationships with Nextel Partners principally to accelerate the build-out of our network outside the largest metropolitan market areas that initially were the main focus of our network coverage. As an inducement to obtain Nextel Partners' commitment to undertake and complete the anticipated network expansion, we agreed that we would not offer wireless communications services under the Nextel brand name, iDEN services on 800 MHz frequencies, or wireless communications services that allow interconnection with landline telecommunications in Nextel Partners' territory. We also have roaming agreements with Nextel Partners covering all of the U.S. market areas in which Nextel Partners currently provides, or will in the future provide, iDEN-based services.
 
The certificate of incorporation of Nextel Partners establishes circumstances in which we will have the right or obligation to purchase the outstanding shares of class A common stock of Nextel Partners at specified prices. We may pay the consideration of any such purchase in cash, shares of our class A common stock, or a combination of both.
 
Specifically, under the terms of the certificate of incorporation of Nextel Partners, during the 18 month period following completion of the proposed merger with Sprint, the holders of a majority of the Nextel Partners class A common stock can vote to require us to purchase all of the outstanding shares of Nextel Partners that we do not already own for the appraised fair market value of those shares. The Nextel Partners stockholders will not be entitled to take that action if the proposed merger with Sprint is not completed. We do not know if the stockholders of Nextel Partners will elect to require us to purchase the Nextel Partners class A shares if the proposed merger with Sprint is completed.
 
Subject to various limitations and conditions, we may be required to purchase the outstanding shares of Nextel Partners' class A common stock in certain other circumstances if:
 
 
 
 
 
If we purchase the outstanding shares of Nextel Partners' class A common stock:
 
 
 
 
 
Subject to various limitations and conditions, including possible deferrals by Nextel Partners, we will have the right to purchase the outstanding shares of Nextel Partners' class A common stock on January 29, 2008. We may not transfer our interest in Nextel Partners to a third party before January 29, 2011, and Nextel Partners' class A common stockholders have the right, and in specified instances the obligation, to participate in any sale of our interest.
 
During 2003, we received $15 million for the sale of FCC licenses and network assets to Nextel Partners. Additionally, Nextel Partners completed an offering of its common stock in 2003 and as a result, we recorded an increase of $5 million in paid-in capital in our stockholders' equity in accordance with SAB No. 51. Also in the second half of 2003, Nextel Partners redeemed its 12% nonvoting mandatorily redeemable preferred stock that we held for $39 million. As our investment in Nextel Partners had been written down to zero during the second quarter 2003 through the application of the equity method of accounting, we recorded a gain of $39 million.
 
Under our roaming agreement with Nextel Partners, we expensed $155 million during 2004, $112 million during 2003 and $78 million during 2002 for our customers roaming on Nextel Partners' network and earned roaming revenues of $87 million during 2004, $61 million during 2003 and $38 million during 2002 for Nextel Partners subscribers roaming on our network. We also provide telecommunications switching services to Nextel Partners under a switch sharing agreement. For these services, we earned $39 million in 2004, $44 million in 2003 and $52 million in 2002, which we recorded as a reduction to cost of service. We also charged Nextel Partners $20 million in 2004, $11 million in 2003 and $6 million in 2002 for administrative services provided under a services agreement. We recorded these amounts as a reduction to selling, general and administrative expenses. We earned $5 million in 2004 and $4 million in 2003 in royalty fees, which we recorded as other income (expense). We have a net receivable due from Nextel Partners of $10 million as of December 31, 2004 and $16 million as of December 31, 2003. All payments due to and due from Nextel Partners are settled in accordance with customary commercial terms for comparable transactions.
 
As of December 31, 2004, Mr. Donahue was a director of Nextel Partners.
 
In 1999, we received an ownership interest in SpectraSite Holdings, Inc. in connection with a sale and leaseback transaction of certain of our telecommunication towers. The ownership interest constituted continuing involvement and, accordingly, these transactions were accounted for by the financing method. In the exchange, we also received $560 million in cash, which we reflected as a finance obligation on our balance sheet.
SpectraSite.
 
During 2002, we recognized a $37 million other-than temporary reduction in the fair value of our investment in SpectraSite and we sold all of our equity investment in SpectraSite for a de minimis amount. The sale of our equity investment ended our continuing involvement in SpectraSite for substantially all of our tower leases and we recorded a $291 million deferred gain, which we began amortizing over the original remaining lease terms through 2007. Payments under the leases are accounted for as operating leases and are included in rent expense in cost of service. As of December 31, 2004, we had a remaining deferred gain of $93 million.
 
4. Significant Transactions
 
In May 2004, we purchased certain multichannel multipoint distribution system, or MMDS, FCC licenses, interests in certain MMDS FCC licenses and other immaterial network assets of WorldCom, Inc. We paid an aggregate cash purchase price of $144 million, of which $137 million was paid in 2004 and the remainder was paid prior to 2004. Also, in June 2004, we purchased certain MMDS FCC licenses, interests in certain MMDS FCC licenses and other immaterial network assets of Nucentrix Broadband Networks, Inc. We paid an aggregate cash purchase price of $51 million, of which $49 million was paid in 2004 and the remainder was paid prior to 2004. Both of these transactions were accounted for as asset purchases. These licenses relate to spectrum that we may use in connection with the deployment of certain broadband or other wireless services.
Acquisitions.
 
In January 2003, we purchased the 900 MHz FCC licenses of NeoWorld Communications, Inc. through the acquisition of all of its stock. Pursuant to our agreements, we paid an aggregate cash purchase price of $280 million, of which $201 million was paid in 2003 and the remainder was paid prior to 2003. We accounted for this transaction as an asset purchase because we purchased FCC licenses that were not being used to generate revenues and we did not acquire any employees or customers.
 
In February 2002, we purchased from Chadmoore Wireless Group, Inc. 800 MHz and 900 MHz FCC licenses for an aggregate cash purchase price of $142 million, including $6 million of accrued acquisition and transaction costs, $111 million of which was paid to Chadmoore in 2002. We accounted for this acquisition as a business combination and substantially all of the purchase price was allocated to licenses.
 
No significant business combinations were completed during 2004 or 2003.
 
In January 2002, we announced a five-year information technology outsourcing agreement with Electronic Data Systems Corp., or EDS, under which EDS manages our corporate data center, database administration, helpdesk, desktop services and other technical functions. Additionally, in January 2002, we announced an eight-year customer relationship management agreement with International Business Machines Corporation and TeleTech Holdings, Inc. to manage our customer care centers. In connection with these outsourcing agreements, we recorded a $35 million restructuring and impairment charge in the first quarter 2002, which primarily represents the future lease payments related to facilities we planned to vacate net of estimated sublease income. The restructuring charge also includes employee separation costs associated with the involuntary termination of about 700 employees throughout the organization and the write-off of impaired assets. The employee separations were completed by the end of 2002. As of December 31, 2004, our restructuring liability was $6 million relating to lease cancellation costs.
Restructuring and Impairment Charges.
 
5. Intangible Assets
 
 
FCC licenses, our most significant intangible assets, authorize wireless carriers to use radio frequency spectrum, and are issued on both a site-specific and wide-area basis, enabling wireless carriers to provide service either in specific 800 MHz economic areas or 900 MHz metropolitan trading areas in the United States. Currently, our 800 MHz and 900 MHz licenses are issued for periods of 10 years and our 700 MHz licenses are issued for a period of 15 years. All of our FCC licenses are subject to construction and/or operational and technical requirements. The FCC has routinely granted license renewals if the licensees provide substantial services in their licensed area and have complied with applicable rules and policies and the Communications Act of 1934, as amended. We believe that we have met and will continue to meet all requirements necessary to retain and secure renewal of our FCC licenses. Our book value in our FCC licenses are at cost or if acquired in a business combination at an allocated amount based on the fair value.
 
During the year ended December 31, 2004, we acquired FCC licenses for an aggregate purchase price of $225 million, which included deposits for licenses paid prior to 2004 that were recorded in other assets until we acquired the relevant licenses. These acquisitions consisted primarily of two transactions. In May 2004, we purchased certain MMDS FCC licenses, interests in certain MMDS FCC licenses and other immaterial network assets of WorldCom. We paid an aggregate cash purchase price of $144 million, of which $137 million was paid in 2004 and the remainder was paid prior to 2004. Also, in June 2004, we purchased certain MMDS FCC licenses, interests in certain MMDS FCC licenses and other immaterial network assets of Nucentrix Broadband Networks. We paid an aggregate cash purchase price of $51 million, of which $49 million was paid in 2004 and the remainder was paid prior to 2004. Both of these transactions were accounted for as asset purchases. These licenses relate to spectrum that we may use in connection with the deployment of certain broadband or other wireless services. During the year ended December 31, 2004, we also wrote off $58 million of fully amortized customer lists, which did not have an impact on our results of operations or financial condition.
 
During the year ended December 31, 2003, we acquired FCC licenses for an aggregate purchase price of $366 million, which included both the licenses of NeoWorld Communications and deposits for other licenses paid prior to 2003 that were recorded in other assets until we acquired the relevant licenses. In connection with the acquisition of stock of NeoWorld Communications, we recorded an additional deferred tax liability of $86 million, in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes." The offsetting increase related to recognizing this deferred tax liability was recorded to FCC licenses.
 
For intangible assets with finite lives, we recorded aggregate amortization expense of $34 million and $51 million for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Based only on the amortized intangible assets existing at December 31, 2004, we estimate the amortization expense to be $9 million during 2005, $5 million during 2006, $4 million during 2007, $3 million during 2008 and $3 million during 2009. Actual amortization expense to be reported in future periods could differ from these estimates as a result of new intangible asset acquisitions, changes in useful lives and other relevant factors.
 
We performed our annual impairment test of FCC licenses and goodwill as of October 1, 2004 and concluded that there was no impairment as the fair values of these intangible assets were greater than their carrying values. We concluded, based on the guidance in EITF Issue No. 02-7, "Unit of Accounting for Testing Impairment of Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets," that the unit of accounting for our 800 MHz and 900 MHz FCC licenses is our nationwide footprint. Using a residual value approach, we measured the fair value of our 800 MHz and 900 MHz FCC licenses by deducting the fair values of our net assets as well as the fair values of certain unrecorded identified intangible assets, other than these FCC licenses, from our reporting unit's fair value, which was determined using a discounted cash flow analysis that was based on our long-term cash flow projections, discounted at our corporate weighted average cost of capital. Under the new accounting guidance announced by the SEC staff at the September 2004 EITF meeting, we must perform an impairment test to measure the fair value of our 800 and 900 MHz licenses as of January 1, 2005 using the direct value method, see note 1. We will reflect an impairment charge, if any, resulting from the change to a direct value method as a cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle in our first quarter 2005 results.
 
We have invested about $350 million in 700 MHz licenses that are currently not used in our network. The FCC, as part of its resolution of the problem of interference with public safety systems operating in the 800 MHz band, as described in note 15, gave us minimal credit for our 700 MHz licenses against our total obligation under the FCC's process to resolve the interference problem. In the third quarter of 2004, we performed a direct method valuation of our 700 MHz licenses and determined that the 700 MHz licenses were not impaired.
 
In connection with the adoption of SFAS No. 142 in 2002, we ceased amortizing FCC license costs, as we believe that our portfolio of FCC licenses represents an intangible asset with an indefinite useful life. As a result, in the first quarter of 2002, we incurred a one-time cumulative non-cash charge to the income tax provision of $335 million to increase the valuation allowance related to our net operating losses. This cumulative charge was required because we had significant deferred tax liabilities related to our FCC licenses that have a significantly lower tax basis than book basis. Historically, we did not need a valuation allowance for the portion of our net operating loss equal to deferred tax liabilities related to FCC licenses expected to reverse during our net operating loss carryforward period. Because we ceased amortizing FCC licenses in connection with the adoption of SFAS No. 142, we can no longer estimate the amount, if any, of deferred tax liabilities related to our FCC licenses that will reverse during the carryforward period. Accordingly, we increased our valuation allowance. We have recorded an incremental non-cash charge of $33 million during 2004, $62 million during 2003, and $51 million during 2002 to the income tax provision related to FCC licenses for which we have a tax basis. As these FCC licenses are no longer amortized for book purposes but are amortized for tax purposes, we are recording additional deferred tax liabilities as amortization occurs for tax purposes. In 2004 we released our net operating loss valuation allowance, which reversed all of the previous incremental charges recorded to the income tax provision related to FCC licenses for which we have a tax basis.
Adoption of SFAS No. 142.
 
6. Long-Term Debt, Capital Lease and Mandatorily Redeemable Preferred Stock
 
 
 
Cash interest on the 9.375% senior serial redeemable notes due 2009 began to accrue May 15, 2000, at an annual rate of 9.375%. These notes were senior unsecured indebtedness and ranked equal in right of payment with all of our other unsubordinated, unsecured indebtedness. These senior notes were partially exchanged through debt-for-debt exchange transactions in 2004 and were fully retired later in 2004. See " 2004 Debt-for-Debt Exchanges" and " 2004 Debt Retirements."
9.375% Senior Notes.
 
Cash interest on the 5.25% convertible senior notes due 2010 is payable semiannually in arrears on January 15 and July 15, at an annual rate of 5.25%. We may choose to redeem some or all of these notes at a redemption price that currently is 102.333% of the aggregate principal amount of these notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest. These notes are convertible at the option of the holders into our class A common stock at any time prior to redemption, repurchase or maturity at a conversion price of $74.40 per share, subject to adjustment. These notes are senior unsecured indebtedness and rank equal in right of payment with all of our other unsubordinated, unsecured indebtedness.
5.25% Convertible Senior Notes.
 
Cash interest on these notes is payable semiannually in arrears on February 1 and August 1, at an annual rate of 9.5%. We may choose to redeem some or all of these notes commencing on February 1, 2006 at an initial redemption price of 104.75% of the aggregate principal amount of these notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest. These notes are senior unsecured indebtedness and rank equal in right of payment with all our other unsubordinated, unsecured indebtedness. In July 2001, we entered into three interest rate swap agreements to hedge the risk of changes in fair value attributable to changes in market interest rates associated with $500 million of our 9.5% senior serial redeemable notes. As a result of this hedge and in accordance with SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities," we recognized an increase to the carrying value of these notes. During the third quarter 2003, we terminated all three swap agreements in exchange for cash received of about $38 million. As a result of the terminations, we recorded a premium of about $38 million, which is recognized as an adjustment to interest expense in our statement of operations over the remaining life of the hedged debt. Additional information regarding our hedging activities can be found in note 8. These senior notes were partially exchanged through debt-for-debt exchange transactions in 2004. See " 2004 Debt-for-Debt Exchanges."
9.5% Senior Notes.
 
Cash interest on these notes began to accrue on June 1, 2001, at an annual rate of 6%. These notes were senior unsecured indebtedness and ranked equal in right of payment with all our other unsubordinated, unsecured indebtedness. These senior notes were retired in 2004. See " 2004 Debt Retirements."
6% Convertible Senior Notes.
 
In October 2003, we completed the sale of $500 million in principal amount of our 6.875% senior serial redeemable notes due 2013, which we refer to as the 6.875% senior notes, in a transaction that generated about $500 million in net cash proceeds to us. Cash interest on these notes is payable semiannually in arrears on April 30 and October 31 commencing April 30, 2004, at an annual rate of 6.875%. We may choose to redeem some or all of these notes commencing on October 31, 2008 at an initial redemption price of 103.438% of the aggregate principal amount of these notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest. On or before October 31, 2006, we may choose to redeem a portion of the principal amount of the outstanding notes using the proceeds of one or more sales of qualified equity securities at a redemption price of 106.875% of the notes' principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of redemption, so long as a specified principal amount of notes remains outstanding immediately following the redemption. These notes are senior unsecured indebtedness and rank equal in right of payment with all our other unsubordinated, unsecured indebtedness. Additional 6.875% senior notes were issued through debt-for-debt exchange transactions in 2004. See " 2004 Debt-for-Debt Exchanges."
6.875% Senior Notes.
 
In March 2004, we completed the sale of $500 million in principal amount of our 5.95% senior serial redeemable notes due 2014, which we refer to as the 5.95% senior notes, in a transaction that generated about $494 million in net cash proceeds to us. Cash interest on these notes is payable semiannually in arrears on March 15 and September 15 commencing September 15, 2004, at an annual rate of 5.95%. We may choose to redeem some or all of these notes commencing on March 15, 2009 at an initial redemption price of 102.975% of the aggregate principal amount of these notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest. On or before March 15, 2007, we may choose to redeem a portion of the principal amount of the outstanding notes using the proceeds of one or more sales of qualified equity securities at a redemption price of 105.95% of the notes' principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid
5.95% Senior Notes.
 
interest to the date of redemption, so long as a specified principal amount of notes remains outstanding immediately following the redemption. These notes are senior unsecured indebtedness and rank equal in right of payment with all our other unsubordinated, unsecured indebtedness. Additional 5.95% senior notes were issued through debt-for-debt exchange transactions in 2004. See " 2004 Debt-for-Debt Exchanges."
 
In July 2003, we completed the sale of $1,000 million in principal amount of our 7.375% senior serial redeemable notes due 2015, which we refer to as the 7.375% senior notes, in a transaction that generated about $983 million in net cash proceeds to us. In September 2003, we completed the sale of an additional $1,000 million in principal amount of our 7.375% senior notes due 2015, which generated about $1,000 million in net cash proceeds to us. The senior notes issued in July 2003 and September 2003 are a single series of notes. Cash interest on these notes is payable semiannually in arrears on February 1 and August 1, at an annual rate of 7.375%. We may choose to redeem some or all of these notes commencing on August 1, 2008 at an initial redemption price of 103.688% of the aggregate principal amount of these notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest. On or before August 1, 2006, we may choose to redeem a portion of the principal amount of the outstanding notes using the proceeds of one or more sales of qualified equity securities at a redemption price of 107.375% of the notes' principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of redemption, so long as a specified principal amount of notes remains outstanding immediately following the redemption. These notes are senior unsecured indebtedness and rank equal in right of payment with all our other unsubordinated, unsecured indebtedness. Additional 7.375% senior notes were issued through debt-for-debt exchange transactions in 2004. See " 2004 Debt-for-Debt Exchanges."
7.375% Senior Notes.
 
No dividends are payable with respect to the zero coupon convertible preferred stock due 2013; however, the liquidation preference accretes from the initial liquidation preference of $253.675 per share at issuance date at an annual rate of 9.25% compounded quarterly to a liquidation preference of $1,000 per share at maturity in 2013. The zero coupon preferred stock is convertible at the option of the holders prior to redemption or maturity into our class A common stock at a conversion rate of 19.4882 shares of our class A common stock for each share of zero coupon preferred stock, subject to adjustment upon the occurrence of specified events. Generally, holders of our zero coupon convertible preferred stock are not entitled to vote on any matter required or permitted to be voted on by the holders of our class A common stock. We may choose to redeem some or all of the preferred stock starting December 23, 2005, and the preferred stock may be tendered by the holders for acquisition by us on December 23, 2005 and 2008, in each case at a redemption price equal to the liquidation preference on the redemption date. The zero coupon preferred stock is mandatorily redeemable on December 23, 2013 at the fully accreted liquidation preference of $1,000 per share. We may elect, subject to the satisfaction of specified requirements, to pay any redemption or tender price with our class A common stock.
Zero Coupon Preferred Stock.
 
Shares of our series D exchangeable preferred stock due 2009 had a liquidation preference of $1,000 per share. Dividends on the series D preferred stock accrued at an annual rate of 13% of the liquidation preference, were cumulative from the date of issuance and were payable quarterly in cash. These shares of preferred stock were retired in 2003.
Series D Preferred Stock.
 
Shares of our series E exchangeable preferred stock due 2010 had a liquidation preference of $1,000 per share. Dividends on the series E preferred stock accrued at an annual rate of 11.125% of the liquidation preference, were cumulative from the date of issuance and were payable quarterly in cash or, on or prior to February 15, 2003 at our option, in additional shares of series E preferred stock. These shares of preferred stock were retired in 2003.
Series E Preferred Stock.
 
For the year ended December 31, 2004, we purchased and retired a total of $1,346 million in aggregate principal amount at maturity of our outstanding senior notes and convertible senior notes in exchange for $1,421 million in cash. As a result, we recognized an $83 million loss in other income (expense) in the statements of operations, representing the excess of the purchase price over the carrying value of the purchased and retired notes and the write-off of unamortized debt financing costs, net of the recognition of a portion of the deferred premium associated with the termination of some of our interest rate swaps. Additional information regarding out interest rate swaps and the deferred premium can be found in note 8.
2004 Debt Retirements.
 
For the year ended December 31, 2004, we entered into several non-cash debt-for-debt exchange transactions with holders of our securities. As a result, we exchanged $1,032 million in principal amount of the 9.375% senior notes and $481 million in principal amount of our 9.5% senior notes for a total of $1,647 million in principal amount of new senior notes. The new senior notes consist of $918 million in principal amount of 6.875% senior notes issued at a $61 million discount to their principal amount, $592 million in principal amount of 5.95% senior notes issued at a $54 million discount to their principal amount, and $137 million in principal amount of 7.375% senior notes issued at an $11 million discount to their principal amount. These transactions were accounted for as debt modifications. As a result, the $17 million of the deferred premium resulting from the settlement of a fair value hedge associated with the 9.5% senior notes is now associated with the 5.95% and 6.875% senior notes and will be recognized as an adjustment to interest expense over the remaining life of the 5.95% and 6.875% senior notes. Additional information regarding our interest rate swaps and the related deferred premium can be found in note 8.
2004 Debt-for-Debt Exchanges.
 
For the year ended December 31, 2003, we purchased and retired a total of $4,049 million in aggregate principal amount at maturity of our outstanding senior notes and convertible senior notes in exchange for 30.6 million shares of class A common stock valued at $588 million and $3,626 million in cash. As a result, we recognized a $204 million loss in other income (expense) in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations, representing the excess of the purchase price over the carrying value of the purchased and retired notes and the write-off of unamortized debt financing costs. During the same period, we also purchased and retired a total of $932 million in aggregate face amount of our outstanding mandatorily redeemable preferred stock in exchange for about $972 million in cash. As a part of these transactions, we recognized a $48 million loss in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations, representing the excess of the purchase price over the carrying value of the purchased and retired preferred stock and the write-off of unamortized financing costs. In connection with the implementation of SFAS No. 150, "Accounting for Certain Financial Instruments with Characteristics of both Liabilities and Equity" effective July 1, 2003 the losses associated with our third quarter 2003 preferred stock retirements are included in other income (expense) in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations.
2003 and 2002 Debt and Preferred Stock Retirements.
 
For the year ended December 31, 2002, we purchased and retired a total of $1,928 million in aggregate principal amount at maturity of our outstanding senior notes and convertible senior notes in exchange for 97.7 million shares of class A common stock valued at $596 million and about $666 million in cash. As a result, we recognized a $514 million gain in other income (expense) in the statement of operations, representing the excess of the carrying value over the purchase price of the purchased and retired notes and the write-off of unamortized debt financing costs. In accordance with SFAS No. 84, "Induced Conversions of Convertible Debt," the shares of our class A common stock issued in excess of the shares that the holders would have been entitled to had they converted under the original terms of the convertible notes are multiplied by the fair value of the shares on the transaction date and the result is recorded as debt conversion expense of $160 million in other income (expense) in the statement of operations.
 
As of December 31, 2004, our bank credit facility provided for total secured financing capacity of $6,178 million, subject to the satisfaction or waiver of applicable borrowing conditions. This facility consisted of a $4,000 million revolving loan commitment, of which $1,000 million has been borrowed, and a term loan outstanding of $2,178 million, all of which has been borrowed.
Bank Credit Facility.
 
In 2004, we amended our bank credit facility to create a new $4,000 million revolving credit facility that replaced our then-existing revolving credit facility and one of our then-existing term loans. In connection with the amendment, we borrowed $1,000 million of this new facility and used $476 million of cash on hand to repay the entire outstanding balance of one of our then-existing term loans in the amount of $1,360 million and our then-outstanding revolving loan in the amount of $116 million. This transaction was accounted for as an extinguishment of debt in accordance with SFAS No. 140, "Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities." Thus, we recognized a $34 million loss in other income (expense) in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations, representing the write-off of unamortized debt financing costs associated with the old credit facility. The new revolving credit facility can be used to secure letters of credit for the full amount available under the facility.
 
In 2005, we entered into a secured term loan agreement of $2,200 million, the proceeds of which were used to refinance our outstanding term loan of $2,178 million. Under the terms of the new loan, the initial interest rate will be the London Interbank Offered Rate, or LIBOR plus 75 basis points, reflecting a reduction of 150 basis points from the rate on the then-existing term loan. The interest rate automatically will adjust to the applicable rate of our existing $4,000 million revolving credit facility, currently LIBOR plus 100 basis points, on December 31, 2005 or earlier, if the merger agreement between Nextel and Sprint is terminated. The new term loan matures on February 1, 2010, at which time we will be obligated to pay the principal of the new term loan in one installment, and is subject to the terms and conditions of our existing revolving credit facility, which will remain unchanged, including provisions that allow the lenders to declare borrowings due immediately in the event of default.
 
Our credit facility requires compliance with two financial ratio tests: total indebtedness to operating cash flow and operating cash flow to interest expense, each as defined under the credit agreement. The maturity dates of the loans may accelerate if we do not comply with the financial ratio tests, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. As of December 31, 2004, we were in compliance with all financial ratio tests under our credit facility. We are also obligated to repay the loans if certain change of control events occur. Borrowings under the facility are currently secured by liens on substantially all of our assets, and are guaranteed by us and by substantially all of our subsidiaries. Our credit facility provides for the termination of these liens and subsidiary guarantees upon satisfaction of certain conditions, including improvements in debt ratings and the repayment of our remaining outstanding term loan. There is no provision under any of our indebtedness that requires repayment in the event of a downgrade by any ratings service.
 
Our ability to borrow additional amounts under the credit facility may be restricted by provisions included in some of our public notes that limit the incurrence of additional indebtedness in certain circumstances. The availability of borrowings under this facility also is subject to the satisfaction or waiver of specified borrowing conditions. As of December 31, 2004, we have satisfied the conditions under this facility and the applicable provisions of our senior note indentures did not restrict our ability to borrow the remaining amount available under the revolving credit commitment. In February 2005, we accepted the terms of the Report and Order, which requires us to establish a letter of credit in the amount of $2,500 million to provide assurance that funds will be available to pay the relocation costs of the incumbent users of the 800 MHz spectrum.
 
The credit facility also contains covenants which limit our ability and the ability of some of our subsidiaries to incur additional indebtedness; create liens; pay dividends or make distributions in respect of our or their capital stock or make specified other restricted payments; consolidate, merge or sell all or substantially all of our or their assets; guarantee obligations of other entities; enter into hedging agreements; enter into transactions with affiliates or related persons or engage in any business other than the telecommunications business. Although these covenants are similar to those contained in our previous credit facility, they have been revised under the amended credit facility to provide us with greater operating flexibility. In addition, in February 2005, we amended our credit facility primarily to modify the facility's definition of "change in control" to exclude the proposed merger with Sprint.
 
In February 2004, we exercised the early buy-out option for our capital lease in which we paid $191 million in cash, $156 million of which related to the reduction of the capital lease obligation, and recorded the $35 million difference as an adjustment to the book basis of the switch assets that were being leased.
Capital Lease Obligation.
 
In March 2003, we exercised the early buy-out option on another capital lease in which we paid $69 million in cash, $54 million of which related to the reduction of the capital lease obligation, and recorded the $15 million difference as an adjustment to the book basis of the switch assets that were being leased.
 
Future Maturities of Long-Term Debt
 
For the years subsequent to December 31, 2004, scheduled annual maturities of long-term debt, including our bank credit facility and finance obligation outstanding, as of December 31, 2004 are as follows:
 
 
We may, from time to time as we deem appropriate, enter into additional refinancing and similar transactions, including exchanges of our common stock or other securities for our debt and other long-term obligations and redemption, repurchase or retirement transactions involving our outstanding debt and equity securities, that in the aggregate may be material.
 
7. Fair Value of Financial Instruments
 
We have determined the estimated fair values of financial instruments using available market information and appropriate valuation methodologies. However, considerable judgment is required in interpreting market data to develop fair value estimates. As a result, the estimates presented below are not necessarily indicative of the amounts that we could realize or be required to pay in a current market exchange. The use of different market assumptions, as well as estimation methodologies, may have a material effect on the estimated fair value amounts.
 
 
The carrying amounts of these items are reasonable estimates of their fair values.
Cash and Cash Equivalents, Short-Term Investments, Accounts and Notes Receivable, Accounts Payable, Accrued Expenses and Due to Related Parties.
 
We estimate the fair value of these securities based on quoted market prices. At December 31, 2004 and 2003, marketable debt and equity securities included within prepaid expenses and other current assets and investments consist of the following:
Marketable Debt and Equity Securities.
 
 
We estimate the fair value of these securities based on quoted market prices of our senior notes and loans under our bank credit facility.
Long-Term Debt.
 
The fair value of these instruments is based on estimates obtained from bankers to settle the agreements. See note 8.
Derivative Instruments.
 
We estimate the fair value of these securities based on quoted market prices.
Mandatorily Redeemable Preferred Stock.
 
We estimate the fair value of our finance obligation based on the present value of future cash flows using a discount rate available for similar obligations.
Finance Obligation.
 
We use letters of credit to back some lease guarantees. Outstanding letters of credit totaled $8 million at December 31, 2004 and $24 million at December 31, 2003. Pursuant to the terms of the Report and Order described in note 15 below, we are required to establish a letter of credit in the amount of $2,500 million to provide assurance that funds will be available to pay the relocation costs of the incumbent users of the 800 MHz spectrum in connection with the band reconfiguration process. We obtained the letter of credit using borrowing capacity under our existing revolving credit facility. The letters of credit reflect fair value as a condition of their underlying purpose and are subject to fees competitively determined in the market place.
Letters of Credit.
 
8. Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities
 
We use derivative instruments, consisting primarily of interest rate swap agreements, to manage our exposure to changes in the fair values or future cash flows of some of our long-term debt, which are caused by interest rate fluctuations. We do not use derivative instruments for trading or other speculative purposes. The use of derivative instruments exposes us to market risk and credit risk. Market risk is the adverse effect that a change in interest rates has on the value of a financial instrument. We manage market risk associated with our derivative instruments by establishing and monitoring limits on the degree of risk that may be undertaken. This risk is also monitored through regular communication with senior management. While derivative instruments are subject to fluctuations in values, these fluctuations are generally offset by fluctuations in fair values or cash flows of the underlying hedged items. Credit risk is the risk that the counterparty exposes us to loss in the event of nonperformance. We mitigate credit risk by dealing only with counterparties that have at least an "A" rating from either Moody's or Standard & Poor's, and by setting exposure limits with each approved counterparty. We currently do not hedge assets or liabilities denominated in foreign currencies or foreign currency transactions.
 
From time to time, we hedge the cash flows and fair values of some of our long-term debt using interest rate swaps. We enter into these derivative contracts to manage our exposure to interest rate changes by achieving a desired proportion of fixed rate versus variable rate debt. In an interest rate swap, we agree to exchange the difference between a variable interest rate and either a fixed or another variable interest rate, multiplied by a notional principal amount.
 
In 2001, we entered into three interest rate swap agreements to hedge the risk of changes in fair value of a portion of our long-term fixed rate debt, which were attributable to changes in the LIBOR, as the benchmark interest rate. These fair value hedges qualified for hedge accounting using the short-cut method since the swap terms matched the critical terms of the hedged debt. Accordingly, there was no net effect on our results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2003 relating to the ineffectiveness of these fair value hedges. During 2003, we terminated all three swap agreements. As a result of the terminations, we recorded a deferred premium of $38 million, which we recognize as an adjustment to interest expense over the remaining life of the hedged debt. As described in note 6, a portion of this deferred premium associated with our purchase and retirement of a portion of the hedged debt was recognized as an offset to the loss on early retirement of the related senior notes. Additionally, a portion of this deferred premium has been transferred from one series of senior notes to two other series of senior notes as a result of debt-for-debt exchanges entered into during 2004. As a result, the portion of the deferred premium that was transferred to the different series of notes will now be recognized as an adjustment to the interest expense over the remaining life of those series.
 
Additionally, from time to time, we use interest rate swaps to hedge the variability of future cash flows, which are caused by changes in LIBOR, as the benchmark interest rate, associated with some of our long-term variable rate debt. In February 2003, we terminated a variable-to-variable interest rate swap in the notional amount of $400 million in accordance with its original terms. There was no realized gain or loss associated with this termination. Since this swap did not qualify for cash flow hedge accounting, we recognized changes in its fair value up to the termination date in our statement of operations in the period of the change. Interest expense includes a gain of $2 million in 2003 and a gain of $10 million in 2002, representing changes in the fair value of this swap. During 2003, we terminated our remaining cash flow hedge, which was recorded at its fair value, and paid $91 million in cash to satisfy our obligations under it. As a result of the termination, unrealized losses of about $10 million, representing the effective portion of the change in fair value reported in accumulated other comprehensive loss, were recognized in our statement of operations. The ineffective portion of the change in fair value of our swap qualifying for cash flow hedge accounting was recognized as interest expense in our statement of operations up to the termination date in the period of the change. Interest expense includes a loss of $8 million for the year ended December 31, 2003, related to the ineffective portion of the change in the fair value, offset by a gain of $3 million relating to the termination of the swap. Interest expense includes a loss of $22 million for the year ended December 31, 2002 related to the ineffective portion of the change in the fair value of this swap.
 
Interest expense related to the periodic net cash settlements on all swaps was $12 million in 2003 and $26 million in 2002. As of December 31, 2004, we did not have any significant derivative instruments.
 
9. Income Taxes
 
The components of the income tax benefit (provision) were as follows:
 
 
Our income tax benefit (provision) reconciles to the amount computed by applying the U.S. statutory rate to loss before extraordinary item as follows:
 
 
As further discussed below, during 2004 we released substantially all our net operating loss valuation allowance and a portion of our capital loss carryforward valuation allowance which had the effect of changing the balance sheet presentation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities beginning in 2004.
 
 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities as of December 31, 2003 consisted of the following:
 
 
At December 31, 2004, we had $6,376 million of consolidated net operating loss carryforwards for federal income tax that expire in varying amounts through 2023. The net operating loss carryforwards include additional deductions for depreciation and amortization that were reported on our most recently filed tax returns. At the end of 2003, we believed that our cumulative losses, when evaluated in connection with other qualitative factors and uncertainties concerning our business and industry, provided substantial negative evidence regarding the likelihood of our eventual realization of the tax benefit of our net operating and capital loss carryforwards, which outweighed the positive evidence available. Therefore, we maintained a valuation allowance of $2,544 million as of December 31, 2003 including reserves primarily for the tax benefit of net operating loss carryforwards, as well as for capital loss carryforwards and transactions associated with the tax benefit of stock option deductions.
 
Based on our cumulative operating results through June 30, 2004, and an assessment of our expected future operations, we concluded that it was more likely than not that we would be able to realize the tax benefits of our federal net operating loss carryforwards. Therefore in 2004, we decreased the valuation allowance attributable to our net operating loss carryforwards by $901 million as a credit to tax expense. Additionally, we released the valuation allowance attributable to the tax benefit of stock option deductions and credited stockholders' equity by $389 million. We have established a $142 million liability for probable tax exposures relating to the potential non-deductibility of certain federal and state income tax benefits.
 
During 2004, we determined that it was more likely than not that we would utilize a portion of our capital loss carryforwards before their expiration. Accordingly, we decreased the valuation allowance primarily attributable to capital loss carryforwards by $212 million as a credit to tax expense during 2004. Significant changes in our assessment of the future realization of our capital loss carryforwards would require us to reconsider the need for a valuation allowance associated with the capital loss deferred tax asset.
 
In connection with our adoption of SFAS No. 142 in the first quarter of 2002, we incurred a one-time cumulative non-cash charge to the income tax provision of $335 million to increase the valuation allowance related to our net operating losses and other deferred tax assets. For additional information regarding the adoption of SFAS No. 142, see note 5.
 
As a result of NII Holdings' bankruptcy reorganization in the fourth quarter 2002, we incurred a capital loss for tax purposes of $1,938 million, and accordingly, we increased our valuation allowance by $766 million.
 
10. Commitments and Contingencies
 
We lease various equipment, office facilities, retail outlets and kiosks, switching facilities, and transmitter and receiver sites under operating leases. The non-cancelable portion of these leases ranges from monthly up to 10 years. These leases, with few exceptions, provide for automatic renewal options and escalations that are either fixed or based on the consumer price index. Any rent abatements, along with rent escalations, are included in the computation of rent expense calculated on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Our lease term for most leases includes the initial non-cancelable term plus one renewal period, as the exercise of the related renewal option is reasonably assured (see note 1). Our cell site leases generally provide for an initial non-cancelable term of 5 to 7 years with 5 renewal options for 5 years each.
Operating Lease Commitments.
 
For years subsequent to December 31, 2004, minimum lease payments for all operating lease obligations that have lease terms exceeding one year, net of rental income, are as follows (in millions):
 
 
Total rental expense, net of rental income, was $548 million during 2004, $500 million during 2003 and $390 million during 2002.
 
We are a party to service and other contracts in connection with conducting our business. Minimum amounts due under some of the more significant agreements are $864 million in 2005, $707 million in 2006, $504 million in 2007, $288 million in 2008, $263 million in 2009 and $507 million thereafter. Amounts actually paid under some of these agreements will likely be higher due to variable components of these agreements. The more significant variable components that determine the ultimate obligation owed include such items as hours contracted, subscribers and other factors. In addition, we are party to various arrangements that are conditional in nature and obligate us to make payments only upon the occurrence of certain events, such as the delivery of functioning software or a product. In addition, significant amounts expected to be paid to Motorola for infrastructure, handsets and related services are not included in the figures above due to the uncertainty surrounding the timing and extent of these payments; however, the figures above do include the minimum contractual amounts. See note 13 with respect to amounts paid to Motorola in 2004, 2003 and 2002.
Other Commitments.
 
In April 2001, a purported class action lawsuit was filed in the Circuit Court in Baltimore, Maryland by the Law Offices of Peter Angelos, and subsequently in other state courts in Pennsylvania, New York and Georgia by Mr. Angelos and other firms, alleging that wireless telephones pose a health risk to users of those telephones and that the defendants failed to disclose these risks. We, along with numerous other companies, were named as defendants in these cases. The cases, together with a similar case filed earlier in Louisiana state court, were ultimately transferred to federal court in Baltimore, Maryland. On March 5, 2003, the court granted the defendants' motions to dismiss. The plaintiffs have appealed this decision.
Contingencies.
 
A number of lawsuits have been filed against us in several state and federal courts around the United States, challenging the manner by which we recover the costs to us of federally mandated universal service, Telecommunications Relay Service payment requirements imposed by the FCC, and the costs (including costs to implement changes to our network) to comply with federal regulatory requirements to provide E911, telephone number pooling and telephone number portability. In general, these plaintiffs claim that our rate structure that breaks out and assesses federal program cost recovery fees on monthly customer bills is misleading and unlawful. The plaintiffs generally seek injunctive relief and damages on behalf of a class of customers, including a refund of amounts collected under these regulatory line item assessments. We have reached a settlement with the plaintiff, who purports to represent a nationwide class of affected customers, in one of the lawsuits that challenged the manner by which we recover the costs to comply with federal regulatory requirements to provide E911, telephone number pooling and telephone number portability. The settlement was found to be fair and was approved by the court, which approval recently was affirmed by the appellate court, and a motion for rehearing was filed by one of the objectors. Assuming no further appeal is sought, the settlement renders moot a majority of these lawsuits and would not have a material effect on our business or results of operations.
 
We are subject to other claims and legal actions that arise in the ordinary course of business. We do not believe that any of these other pending claims or legal actions will have a material effect on our business or results of operation.
 
On December 15, 2004, we entered into a definitive agreement for a merger of equals with Sprint. The merger agreement contains certain termination rights for each of us and Sprint and further provides for the payment of a termination fee of $1,000 million upon termination of the merger agreement under specified circumstances involving an alternative transaction.
 
11. Capital Stock and Stock Rights
 
Under our certificate of incorporation, we have the authority to issue 2,180,000,000 shares of capital stock as follows:
 
 
 
 
The following is a summary description of our common stock.
 
Common Stock
 
Holders of common stock are entitled to share equally, share for share, if dividends are declared on the common stock, whether payable in cash, property or securities. There is no provision for cumulative voting with respect to the election of directors.
 
The holders of our class A common stock are entitled to one vote per share on all matters submitted for action by the stockholders.
Class A Common Stock.
 
Motorola is currently the only holder of our outstanding class B nonvoting common stock. During 2004, we purchased 6 million shares of our class B common stock from Motorola. We accounted for this transaction under the cost method and currently hold these shares in treasury. A holder of our class B common stock has no right to vote on any matters submitted for action by the stockholders. However, a holder of the class B common stock does have the right to vote as a separate class, with each share having one vote, on:
Class B Common Stock.
 
 
 
 
in which the class B common stock would be treated differently from the class A common stock.
 
Shares of class B common stock are convertible at any time at the option of the holder into an equal number of shares of class A common stock upon the actual or expected occurrence of any "voting conversion event" as defined in our certificate of incorporation.
 
Ranking
 
In the event of any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of our company or upon the distribution of our assets, all assets and funds remaining after payment in full of our debts and liabilities, and after the payment to the holders of the then outstanding preferred stock of the full preferential amounts to which they were entitled, would be divided and distributed among the holders of the class A common stock and nonvoting class B common stock ratably.
 
Common Stock Reserved for Issuance
 
As of December 31, 2004, we had reserved class A common stock for future issuance as detailed below (in millions).
 
 
An additional $1,000 million in aggregate dollar amount of shares of our class A common stock is available for issuance and sale under our Direct Stock Purchase Plan.
 
12. Stock and Employee Benefit Plans
 
Our incentive equity plan provides for the issuance to our directors, officers, employees and consultants of up to 180.0 million shares of class A common stock upon the exercise or issuance of a variety of forms of equity rights, including grants of options to purchase stock and deferred shares. Typically, we grant nonqualified stock options to purchase stock under our equity incentive plan, and such options that currently are outstanding generally:
Incentive Equity Plan.
 
 
 
 
If an option holder's employment is involuntarily terminated within one year after the effective date of a change of control of Nextel, then that holder's unvested options will immediately vest or otherwise become payable, subject to some limits. Stock options are nontransferable, except to family members or by will, as provided for in the incentive equity plan, and the actual value of the stock options that an employee may realize, if any, will depend on the excess of the market price on the date of exercise over the exercise price.
 
A summary of the Incentive Equity Plan stock option activity for employees and directors is as follows (shares in millions):
 
 
The following is a summary of the status of employees' stock options outstanding and exercisable at December 31, 2004 (shares in millions):
 
 
The Incentive Equity Plan also provides for the grant of deferred shares at no cost to selected employees generally in consideration of future services. These deferred shares generally vest over a service period ranging from several months to four years. An accelerated vesting schedule may be triggered in the event of a change in control of our company. We granted deferred shares during the following years with the weighted average fair values per share at grant date as indicated: 2004  1.2 million shares at $24.40, 2003  1.1 million shares at $17.37; and 2002  0.2 million shares at $6.59.
 
Under our associate stock purchase plan, eligible employees may subscribe to purchase shares of class A common stock through payroll deductions of up to 10% of eligible compensation. The purchase price is the lower of 85% of market value on the last trading day preceding the first or last day of each quarter. The aggregate number of shares purchased by an employee may not exceed $25,000 of fair market value annually, subject to limitations imposed by Section 423 of the Internal Revenue Code. A total of 20.0 million shares are authorized for purchase under the plan. The Employee Stock Purchase Plan will terminate on the tenth anniversary of its adoption. Employees purchased shares under this plan during the following years at the weighted average prices per share as indicated: 2004  0.7 million shares at $19.62, 2003  1.3 million shares at $11.06 and 2002  3.9 million shares at $3.79.
Associate Stock Purchase Plan.
 
The fair value of each option, deferred share and employee stock purchase plan grant is estimated on the measurement date using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model as prescribed by SFAS No. 123 using the following assumptions:
Fair Value Disclosures.
 
 
The Black-Scholes option-pricing model was developed for use in estimating the fair value of traded options that have no vesting restrictions and are fully transferable. In addition, option-pricing models require the input of highly subjective assumptions including the expected stock price volatility, which we estimate based on five years of our historical stock price in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 123. Because our stock options issued under our incentive equity plan have characteristics significantly different from those of traded options, and because changes in the subjective input assumptions can materially affect the fair value estimate, we believe that the existing models do not necessarily provide a reliable single measure of the fair value of those stock options. See note 1 for the effect on our income (loss) available to common stockholders and earnings (loss) per common share had we recorded compensation costs determined based on the fair value of the awards granted using the foregoing valuation methodology. The weighted average estimated fair value of our stock options granted during 2004 was $17.25, during 2003 was $11.35 and during 2002 was $3.40.
 
We maintain a defined contribution plan pursuant to Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code covering all eligible officers and employees. Participants may contribute up to 80% of their base salary compensation. We provide a matching contribution of 100% of the first 4% of salary contribution by employees that, prior to 2005, vested over four years. Effective January 1, 2005, the matching contribution will vest immediately, including any unvested portion of matching contributions made prior to 2005. Our contributions were $25 million during 2004, $22 million during 2003 and $18 million during 2002.
Employee Benefit Plans.
 
Under our Cash Compensation Deferral Plan, we provide specified eligible employees and directors the opportunity to defer cash compensation in excess of amounts permitted under our 401(k) defined contribution plan. Eligible employees may defer up to 90% of base salary and 100% of annual bonus. We may, but are not obligated to, make discretionary contributions, but have made no such contributions to date. Distribution payments are made at retirement, death, disability, termination of employment or a specific future year designated by the employee at the time of deferral. The Cash Compensation Deferral Plan is unfunded and all benefits will be paid from our general assets. Other liabilities includes $9 million as of December 31, 2004 and $6 million as of December 31, 2003, representing deferrals made by participating employees and investment earnings based on hypothetical investment elections.
 
In 2003, we adopted a long-term incentive plan designed to reward key members of our management for achieving specific performance goals over a two-year period commencing January 1, 2004. This plan offers management the opportunity to receive a cash-based payment, or a combination of cash and stock-based payments at the discretion of the compensation committee of the board of directors. We recorded compensation expense related to the long-term incentive plan of $15 million in 2004. In 2002, we had a similar long-term incentive plan designed to reward key members of our management for achieving specific performance goals over a two-year period commencing January 1, 2002. We recorded compensation expense related to this long-term incentive plan of $26 million in 2003 and $22 million in 2002.
Long-Term Incentive Plan.
 
13. Related Party Transactions
 
We have a number of strategic and commercial relationships with third parties that have had a significant impact on our business, operations and financial results and have the potential to have a similar impact in the future. Of these, we believe that our material relationships are with Motorola, Nextel Partners, NII Holdings and Craig O. McCaw, all of which are or have been related parties of ours. See note 3 for discussions of our transactions with NII Holdings and Nextel Partners.
 
We have a number of important strategic and commercial relationships with Motorola. Motorola is the sole supplier of the iDEN infrastructure equipment and substantially all of the handsets used throughout our network. We work closely with Motorola to improve existing products and develop new technologies and enhancements to existing technologies for use in our network. We also rely on Motorola for network maintenance and enhancement.
Motorola.
 
In July 1995, we acquired all of Motorola's 800 MHz SMR FCC licenses in the continental United States in exchange for shares of our class A common stock and nonvoting class B common stock. As described in note 1, in September 2004, we purchased 6 million shares of our nonvoting class B common stock from Motorola for $141 million in cash which was based on the then-current market value of the shares. As of February 28, 2005, Motorola owned 47.5 million shares of our class A common stock and 29.7 million shares of our nonvoting class B common stock, all of which can be converted into shares of class A common stock in specified circumstances at Motorola's election, representing about 7% of our outstanding class A common stock, assuming that conversion. As a result of the reduction in Motorola's ownership of our common stock, Motorola is no longer entitled to nominate any persons for election as members of our board of directors. In September 2004, we also purchased about 5.6 million shares of Nextel Partners class A common stock from Motorola for an aggregate cash purchase price of $77 million, which was based on the then-current market value of the shares.
 
On December 14, 2004, in contemplation of our merger agreement with Sprint, and to help facilitate a tax-free spin off of Sprint's local wireline business following the merger, we entered into an agreement with Motorola under which Motorola agreed, subject to the terms and conditions of the agreement, not to enter into a transaction that constitutes a disposition of its class B common stock of Nextel or shares of non-voting common stock issued to Motorola in connection with the transactions contemplated by the merger agreement. In consideration of Motorola's compliance with the terms of this agreement, upon the occurrence of certain events, we have agreed to pay Motorola a consent fee of $50 million, which Motorola must return to us upon the occurrence of certain events, including, specifically, if the merger with Sprint is not completed.
 
Our equipment purchase agreements with Motorola govern our rights and obligations regarding purchases of network equipment manufactured by Motorola. Motorola and we have also agreed to warranty and maintenance programs and specified indemnity arrangements. We also pay Motorola for handset service and repair, transmitter and receiver site rent and training. We entered into a new funding model for the purchase of handset models that we introduced in late 2003 and for other new models to be introduced throughout 2004 and 2005. Under this model, we prepay a certain quantity of handsets in exchange for discounts on all future handset purchases. We are also reimbursed by Motorola for co-op advertising and various marketing and promotional agreements.
 
Net payables to Motorola were $169 million at December 31, 2004 and $230 million at December 31, 2003. Net amounts paid to Motorola by us during the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002 consisted of the following:
 
 
All payments due to and due from Motorola are settled in accordance with customary commercial terms for comparable transactions.
 
In December 2003, Mr. McCaw resigned from our board, on which he had served since 1995. In 1995, Mr. McCaw acquired significant equity interests in Nextel, and we agreed to certain arrangements related to our corporate governance, including terms relating to the election of directors selected by Digital Radio, L.L.C., an affiliate of Mr. McCaw, and the approval of specified transactions and corporate actions and the formulation of specified aspects of our business strategy. In connection with these equity investments, we also reached an agreement with Mr. McCaw and Digital Radio on a number of matters relating to the ownership, acquisition and disposition of our securities and limitations on Mr. McCaw and Digital Radio's participation in two-way terrestrial-based mobile wireless systems in North America and South America. Concurrently with the execution of the securities purchase agreement with Digital Radio and Mr. McCaw, we entered into a management support agreement with Eagle River, Inc., a controlled affiliate of Digital Radio, pursuant to which Eagle River would provide management and consulting services to us, our board of directors and the operations committee of the board from time to time as requested. In consideration of the services to be provided to us under the management support agreement, we entered into an incentive option agreement granting to Eagle River the option to purchase an aggregate of 2.0 million shares of our class A common stock at an exercise price of $6.13 per share. In November 2004, Eagle River exercised its option to purchase 1.2 million shares and has an option to purchase an additional 0.8 million shares. The remaining option is fully exercisable and expires in April 2005.
McCaw Affiliates.
 
In March 2003, we, Digital Radio and Mr. McCaw entered into an agreement revising these arrangements and terminated substantially all corporate governance and other rights originally granted to Digital Radio. As a result, all of the outstanding shares of the class A preferred stock and class B preferred stock held by Digital Radio converted into shares of our class A common stock in March 2003. In October 2003, we further amended these arrangements to clarify the scope of the restrictions on Mr. McCaw's participation in specified wireless businesses to allow Mr. McCaw to acquire interests in MMDS spectrum licenses subject to his granting us certain options to purchase any such interests in excess of specified minimum amounts.
 
One of our directors is chairman of the board and chief executive officer of CommScope, Inc. We paid CommScope $6 million during 2004, $4 million during 2003 and $1 million during 2002 for coaxial cables and related equipment for our transmitter and receiver sites. We had amounts payable to CommScope outstanding of $1 million at December 31, 2004 and less than $1 million at December 31, 2003. One of our executive officers was a member of the board of directors of RadioFrame Networks, Inc. through December 31, 2003. We paid RadioFrame $9 million during 2003 and $6 million during 2002 for network equipment and software. We had amounts payable to RadioFrame outstanding of about $1 million as of December 31, 2003. All payments due to and due from other related parties are settled in accordance with customary commercial terms for comparable transactions.
Other Related Party Transactions.
 
14. Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)
 
 
 
As described in note 9, we released certain income tax valuation allowances and recorded a tax benefit of $901 million in the second quarter and $175 million in the third quarter of 2004 associated with these releases.
 
As described in note 3, in November 2003, we sold 3.0 million shares of NII Holdings common stock, which generated $209 million in net proceeds and a gain of $184 million.
 
 
15. Subsequent Events
 
As part of an ongoing FCC proceeding to eliminate interference with public safety operators in the 800 MHz band, in August 2004, the FCC released the Report and Order, as supplemented by an errata and by a Supplemental Order released on December 22, 2004, which together we refer to as the Report and Order, which provides for the exchange of a portion of our FCC licenses of spectrum, which the FCC is effecting through modifications to these licenses. Related rules would be implemented in order to realign spectrum in the 800 MHz band to resolve the problem of interference with public safety systems operating in that band. The Report and Order calls for a band reconfiguration plan similar to the joint proposals submitted by the leading public safety associations and us during the course of the proceeding. In February 2005, we accepted the Report and Order and the related rights, obligations and responsibilities, which obligate us to surrender all of our holdings in the 700 MHz spectrum band and certain portions of our holdings in the 800 MHz spectrum band, and to fund the cost to public safety systems and other incumbent licensees to reconfigure the 800 MHz spectrum band through a 36-month phased transition process. Under the Report and Order, we received licenses for 10 MHz of nationwide spectrum in the 1.9 gigahertz, or GHz, band, but we are required to relocate and reimburse the incumbent licensees in the 1.9 GHz band for their costs of relocation to another band designated by the FCC.
Report and Order.
 
The Report and Order requires us to make a payment to the United States Department of the Treasury at the conclusion of the band reconfiguration process to the extent that the value of the 1.9 GHz spectrum we received exceeds the total of the value of licenses for spectrum positions in the 700 MHz and 800 MHz bands that we surrendered under the decision, plus the actual costs that we will incur to retune incumbents and our own facilities under the Report and Order. The FCC determined under the Report and Order that, for purposes of calculating that payment amount, the value of this 1.9 GHz spectrum is about $4,860 million and the aggregate value of this 700 MHz spectrum and the 800 MHz spectrum surrendered, net of 800 MHz spectrum received as part of the exchange, is about $2,059 million, which, because of the potential payment to the U.S. Treasury, results in minimum cash expenditures by us of about $2,801 million by us under the Report and Order. We may incur certain costs as part of the reconfiguration process for which we will not receive credit against the potential payment to the U.S. Treasury. In addition, under the Report and Order, we are obligated to pay the full amount of the costs relating to the reconfiguration plan, even if those costs exceed $2,801 million.
 
Pursuant to the terms of the Report and Order, to ensure that the band reconfiguration process will be completed, we are required to establish a letter of credit in the amount of $2,500 million to provide assurance that funds will be available to pay the relocation costs of the incumbent users of the 800 MHz spectrum. We obtained the letter of credit using borrowing capacity under our existing revolving credit facility. See " K. Regulation  2. 800 MHz band spectrum reconfiguration."
 
In January 2005, we entered into a new $2,200 million secured term loan agreement, the proceeds of which were used to refinance the existing $2,178 million Term Loan E under our credit facility. Under the terms of the new term loan, the initial interest rate will be LIBOR plus 75 basis points, reflecting a reduction of 150 basis points from the rate on the existing term loan. The interest rate automatically will adjust to the applicable rate of our existing $4,000 million revolving credit facility, currently LIBOR plus 100 basis points, on December 31, 2005 or earlier, if the merger agreement between Nextel and Sprint is terminated. The new term loan matures on February 1, 2010, at which time we will be obligated to pay the principal of the new term loan in one installment, and is subject to the terms and conditions of our existing revolving credit facility, which will remain unchanged, including provisions that allow the lenders to declare borrowings due immediately in the event of default.
Term loan refinancing.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.18
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC and reflect all adjustments that are necessary for a fair presentation of the results for interim periods. All adjustments made were of a normal recurring nature, except as described in the notes below. You should not expect the results of operations for interim periods to be an indication of the results for a full year. You should read the condensed consolidated financial statements in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes contained in our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004.
 
Basic earnings per common share is calculated by dividing income available to common stockholders by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings per common share adjusts basic earnings per common share for the effects of potentially dilutive common shares. Potentially dilutive common shares primarily include the dilutive effects of shares issuable under our equity plans computed using the treasury stock method, and the dilutive effects of shares issuable upon the conversion of our convertible senior notes and convertible preferred stock computed using the if-converted method.
Earnings Per Common Share.
 
 
About 13 million shares issuable upon the assumed conversion of our convertible senior notes and convertible preferred stock could potentially dilute earnings per share in the future but were excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings per common share for the three months ended March 31, 2005 due to their antidilutive effects. Additionally, about 26 million shares issuable under our equity plans that could also potentially dilute earnings per share in the future were excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings per common share for the three months ended March 31, 2005 as the exercise prices exceeded the average market price of our class A common stock.
 
About 8 million shares issuable upon the assumed conversion of certain of our convertible senior notes could potentially dilute earnings per share in the future but were excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings per common share for the three months ended March 31, 2004 due to their antidilutive effects. Additionally, about 25 million shares issuable under our equity plans that could also potentially dilute earnings per share in the future were excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings per common share for the three months ended March 31, 2004 as the exercise prices exceeded the average market price of our class A common stock.
 
We account for stock-based compensation for employees and non-employee members of our board of directors in accordance with Accounting Principles Board, or APB, Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees." Under APB Opinion No. 25, compensation expense is recognized on a straight-line basis over the vesting period and is based on the intrinsic value on the measurement date, calculated as the difference between the fair value of the class A common stock and the
Stock-Based Compensation.
 
relevant exercise price. We account for stock-based compensation for non-employees, who are not members of our board of directors, at fair value using a Black-Scholes option-pricing model in accordance with the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards, or SFAS, No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation" and other applicable accounting principles. We recorded stock-based compensation expense of $5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2005 and $1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2004.
 
We comply with the disclosure provisions of SFAS No. 123 and SFAS No. 148, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation  Transition and Disclosure." Consistent with the provisions of SFAS No. 123 as amended, had compensation costs been determined based on the fair value of the awards granted since 1995, our income available to common stockholders and earnings per common share would have been as follows:
 
 
Supplemental Cash Flow Information.
 
 
In September 2004, the Emerging Issues Task Force, or EITF, issued Topic D-108, "Use of the Direct Method to Value Intangible Assets." In EITF Topic D-108, the SEC staff announced that companies must use the direct value method to determine the fair value of their intangible assets acquired in business combinations completed after September 29, 2004. The SEC staff also announced that companies that currently apply the residual value approach for valuing intangible assets with indefinite useful lives for purposes of impairment testing must use the direct value method by no later than the beginning of their first fiscal year after December 15, 2004. Under this new accounting guidance, we performed an impairment test to measure the fair value of our 800 and 900 megahertz, or MHz, and 2.5 gigahertz, or GHz, licenses in the first quarter 2005 using the direct value method and concluded that there was no impairment as the fair values of these intangible assets were greater than their carrying values. In October 2005, we will perform our annual impairment test of these Federal Communications Commission, or FCC, licenses and goodwill.
New Accounting Pronouncements.
 
In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, issued SFAS No. 123R (revised 2004), "Share-Based Payment." The statement is a revision of SFAS No. 123, and supercedes APB Opinion No. 25. The statement focuses primarily on accounting for transactions in which we obtain employee services in share-based payment transactions. This statement requires a public company to measure the cost of employee services received in exchange for an award of equity instruments based on the grant-date
 
fair value of the award and contemplates a number of alternative transition methods for implementing the statement in the period in which it is adopted. In April 2005, the SEC delayed the effective date of this statement for most public companies. This statement is now effective for annual periods that begin after June 15, 2005. We are in the process of determining the amount of the impact that the adoption of SFAS No. 123R will have on our consolidated statements of operations in the reporting period in which it is adopted and for the periods following its adoption and the transition method we will use.
 
In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 153, "Exchanges of Nonmonetary Assets," to address the measurement of exchanges of nonmonetary assets. It eliminates the exception from fair value measurement for nonmonetary exchanges of similar productive assets in APB Opinion No. 29, "Accounting for Nonmonetary Transactions," and replaces it with an exception for nonmonetary exchanges that do not have commercial substance. This statement specifies that a nonmonetary exchange has commercial substance if the future cash flows of the entity are expected to change significantly as a result of the exchange. This statement will be effective for nonmonetary asset exchanges occurring in fiscal periods beginning after June 15, 2005. We have not yet determined the amount of the impact, if any, that the adoption of SFAS No. 153 will have on our consolidated statements of operations or consolidated balance sheets in the reporting period in which it is adopted or for the periods following its adoption.
 
 
 
On February 7, 2005, we accepted the terms and conditions of the FCC's Report and Order, which implemented a spectrum reconfiguration plan designed to eliminate interference with public safety operators in the 800 MHz band. Under the terms of the Report and Order, we surrendered our spectrum rights in the 700 MHz spectrum band and certain portions of our spectrum rights in the 800 MHz band, and received spectrum rights in the 1.9 GHz band and spectrum rights in a different part of the 800 MHz band and undertook to pay the costs incurred by us and third parties in connection with the reconfiguration plan. Based on the FCC's determination of the values of the spectrum rights we received and relinquished, the minimum obligation incurred by us under the Report and Order will be $2,801 million. The Report and Order also provides that qualifying costs we incur as part of the reconfiguration plan, including costs to reconfigure our own infrastructure and spectrum positions, can be used to offset the minimum obligation of $2,801 million; however, we are obligated to pay the full amount of the costs relating to the reconfiguration plan, even if those costs exceed that amount.
 
The Report and Order requires us to complete the reconfiguration plan within a 36-month period. In addition, a financial reconciliation is required to be completed in 2008 at the end of the reconfiguration implementation at which time we would be required to make a payment to the United States Department of the Treasury to the extent that the value of the spectrum rights that we received exceeds the total of (i) the value of spectrum rights that we surrendered and (ii) the qualifying costs referred to above.
 
We have accounted for this transaction as a nonmonetary exchange in accordance with APB Opinion No. 29, "Accounting for Nonmonetary Transactions." Accordingly, we have recorded the spectrum rights for the 1.9 GHz and the 800 MHz spectrum that we received under the Report and Order as FCC licenses at a value equal to the book value of the spectrum rights for the 800 MHz and 700 MHz spectrum that we surrendered under the Report and Order plus an amount equal to the portion (preliminarily estimated at $430 million) of the reconfiguration costs that represents our current estimate of amounts to be paid under the Report and Order that will not benefit our infrastructure or spectrum positions. We will account for all other costs incurred pursuant to the Report and Order that relate to our spectrum and infrastructure, when expended, either as fixed assets or as additions to the FCC license intangible asset, consistent with our accounting and capitalization policy. We have recorded no gain or loss as this transaction did not represent the culmination of an earnings process.
 
During the three months ended March 31, 2005, we also wrote-off $37 million of fully amortized customer lists and non-compete agreements. For intangible assets with finite lives, we recorded aggregate amortization expense of $4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2005 and $11 million for the three months ended March 31, 2004.
 
 
 
During the three months ended March 31, 2005, we entered into several non-cash debt-for-debt exchange transactions with holders of our securities. As a result, we exchanged $122 million in principal amount of the 9.5% senior notes for a total of $133 million in principal amount of new senior notes. The new senior notes consist of $77 million in principal amount of 5.95% senior notes issued at a $7 million discount to their principal amount, and $56 million in principal amount of 6.875% senior notes issued at a $4 million discount to their principal amount. As a result, the $4 million of the deferred premium resulting from the settlement of a fair value hedge associated with the 9.5% senior notes is now associated with the 5.95% and 6.875% senior notes and will be recognized as an adjustment to interest expense over the remaining life of the 5.95% and 6.875% senior notes.
Senior Notes.
 
During the three months ended March 31, 2004, we made a cash tender offer for the outstanding principal amount of our 9.5% senior notes. As a result, we purchased and retired a total of $167 million in aggregate principal amount at maturity of our outstanding 9.5% senior notes in exchange for $191 million in cash. As part of these transactions, we recognized a $17 million loss in other (expense) income in the accompanying condensed consolidated statements of operations, representing the excess of the purchase price over the carrying value of the purchased and retired notes and the write-off of unamortized debt financing costs, net of the recognition of a portion of the deferred premium associated with the termination of some of our interest rate swaps.
 
In January 2005, we entered into a new $2,200 million secured term loan agreement, the proceeds of which were used to refinance the existing $2,178 million Term Loan E under our credit facility. The new loan provides for an initial interest rate equal to the London Interbank Offered Rate, or LIBOR, plus 75 basis points, reflecting a reduction of 150 basis points from the rate on the refinanced term loan. The interest rate on the new term loan automatically will adjust to the applicable rate of the existing $4,000 million revolving credit facility, currently LIBOR, plus 100 basis points, on December 31, 2005 or earlier, if the merger agreement between Nextel and Sprint Corporation is terminated. The new term loan matures on February 1, 2010, at which time we will be obligated to pay the principal of the new term loan in one installment, and is subject to the terms and conditions of our existing revolving credit facility, which remains unchanged, including provisions that allow the lenders to declare borrowings due immediately in the event of default. This transaction was accounted for as an extinguishment of debt in accordance with SFAS No. 140, "Accounting for the Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities." Thus, we recognized a $37 million loss in other income (expense) in the accompanying condensed consolidated statements of operations, representing the write-off of unamortized debt financing costs associated with the old term loan.
Bank Credit Facility.
 
In February 2005, we amended our credit facility to modify the facility's definition of "change in control" to exclude our proposed merger with Sprint Corporation.
 
In March 2005, we obtained a $2,500 million letter of credit that was required under the terms of the Report and Order to provide assurance that funds will be available to pay the relocation costs of the incumbent users of the 800 MHz spectrum. The Report and Order provides for periodic reductions in the amount of the letter of credit, which would result in a corresponding increase in the amount of available revolving loan commitments.
 
In March 2005, we commenced a consent solicitation with respect to our outstanding zero coupon convertible preferred stock due 2013 to effect certain proposed amendments to the terms of the preferred stock and to the related certificate of designation, primarily to provide incentives to holders of the preferred stock to convert their shares into shares of our class A common stock. We since have received consents from holders of all of the outstanding preferred stock and, pursuant to the terms of the consent solicitation, made a cash consent payment of $15.00 per share, or a total of $4 million, to those holders, which has been recorded as preferred stock dividends in the accompanying condensed consolidated statement of changes in stockholders' equity. To be effective, the holders of our common stock must also approve the proposed amendments. Among other things, these amendments would (i) provide for a special dividend of $30.00 per share payable upon conversion of the preferred stock into shares of our class A common stock, (ii) change the notice period and accelerate the date on which the preferred stock may be redeemed by us from December 23, 2005 to April 30, 2005, and (iii) eliminate certain rights of the holders of the preferred stock.
Zero Coupon Convertible Preferred Stock.
 
In March 2005, we also made an offer to exchange any and all outstanding shares of the zero coupon convertible preferred stock due 2013 for an equal number of shares of our newly issued series B zero coupon convertible preferred stock due 2013, or series B preferred stock, the terms of which are substantially identical to the terms of the outstanding preferred stock after giving effect to the proposed amendments described above, including the right to receive the special dividend of $30.00 per share payable upon conversion and the acceleration of the date on which the preferred stock may be redeemed. The exchange offer was made to give all holders of preferred stock an opportunity to realize the benefits of the proposed amendments without having to wait for the amendments to be approved by the holders of our common stock. The exchange offer expired on March 31, 2005. Substantially all of the shares of outstanding zero coupon convertible preferred stock were properly tendered and not withdrawn as of the expiration date. We accepted all of the tendered shares for exchange in the exchange offer and in April 2005, we issued shares of our series B preferred stock in the exchange.
 
We may, from time to time, as we deem appropriate, enter into additional refinancing and similar transactions, including exchanges of our common stock or other securities for our debt and other long-term obligations, and redemption, repurchase or retirement transactions that in the aggregate may be material.
 
 
We maintain a valuation allowance that includes reserves against certain of our deferred tax asset amounts in instances where we determine that it is more likely than not that a tax benefit will not be realized. Our valuation allowance has historically included reserves primarily for the benefit of net operating loss carryforwards, as well as for capital loss carryforwards, separate return net operating loss carryforwards and the tax benefit of stock option deductions relating to employee compensation. Prior to June 30, 2004, we had recorded a full reserve against the tax benefits relating to our net operating loss carryforwards because, at that time, we did not have a sufficient history of taxable income to conclude that it was more likely than not that we would be able to realize the tax benefits of the net operating loss carryforwards. Accordingly, we recorded in our income statement only a small provision for income taxes, as our net operating loss carryforwards resulting from losses generated in prior years offset virtually all of the taxes that we would have otherwise incurred. Based on our cumulative operating results through June 30, 2004, and an assessment of our expected future operations at that time, we concluded that it was more likely than not that we would be able to realize the tax benefits of our federal net operating loss carryforwards. Therefore, we decreased the valuation allowance attributable to our net operating loss carryforwards during the quarter ended June 30, 2004 and began recording an income tax provision based on applicable federal and state statutory rates.
 
Income tax provisions for interim periods are based on estimated effective annual tax rates. Income tax expense varies from federal statutory rates primarily because of state taxes. Additionally, we establish reserves when, despite our belief that our tax return positions are fully supportable, certain positions could be challenged and the positions may not be probable of being fully sustained. For the three months ended March 31, 2005, our income tax provision was $89 million consisting of an income tax provision of $267 million, based on the combined federal and state estimated statutory rate of 39%, and a net benefit of $178 million. The net benefit is derived from the release of the portion of valuation allowance attributable to the tax impact of recognized capital gains on completed
 
transactions, including the transaction described in the Report and Order, and capital gains that are more likely than not to be recognized on anticipated transactions. The benefit was partially offset by an increase in our tax reserves of $46 million.
 
 
We have a number of strategic and commercial relationships with third parties that have had a significant impact on our business, operations and financial results and have the potential to have such an impact in the future. Of these, we believe that our relationships with Motorola, Inc., Nextel Partners, Inc., and NII Holdings, Inc., all of which are related parties of ours for purposes of financial reporting, are the most significant.
 
We paid a total of $631 million during the three months ended March 31, 2005 and $708 million during the three months ended March 31, 2004 to these related parties, net of discounts and rebates, for infrastructure, handsets and related costs, net roaming charges and other costs. We received a total of $15 million during the three months ended March 31, 2005 and $16 million during the three months ended March 31, 2004 from these related parties for providing telecommunication switch, engineering and technology, marketing and administrative services. As of March 31, 2005, we had $222 million due from these related parties and $657 million due to these related parties. We also had a $193 million prepayment recorded in prepaid expenses and other current assets on our condensed consolidated balance sheet related to handset and network infrastructure to be provided by Motorola in the future. As of December 31, 2004, we had $132 million due from these related parties and $294 million due to these related parties.
 
As of March 31, 2005, we owned about 18% of the outstanding common stock of NII Holdings and about 32% of the outstanding common stock of Nextel Partners.
 
 
In April 2001, a purported class action lawsuit was filed in the Circuit Court in Baltimore, Maryland by the Law Offices of Peter Angelos, and subsequently in other state courts in Pennsylvania, New York and Georgia by Mr. Angelos and other firms, alleging that wireless telephones pose a health risk to users of those telephones and that the defendants failed to disclose these risks. We, along with numerous other companies, were named as defendants in these cases. The cases, together with a similar case filed earlier in Louisiana state court, were ultimately transferred to federal court in Baltimore, Maryland. In March 2003, the court granted the defendants' motions to dismiss. In April 2004, the United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit reversed that dismissal and reinstated the cases, and a motion for rehearing was denied.
 
A number of lawsuits have been filed against us in several state and federal courts around the United States, challenging the manner by which we recover the costs to us of federally mandated universal service, Telecommunications Relay Service payment requirements imposed by the FCC, and the costs (including costs to implement changes to our network) to comply with federal regulatory requirements to provide enhanced 911, or E911, telephone number pooling and telephone number portability. In general, these plaintiffs claim that our rate structure that breaks out and assesses federal program cost recovery fees on monthly customer bills is misleading and unlawful. The plaintiffs generally seek injunctive relief and damages on behalf of a class of customers, including a refund of amounts collected under these regulatory line item assessments. We have reached a preliminary settlement with the plaintiff, who represents a nationwide class of affected customers, in one of the lawsuits that challenged the manner by which we recover the costs to comply with federal regulatory requirements to provide E911, telephone number pooling and telephone number portability. The settlement has been approved by the court and affirmed by the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit and, if not appealed successfully to the U.S. Supreme Court, would render moot a majority of these lawsuits, and would not have a material effect on our business or results of operations.
 
We are subject to other claims and legal actions that arise in the ordinary course of business. We do not believe that any of these other pending claims or legal actions will have a material effect on our business or results of operation.
 
On December 15, 2004, we entered into a definitive agreement for a merger of equals with Sprint. The merger agreement contains certain termination rights for both Sprint and us and further provides for the payment of a termination fee of $1,000 million upon termination of the merger agreement under specified circumstances involving an alternative transaction.
 
See note 2 for information regarding our obligations under the FCC's Report and Order.
 
 
 
To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of
Nextel Communications, Inc.
Reston, Virginia
 
We have reviewed the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheet of Nextel Communications, Inc. and subsidiaries (the "Company") as of March 31, 2005, and the related condensed consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income and cash flows for the three-month periods ended March 31, 2005 and 2004, and the condensed consolidated statement of changes in stockholders' equity for the three-month period ended March 31, 2005. These interim financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management.
 
We conducted our reviews in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). A review of interim financial information consists principally of applying analytical procedures and making inquiries of persons responsible for financial and accounting matters. It is substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the objective of which is the expression of an opinion regarding the financial statements taken as a whole. Accordingly, we do not express such an opinion.
 
Based on our reviews, we are not aware of any material modifications that should be made to such condensed consolidated interim financial statements for them to be in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
 
We have previously audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheet of Nextel Communications, Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2004, and the related consolidated statements of operations, changes in stockholders' equity, and cash flows for the year then ended (not presented herein); and in our report dated March 14, 2005, we expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial statements (such report includes an explanatory paragraph relating to the adoption of the provisions of Emerging Issues Task Force Issue No. 00-21, "Accounting for Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables," in 2003 and Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets," in 2002). In our opinion, the information set forth in the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2004 is fairly stated, in all material respects, in relation to the consolidated balance sheet from which it has been derived.
 
DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP
 
McLean, Virginia
May 10, 2005
 


