FILE:S/S-8K-20050727162120.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On July 27, 2005, Sprint Corporation announced its second quarter 2005 results. The press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99
 
 
Sprint Reports Second Quarter Results
 
 
 
 
 
Overland Park, Kan. - July 27, 2005:
 
Sprint (NYSE: FON) today announced second quarter 2005 financial results. Driven by solid execution across each of its business units, the company reported record quarterly earnings from continuing operations which are reflected in second quarter 2005 diluted earnings per share of 40 cents compared to 16 cents in the second quarter 2004. Adjusted EPS*, which removes the effects of special items, was 42 cents per share compared to 21 cents per share in the same period a year ago. EPS comparisons in the quarter benefited by approximately 8 cents per share due to reduced Long distance depreciation expense following the 2004 third quarter asset impairment.
 
Consolidated revenues were a quarterly record $7.1 billion and increased 4% year-over-year and 3% sequentially on 12% annual Wireless growth, a steady contribution from Local and better-than-expected Long distance performance.
 
In the quarter, Wireless reported continued strong ARPU* of $62 and a solid improvement in customer retention with churn declining to 2.2%. Wireless added 400,000 direct and nearly 600,000 total subscribers in the quarter. In the last 12 months, Wireless has added 4.3 million subscribers and increased its total base by 20%.
 
Local added 39,000 DSL subscribers in the quarter and increased its base by 207,000, or 54%, in the last 12 months. Growth in Local data revenues in the quarter was 17%.
 
Long distance reported strong gains in enterprise IP services and total revenues were stable sequentially.
 
In the quarter, Sprint's total business revenues increased 1% compared to the second quarter of 2004. Local consumer revenues declined 1% year-over-year, while all other consumer revenues increased 7%.
 
Consolidated Adjusted EBITDA* in the quarter was $2.29 billion, an increase of 13% from the year-ago period and 11% compared to the first quarter. Consolidated results were driven by a 17% sequential gain in Wireless, a record margin in Local and solid performance in Long distance.
 
Second quarter Free Cash Flow* was more than $2.5 billion. Free Cash Flow* this quarter includes nearly $1.2 billion in proceeds from the monetization of the Wireless communication towers, as well as approximately $200 million of proceeds from the sale of the Long distance audioconferencing business. Year-to-date Free Cash Flow* was $3.1 billion. This strong cash production has contributed to a substantial improvement in financial strength.
 
At the end of the period, Net Debt* stood at $9.8 billion reflecting a reduction of $6.0 billion during the previous 12 months. Sprint also holds investments in marketable debt securities of approximately $600 million that are not included in the Net Debt* calculation. At the end of the 2005 second quarter, Net Debt* was less than 1.2 times trailing 12-month Adjusted EBITDA*. At the end of the quarter, cash on hand was $6.2 billion.
 
"I'm extremely pleased with our second quarter performance," said Gary Forsee, Sprint chairman and chief executive officer. "We achieved strong operational performance and outstanding financial results. Sprint associates continue to maintain their focus on delivering value to our customers and shareholders while developing detailed plans for our proposed merger with Nextel and planned spin-off of the Local business.
 
"As a result of our strong quarter, we are increasing our full-year outlook. Clearly, we have solid momentum as we enter the final stage of forming America's premier communications company."
 
Sprint Consolidated Highlights
 
Sprint Corporation
Selected Financial Data
(millions)
 
 
Net income for the second quarter was $600 million versus net income of $236 million for the same period last year. Operating income was $1.2 billion in the second quarter compared with operating income of $718 million a year ago. Adjusted Operating Income* increased 57% to $1.3 billion this quarter compared with $800 million a year ago.
 
In the second quarter of 2005, the difference between Sprint's reported operating income and Adjusted Operating Income* is the result of pre-tax charges of $33 million primarily related to the impairment of IT applications and $27 million in merger integration costs. These merger costs have been reflected as unallocated corporate costs and therefore have been excluded from segment results.
 
The 2004 second quarter items mostly consist of severance and real estate costs associated with Sprint's customer-facing organizational realignment and the Web Hosting wind-down. Additionally, second quarter 2004 special items include the settlement of previously reserved MCI receivables.
 
The difference between reported net income and Adjusted net income* in each period includes the after-tax impacts of the above special items and the after-tax impact of a premium related to the early retirement of a portion of equity unit notes in 2004.
 
Wireless
Selected Financial Data
(millions)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sprint has launched its new EV-DO (Evolution Data Optimized) services in initial markets and expects to extend this service to approximately half the U.S. population by early 2006. This new high-speed data service is expected to fuel additional growth in Sprint's array of wireless data services for businesses and consumers. Approximately 40% of the year-to-date capital spending in Wireless is associated with EV-DO. Sprint also expanded Wi-Fi hotspots in the quarter to more than 19,000 and announced separate agreements with Intel and Motorola to advance development of broadband wireless technology.
 
Second quarter wireless data revenues increased 64% year-over-year, and 9% sequentially. At the end of the quarter, there were 8.1 million data subscribers including 7.0 million Sprint PCS Vision
SM
subscribers. For the quarter, data revenues contributed nearly $6.50 to ARPU.
 
In the quarter, Sprint unveiled a new wireless bill aimed at making it easier for customers to understand their services and associated charges. This initiative builds on continuing efforts to improve customer satisfaction.
 
Total second quarter operating expenses increased 7% compared to the year-ago period. Costs of services and products were up 6% year-over-year, principally driven by higher
 
traffic volumes generated by a growing subscriber base. Selling, general and administrative costs were up 12% from the year-ago period mainly due to an expanded direct retail presence. Sequentially, total operating expenses were flat.
 
Local
Selected Financial Data
(millions)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Revenue was supported by strong growth in data, which increased 17% over the year-ago period, and is now 16% of total revenue. In addition to growth in DSL lines, special access was up nearly 10% year-over-year as wireless carriers continue to increase their capacity.
 
Total second quarter operating expenses decreased 5% compared to the year-ago period. Costs of services and products increased 1% as general cost controls were more than offset by higher costs to support continued growth in DSL and increased access expense driven by higher long distance volumes. The $64 million year-over-year decline in selling, general and administrative expenses was due to reduced business selling costs, reduced IT costs, and lower bad debt expense.
 
Sequentially, selling, general and administrative expenses were lower due to a reduction of bad debt expense and lower pension and other post-employment benefit costs in the period due to a year-to-date accrual adjustment.
 
Long distance
Selected Financial Data
(millions)
 
 
 
 
 
In the quarter, total voice revenues decreased 9% from the year-ago period. Consumer voice revenues declined 25% while business voice revenues, including wholesale and affiliates, declined by 6%. Sequentially, Consumer decreased 12% while Business increased 1%. Long distance consumer voice revenues in the quarter were approximately 2% of consolidated revenues.
 
Data revenues decreased 4% from the second quarter of 2004, but increased 2% sequentially. In part, this reflects customer transitions to IP-based services. Dedicated IP revenue increased 15% from the year-ago period and 1% sequentially.
 
Total second quarter operating expenses declined 21% year-over-year. The improvement reflects the benefits of previous initiatives to streamline sales, marketing and support resources, lower bad debt, and reduced depreciation expense. These savings were partially offset by higher costs of services and products driven by higher minute volumes, which were up 12%. Sequentially, lower selling, general and administrative expenses were offset by higher costs of services and products and restructuring costs.
 
In the quarter, Sprint continued to ramp up revenues from initiatives to enable cable companies to deliver local, long distance and wireless services. At quarter's end, Sprint was providing wireline service to more than 435,000 cable subscribers.
 
Forward-looking Guidance
 
The following guidance excludes any impacts from Sprint's proposed merger with Nextel Communications, Inc. (Nextel) and pending acquisition of U.S. Unwired. We currently expect that these transactions will close in the third quarter. We expect to incur significant transition costs throughout the balance of 2005 associated with the Nextel merger including the costs of re-branding, process and system integration, real estate, and employee retention, relocation and severance costs. We expect that upon closing, the combined company will continue to provide segment reporting for Wireless, Local and Long distance operations. The combined company is not expected to report separate results for Sprint and Nextel wireless operations.
 
Sprint now expects full-year consolidated revenue growth to be in the 3% to 4% range. Wireless is expected to produce low double-digit growth, Local is expected to decline at a very low single-digit rate, and Long distance is now expected to decline at a high single-digit rate. Sprint now expects full-year consolidated Adjusted EBITDA* to be $8.7 billion to $8.9 billion versus our previous range of $8.5 billion to $8.7 billion. Sprint continues to expect Wireless to produce Adjusted EBITDA* in a range of $4.8 billion to $5.0 billion. Sprint expects Local to provide Adjusted EBITDA* of approximately $2.9 billion, and Long distance is now expected to produce Adjusted EBITDA* of approximately $1 billion. We continue to expect full-year capital spending to be between $4.0 billion and $4.2 billion.
 
*Financial Measures
 
Sprint provides financial measures generated using generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and using adjustments to GAAP (non-GAAP). The non-GAAP financial measures reflect industry conventions, or standard measures of liquidity, profitability or performance commonly used by the investment community for comparability purposes. These non-GAAP measures are not measurements under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. These measurements should be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the information contained in our financial reporting. We have defined below each of the non-GAAP measures we use, but these measures may not be synonymous to similar measurement terms used by other companies.
 
Sprint provides reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures in its financial reporting. Because Sprint does not predict special items that might occur in the future, and our forecasts are developed at a level of detail different than that used to prepare GAAP-based financial measures, Sprint does not provide reconciliations to GAAP of its forward-looking financial measures.
 
The measures used in this release include the following:
 
is defined as operating income plus special items. This non-GAAP measure should be used in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the analysis provided in the statement of operations.
Adjusted Operating Income (Loss)
 
We believe this measure is useful because it allows investors to evaluate our operating results for different periods on a more comparable basis by excluding special items.
 
andare defined as net income or loss plus special items, net of tax and the diluted EPS calculated thereon. These non-GAAP measures should be used in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the analysis provided in the statement of operations.
Adjusted net income (loss)
Adjusted earnings per share (EPS) or Adjusted loss per share
 
We believe that these measures are useful because they allow investors to evaluate our performance for different periods on a more comparable basis by excluding items that do not relate to the ongoing operations of our businesses.
 
is defined as operating income plus depreciation and special items. This non-GAAP measure should be used in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the analysis provided in the statement of cash flows.
Adjusted EBITDA
 
We believe that Adjusted EBITDA provides useful information to investors because it is an indicator of the strength and performance of our ongoing business operations, including our ability to fund discretionary spending such as capital expenditures, spectrum acquisitions and other investments and our ability to incur and service debt. While depreciation and amortization are considered operating costs under generally accepted accounting principles, these expenses primarily represent non-cash current period allocation of costs associated with long-lived assets acquired or constructed in prior periods. Adjusted EBITDA is a calculation commonly used as a basis for investors, analysts and credit rating agencies to evaluate and compare the periodic and future operating performance and value of companies within the telecommunications industry.
 
is defined as the change in cash and equivalents less the change in debt, investment in debt securities, proceeds from common stock and other financing activities, net. This non-GAAP measure should be used in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the analysis provided in the statement of cash flows.
Free Cash Flow
 
We believe that Free Cash Flow provides useful information to investors, analysts and our management about the cash generated by our core operations after interest and dividends and our ability to fund scheduled debt maturities and other financing activities, including discretionary refinancing and retirement of debt and purchase or sale of investments.
 
is consolidated debt, including current maturities, and equity unit notes, less cash and cash equivalents. This non-GAAP measure should be used in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the analysis provided in the statements of financial position and cash flows.
Net Debt
 
We believe that Net Debt provides useful information to investors, analysts and credit rating agencies about the capacity of the company to reduce the debt load and improve its capital structure.
 
(Average monthly service revenue per user) is calculated by dividing wireless service revenues from direct subscribers by weighted average monthly wireless direct subscribers. This industry operating metric is used to measure revenue on a per-user basis. While this measure is not defined under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, the measure uses GAAP as the basis for calculation.
ARPU
 
We believe that ARPU provides useful information concerning the appeal of our rate plans and service offerings and our performance in attracting and retaining high value customers.
 
Conference Call and Webcast Information
 
Sprint management will provide an overview of the company's performance and participate in an interactive Q&A via conference call on Wednesday, July 27, 2005, beginning at 7 a.m. CDT. Call-in numbers are 866-215-1938 (toll free) and 816-650-0742 (international). Please plan on gaining access 10 minutes prior to the start of the call.
 
A simultaneous webcast will be available at
www.sprint.com/sprint/ir/ai/web.html.
 
A continuous replay of the call will be available through August 7, 2005, and can be accessed by dialing 888-775-8696 (toll free) or 402-220-1326 (international).
 
Cautionary Statement regarding forward-looking information
 
This news release includes "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the securities laws. The statements in this news release regarding the business outlook, expected performance, information regarding the merger of Sprint and Nextel Communications, Inc. (Nextel), as well as other statements that are not historical facts, are forward-looking statements. The words "estimate," "project," "forecast," "intend," "expect," "believe," "target," "providing guidance" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are estimates and projections reflecting management's judgment and involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested by the forward-looking statements. With respect to these forward-looking statements, management has made assumptions regarding, among other things, customer and network usage, customer growth and retention, pricing, operating costs, the timing of various events and the economic environment.
 
Future performance cannot be ensured. Actual results may differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. Some factors that could cause actual results to differ include:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sprint believes these forward-looking statements are reasonable; however, you should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which are based on current expectations and speak only as of the date of this release. Sprint is not obligated to publicly release any revisions to forward-looking statements to reflect events after the date of this release. Sprint provides a detailed discussion of risk factors in periodic SEC filings, including its 2004 Form 10-K as amended, and you are encouraged to review these filings.
 
About Sprint
 
Sprint offers an extensive range of innovative communication products and solutions, including global IP, wireless, local and multiproduct bundles. A Fortune 100 company with more than $27 billion in annual revenues in 2004, Sprint is widely recognized for developing, engineering and deploying state-of-the-art network technologies, including the United States' first nationwide all-digital, fiber-optic network; an award-winning Tier 1 Internet backbone; and one of the largest 100-percent digital, nationwide wireless networks in the United States. For more information, visit .
www.sprint.com
 
Media Relations:
 
Scott Stoffel
913-794-3603
scott.e.stoffel@mail.sprint.com
 
Investor Relations:
 
Kurt Fawkes
913-794-1126
Investorrelation.sprintcom@mail.sprint.com
 
 
 
 
See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
 
 
 
See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
 
 
 
See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
 
 
In the 2004 second quarter, Sprint recognized a $14 million pre-tax benefit to bad debt expense as a result of the final payment of the settlement of claims with MCI (WorldCom) that previously had been fully reserved. This settlement increased net income by $9 million.
 
 
In the 2004 second quarter, Sprint recorded restructuring charges of $96 million associated with Sprint's organizational realignment initiative and the termination of the Web Hosting business. These charges reduced net income by $58 million.
 
In the 2004 year-to-date period, Sprint recorded $126 million in restructuring charges, which reduced net income by $77 million. All year-to-date restructuring charges in 2004 were associated with Sprint's organizational realignment initiatives and the termination of the Web Hosting business.
 
 
At the time of closing, Sprint received approximately $1.2 billion in prepaid operating lease rentals. These amounts have been deferred and will be amortized over the remaining terms of the underlying ground leases as a reduction of operating lease expense associated with towers. The receipt of these proceeds has been reflected within cash provided by operating activities in the Condensed Consolidated Cash Flow Information.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This information should be reviewed in connection with Sprint's consolidated financial statements.
 
 
 
(M) - in millions
 
This information should be reviewed in connection with Sprint's consolidated financial statements.
 


