FILE:S/S-8K-20051014095657.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On October 10, 2005, the Human Capital and Compensation Committee of the Board of Director of Sprint Nextel Corporation ("Sprint Nextel") approved a new deferred compensation plan, to be effective January 1, 2006. Eligible participants will be employees of Sprint Nextel and its subsidiaries at director level and above and outside directors of Sprint Nextel. Eligible employees will be allowed to elect, in the year before the compensation is earned, to contribute up to 75% of base salary and up to 100% of incentive compensation, in increments of 1%. Outside directors will be allowed to contribute up to 100% of director fees in increments of 1%. All contributions, and earnings credited to contributions, will be 100% vested. Investment options will be selected by the Employee Benefits Committee in a manner designed to offer diversification across an array of asset classes. The investment options will include phantom share units representing shares of Sprint Nextels common stock. All inves tments will be unfunded obligations of Sprint Nextel. Participants will be able to transfer between investment options on any business day, but only four transfers may be made in each calendar year and three months must elapse between transfers. Participants will be able to elect payment of benefits to begin on a specified date at least five (5) years in the future or on termination of the participants employment (subject to a six months delay to the extent required under Internal Revenue Code Section 409A), in the form of a lump sum or annual installments over two to fifteen years. Notwithstanding the participants election and subject to Internal Revenue Code Section 409A, benefits will be immediately distributed in a lump sum upon the participants death, termination of the participants employment if the aggregate account balance is less than $20,000, or termination of the participants employment within one year of a change in control of Sprint Nextel. In the event of a participants long-term disability, distribution will began immediately in a lump sum or installments as elected. All distributions will be made in cash.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


