FILE:S/S-8K-20051026185909.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On October 26, 2005, Sprint Nextel Corporation announced its third quarter 2005 results. The press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Inquiries should be directed to:
 
Media Relations
Nick Sweers
913-794-3460
nicholas.sweers@sprint.com
 
Investor Relations
Kurt Fawkes
913-794-1140
Investorrelations@sprint.com
 
INDEX
 
 
 
 
Wireless
 
 
 
 
Long Distance
 
 
 
 
Local
 
 
 
 
today reported third quarter 2005 earnings per share of 23 cents compared to a loss per share of $1.32 in third quarter 2004. Pro forma Adjusted EPS*, which removes the effects of special items, was 25 cents per share compared to 16 cents in the same period a year ago. The current quarter pro forma earnings benefited by about 4 cents per share due to lower depreciation expense in Long Distance following the asset impairment charge recorded in the year-ago period. Pro forma Adjusted EPS* was reduced by 16 cents in third quarter 2005 and 15 cents in third quarter 2004 related to incremental tax-effected net amortization and depreciation expense which has significantly increased from historical reported amounts due to the step up of our customer base in purchase accounting. Excluding these purchase accounting impacts, pro forma Adjusted EPS* was 41 cents per share compared to 31 cents in the same period a year ago.
In its first quarterly earnings release, Sprint Nextel Corp. (NYSE: S)
 
Pro forma Consolidated revenues of $11.2 billion increased 8% from the year-ago period and pro forma Adjusted OIBDA* of $3.67 billion increased 10%. Pro forma Adjusted Operating Income* of $1.32 billion was up 46%, in part aided by the lower Long Distance depreciation expense. Total pro forma capital expenditures in the third quarter were $1.6 billion.
 
Editor's Note:
 
In accordance with purchase accounting rules, Sprint Nextel's third quarter 2005 reported results are comprised of Sprint's stand-alone results for the first 43 days of the quarter, prior to the merger with Nextel Communications, Inc., plus combined Sprint and Nextel results for the remainder of the quarter. US Unwired Inc. results are included effective from the Aug. 12 acquisition date. To provide comparability with previous quarters, Sprint Nextel is also providing pro forma Consolidated and Wireless results and financial measures*. The pro forma results assume the merger of Sprint and Nextel occurred at the beginning of each reporting period presented and includes the impact of conforming the accounting policies and both financial and non-financial measures of the two companies. The Consolidated and Wireless pro forma results do not include any US Unwired results prior to the date of its acquisition because they do not significantly affect reported results. Beginning this quarter, the Local segment now includes both the local telephone operations and the North Supply product distribution business for all periods presented since North Supply will be included with the Local operations when it is spun-off, which is expected to occur in the second quarter of 2006. To provide investors continuity and comparative information, certain results for the local telephone operations only are also included in this release.
 
"Sprint Nextel is determined to reshape the industry with its exceptional technology portfolio, innovative vision and creative partnerships that span beyond traditional telecom providers," said Gary Forsee, Sprint Nextel president and chief executive officer. "With most of our revenue coming from the fastest growing segments of the telecommunications industry and 100% ownership in nationwide wireless and wireline IP networks, Sprint Nextel is positioned to be the premiere distributor of content, media and data services in the industry.
 
"Our strong third quarter results reflect solid contributions across our telecommunications businesses. But I'm even more encouraged by our collective future and our ability to achieve truly ambitious business objectives. We've only just begun to let customers know, Yes, you can.'"
 
Pro forma Consolidated revenues in the quarter were aided by double-digit growth year-over-year in Wireless, a steady contribution from Local and improved Long Distance performance.
 
Wireless posted year-over-year pro forma revenue growth of 12% and contributed approximately 72% of Sprint Nextel's total pro forma revenues in the quarter. For the quarter, Wireless had a $65 pro forma direct post-paid ARPU*. Wireless added 1.3 million pro forma subscribers, ending the period with a total of 45.6 million subscribers. Wireless also built on its data leadership with the rollout of wireless high-speed data service (EV-DO or Evolution Data Optimized) to initial markets. Pro forma data revenues grew 62% from the year-ago period.
 
For the second consecutive quarter, Long Distance reported a sequential increase in revenues. Long Distance is benefiting from gains in enterprise IP services and demand for services by cable network operators.
 
Local revenues increased 5% from the year-ago period benefiting from a new major contract at North Supply. Local telephone operations revenues were flat year-over-year. Local added 48,000 DSL lines in the quarter driving a 17% improvement in data revenues.
 
Sprint Nextel's third quarter results were impacted by the recent hurricane activities, resulting in service revenue credits of $45 million, bad debt expense of $17 million, $20 million of other costs primarily related to network expenses and asset impairment charges of $30 million for a total pre-tax hurricane impact of $112 million.
 
Free Cash Flow* this quarter of $1.35 billion includes $376 million from the sale of a portion of the investment in NII Holdings, Inc. as well as a distribution of $201 million from Virgin Mobile USA. Year-to-date Free Cash Flow* was $4.42 billion. This strong cash production has contributed to a substantial improvement in financial strength. At the end of the period, net debt* was approximately $16.4 billion.
 
Consolidated
 
Selected Unaudited Financial Data (dollars in millions except per share amounts)
 
NM  Not meaningful
 
Selected Unaudited Pro Forma Financial Data (dollars in millions except per share amounts)
 
NM  Not meaningful
 
Discussion of the following Consolidated results is on a pro forma basis.
 
 
 
 
Wireless
 
Selected Unaudited Financial Data (dollars in millions)
 
NM  Not meaningful
 
Selected Unaudited Pro Forma Financial Data (dollars in millions except ARPU)
 
NM  Not meaningful
 
Discussion of the following Wireless results is on a pro forma basis.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Long Distance
 
Selected Unaudited Financial Data (dollars in millions)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Local
 
Selected Unaudited Financial Data (dollars in millions)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Forward-Looking Guidance
 
Pro forma Consolidated revenues for the year are expected to be about $44 billion, up about 8% from prior year pro forma revenues.
 
 
 
 
Pro forma Consolidated Adjusted OIBDA* for the year is estimated to be about $14 billion, up approximately 9% from prior year pro forma Adjusted OIBDA*.
 
Pro forma Capex is forecasted to be about $6.4 billion for the year, excluding re-banding.
 
 
 
 
In the fourth quarter, exclusive of affiliate acquisitions, we expect to add approximately 1.4 million direct subscribers with strong sequential gains in both post-paid and pre-paid.
 
*Financial Measures
 
Sprint Nextel provides financial measures generated using generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and using adjustments to GAAP (non-GAAP). The non-GAAP financial measures reflect industry conventions, or standard measures of liquidity, profitability or performance commonly used by the investment community for comparability purposes. These non-GAAP measures are not measurements under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. These measurements should be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the information contained in our financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. We have defined below each of the non-GAAP measures we use, but these measures may not be synonymous to similar measurement terms used by other companies.
 
Sprint Nextel provides reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures in its financial reporting. Because Sprint Nextel does not predict special items that might occur in the future, and our forecasts are developed at a level of detail different than that used to prepare GAAP-based financial measures, Sprint Nextel does not provide reconciliations to GAAP of its forward-looking financial measures.
 
The measures used in this release include the following:
 
is defined as operating income plus special items. This non-GAAP measure should be used in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the analysis provided in the statement of operations. We believe this measure is useful because it allows investors to evaluate our operating results for different periods on a more comparable basis by excluding special items.
Adjusted Operating Income (Loss)
 
and or are defined as net income or loss plus special items, net of tax and the diluted EPS calculated thereon. These non-GAAP measures should be used in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the analysis provided in the statement of operations. We believe that these measures are useful because they allow investors to evaluate our performance for different periods on a more comparable basis by excluding items that do not relate to the ongoing operations of our businesses.
Adjusted Net Income (Loss)
Adjusted Earnings per Share (EPS)
Adjusted Loss per Share
 
is defined as operating income plus depreciation, amortization and special items. represents Adjusted OIBDA divided by non-equipment net operating revenues for wireless and Adjusted OIBDA divided by net operating revenues for Local and Long Distance. Although we have used substantively similar measures in the past, which we called "Adjusted EBITDA," we now use the term Adjusted OIBDA and Adjusted OIBDA Margin to describe the measure we use as it more clearly reflects the elements of the measure. These non-GAAP measures should be used in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the analysis provided in the statement of operations. We believe that Adjusted OIBDA and Adjusted OIBDA Margin provide useful information to investors because they are an indicator of the strength and performance of our ongoing business operations, including our ability to fund discretionary spending such as capital expenditures, spectrum acquisitions and other investments and our ability to incur and service debt. While depreciation and amortization are considered operating costs under generally accepted accounting principles, these expenses primarily represent non-cash current period allocation of costs associated with long-lived assets acquired or constructed in prior periods. Adjusted OIBDA and Adjusted OIBDA Margin are calculations commonly used as a basis for investors, analysts and credit rating agencies to evaluate and compare the periodic and future operating performance and value of companies within the telecommunications industry.
Adjusted OIBDA
Adjusted OIBDA Margin
 
is defined as the change in cash and equivalents less the change in debt, investment in marketable securities, proceeds from common stock and other financing activities, net. This non-GAAP measure should be used in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the analysis provided in the statement of cash flows. We believe that Free Cash Flow provides useful information to investors, analysts and our management about the cash generated by our core operations after interest and dividends and our ability to fund scheduled debt maturities and other financing activities, including discretionary refinancing and retirement of debt and purchase or sale of investments.
Free Cash Flow
 
is consolidated debt, including current maturities, less cash and equivalents and current marketable securities. This non-GAAP measure should be used in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the analysis provided in the statements of financial position and cash flows. We believe that Net Debt provides useful information to investors, analysts and credit rating agencies about the capacity of the company to reduce the debt load and improve its capital structure.
Net Debt
 
(Average monthly service revenue per user) is calculated by dividing wireless service revenues from direct subscribers by weighted average monthly wireless direct subscribers. This industry operating metric is used to measure revenue on a per-user basis. While this measure is not defined under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, the measure uses GAAP service revenues as the basis for calculation. We believe that ARPU provides useful information concerning the appeal of our rate plans and service offerings and our performance in attracting and retaining high value customers.
ARPU
 
Safe Harbor
 
This news release includes "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the securities laws. The statements in this news release regarding the business outlook, expected performance, as well as other statements that are not historical facts, are forward-looking statements. The words "estimate," "project," "forecast," "intend," "expect," "believe," "target," "providing guidance" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are estimates and projections reflecting management's judgment and involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested by the forward-looking statements. With respect to these forward-looking statements, management has made assumptions regarding, among other things, customer and network usage, customer growth and retention, pricing, operating costs, the timing of various events and the economic environment.
 
Future performance cannot be ensured. Actual results may differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. Some factors that could cause actual results to differ include:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sprint Nextel believes these forward-looking statements are reasonable; however, you should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which are based on current expectations and speak only as of the date of this release. Sprint Nextel is not obligated to publicly release any revisions to forward-looking statements to reflect events after the date of this release. Sprint Nextel provides a detailed discussion of risk factors in periodic SEC filings, including its 2004 Form 10-K as amended, and you are encouraged to review these filings.
 
About Sprint Nextel
 
Sprint Nextel offers a comprehensive range of wireless and wireline communications services to consumer, business and government customers. Sprint Nextel is widely recognized for developing, engineering and deploying innovative technologies, including two robust wireless networks offering industry leading mobile data services; instant national and international walkie-talkie capabilities; and an award-winning and global Tier 1 Internet backbone. For more information, visit .
www.sprint.com/mr <http://www.sprint.com/mr>
 
 
 
See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Statements of Operations.
 
 
In the 2004 third quarter and year-to-date periods, Sprint recorded hurricane-related charges of $30 million, which reduced net income by $18 million.
 
In the 2005 year-to-date period, Sprint recorded merger-related charges of $268 million, which reduced net income by $170 million. All merger costs were related to Sprint's merger with Nextel and planned spin-off of Sprint's local operations. Merger-related costs have been reflected as unallocated corporate costs and therefore have been excluded from segment results.
In the 2004 year-to-date period, Sprint recognized a $14 million pre-tax benefit to bad debt expense as a result of the final payment of the settlement of claims with MCI (WorldCom) that previously had been fully reserved. This settlement increased net income by $9 million.
 
In the 2005 year-to-date period, Sprint recorded restructuring and asset impairment charges of $71 million, which reduced net income by $45 million. In addition to the 2005 third quarter charges noted above, Sprint recorded restructuring charges of $5 million related to Sprint's ongoing organizational realignment initiatives and the termination of the Web Hosting business. Asset impairment charges of $28 million were related to the write-down of various software applications.
In the 2004 third quarter, Sprint recorded restructuring and asset impairment charges of $3.56 billion, which increased loss from continuing operations by $2.24 billion. The impairment of Sprint's long distance network assets, which was determined in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 144, , resulted in a pre-tax, non-cash charge of $3.54 billion. This charge was the result of the analysis of long distance business trends and projections that considered current industry and competitive conditions, recent regulatory rulings, evolving technologies and the company's strategy to expand its position as a leader in the development and delivery of customer solutions requiring transparent wireless and wireline connectivity. This charge reduced the net book value of Sprint's long distance property, plant and equipment by about 60%, to $2.3 billion at September 30, 2004. Restructuring charges related to Sprint's organizational realignment initiatives and the termination of the Web Hosting business aggregated $19 million in the quarter.
Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets
In the 2004 year-to-date period, Sprint recorded $3.69 billion in restructuring charges and asset impairments, which increased loss from continuing operations by $2.31 billion. In addition to the 2004 third quarter charges noted above, Sprint recorded $126 million of restructuring charges associated with Sprint's organizational realignment initiatives and the termination of the Web Hosting business.
 
In the 2004 year to date period, Sprint recorded $58 million in charges reflecting premiums paid for the early retirement of debt. In addition to the 2004 third quarter charges noted above, Sprint recorded a $20 million charge for premiums paid on the early retirement of $750 million of equity unit notes. In connection with these retirements, Sprint recognized $12 million of deferred debt costs in Other income (expense), net. These charges reduced net income by $43 million.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pro Forma consolidated statements of operations have been presented as if the Sprint Nextel merger occurred at the beginning of each period presented.
 
 
 
Pro Forma wireless statements of operations have been presented as if the Sprint Nextel merger occurred at the beginning of each period presented.
 
 
 
This information should be reviewed in connection with Sprint's consolidated financial statements.
 
 
 
 
 


