FILE:S/S-8K-20050803213350.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
Item 8.01    Other Events
 
On August 3, 2005, Sprint Corporation ("Sprint") announced the receipt of approval by the Federal Communications Commission ("FCC") of its proposed merger transaction with Nextel Communications, Inc. ("Nextel"). A copy of Sprint's press release is attached as Exhibit 99 to this report and incorporated herein by reference.
 
Also on August 3, 2005, the Antitrust Division of the Department of Justice announced that it has closed its investigation of the proposed merger transaction between Sprint and Nextel.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
SPRINT CORPORATION
 
Date: August 3, 2005
By: /s/ Michael T. Hyde                                
Michael T. Hyde, Assistant Secretary
 

 
 
 
 August 3, 2005  Sprint (NYSE: FON) and Nextel Communications Inc. (NASDAQ: NXTL) today announced that they have received Federal Communications Commission (FCC) approval for the companies' pending merger transaction. This completes all required regulatory approvals for the merger, and the companies expect to close the merger shortly.
OVERLAND PARK, Kan., and RESTON, Va.
 
The proposed merger-of-equals between Sprint and Nextel was announced on Dec. 15, 2004 with a commitment to create Sprint Nextel  a leading communications provider that will offer a comprehensive range of innovative wireless and wireline products and services to consumer, business and government customers. After the completion of the merger, Sprint Nextel common stock will trade on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol "S."
 
"We'd like to thank the Commissioners and staff at the FCC for the many long hours and thoughtful review they've given this proposed merger," said Gary Forsee, chairman and CEO of Sprint. "Now that we have received the Commission's approval, we can combine Sprint and Nextel. The combined company will enable us to bring stronger wireless competition to all customers, expand our portfolio of consumer devices and data services that focus on content, media and entertainment, and deliver enhanced business and government applications that truly bring to life the convergence model of tomorrow."
 
"The FCC has agreed that uniting these two great companies is in the public's interest," commented Tim Donahue, president and CEO of Nextel. "When we complete the merger, Sprint Nextel will have unmatched wireless capabilities and a global IP network to provide consumers with high-value, integrated communications solutions to meet their needs. We are eager to get started."
 
 
About Sprint
 
Sprint offers an extensive range of innovative communication products and solutions, including global IP, wireless, local and multiproduct bundles. A Fortune 100 company with more than $27 billion in annual revenues in 2004, Sprint is widely recognized for developing, engineering and deploying state-of-the-art network technologies, including the United States' first nationwide all-digital, fiber-optic network; an award-winning Tier 1 Internet backbone; and one of the largest 100-percent digital, nationwide wireless networks in the United States. For more information, visit www.sprint.com/mr.
About Nextel
 
Nextel Communications, a FORTUNE 200 company based in Reston, Va., is a leading provider of fully integrated wireless communications services and has built the largest guaranteed all-digital wireless network in the country covering thousands of communities across the United States. Today 95 percent of FORTUNE 500 companies are Nextel customers. Nextel and Nextel Partners, Inc. currently serve 297 of the top 300 U.S. markets where approximately 264 million people live or work.
 
 
"Safe Harbor" Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995
 
A number of the matters discussed in this document that are not historical or current facts deal with potential future circumstances and developments, in particular, information regarding the combined company, including expected synergies resulting from the merger of Sprint and Nextel, future technology plans, and whether and when the transactions contemplated by the merger agreement will be consummated. The discussion of such matters is qualified by the inherent risks and uncertainties surrounding future expectations generally, and also may materially differ from actual future experience involving any one or more of such matters. Such risks and uncertainties include: any conditions imposed on the combined company in connection with consummation of the merger; the satisfaction of various other conditions to the closing of the merger contemplated by the merger agreement; and the risks that are described from time to time in Sprint's and Nextel's respective reports filed with the SEC, including each company's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004 as amended, and their respective quarterly reports on Form 10-Q filed in 2005. This document speaks only as of its date, and Sprint and Nextel each disclaims any duty to update the information herein.
 
 
 


