FILE:S/S-8K-20050315161713.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
 
CEO Compensation
 
On March 15, 2005, the Compensation Committee (the "Committee") of the Board of Directors of Sprint Corporation ("Sprint") approved a second amendment to the employment agreement of Gary D. Forsee, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Sprint. This amendment will be effective upon the closing of the proposed merger of Sprint and Nextel Communications, Inc.
 
The amendment will increase Mr. Forsee's annual base salary to $1.4 million from $1.2 million, as previously approved by the Committee. The amendment states his minimum target annual bonus opportunity under the Management Incentive Plan is no less than 170% of his base salary and his maximum bonus opportunity as 200% of his target bonus opportunity. Actual payout can range from 0-200% of the target opportunity. Mr. Forsee's 2005 target annual bonus opportunity had been previously set at $2,040,000 (170% of base salary), with a maximum opportunity of 200% of the target. The Committee also determined that, if the merger closes in 2005, the target annual bonus opportunity for 2005 shall be the sum of $2,040,000 prorated for the portion of the year prior to the closing of the proposed merger and $2,380,000 (170% of $1.4 million) prorated for the portion of the year after such closing. 2005 performance under the Plan will be calculated (as described below with respect to performance based restricted stock units) with reference to the performance period prior to the closing of the proposed merger if the merger closes prior to the end of 2005. The amendment also provides for Mr. Forsee's participation in a long term incentive plan with a minimum target value performance-based opportunity in the first year following the merger of $10 million and a $10 million guideline target value performance-based opportunity for the second year. The other terms and conditions of these awards will be governed by the Sprint 1997 Long-Term Stock Incentive Program.
 
The foregoing description of the amendment does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the form of amendment, which is filed as Exhibit 10.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
Equity Awards
 
On March 15, 2005, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors also granted new performance based equity awards to Mr. Forsee and Len J. Lauer, President and Chief Operating Officer, under the shareholder approved 1997 Long-Term Stock Incentive Program (the "1997 Program"). A combination of performance based restricted stock units (a target grant of 62,000 units for Mr. Forsee and 21,000 units for Mr. Lauer) and premium priced stock options (165,000 for Mr. Forsee and 55,000 for Mr. Lauer) were granted. The actual number of restricted stock units that will vest pursuant to these awards (1) is based upon targeted financial performance that must be achieved, irrespective of the intervention of the proposed merger with Nextel, (2) will be adjusted based on actual achievement of 2005 EVA performance measures calculated, in the event the proposed merger closes before the end of 2005, by dividing actual year-to-date performance through the most recent full month before the close of the merger by budgeted year-to-date performance for the same period and multiplying the quotient by the 2005 full year
 
budget, (3) could vary between 0% and 200% of the number of units granted, (4) vest 100% on the third anniversary of the grant date and (5) is subject to discretionary review by the Committee to assure appropriate performance. Additionally, for the awards to vest fully, the proposed merger must be completed, as a threshold matter, and the executives must remain employed by the company for three years from the date of grant of the restricted stock units and four years from the date of grant of the options.
 
The exercise price for the stock options was equal to 110% of the market value on the grant date (the average of the high and low sales prices). The grant of options with an exercise price above market value ensures that stockholders benefit from stock appreciation before the executives. The options vest 25% per year on each of the first through fourth anniversaries of the grant date.
 
The terms of the stock options and the performance based restricted stock units are governed by the 1997 Program and the form of award agreement attached as Exhibit 10.2, which is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
 
This Amendment No. 2, dated as of March 15, 2005 (the "") to the Employment Agreement dated as of March 19, 2003, as amended by Amendment No. 1 thereto (together, the "") by and among SPRINT CORPORATION, a Kansas corporation (""), SPRINT/UNITED MANAGEMENT COMPANY, a Kansas corporation and subsidiary of SPRINT ("") (SPRINT, SUMC and their subsidiaries are collectively referred to herein as the ""), and Gary D. Forsee (""). Capitalized terms, if not otherwise defined herein, have the meanings set forth in or provided by the Agreement, including in said Amendment No. 1.
Amendment
Agreement
SPRINT
SUMC
Company
Executive
 
 
WHEREAS, Sprint and Executive have determined to amend the Agreement as set forth below, to be effective upon and following the Effective Time.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and of the covenants and agreements set forth herein and for other good and valuable consideration, the sufficiency and receipt of which are hereby acknowledged, the Company and Executive agree as follows, conditioned upon and subject to the consummation of the Merger:
 
1. Section 2.01 of the Agreement is hereby amended and restated as follows.
 
"Section 2.01. The Company shall pay Executive an annual base salary (the "") at the annual rate of $1,400,000, payable in equal monthly installments or otherwise in accordance with the payroll and personnel practices of the Company from time to time. Base Salary shall be reviewed annually by the Board or a committee thereof to which the Board may from time to time have delegated such authority (the "") for possible increase (but not decrease) in the sole discretion of the Board or the Committee, as the case may be."
Base Salary.
Base Salary
Committee
 
2. Section 2.02(a)(i) of the Agreement is hereby amended in its entirety to read as follows:
 
"With respect to each fiscal year in the Employment Term, Executive shall be eligible to participate in the Company's Short-Term Incentive Plan, with a target bonus opportunity of not less than 170% of Base Salary (the "") and a maximum bonus opportunity of 200% of the Basic Bonus Amount. For 2005, the target annual bonus opportunity shall be the sum of $2,040,000 prorated for the portion of the year prior to the consummation of the Merger and
Basic Bonus Amount
$2,380,000 for the portion of the year after such consummation. Except as provided in Section 2.02(a)(ii) or as may be payable pursuant to Article 3, Executive is not guaranteed the payment of any annual bonus."
 
3. Article 2 of the Agreement is hereby amended by adding thereto a new Section 2.02A reading as follows:
 
"Following the Effective Time, Executive shall participate in a long-term incentive plan (the "LTIP") providing for the grant of equity and/or cash-based awards such as options, restricted shares, restricted share units and performance awards denominated in cash or shares. Awards to Executive under the LTIP will be determined by the Committee in its discretionprovided that (i) the target value for the first annual award under the LTIP to Executive after the Effective Time shall not be less than $10,000,000, (ii) the guideline target value of the second such annual award shall be $10,000,000, and (iii) each such annual award shall be performance-based."
,
 
4. Article 6 of the Agreement is hereby amended by adding thereto a new Section 6.17 reading as follows:
 
"The intent of the parties is that the compensation arrangements under this Agreement will be in full compliance with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code ("409A") and the parties agree that to the extent any provision hereof would be in violation thereof it will be adjusted in such manner as the parties will mutually agree to be in compliance with 409A and to maintain the intent hereof to the maximum extent possible."
 
5. Unless specifically modified herein, all other terms and conditions of the Agreement shall remain in effect.
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company and Executive have executed this Agreement, to be effective as provided in the recitals hereto.
 
 

Exhibit 10.2
 
 
T A A (the ) is entered into as of , 2005 (the ), by and between S C, a Kansas corporation (together with its direct and indirect subsidiaries, ) and (the ), an employee of Sprint for the grant of options and restricted stock units with respect to Sprint's FON Common Stock, par value $2.00 per share ().
HIS
WARD
GREEMENT
"Agreement"
                    
"Grant Date"
PRINT
ORPORATION
"Sprint"
                                
"Executive"
"FON Stock"
 
I of the mutual covenants and agreements set forth in this Agreement, the parties agree to the following.
N
CONSIDERATION
 
1. Defined Terms Incorporated from 1997 Long-Term Stock Incentive Program
 
Capitalized terms used in this Award Agreement and not defined herein shall have the meanings set forth in Sprint's 1997 Long-Term Stock Incentive Program (the "Program").
 
2. Grant of Stock Options
 
Sprint hereby grants to Executive under the Program options to buy shares of FON Stock at a strike price of $ per share (the ""). Subject to paragraph 4.01 below, the Option becomes exercisable at a rate of 25% of the total number of shares subject to purchase on each of the first four anniversaries of the Grant Date and expires on the 10
                    
            
Option
th
anniversary of the Grant Date. The Option is governed by, and this Agreement hereby incorporates, the Standard Terms of Options set forth in Section 6(g) of the Program except (i) as provided in Section 4 below, and (ii) that the strike price of $ was set at 110% of the Fair Market Value of one Share of FON Stock on the Grant Date.
            
 
3. Grant of Restricted Stock Units
 
Sprint hereby grants to Executive under the Program FON restricted stock units (the ""). Each RSU represents the unsecured right to require Sprint to deliver to Executive one share of FON Stock. Subject to paragraphs 4.01 and 4.02, with respect to 100% of the RSUs, the "vesting date" and "initial delivery date" is on the third anniversary of the Grant Date. The RSUs are governed by, and this Agreement hereby incorporates, the Standard Terms of Other Stock Unit Awards set forth in Section 9(c) of the Program except as provided in Section 4 below.
                    
RSUs
 
4. Terms different from Standard Terms
 
Neither the RSUs nor any part of the Option will vest before the Effective Time (as defined in the Agreement and Plan of Merger among Sprint Corporation, Nextel Communications, Inc., and S-N Merger Corp. dated December 15, 2004) and the Option and RSUs will be cancelled in the event the merger agreement is terminated.
4.01 Vesting contingent on consummation of Sprint Nextel merger.
 
Subject to discretion of the Compensation Committee of Sprint's Board of Directors, the number of RSUs in Section 3 will be adjusted by multiplying that number by a payout percentage (from 0% to 200%) based on achievement of financial objectives relating to enterprise economic value added (EVA) during 2005 (the ""). If the proposed merger with Nextel Communications, Inc., is completed before year-end 2005, full year EVA performance will be calculated by dividing actual year-to-date performance through the most recent full month before the close of the merger by budgeted year-to-date performance for the same period and multiplying the quotient by the 2005 full year budget. The Performance Adjustment will be made as soon as practicable after year-end 2005. If Executive remains an employee of Sprint throughout 2005, cash dividends on the FON Stock underlying these RSUs during 2005 will be paid to Executive as soon as practicable after the Performance Adjustment. These cash dividends will be calculated by first adjusting the RSUs by the Performance Adjustment and then applying the dividend rate for each quarterly dividend for which Executive held the RSUs, as adjusted, on each dividend record date. After the Performance Adjustment is made, if cash dividends are paid on the underlying FON Stock, Executive will receive cash dividends for RSUs held on the dividend record date as provided in Section 9(c) of the Program.
4.02
Performance adjustment.
Performance Adjustment
 
The limitation on acceleration of vesting under Section 6(g)(viii) and Section 9(c)(iv) of the Program, relating to payments or benefits contingent on a change in control within the meaning of Code Section 280G, does not apply to the Option or RSUs.
4.03
Section 280G of the Internal Revenue Code.
 
5. Plan Information
 
Executive hereby acknowledges having read the 1997 Long-Term Stock Incentive Program Plan Information Statement dated February 2005 available on line at . To the extent not inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement, the terms of such information statement and the Program are hereby incorporated by this reference.
http://ppld.corp.sprint.com/hr/comp/ec.html
I W W, Sprint has caused this Agreement to be executed by its duly authorized officer and the Executive has executed the same as of the Grant Date.
N
ITNESS
HEREOF
 


