FILE:S/S-8K-20051109162119.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
This current report on Form 8-K/A relates to the current report on Form 8-K filed on October 27, 2005 in which Sprint Nextel Corporation ("Sprint Nextel") furnished a copy of the press release dated October 26, 2005 that announced its 2005 third quarter results.
 
As part of the announcement of 2005 third quarter results, Sprint Nextel furnished pro forma consolidated statements of operations (unaudited) for each of the quarters ended March 31, 2004 through September 30, 2005, presented as if the Sprint Nextel merger occurred at the beginning of each period presented. In the determination of pro forma net income or loss, the income tax (expense) benefit reported in each of the pro forma statements of operations included the tax benefit of tax valuation allowance releases relating to the acquired company occurring in these periods associated with the benefit of capital loss carryforwards.
 
Sprint Nextel has revised the pro forma statements of operations (unaudited) to reflect these valuation allowance releases as balance sheet reductions to goodwill rather than as a tax benefit. Accordingly, income tax expense (benefit) has been revised, resulting in a decrease to pro forma net income (or increase to pro forma net loss), and a decrease to pro forma adjusted net income, of $84 million for the quarter ended September 30, 2005, $25 million for the quarter ended June 30, 2005, $178 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2005, $28 million for the quarter ended December 31, 2004, and $154 million for the quarter ended September 30, 2004. This revision also results in a decrease to pro forma diluted earnings per share (or increase to pro forma diluted loss per share) of $0.02 for the quarter ended September 30, 2005, $0.01 for the quarter ended June 30, 2005, $0.06 for the quarter ended March 31, 2005, $0.01 for the quarter ended December 31, 2004, and $0.06 for the quarter ended September 30, 2004. In addition, pro forma adjusted EPS (earnings per share) excluding amortization and depreciation has been revised to $0.38 for the quarter ended September 30, 2005 and $0.26 for the quarter ended September 30, 2004, and is reconciled as follows:
 
 
 
The revised pro forma statements of operations (unaudited) are furnished as Exhibit 99.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: November 9, 2005

Exhibit 99
 
 
 
Pro Forma consolidated statements of operations have been presented as if the Sprint Nextel merger occurred at the beginning of each period presented.
 
*
Financial Measures
 
Sprint Nextel provides financial measures generated using generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and using adjustments to GAAP (non-GAAP). The non-GAAP financial measures reflect industry conventions, or standard measures of liquidity, profitability or performance commonly used by the investment community for comparability purposes. These non-GAAP measures are not measurements under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. These measurements should be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the information contained in our financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. We have defined below each of the non-GAAP measures we use, but these measures may not be synonymous to similar measurement terms used by other companies.
 
Sprint Nextel provides reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures in its financial reporting. Because Sprint Nextel does not predict special items that might occur in the future, and our forecasts are developed at a level of detail different than that used to prepare GAAP-based financial measures, Sprint Nextel does not provide reconciliations to GAAP of its forward-looking financial measures.
 
The measures used include the following:
 
is defined as operating income plus special items. This non-GAAP measure should be used in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the analysis provided in the statement of operations. We believe this measure is useful because it allows investors to evaluate our operating results for different periods on a more comparable basis by excluding special items.
Adjusted Operating Income (Loss)
 
and or are defined as net income or loss plus special items, net of tax and the diluted EPS calculated thereon. These non-GAAP measures should be used in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the analysis provided in the statement of operations. We believe that these measures are useful because they allow investors to evaluate our performance for different periods on a more comparable basis by excluding items that do not relate to the ongoing operations of our businesses.
Adjusted Net Income (Loss)
Adjusted Earnings per Share (EPS)
Adjusted Loss per Share
 
is defined as operating income plus depreciation, amortization and special items. Although we have used substantively similar measures in the past, which we called "Adjusted EBITDA," we now use the term Adjusted OIBDA to describe the measure we use as it more clearly reflects the elements of the measure. These non-GAAP measures should be used in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the analysis provided in the statement of operations. We believe that Adjusted OIBDA provides useful information to investors because they are an indicator of the strength and performance of our ongoing business operations, including our ability to fund discretionary spending such as capital expenditures, spectrum acquisitions and other investments and our ability to incur and service debt. While depreciation and amortization are considered operating costs under generally accepted accounting principles, these expenses primarily represent non-cash current period allocation of costs associated with long-lived assets acquired or constructed in prior periods. Adjusted OIBDA is a calculation commonly used as a basis for investors, analysts and credit rating agencies to evaluate and compare the periodic and future operating performance and value of companies within the telecommunications industry.
Adjusted OIBDA
 


