FILE:S/S-8K-20061117151609.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 ------- FORM 8-K ------- CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): November 17, 2006 ------- SPRINT NEXTEL CORPORATION (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) Kansas 1-04721 48-0457967 (State or other jurisdiction (Commission File Number) (IRS Employer of incorporation) Identification No.) 2001 Edmund Halley Drive, Reston, Virginia 20191 (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code) Registrant's Telephone Number, Including Area Code: (703) 433-4000 (Former Name or Former Address, if Changed Since Last Report) ------- Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions: ___ Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) ___ Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) ___ Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) ___ Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 8.01 Other Events. This current report on Form 8-K is filed for the purpose of filing the attached exhibits in connection with Registration Statement No. 333-138548. Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits. (a) Financial Statements of Business Acquired. Not applicable. (b) Pro Forma Financial Information. Not applicable. (c) Shell company transactions. Not applicable. (d) Exhibits. Number Exhibit 5.1 Opinion of Jones Day regarding validity. 5.2 Opinion of Polsinelli Shalton Welte Suelthaus P.C. 1
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. SPRINT NEXTEL CORPORATION By: /s/ Michael T. Hyde Michael T. Hyde Assistant Secretary Date: November 17, 2006 2
EXHIBIT INDEX Number Exhibit 5.1 Opinion of Jones Day regarding validity. 5.2 Opinion of Polsinelli Shalton Welte Suelthaus P.C. 3

Exhibit 5.1 [JONES DAY LETTERHEAD] November 17, 2006 Sprint Nextel Corporation 2001 Edmund Halley Drive Reston, Virginia 20191 Re: Issuance of $2,000,000,000 Senior Notes due 2016 of Sprint Nextel Corporation Ladies and Gentlemen: We have acted as counsel for Sprint Nextel Corporation, a Kansas corporation (the "Company"), in connection with the offering by the Company of $2,000,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 6.0% Senior Notes due 2016 (the "Debt Securities"), as contemplated by the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-3, as amended (Reg. No. 333-138548) (the "Registration Statement"). The Debt Securities will be issued under an indenture (the "Indenture") to be entered into by and between the Company and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., as trustee (the "Trustee"). In connection with the opinion expressed herein, we have examined such documents, records and matters of law as we have deemed relevant or necessary for purposes of this opinion. Based on the foregoing, and subject to the further limitations, qualifications and assumptions set forth herein, we are of the opinion that the Debt Securities, when executed by the Company and authenticated by the Trustee in accordance with the Indenture, issued and sold in accordance with the Registration Statement and delivered to the purchaser or purchasers thereof against receipt by the Company of such lawful consideration therefor as the Company's Board of Directors (or a duly authorized committee thereof) may determine, will constitute valid and binding obligations of the Company. We have assumed that (i) the Indenture will be a valid and binding obligation of the Trustee and (ii) the Indenture will be duly executed and delivered by the Company and the Trustee. The opinions expressed herein are limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, fraudulent transfer and fraudulent conveyance, voidable preference, moratorium or other similar laws and related regulations and judicial doctrines from time to time in effect relating to or affecting creditors' rights generally, and by general equitable principles, whether such principles are considered in a proceeding at law or at equity. The opinion expressed herein is limited to the federal securities laws of the United States of America and the laws of the State of New York, and we express no opinion as to the effect of the laws of any other jurisdiction.
Sprint Nextel Corporation November 17, 2006 Page 2 In rendering our opinion expressed herein, we have relied solely upon the opinion of Polsinelli Shalton Welte Suelthaus P.C., a copy of which has been filed as Exhibit 5.2 to the Current Report on Form 8-K dated the date hereof, with respect to matters governed by the laws of Kansas. We hereby consent to the filing of this opinion as Exhibit 5.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K dated the date hereof relating to the Registration Statement and to the reference to Jones Day under the caption "Certain Legal Matters" in the prospectus constituting a part of such Registration Statement. In giving such consent, we do not hereby admit that we are included in the category of persons whose consent is required under Section 7 of the Securities Act of 1933 or the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission promulgated thereunder. Very truly yours, /s/ Jones Day

Exhibit 5.2 [POLSINELLI SHALTON WELTE SUELTHAUS PC letterhead] November 17, 2006 Sprint Nextel Corporation 2001 Edmund Halley Drive Reston, Virginia 20191 Re: Issuance of $2,000,000,000 Senior Notes due 2016 of Sprint Nextel Corporation Ladies and Gentlemen: We are special Kansas counsel to Sprint Nextel Corporation, a Kansas corporation (the "Company"), in connection with the offering by the Company of $2,000,000,000 in aggregate principal amount of the Company's 6.0% Senior Notes due 2016 (the "Securities"), as contemplated by the Company's Registration Statement No. 333-138548 on Form S-3 as amended by Post-Effective Amendment No. 1 to Form S-3 (as the same may be amended from time to time, the "Registration Statement"). The Securities will be issued under an indenture (the "Indenture") to be entered into by and between the Company and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., as trustee (the "Trustee"). In such capacity, we have reviewed and relied on: (A) copies of (I) the Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of the Company (the "Articles"); (II) the Company's Amended and Restated Bylaws (the "Bylaws"); (III) resolutions adopted by the Board of Directors of the Company on July 25, 2006 and September 25, 2006; (IV) unanimous written consent minutes of the Finance Committee of the Board of Directors dated as of November 9, 2006, and (V) written consent minutes of the Pricing Committee of the Finance Committee of the Board of Directors dated as of November 15, 2006; all of which have been certified to be correct and complete by the Assistant Secretary of the Company; (B) the Securities and the Indenture; (C) a certificate from the Kansas Secretary of State indicating that the Company is in good standing in Kansas as of November 17, 2006; (D) certificates of officers of the Company delivered to this law firm; (E) the Form S-3 registration statement, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 9, 2006, as amended by the Post-Effective
Amendment No.1 to Form S-3, and the prospectus included therein (respectively, the "Registration Statement" and the "Prospectus"); (F) the form of Underwriting Agreement provided to us (the "Underwriting Agreement"), to be entered into by and between the Company and representatives of the Underwriters; and (G) the information under the caption "Business - Overview - The Corporation" in the Company's Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005. The documents listed in clause (A) are collectively referred to herein as the "Corporate Records." The documents listed in clause (B) are collectively referred to herein as the "Transaction Documents." The documents listed in clauses (C) through (G) are collectively referred to herein as the "Due Diligence Information." We call your attention to the fact that, to the extent specifically qualified and limited below in Paragraphs (a) through (e) and in the specific opinions rendered, we did not conduct an investigation that independently confirms the facts upon which we render this opinion and, with your permission, we have assumed and relied upon the accuracy of all factual information set forth in and made by the Company in the Registration Statement, the Prospectus, the Transaction Documents and the Officer's Certificate, together with certain representations and statements made to us by public officials as to factual matters material to the opinions expressed herein. In rendering our opinions as to the good standing of the Company, we have relied exclusively on a certificate of a public official, although we have not obtained tax good standing certificates and no opinion is provided with respect to tax good standing. The opinions and statements expressed herein are subject to the following assumptions, comments, conditions, exceptions, qualifications and limitations: (a) Our opinions and statements expressed herein are restricted to matters governed by the internal laws of the State of Kansas, without regard to conflict of laws. (b) In reviewing the Transaction Documents, Corporate Records, and Due Diligence Information, we have assumed the genuineness of all signatures and initials thereon, the genuineness of all notaries contained thereon, and the conformance of all copies with the original thereof and originals to all copies thereof. We have further assumed that all certificates, documents and instruments dated prior to the date hereof remain accurate and correct on the date hereof. We have made no review of agreements, documents or transactions described or referred to in the Corporate Records, and we express no opinion as to the effect of such terms, conditions or provisions of such agreements, documents and transactions upon the Transaction Documents or the matters discussed herein. We have further assumed that all Due Diligence Information is accurate, complete and authentic (including proper indexing and filing). (c) None of the opinions below include any implied opinion unless such implied opinion is both (i) essential to the legal conclusion reached by the express opinions set forth below, and (ii) based upon prevailing norms and expectations among experienced lawyers in the State of Kansas, reasonable under the circumstances.
(d) The issuance of Securities is not prohibited under any agreement that is binding upon the Company. (e) The Registration Statement, and any post-effective amendments thereto, is effective. No stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement or of any post-effective amendment to the Registration Statement is in effect and no proceedings for such purpose or pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act of 1933 have been instituted or threatened by the Commission against the Company or related to the offering contemplated in the Registration Statement. Based on the foregoing, and qualified in the manner and to the extent set forth herein, we are of the opinion that: 1. The Company is a corporation existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of Kansas, with the corporate power generally to conduct business and to own or lease properties. 2. The Indenture has been authorized by all necessary corporate action of the Company. 3. The Securities have been authorized by all necessary corporate action of the Company. We hereby consent to the filing of this opinion as Exhibit 5.2 to the Registration Statement and to the reference to Polsinelli Shalton Welte Suelthaus PC under the caption "Legal Matters" in the prospectus constituting a part of such Registration Statement. In giving such consent, we do not thereby admit that we are included in the category of persons whose consent is required under Section 7 of the Securities Act or the rules and regulations of the Commission promulgated thereunder. Very truly yours, /s/ Polsinelli Shalton Welte Suelthaus PC Polsinelli Shalton Welte Suelthaus PC


