FILE:S/S-8K-20060426081809.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On April 26, 2006, Sprint Nextel Corporation announced its results for the first quarter of 2006. The press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: April 26, 2006
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Wireless (pro forma)
 
 
 
Long Distance
 
 
 
Local
 
 
 
today reported first quarter 2006 financial results. In the quarter, the company experienced strong demand for its communications services while continuing to make solid progress on key strategic initiatives.
Sprint Nextel Corp. (NYSE: S)
For the quarter, diluted earnings per share were 14 cents, compared to 31 cents per share for the first quarter of 2005. The year-ago results do not include the Nextel operations. In the current quarter, reported earnings include a 19-cent charge for merger-related amortization cost and a 2-cent charge for special items. In the quarter, the company reported consolidated revenue of $11.5 billion, an increase of 66 percent compared to the year-ago period. Operating income was $863 million versus $1.04 billion in the first quarter of 2005.
For the quarter, Adjusted EPS before Amortization*, which removes the effects of special items and merger related amortization costs, was 35 cents per share versus pro forma Adjusted EPS before Amortization* of 31 cents in the year-ago period. The 13 percent growth was driven by a strong gain in Wireless, modest growth in Local and lower net interest costs, which were partially offset by a lower contribution from Long Distance.
Consolidated revenue for the quarter increased 9 percent compared to pro forma consolidated revenue for the first quarter of 2005. Quarterly consolidated Adjusted OIBDA* of $3.6 billion increased 10 percent compared to the first quarter of 2005 pro forma results. First quarter Free Cash Flow* was $1.2 billion.
"In the first quarter, we continued to advance on our operating and strategic goals and integrate the affiliates we have acquired," said Gary Forsee, Sprint Nextel president and chief executive officer. "Our performance in the quarter was marked by balanced growth in Wireless and we achieved good velocity on Long Distance IP and Local DSL services. With an expected ramp-up in merger synergies during the balance of 2006, we continue to maintain our financial outlook for full year performance," he said.
"In the quarter, we added 1.3 million wireless subscribers including more than 1 million though retail channels," Forsee added. "Combined with 2.1 millionsubscribers of Nextel Partners, which we expect to acquire in the second quarter, we ended the period with 51 million wireless subscribers. In the quarter, Wireless top-line and Adjusted OIBDA* grew at double-digit annual rates, and wireless data revenues grew at a sequential rate of 21 percent. We continued to enhance the industry's most powerful wireless network for mobile broadband services as we extended our high-speed footprint to more wireless users than any other carrier. In the period, Long Distance IP revenues were up 26 percent year-over-year, and Local DSL net subscriber additions were at an all-time high of 84,000. With the receipt of all state commission approvals, we are now nearing completion of our planned spin-off of our local communications business, which will go to market under the EMBARQ
TM
brand. This transaction will create the largest independent local-telephone operation in the United States and enhance the growth profile of Sprint Nextel," Forsee said.
 
Editor's Note:
In accordance with purchase accounting rules, Sprint Nextel's 2005 reported results are comprised of Sprint's stand-alone results prior to the Aug. 12, 2005, merger with Nextel Communications Inc., plus combined Sprint and Nextel results for the remainder of the year. Results from Sprint PCS affiliates acquired in the fourth quarter of 2005 and first quarter of 2006 are included for all periods subsequent to the date that the applicable acquisition was completed.
To provide comparability with previously reported periods, Sprint Nextel also is providing pro forma Consolidated and Wireless results and certain other financial measures* for the first quarter of 2005. The pro forma results assume the merger of Sprint and Nextel occurred at the beginning of 2005 and includes the impact of conforming the accounting policies and both financial and non-financial measures of the two companies. The pro forma Consolidated and Wireless information excludes results of acquired affiliates prior to their respective acquisition close dates.
Consolidated
TABLE No. 1    Selected Unaudited Financial Data (dollars in millions, except per share amounts)
 
 
The following is a discussion of Consolidated pro forma results.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Wireless
TABLE No. 2    Selected Unaudited Financial Data (dollars in millions)
 
Discussion of the following Wireless results is on a pro forma basis.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Long Distance
TABLE No. 3    Selected Unaudited Financial Data (dollars in millions)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Local
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Forward-Looking Guidance
Sprint Nextel's financial targets for fiscal year 2006 includes Wireless, Long Distance, and 11 months of results from Alamosa and Enterprise Communications, but do not include Local, Nextel Partners, or UbiquiTel. The company is reiterating its prior guidance, which includes:
 
 
 
 
Additionally, Sprint Nextel continues to expect to deliver $14.5 billion of Net Present Value synergies resulting from its merger and the company continues to target a 40% or better Adjusted OIBDA Service Margin* by 2008.
*Financial Measures
Sprint Nextel provides financial measures generated using generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and using adjustments to GAAP (non-GAAP). The non-GAAP financial measures reflect industry conventions, or standard measures of liquidity, profitability or performance commonly used by the investment community for comparability purposes. These non-GAAP measures are not measurements under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. These measurements should be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the information contained in our financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. We have defined below each of the non-GAAP measures we use, but these measures may not be synonymous to similar measurement terms used by other companies.
Sprint Nextel provides reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures in its financial reporting. Because Sprint Nextel does not predict special items that might occur in the future, and our forecasts are developed at a level of detail different than that used to prepare GAAP-based financial measures, Sprint Nextel does not provide reconciliations to GAAP of its forward-looking financial measures.
The measures used in this release include the following:
is defined as income from continuing operations, before special items, net of tax and the diluted EPS calculated thereon. is defined as income from continuing operations, before special items and amortization, net of tax, and the diluted EPS calculated thereon. These non-GAAP measures should be used in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the analysis provided in the statement of operations. We believe that these measures are useful because they allow investors to evaluate our performance for different periods on a more comparable basis by excluding items that do not relate to the ongoing operations of our businesses.
Adjusted Earnings per Share (EPS)
Adjusted EPS before Amortization
is defined as income (loss) from continuing operations before special items. is defined as income (loss) from continuing operations before special items and amortization, net of tax. These non-GAAP measures should be used in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the analysis provided in the statement of operations. We believe that these measures are useful because they allow investors to evaluate our performance for different periods on a more comparable basis by excluding items that do not relate to the ongoing operations of our businesses.
Adjusted Net Income
Adjusted Net Income before Amortization
is defined as operating income before special items. This non-GAAP measure should be used in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the analysis provided in the statement of operations. We believe this measure is useful because it allows investors to evaluate our operating results for different periods on a more comparable basis by excluding special items.
Adjusted Operating Income
is defined as operating income before depreciation, amortization, restructuring and asset impairments, and special items. represents Adjusted OIBDA divided by non-equipment net operating revenues for wireless and Adjusted OIBDA divided by net operating revenues for Local and Long Distance. is the ratio of Adjusted OIBDA to net operating revenues less equipment revenues. Although we have used substantially similar measures in the past, which we called "Adjusted EBITDA," we now use the term Adjusted OIBDA and Adjusted OIBDA Margin to describe the measure we use as it more clearly reflects the elements of the measure. These non-GAAP measures should be used in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the analysis provided in the statement of operations. We believe that Adjusted OIBDA and Adjusted OIBDA Margin provide useful information to investors because
Adjusted OIBDA
Adjusted OIBDA Margin
Adjusted OIBDA Service Margin
 
they are an indicator of the strength and performance of our ongoing business operations, including our ability to fund discretionary spending such as capital expenditures, spectrum acquisitions and other investments and our ability to incur and service debt. While depreciation and amortization are considered operating costs under generally accepted accounting principles, these expenses primarily represent non-cash current period allocation of costs associated with long-lived assets acquired or constructed in prior periods. Adjusted OIBDA and Adjusted OIBDA Margin are calculations commonly used as a basis for investors, analysts and credit rating agencies to evaluate and compare the periodic and future operating performance and value of companies within the telecommunications industry.
is defined as the change in cash and equivalents less the change in debt, investment in certain securities, proceeds from common stock and other financing activities, net. This non-GAAP measure should be used in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the analysis provided in the statement of cash flows. We believe that Free Cash Flow provides useful information to investors, analysts and our management about the cash generated by our core operations after interest and dividends and our ability to fund scheduled debt maturities and other financing activities, including discretionary refinancing and retirement of debt and purchase or sale of investments.
Free Cash Flow
is consolidated debt, including current maturities, less cash and equivalents and current marketable securities. This non-GAAP measure should be used in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the analysis provided in the statements of financial position and cash flows. We believe that Net Debt provides useful information to investors, analysts and credit rating agencies about the capacity of the company to reduce the debt load and improve its capital structure.
Net Debt
Safe Harbor
This news release includes "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the securities laws. The statements in this news release regarding the business outlook, expected performance, as well as other statements that are not historical facts, are forward-looking statements. The words "estimate," "project," "forecast," "intend," "expect," "believe," "target," "providing guidance" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are estimates and projections reflecting management's judgment based on currently available information and involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested by the forward-looking statements. With respect to these forward-looking statements, management has made assumptions regarding, among other things, customer and network usage, customer growth and retention, pricing, operating costs, the timing of various events and the economic environment.
Future performance cannot be ensured. Actual results may differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. Some factors that could cause actual results to differ include:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sprint Nextel believes these forward-looking statements are reasonable; however, you should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which are based on current expectations and speak only as of the date of this release. Sprint Nextel is not obligated to publicly release any revisions to forward-looking statements to reflect events after the date of this release.
Additional Information and Where to Find It
Embarq Corporation has filed a Registration Statement on Form 10 with the SEC (Reg. No. 001-72032) containing a preliminary information statement regarding the proposed spin-off. SHAREHOLDERS OF SPRINT NEXTEL ARE ENCOURAGED TO READ THE REGISTRATION STATEMENT AND ANY OTHER RELEVANT DOCUMENTS FILED WITH THE SEC BY EMBARQ BECAUSE THEY CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION ABOUT EMBARQ AND THE SPIN-OFF. The definitive information statement will be mailed to shareholders of Sprint Nextel. Investors and security holders will be able to obtain the documents free of charge at the SEC's web site, , from Sprint Nextel Investor Relations at Sprint Nextel Corporation, 2001 Edmund Halley Drive, Reston, Virginia 20191, 703-433-4300 or from Embarq, 5454 West 110th Street, Overland Park, Kansas 66211, 866-591-1964, Corporate Secretary.
www.sec.gov
About Sprint Nextel
Sprint Nextel offers a comprehensive range of communications services bringing mobility to consumer, business and government customers. Sprint Nextel is widely recognized for developing, engineering and deploying innovative technologies, including two robust wireless networks offering industry leading mobile data services; instant national and international walkie-talkie capabilities; and an award-winning and global Tier 1 Internet backbone. For more information, visit
www.sprint.com.
 
TABLE 5
 
 
(1),(2), (3)
    See accompanying Notes to Financial Data on page 21.
 
TABLE 6
 
 
Pro forma consolidated statements of operations have been presented as if the Sprint Nextel merger occurred at the beginning of 2005. Because the merger occurred in the third quarter of 2005, the first quarter of 2006 reflects actual results. The pro forma results do not include any Affiliate results prior to the dates of their respective acquisitions because they do not significantly affect reported results.
 
TABLE 7
 
 
 
TABLE 8
 
 
TABLE 9
 
 
 
TABLE 10
 
Pro forma consolidated statements of operations have been presented as if the Sprint Nextel merger occurred at the beginning of 2005. Because the merger occurred in the third quarter of 2005, the first quarter of 2006 reflects actual results. The pro forma results do not include any Affiliate results prior to the dates of their respective acquisitions because they do not significantly affect reported results.
 
TABLE 11
 
 
 
TABLE 12
 
 
TABLE 13
 
TABLE 14
 
 
 
TABLE 15
 
 
Long Distance
 
 
TABLE 15 (continued)
 
 
 
 
 
TABLE 16
 
 
 


