FILE:S/S-8K-20060918161924.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01 Other Events.
On May 17, 2006, Sprint Nextel Corporation (the "Company") completed the spin-off of its local communications business, now known as Embarq Corporation, which consisted primarily of the business that the Company had previously reported as the Local segment in its consolidated financial statements in prior periods. The Company distributed to its shareholders about 149 million shares of Embarq common stock and received net cash consideration and proceeds from the sale of Embarq senior notes totaling about $6.3 billion. As permitted by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards, or SFAS, No. 144, the results of operations, balance sheets and cash flows of this business in the Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended June 30, 2006 were presented as discontinued operations for all periods presented.
Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets,
The rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") require that when a registrant prepares, on or after the date a registrant reports a discontinued operation, a new registration, proxy or information statement (or amends a previously filed registration, proxy or information statement) that includes or incorporates by reference financial statements, the registrant must recast the prior period annual and relevant interim financial statements included or incorporated by reference in the registration, proxy or information statement to reflect the discontinued operation. Accordingly, we are filing this Form 8-K to recast our consolidated financial statements for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2005 and the three months ended March 31, 2006 and 2005, to reflect the presentation of our local communications business as discontinued operations. The updates do not represent a restatement of previously issued financial statements. The following recast information is presented in Exhibits 99.1, 99.2 and 99.3 to this Form 8K and incorporated herein by reference:
 
 
 
Exhibit 99.1 does not reflect events occurring after the filing of the original Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005, as amended (the "Form 10-K"), Exhibit 99.2 does not reflect events occurring after the filing of the original Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2006 (the "First Quarter Form 10-Q"), and none of the Exhibits modify or update the disclosures in the Form 10-K and the First Quarter Form 10-Q, other than as required to reflect the changes in discontinued operations described above and set forth below. For example, this Form 8-K does not update the disclosures contained in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in the Form 10-K or First Quarter Form 10-Q, other than as required to reflect the presentation of our local communications business as discontinued operations. Significant developments with respect to those disclosures, including trends relating to subscribers and average revenue per subscriber, as well as other changes to our business, have occurred and are described in subsequent filings with the SEC, including our Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended June 30, 2006 and Current Reports on Form 8-K filed subsequently to the Form 10-K and the First Quarter Form 10-Q.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
The following exhibits are filed with this report:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 15
 
Sprint Nextel Corporation
Reston, Virginia
 
With respect to the subject registration statements, we acknowledge our awareness of the use therein of our report dated May 4, 2006, except for the effects of discontinued operations, as discussed in Note 15, which is as of September 14, 2006, related to our review of interim financial information.
Pursuant to Rule 436 under the Securities Act of 1933 (the "Act"), such report is not considered part of a registration statement prepared or certified by an independent registered public accounting firm, or a report prepared or certified by an independent registered public accounting firm within the meaning of Sections 7 and 11 of the Act.
McLean, Virginia
September 14, 2006

EXHIBIT 23.1
To the Board of Directors and Shareholders
Sprint Nextel Corporation:
We consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements (Form S-3, No. 33-58488; Form S-8, No. 33-31802; Form S-8, No. 333-25449; Form S-8, No. 333-42077; Form S-8, No. 333-46491; Form S-8, No. 333-68737; Form S-8, No. 333-56938; Form S-8, No. 333-59124; Form S-8, No. 333-76783; Form S-8, No. 333-92809; Form S-8, No. 333-54108; Form S-8, No. 333-75664; Form S-8, No. 333-103689; Form S-8, No. 333-103691; Form S-8, No. 333-105244; Form S-8, No. 333-111956; Form S-8, No. 333-115621; Form S-8, No. 333-115607; Form S-8, No. 333-115609; Form S-8, No. 333-124189; Form S-8, No. 333-127426; Form S-8, No. 333-127497; Form S-8, No. 333-130277; and Form S-8, No. 333-131301) of Sprint Nextel Corporation of our report dated March 7, 2006, except for the effects of discontinued operations, as discussed in Note 25, which is as of September 14, 2006 with respect to the consolidated balance sheets of Sprint Nextel Corporation and subsidiaries (the Company) as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the related consolidated statements of operations, comprehensive income (loss), cash flows, shareholders' equity, and the related financial statement schedule, for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, which appears in the Form 8-K of Sprint Nextel Corporation dated September 18, 2006.
Our report on the consolidated financial statements and related financial statement schedule refers to the adoption of the provisions of FASB Interpretation No. 47, , in the fourth quarter of 2005.
Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations
McLean, Virginia
September 14, 2006

Exhibit 23.2
We consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements (Form S-3, No. 33-58488; Form S-8, No. 33-31802; Form S-8, No. 333-25449; Form S-8, No. 333-42077; Form S-8, No. 333-46491; Form S-8, No. 333-68737; Form S-8, No. 333-56938; Form S-8, No. 333-59124; Form S-8, No. 333-76783; Form S-8, No. 333-92809; Form S-8, No. 333-54108; Form S-8, No. 333-75664; Form S-8, No. 333-103689; Form S-8, No. 333-103691; Form S-8, No. 333-105244; Form S-8, No. 333-111956; Form S-8, No. 333-115621; Form S-8, No. 333-115607; Form S-8, No. 333-115609; Form S-8, No. 333-124189; Form S-8, No. 333-127426; Form S-8, No. 333-127497; Form S-8, No. 333-130277; and Form S-8, No. 333-131301) of Sprint Nextel Corporation and in the related Prospectuses of our report dated February 3, 2004 (except for Note 3, as to which the date is April 23, 2004, Note 23, as to which the date is November 2, 2004 and Note 25, as to which the date is September 14, 2006) with respect to the consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule of Sprint Nextel Corporation (formerly Sprint Corporation) for the year ended December 31, 2003, included in this Current Report on Form 8-K dated September 18, 2006.
 
Kansas City, Missouri
September 14, 2006
 

Exhibit 99.1
The rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") require that when a registrant prepares, on or after the date a registrant reports a discontinued operation, a new registration, proxy or information statement (or amends a previously filed registration, proxy or information statement) that includes or incorporates by reference financial statements, the registrant must recast the prior period annual and relevant interim financial statements included or incorporated by reference in the registration, proxy or information statement to reflect the discontinued operation. Accordingly, we are filing this Form 8-K to recast our consolidated financial statements for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2005 and the three months ended March 31, 2006 and 2005, to reflect the presentation of our local communications business as discontinued operations.
The information provided in this Exhibit 99.1 does not reflect events occurring after the filing of the original Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005, as amended (the "Form 10-K"), and does not modify or update the disclosures therein, other than as required to reflect the changes in discontinued operations described above and set forth below. For example, the information provided in this Exhibit 99.1 does not update the disclosures contained in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in the Form 10-K, other than as required to reflect the presentation of our local communications business as discontinued operations. Significant developments with respect to those disclosures, including trends relating to subscribers and average revenue per subscriber, as well as other changes to our business, have occurred and are described in subsequent filings with the SEC, including our Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 2006 and Current Reports on Form 8-K filed subsequently to the Form 10-K.
 
Item 6. Selected Financial Data
The 2005 data presented below is not comparable to that of the prior periods as a result of our acquisitions during the year, particularly the acquisition of Nextel, which closed in August 2005. The acquired companies' financial results subsequent to their acquisition dates are included in our consolidated financial statements.
 
The tables above set forth selected consolidated financial data for the periods or as of the dates indicated and should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements, related notes and other financial information appearing in this Exhibit 99.1 to the Form 8-K. Highlighted below are certain transactions and factors that may be significant to an understanding of our financial condition and comparability of results of operations.
In 2004, we recorded charges reducing our operating income by $3.7 billion to an operating loss and reducing income from continuing operations by $2.3 billion to an overall loss from continuing operations. The charges related primarily to restructurings and a Long Distance network impairment, partially offset by recoveries of fully reserved MCI (now Verizon) receivables.
 
In 2003, we recorded net charges reducing our operating income by $1.9 billion and reducing income from continuing operations by $1.2 billion, resulting in an overall loss from continuing operations. The charges related primarily to restructurings, asset impairments, and executive separation agreements, offset by recoveries of fully reserved MCI (now Verizon) receivables.
In 2002, we recorded charges reducing our operating income by $318 million and reducing income from continuing operations by $200 million. The charges related primarily to restructurings, asset impairments and expected loss on WorldCom (now Verizon) receivables.
In 2001, we recorded charges reducing our operating income by $1.7 billion to an operating loss and increasing the loss from continuing operations by $1.1 billion. The charges related primarily to restructuring and asset impairments.
Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Forward-Looking Statements
We include certain estimates, projections and other forward-looking statements in this annual report and in our quarterly and current reports, and in other publicly available material. Statements regarding expectations, including performance assumptions and estimates relating to capital requirements, as well as other statements that are not historical facts, are forward-looking statements.
These statements reflect management's judgments based on available information and involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. With respect to these forward-looking statements, management has made assumptions regarding, among other things, customer and network usage, customer growth and retention, pricing, operating costs, the timing of various events and the economic environment.
Future performance cannot be assured. Actual results may differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. Some factors that could cause actual results to differ include:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The words "estimate," "project," "forecast," "intend," "expect," "believe," "target," "providing guidance" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are found throughout this Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and elsewhere in this report. The reader should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this report. We are not obligated to publicly release any revisions to forward-looking statements to reflect events after the date of this report, including unforeseen events.
Overview
We are a global communications company offering a comprehensive suite of wireless and wireline communications products and services that are designed to meet the needs of our targeted customer groups: individuals and business and government customers. Although our operations are divided into two lines of business, wireless and long distance, we have organized our sales and distribution efforts to focus on the needs of two distinct customer types  individuals, and businesses and government agencies, which enable us to create customer-focused communications solutions that can incorporate any of our wireless and wireline services. We are one of the three largest wireless companies in the United States based on the number of wireless subscribers. We own extensive wireless networks and a global long distance, Tier 1 Internet backbone.
 
Nextel Merger and Local Communications Business Spin-off
On August 12, 2005, a subsidiary of our company merged with Nextel. In connection with the Nextel merger, we changed our name to Sprint Nextel Corporation. The aggregate consideration paid for the merger was approximately $37.8 billion. At the time that we announced the merger with Nextel, we also announced that we intended to spin-off our local communications business to our shareholders on a tax-free basis. The spun-off business, which is included in discontinued operations in our financial statements, is known as Embarq Corporation, referred to herein as Embarq. To mitigate the risk that the stock we issued in the Sprint-Nextel merger would preclude the tax-free treatment of the spin-off of Embarq, and to ensure that Sprint was treated as the acquiring entity for accounting purposes, the merger agreement provided for an allocation of cash and shares of our common stock, determined as of the date of the merger, that would result in the original Sprint shareholders maintaining at least 50.1% of the outstanding voting power upon closing of the merger. Pursuant to this allocation, Nextel common shareholders received $969 million in cash and 1.452 billion shares of our voting and non-voting common stock in the aggregate, or $0.84629198 and 1.26750218 shares of our stock in exchange for each then outstanding share of Nextel stock. The common stock of Embarq trades on the NYSE and the spin-off was completed on May 17, 2006.
We merged with Nextel to secure a number of potential strategic and financial benefits including, but not limited to, the following:
 
 
 
 
We expect to recognize significant synergies associated with this merger, which include:
 
 
 
 
 
We began to realize some synergies in 2005, and expect to realize additional synergies over a number of years. However, we believe that our operating results for at least the next several quarters will be negatively impacted by costs that will be incurred to achieve these synergies. Such costs are generally not expected to be recurring in nature, and will include costs associated with the spin-off of Embarq, costs associated with integrating back office systems, severance costs associated with the termination of the employment of certain employees, and lease and other contract termination costs. In addition, our results will be negatively impacted by significant additional non-cash amortization charges associated primarily with the value of the customer relationships that were acquired in the merger, as well as additional non-cash charges for stock-based compensation associated with the Nextel employees. The ability to achieve these synergies and the timing in which the benefits can be realized will depend in large part on the ability to integrate our networks, business operations, back-office functions and other support systems and infrastructure.
 
Business
We offer a comprehensive suite of wireless and wireline communications products and services that are designed to meet the needs of our two targeted customer groups: individuals, and businesses and government agencies. We conduct our operations through two segments referred to as: Wireless and Long Distance.
We, together with the PCS Affiliates and Nextel Partners, offer digital and wireless services in all 50 states, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands and provide wireless coverage to a total domestic population of about 277 million. The PCS Affiliates, through commercial arrangements with us, provide wireless services under the Sprint brand name in certain mid-sized and tertiary U.S. markets on wireless networks built and operated at their expense, in most instances using spectrum licensed to, and controlled by, us. Nextel Partners provides digital wireless communications services under the Nextel brand name in certain mid-sized and tertiary U.S. markets on wireless networks built and operated at its expense. During 2005 and the first quarter 2006, we acquired five PCS Affiliates and we expect to acquire Nextel Partners in the second quarter 2006.
We also are one of the nation's largest providers of long distance services and are one of the largest carriers of Internet traffic.
We believe the communications industry has been and will continue to be highly competitive on the basis of price, the types of services offered and quality of service. Although competitive pricing is often an important factor in potential customers' purchase decisions, we believe that our targeted customer base of individuals and businesses and government agencies will also base their purchase decisions on quality of service and the availability of differentiated features and services.
We operate in an industry that has been and continues to be subject to consolidation and dynamic change. To maintain our operating margins in an environment of intense competition that could put pressure on customer pricing, we continually seek ways to create or improve capital and operating efficiencies in our business. Consequently, we routinely reassess our business strategies and their implications on our operations and these assessments may continue to impact the future valuation of our long-lived assets. As part of our overall business strategy, we regularly evaluate opportunities to expand and complement our business and may at any time be discussing or negotiating a transaction that, if consummated, could have a material effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and/or results of operations.
The FCC regulates the licensing, operation, acquisition and sale of the licensed spectrum that is essential to our business. The FCC and state PUCs also regulate the provision of telecommunications services. Future changes in regulations or legislation related to spectrum licensing or other matters related to our business could impose significant additional costs on us either in the form of direct out-of-pocket costs or additional compliance obligations.
Statements contained in this Exhibit 99.1 to the Form 8-K relating to business strategies, operating plans, planned expenditures, expected capital requirements and other forward-looking statements regarding our business generally take into account the spin-off of Embarq.
Management Overview
Wireless
Through our Wireless segment, we, together with the remaining PCS Affiliates and Nextel Partners, offer digital wireless service in all 50 states, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands, and provide wireless coverage in over 300 metropolitan markets, including the 125 largest U.S. metropolitan areas, to more than 277 million people. Including subscribers who purchase services from the PCS Affiliates, Nextel Partners and our MVNOs, we served more than 49.6 million subscribers at the end of 2005. We offer a wide array of wireless mobile telephone and wireless data transmission services on networks that utilize CDMA and iDEN technology. Our strategy is to utilize state-of-the-art technology to provide differentiated wireless services and applications in order to acquire and retain high-quality wireless subscribers. To enable us to offer innovative applications and services, we are deploying high-speed EV-DO technology across our CDMA network. The services supported by this technology, marketed as PowerVision, give consumer and business subscribers with EV-DO-enabled devices access to numerous sophisticated data messaging, imaging, entertainment and location-based applications. On our iDEN network, we continue to develop features and services that are designed to meet the needs of business and government customers with a particular focus on services that build upon our unique walkie-talkie features. We also seek to realize operating efficiencies in our business, largely from merger-related synergies, and optimize the performance of our network while minimizing costs.
 
We offer wireless mobile telephone and data transmission services and features in a variety of pricing plans, including prepaid service plans. Excluding prepaid service plans, we offer these services on a contract basis, typically for one or two year periods, with services billed on a monthly basis according to the applicable pricing plan. We market our prepaid services under the Boost Mobile brand, as a means to directly target the youth and prepaid wireless service markets. We also offer wholesale services to MVNOs, which purchase wireless services from us at wholesale rates and resell the services to their customers under their own brand names. These companies bear the costs of acquisition, billing and customer service. We also recently entered into a joint venture with several cable companies to develop converged next generation products for consumers designed to combine many of cable's core products and interactive features with wireless technology to deliver a broad range of services, including video, wireless voice and data services, high speed Internet and cable phone service.
Our Wireless segment generates revenues from the provision of wireless services, the sale of wireless equipment and the provision of wholesale and other services. The ability of our Wireless segment to generate service revenues is primarily a function of:
 
 
The ability of our Wireless segment to generate equipment revenues is primarily a function of the number of new and existing subscribers who purchase handsets and other accessories. The ability of our Wireless segment to generate wholesale revenues is primarily a function of the number and type of MVNOs that resell our wireless service and the number of subscribers to whom they provide service.
We increasingly must attract a greater proportion of our new customers from our competitors' existing customer bases rather than from first time purchasers of wireless services. The higher market penetration also means that customers purchasing wireless services for the first time, on average, have a lower credit rating than existing wireless users, which generally results in both a higher churn rate due to involuntary churn and in a higher bad debt expense.
Although many of the costs relating to the operation of our wireless networks are fixed in the short-term, other costs, such as interconnection fees, fluctuate based on the utilization of the networks. Sales and marketing expenses are largely dependent on the number of subscriber additions and the nature and extent of our marketing and promotional activities. General and administrative expenses consist of corporate overhead costs and other costs to operate the Wireless segment.
In February 2005, Nextel accepted the terms and conditions of the Report and Order of the FCC, which implemented a spectrum reconfiguration plan designed to eliminate interference with public safety operators in the 800 MHz band. Under the terms of the Report and Order, prior to the August 12, 2005 merger date, Nextel surrendered certain spectrum rights and received certain other spectrum rights, and undertook to pay the costs incurred by Nextel and third parties in connection with the reconfiguration plan, which is required to be completed within a 36-month period, subject to certain exceptions particularly with respect to markets that border Mexico and Canada. If, as a result of events within our control, we fail to complete the reconfiguration plan within the 36-month period, we could be subject to actions, which could be material.
Based on the FCC's determination of the values of the spectrum rights received and surrendered by Nextel, the minimum obligation to be incurred under the Report and Order is $2.8 billion. The Report and Order also provides that qualifying costs we incur as part of the reconfiguration plan, including costs to reconfigure our own infrastructure and spectrum positions, can be used to offset the minimum obligation of $2.8 billion; however, we are obligated to pay the full amount of the costs relating to the reconfiguration plan, even if those costs exceed that amount.
In addition, a financial reconciliation is required to be completed in 2008 at the end of the reconfiguration implementation, at which time we are required to make a payment to the U.S. Department of the Treasury to the extent that the value of the spectrum rights received exceeds the total of (i) the value of spectrum rights that are surrendered and (ii) the qualifying costs referred to above.
As required under the terms of the Report and Order, we have delivered a $2.5 billion letter of credit to provide assurance that funds will be available to pay the relocation costs of the incumbent users of the 800 MHz spectrum. Although the Report and Order provides for periodic reductions in the amount of the letter of credit, no reductions had been made at December 31, 2005.
 
Long Distance
Through our Long Distance segment, we provide a broad suite of wireline voice and data communications services targeted to domestic business and residential customers, multinational corporations and other communications companies. These services include domestic and international voice, data communications using various protocols such as next generation MPLS technologies, as well as IP, ATM and frame relay, and managed network services. We also provide services to the cable companies that resell our long distance service and/or use our back office systems and network assets in support of their telephone service provided over cable facilities. We are one of the nation's largest providers of long distance services and operate all-digital long distance and Tier 1 IP networks.
For several years, our long distance voice services have experienced an industry-wide trend of lower revenue from lower prices and competition from other wireline and wireless communications companies, as well as cable companies and Internet service providers. In addition to increased emphasis on selling IP services, we are converting existing customers from ATM and frame relay to more advanced IP technologies through a data simplification initiative. Over time, this will result in decreasing revenue from frame relay and ATM service offset by increases in IP and other data revenues.
Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates
We consider the following accounting policies and estimates to be the most important to our financial position and results of operations, either because of the significance of the financial statement item or because they require the exercise of significant judgment and/or use of significant estimates. While management believes that the estimates used are reasonable, actual results could differ from those estimates.
Revenue Recognition and Allowance for Doubtful Accounts Policies
Operating revenues primarily consist of wireless service revenues, revenues generated from handset and accessory sales and revenues from arrangements with our wholesale operators and PCS Affiliates, as well as long distance voice, data and Internet revenues.
Revenues consist of fixed monthly recurring charges, variable usage charges, equipment charges, miscellaneous fees such as activation fees, directory assistance, operator-assisted calling, equipment protection and late payment charges, and certain regulatory fees. We recognize operating revenues as services are rendered or as products are delivered to customers in accordance with Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 104, , and Emerging Issues Task Force, or EITF, Issue No. 00-21, We recognize revenue for access charges and other services charged at fixed amounts ratably over the service period, net of credits and adjustments for service discounts, billing disputes and fraud or unauthorized usage. We recognize excess usage and long distance revenue at contractual rates per minute as minutes are used. As a result of the cutoff times of our multiple billing cycles each month, we are required to estimate the amount of subscriber revenues earned but not billed from the end of each billing cycle to the end of each reporting period. These estimates are based primarily on rate plans in effect and our historical usage and billing patterns, and represented less than 10% of our accounts receivable balance as of December 31, 2005.
Revenue Recognition
Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables.
Certain of our bundled-products and services, primarily plans for our Wireless segment, are considered to be revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables. Total consideration received in these arrangements is allocated and measured using units of accounting within the arrangement based on relative fair values. We classify revenue from sales of handsets as equipment revenue. We recognize revenue from handset sales when title to the handset passes to the dealer or end-user customer.
Wireless offerings include wireless phones and service contracts sold together in our company-operated stores. The activation fee revenue associated with these direct sales channels is recognized at the time the related wireless phone is sold, and is classified as equipment sales. Wireless activation fees earned prior to the 2003 adoption of EITF Issue No. 00-21 are being deferred and amortized over the estimated average life of the end user customer. Certain activation fees associated with unbundled sales in our wireless segment are deferred and amortized over the estimated average life of the end-user customer.
We establish an allowance for doubtful accounts receivable sufficient to cover probable and reasonably estimable losses. Because of the number of accounts that we have, it is not practical to review the collectibility of each account individually when we determine the amount of our allowance for doubtful accounts each period. Our estimate of the allowance for doubtful accounts considers a number of factors, including collection experience, current economic trends, estimates of forecasted write-offs, aging of the accounts receivable portfolios, industry norms, regulatory decisions, and other factors. If our allowance for doubtful accounts estimate at December 31, 2005 were to change by ten percent, it would represent a change in bad debt expense of $20 million for the Wireless segment and $6 million for the Long Distance segment.
 
The accounting estimates related to the recognition of revenue and the allowance for doubtful accounts in the results of operations require us to make assumptions about future billing adjustments for disputes with customers, unauthorized usage, future returns on asset sales and future access adjustments for disputes with CLECs and inter-exchange carriers, as well as the future economic viability of our customer base.
Management believes the allowance amounts recorded, in each instance, represents its best estimate of future outcomes, but the actual outcomes could differ from the estimate selected, and the impact that changes in actual performance versus these amounts recorded would have on the accounts receivable reported on the balance sheet and the results reported in the statements of operations could be material to our financial condition.
Valuation and Recoverability of Long-lived Assets
A significant portion of our total assets are long-lived assets, consisting primarily of property, plant and equipment and definite life intangibles. Changes in technology or in our intended use of these assets, as well as changes in economic or industry factors, may cause the estimated period of use or the value of these assets to change.
Long-lived assets consisting of property, plant and equipment represented $23 billion of our $103 billion in total assets as of December 31, 2005. We generally calculate depreciation on these assets using the straight-line method based on estimated economic useful lives as follows:
 
The accounting estimate related to the establishment of depreciable lives requires us to make assumptions about technology evolution and competitive uses of assets. Our assumptions about technology and its future development require significant judgment because the timing and impacts of technology advances are difficult to predict, and actual experience has varied from previous assumptions and could do so in the future. The impact of changes in these assumptions could be material to our financial position, as well as our results of operations. We continue to assess the estimated useful life of the iDEN network assets following our merger with Nextel and our future plans for this network. Changes in our estimate of the useful life of the iDEN network assets could cause depreciation charges in future periods to change in amounts that could be material.
We perform annual internal studies to confirm the appropriateness of depreciable lives for most categories of property, plant and equipment. These studies utilize models that take into account actual usage, physical wear and tear, replacement history, and assumptions about technology evolution, and in certain instances use actuarially determined probabilities to calculate the remaining life of our asset base.
If our studies had resulted in a depreciable rate that was 5% higher or lower than those used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2005, recorded depreciation expense would have been impacted by approximately $203 million.
We review our long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. A significant amount of judgment is involved in determining the occurrence of a "triggering event" that requires an evaluation of the recoverability of our long-lived assets. If the total of the expected undiscounted future cash flows is less than the carrying amount of our assets, a loss, if any, is recognized for the difference between the fair value and carrying value of the assets. Impairment analyses, when performed, are based on our current business and technology strategy, our views of growth rates for our business, anticipated future economic and regulatory conditions and expected technological availability.
In 2005, we recorded $44 million in asset impairment charges primarily related to write-downs of various software applications. In 2004, we determined that business conditions and events impacting our Long Distance operations constituted an indicator of possible impairment requiring an evaluation of the recoverability of the Long Distance long-lived assets, which resulted in a non-cash asset impairment charge of $3.5 billion, reducing the net carrying value of Long Distance property, plant and equipment by about 60% to $2.3 billion at September 30, 2004. Additionally, we recognized a non-cash charge of $21 million in 2004 to adjust the carrying value of our wholesale Dial IP assets to fair value. These impairments represented 54% of Long Distance's property, plant and equipment, net and 13% of the consolidated property, plant and equipment, net at December 31, 2003. In 2003, we recorded $303 million associated with the termination of our web hosting service and $349 million associated with the terminated development of a new billing platform and a software development project.
 
Valuation and Recoverability of Intangible Assets
Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives represented $40 billion of our $103 billion in total assets as of December 31, 2005. Goodwill and indefinite life intangibles, which primarily consist of our spectrum licenses, are reviewed annually for impairment, or more frequently if indicators of impairment exist. We test goodwill for impairment by comparing the net book value of assets of each of our reporting units, identified as our operating segments, to estimates of its respective fair values. We test indefinite life intangibles for impairment by comparing an asset's respective carrying value to estimates of fair value. Fair value is determined using the direct value method, which requires the use of estimates, judgments and projections. We performed our annual impairment test of FCC spectrum licenses and goodwill in the fourth quarter 2005 and concluded that there was no impairment, as the estimates of fair value of these intangible assets exceeded their carrying values.
The accounting estimates related to goodwill and indefinite life intangibles require us to make assumptions about fair values. The impact of recognizing an impairment could be material to our financial position and results of operations. Our assumptions about fair values require significant judgment because economic factors, industry factors and technology considerations can result in variable and volatile fair values. In addition, a significant amount of judgment is involved in determining the occurrence of a "triggering event" that requires an evaluation of the recoverability of our goodwill or intangible assets.
In 2003, we decided to end pursuit of a residential fixed wireless strategy using certain of our BRS spectrum, which resulted in an impairment analysis in which we determined that there had been a decline in our estimate of the fair value of our BRS spectrum. As a result, we recorded a non-cash charge of $1.2 billion, which reduced the carrying value to $300 million. We continue to invest in additional 2.5 GHz spectrum rights, test new technology that could be used to provide services using this spectrum, monitor industry developments and participate in FCC proceedings in an effort to obtain favorable regulatory rulings with respect to this spectrum.
Valuation of Acquired Assets and Liabilities
In connection with the Sprint-Nextel merger in the third quarter 2005, as required by SFAS No. 141, , we allocated the purchase price to the assets acquired, including goodwill and spectrum licenses, and liabilities assumed from Nextel based on their respective fair values at the merger date. The approach to the estimation of the fair values of the Nextel goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets was primarily based on the income approach valuation technique.
Business Combinations
We are in the process of finalizing internal studies of the assets acquired in the Sprint-Nextel merger and the acquisitions of US Unwired, Gulf Coast Wireless, and IWO Holdings, including investments, property, plant and equipment, intangible assets, and certain liabilities relevant to the allocation of the purchase price. The fair values recorded as of December 31, 2005, are based on preliminary valuations and are subject to adjustment as additional information is obtained. Such additional information includes, but may not be limited to, the following: valuations and physical counts of property, plant and equipment, plans relative to the disposition of certain assets acquired, exit from certain contractual arrangements and the involuntary termination of employees. When finalized, we may be required to make adjustments that could impact our results of operations and financial position, some of which could be material.
Employee Benefit Plan Assumptions
Retirement benefits are a significant cost of doing business for us, yet represent obligations that will be settled far in the future. Retirement benefit accounting is intended to reflect the recognition of the future benefit costs over the employee's expected tenure with us based on the terms of the plans and the investment and funding decisions made by us. The accounting requires that management make assumptions regarding such variables as the discount rate, return on assets, and future health care costs. Changes in these key assumptions can have a significant impact on the projected benefit obligation and periodic benefit cost incurred by us.
In determining pension obligations, we are required to develop assumptions for the discount rate and return on plan assets. These assumptions are subject to market performance, which has fluctuated in the recent past and could have continued volatility in the future. In selecting our discount rate, our third party actuaries construct a hypothetical portfolio of bonds rated AA- or better that produces a cash flow matching the projected benefit payments of the plan. For the December 31, 2005 measurement date, this exercise produced a range of 5.67% -5.87%, and our discount rate was set at 5.75%, a 25 basis point decrease from December 31, 2004. An increase in the discount rate would reduce the reported projected benefit obligation. In contrast, if the discount rate used in 2005 in determining the projected benefit obligation was 25 basis points lower, it would generate a $179 million increase in the projected benefit obligation reported on the balance sheet, and a $27 million increase in the benefit costs.
 
Our return on asset assumption is 8.75% and has not changed since late 2003. To determine our assumption for the return on assets, we consider forward-looking estimates of the expected long-term returns for a portfolio invested according to our target investment policy. This assumption was initially developed from estimates provided by two investment consulting firms in late 2003 when we revised our target asset allocation policy, and is validated each year against estimates provided by our third party actuaries. If the expected return on assets assumption was 25 basis points lower, it would generate a $9 million increase in current year benefit costs. This assumption is not used in the calculation of the pension projected benefit obligation.
In determining post-retirement medical and life insurance benefit obligations, assumptions are made concerning the cost of health care, including medical inflation and discount rates. A one-percentage point increase in the assumed medical inflation rate would generate a $37 million increase in the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation reported on the balance sheet, and a $2 million increase in benefit costs. An increase in the discount rate would reduce the reported accumulated postretirement benefit obligation. In contrast, if the discount rate used in 2005 in determining the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation was 25 basis points lower, it would generate a $16 million increase in the obligation as of December 31, 2005 and an immaterial impact on benefit costs.
Most individuals employed with us prior to the Sprint-Nextel merger are participants in the pension plan. We did not extend plan participation to Nextel employees in connection with the Sprint-Nextel merger. As of December 31, 2005, the pension plan was amended to freeze benefit accruals for plan participants not designated for employment with Embarq following the spin-off. We also did not extend participation in the retiree medical plan to Nextel employees in connection with the Sprint-Nextel merger, and we amended that plan to include only employees designated for employment with Embarq following the spin-off, and those individuals employed with us prior to the Sprint-Nextel merger who were born prior to 1956. In connection with the spin-off of Embarq, accrued pension and other post-retirement benefit obligations payable to participants designated to work for Embarq were transferred to Embarq. Pension plan assets owned by us will be transferred to Embarq using an agreed-upon valuation methodology.
Tax Valuation Allowances
We are required to estimate the amount of tax payable or refundable for the current year and the deferred income tax liabilities and assets for the future tax consequences of events that have been reflected in our financial statements or tax returns for each taxing jurisdiction in which we operate. This process requires our management to make assessments regarding the timing and probability of the ultimate tax impact. We record valuation allowances on deferred tax assets if we determine it is more likely than not that the asset will not be realized. Additionally, we establish reserves when, despite our belief that our tax return positions are fully supportable, certain positions could be challenged, and the positions may not be fully sustained. Actual income taxes could vary from these estimates due to future changes in income tax law, the spin-off of Embarq, significant changes in the jurisdictions in which we operate, our inability to generate sufficient future taxable income or unpredicted results from the final determination of each year's liability by taxing authorities. These changes could have a significant impact on our financial position.
The accounting estimate related to the tax valuation allowance requires us to make assumptions regarding the timing of future events, including the probability of expected future taxable income and available tax planning opportunities. These assumptions require significant judgment because actual performance has fluctuated in the past and may do so in the future. The impact that changes in actual performance versus these estimates could have on the realization of tax benefits as reported in our results of operations could be material.
We carried an income tax valuation allowance of $1.1 billion as of December 31, 2005. This amount includes a valuation allowance for the total tax benefits related to net operating loss carryforwards, subject to utilization restrictions, acquired in connection with certain acquisitions. The remainder of the valuation allowance relates to capital loss, state net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. Assumption changes that result in a reduction of expected benefits from realization of capital loss, state net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards by 10% would increase our valuation allowance by $55 million.
Significant New Accounting Pronouncements
SFAS No. 123R
In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, issued SFAS No. 123R, . This statement requires an entity to recognize the cost of employee services received in share-based payment transactions, through the use of fair-value-based methods of recognizing cost. This statement is effective for us as of January 1, 2006.
Share-Based Payment
We voluntarily adopted fair value accounting for share-based payments effective January 1, 2003, under SFAS No. 123 as amended by SFAS No. 148, , using the prospective
Accounting for Stock-Based CompensationTransition and Disclosure
 
method. Upon adoption, we began expensing the fair value of stock-based compensation for all grants, modifications or settlements made on or after January 1, 2003. In connection with the conversion of the PCS common stock into our common stock in the tracking stock recombination, as required by SFAS No. 123, we accounted for the conversion of options to purchase PCS stock into options to purchase our common stock as a modification and, accordingly, applied stock option expensing to the options to acquire our common stock resulting from the conversion of PCS stock options granted before January 1, 2003. Further, in connection with the Nextel merger, we accounted for the conversion of Nextel stock options to our stock options as a modification and, accordingly, applied stock option expensing to the unvested stock options beginning on the merger date.
The revised standard will require us to begin to recognize compensation cost for unvested common stock options granted to our employees before January 1, 2003, which are outstanding as of January 1, 2006. The requirement to recognize expense on these unvested grants is expected to be immaterial to us.
SFAS No. 151
In November 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 151, . This statement requires that items such as idle facility expense, excessive spoilage, double freight, and rehandling costs be recognized as current-period charges regardless of whether they meet the definition of "abnormal" provided in ARB No. 43, Chapter 4, . The statement is effective for inventory costs incurred during fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2005. We do not expect the adoption of this standard to have a material impact on our financial statements.
Inventory Costs
an amendment of Accounting Research Bulletin, or ARB, No. 43, Chapter 4
Inventory Pricing
Results of Operations
Consolidated
 
The discussion of our results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2005 includes the financial results of Nextel for the last 141 days of the year, consistent with generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. The inclusion of these results renders direct comparisons with results for prior periods less meaningful. Accordingly, the discussion below addresses, where appropriate, trends we believe are significant, separate and apart from the impact of the merger with Nextel.
Net operating revenues increased 33% in 2005, reflecting growth in revenues of our Wireless segment, partially offset by declining revenues of our Long Distance segment.
Operating expenses increased 13% in 2005 primarily due to increases in the operating expenses of our Wireless segment, partially offset by a decrease in the operating expenses of our Long Distance segment.
In 2005, we recorded merger and integration costs of $580 million. Merger and integration costs are generally non-recurring in nature and primarily include charges for costs to adopt and launch a new branding strategy and logos, including costs to re-brand company-owned stores and facilities, costs to train customer-facing employees and prepare systems for the launch of the common customer interfacing systems, processes and other integration planning and execution costs, and costs related to employee retention and involuntary separations of employees. These merger and integration costs were primarily related to our merger with Nextel and the spin-off of Embarq. Merger and integration costs have primarily been reflected as unallocated corporate selling, general and administrative expenses and, therefore, are excluded from segment results.
In 2005, we recorded net restructuring and asset impairment charges of $43 million. Net restructuring and asset impairment charges primarily represent asset impairment charges principally related to the write-down of various software applications. We also incurred asset impairments arising from the hurricanes in the Gulf Coast region, but these asset impairments were substantially offset by insurance recoveries.
In 2005, we also recorded hurricane-related charges of $100 million exclusive of the asset impairment charges. Approximately $85 million and $15 million of these charges were reflected in the Wireless and Long Distance segments, respectively.
 
In 2005, we recorded income of $169 million related to activities associated with various equity method investments and marketable securities transactions. This income is primarily the result of our recording $137 million of equity in earnings associated with our ownership interest in Nextel Partners, the majority of which related to a release by Nextel Partners of a significant portion of its deferred tax valuation allowance in the third quarter 2005.
In 2004, we recorded net restructuring and asset impairment charges of $3.7 billion primarily related to the impairment of our Long Distance property, plant and equipment and severance costs associated with our organizational realignment initiatives and the termination of the web hosting service.
In 2003, we recorded net restructuring charges and asset impairments of $1.9 billion, which consisted of impairment charges associated with the decline in our estimates of fair value of certain of our BRS spectrum; other asset impairments, facilities and severance charges associated with the termination of our web hosting service; impairment charges associated with the termination of development of a new billing platform; impairment charges associated with the termination of software development projects; and severance costs associated with our transformation to a customer-focused organizational design; partially offset by the finalization of all 2001 and 2002 restructuring liabilities.
Segmental Results of Operations
Certain prior-period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation. In 2005, we determined that recategorization of certain costs from costs of services and products to selling, general and administrative would be more consistent with current industry practices, and accordingly reclassified $1.1 billion of expenses in each of the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003. These costs primarily consist of certain customer care and information technology costs for the Wireless and Long Distance segments.
Wireless
Through our Wireless segment, we, together with the remaining PCS Affiliates and Nextel Partners, offer digital wireless service in all 50 states, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands and provide wireless coverage in over 300 metropolitan markets, including the 125 largest U.S. metropolitan areas, to more than 277 million people. Combined with the PCS Affiliates, Nextel Partners and our MVNO wholesale resellers, we served more than 49.6 million subscribers at the end of 2005.
We provide a comprehensive suite of advanced wireless services, including digital wireless mobile telephone service, instant national and international walkie-talkie capabilities and wireless data transmission services. These services are provided using two networks, the CDMA technology-based network that was operated by us prior to the Nextel merger and the iDEN technology-based network that was operated by Nextel prior to the merger. We plan to develop handsets that are capable of operating on both of these networks, which is expected to enhance the services available to our customers. We expect to take other actions to capture capital and operating efficiencies as the network operations are combined.
We offer wireless international voice roaming around the globe. International roaming is available with a PCS tri-mode (CDMA/analog) phone in areas of more than 40 countries, including countries in the Asia-Pacific, South American and Caribbean regions, as well as Canada and Mexico. International roaming is also available with a GSM-capable phone in over 140 countries in Europe, the Middle East, Africa and the South Pacific rim. We also have roaming or interoperability agreements with iDEN-based wireless service providers that operate in Latin America and Canada.
We are continuing to execute our plans that will enable us to offer faster wireless data speeds by deploying EV-DO technology across the CDMA network. With peak rates of up to 2.4 megabits per second for downloads, EV-DO will accelerate average mobile-device data speeds up to 10 times when compared to the prior generation technology. This technology is expected to deliver superior application and service performance on EV-DO-capable handsets and laptops equipped with EV-DO-enabled Sprint PCS Connection Cards. Our first commercial rollout of EV-DO was in the second quarter 2005 and subsequent rollouts will continue to expand our footprint to provide coverage to more people and markets.
 
 
The following results are included in the results of our Wireless segment through December 31, 2005: the results of Nextel from the August 12, 2005 date of completion of the merger; the results of US Unwired from the August 12, 2005 date of the acquisition; the results of Gulf Coast Wireless from the October 3, 2005 date of acquisition; and the results of IWO Holdings from the October 20, 2005 date of acquisition.
    Net Operating Revenues
 
Net operating revenues primarily consist of direct wireless service revenues, revenues from handset and accessory sales and revenues from arrangements with wholesale operators and PCS Affiliates. Service revenues consist of fixed monthly recurring charges, variable usage charges, charges related to the use of specified features and miscellaneous fees such as directory assistance, operator-assisted calling, equipment protection, late payment charges, and certain regulatory fees. Wholesale, affiliate and other revenues consist primarily of net revenues retained from wireless subscribers residing in PCS Affiliate territories and revenues from the sale of wireless services to companies that resell those services to their subscribers.
Service revenues increased $6,760 million or 54% from 2004 to 2005 primarily due to the merger with Nextel and the increase in the number of our direct subscribers, while our average monthly service revenue per user remained flat. We had 3.0 million direct net subscriber additions in 2005, excluding Nextel or PCS Affiliate subscriber additions that occurred prior to the Sprint-Nextel merger and the acquisitions of US Unwired, Gulf Coast Wireless and IWO Holdings, and ended the year with 39.7 million direct subscribers. We believe that the growth in direct subscribers, separate from the growth attributable to subscribers gained as part of the Sprint-Nextel merger and PCS Affiliate acquisitions, is the result of a number of factors, principally:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Our average monthly service revenue per user remained stable at $62 in 2004 and 2005 as:
 
 
 
 
Revenues from sales of handsets and accessories, generated from both new subscribers and upgrades, were approximately 10% of net operating revenues in both 2005 and 2004. These revenues increased $637 million or 42% from 2004 to 2005 primarily due to the merger with Nextel. The remainder of the increase was due to a 6% increase in the number of CDMA handsets sold in 2005, largely offset by a 4% decrease in the average sales price of the CDMA handsets. We continued to lower our handset retail prices in 2005 as costs of handsets declined, and we also changed our third party compensation plan in 2005 from one that was based on discounted handsets to one that is commissions-based. Additionally, we continued offering rebates on handsets as new promotional programs were rolled out. Consistent with industry practice, our marketing plans assume that handsets, net of rebates, will continue to be sold at prices below cost in most instances. Our retention efforts, which often include providing incentives in the form of new handsets, may cause our handset subsidies to increase as our customer base continues to grow. In addition, we may increase handset subsidies in response to the competitive environment. See "Forward Looking Statements."
Wholesale, affiliate and other revenues increased $284 million or 47% from 2004 to 2005, reflecting the net subscriber additions in the wholesale and PCS Affiliate bases. Wholesale operators added 1.5 million subscribers in 2005, ending the year with 5.2 million subscribers. The PCS Affiliates ended 2005 with 2.8 million subscribers, which has been adjusted for the subscriber transfers resulting from the acquisition of three PCS Affiliates during the year. We expect revenue from the remaining PCS Affiliates in 2006 to be significantly lower than 2005 because of the five PCS Affiliates that we purchased in 2005, and the first quarter 2006.
Service revenues increased $1.3 billion or 12% in 2004 compared to 2003, mainly reflecting an increase in the number of direct subscribers, increased revenue from data services and subscriber elections to add services to their base plans. These increases were partially offset by lower overage charges from usage-based plans. We had 1.9 million direct net subscriber additions in 2004, including 91,000 subscribers acquired from a PCS Affiliate, and we ended 2004 with 17.8 million direct subscribers.
Revenues from sales of handsets and accessories increased $367 million or 32% in 2004 compared to 2003 mainly due to higher subscriber additions and higher retail prices, which were partially offset by higher rebates.
 
Wholesale, affiliate and other service revenues represented 4% of net operating revenues in 2004 and 3% in 2003. The $278 million increase in 2004 mainly reflects the net additions in the wholesale and PCS Affiliate bases. Wholesale operators added 2.1 million subscribers in 2004, increasing their subscriber base to 3.7 million from 1.6 million in 2003, principally driven by Virgin Mobile USA and Qwest Communications. The PCS Affiliates added 374,000 subscribers in 2004, ending the year with 3.2 million subscribers.
    Costs of Services and Products
Costs of services and products consist of our cost of providing wireless service and cost of our handset and accessory revenues. Cost of providing wireless service consists primarily of:
 
 
 
Cost of handset and accessory revenues consists primarily of the cost of the handsets and accessories sold, order fulfillment related expenses and write-downs of handset and related accessory inventory for shrinkage. We recognize the cost of handset revenues, including the handset costs in excess of the revenues generated from handset sales and accessory revenues when title to the handset or accessory passes to the dealer or end-user customer.
Cost of service was 58% of total costs of services and products in 2005 compared to 54% in 2004. These costs increased $1,688 million or 52% from 2004 to 2005 primarily due to the merger with Nextel as well as increased costs relating to the expansion of our network and increased minutes of use on our networks. Specifically we experienced:
 
 
 
 
 
We expect the aggregate amount of cost of service to increase as customer usage of our networks increases and we add more sites and other equipment to expand the coverage and capacity of our CDMA and iDEN networks. See "Forward Looking Statements", "Liquidity and Capital Resources" and "Future Capital Needs and Resources  Capital Needs  Capital Expenditures."
Handset and accessory costs were 42% of total costs of services and products in 2005 compared to 46% in 2004. These costs increased $825 million or 29% from 2004 to 2005 due to the merger with Nextel. Excluding this impact, handset and accessory costs actually decreased from 2004 to 2005. The 6% increase in volume of CDMA handsets sold during 2005 was more than offset by an 8% decrease in the average cost per handset. Additionally, equipment refurbishment costs have declined since 2004 due to operational improvements in the handset exchange and insurance programs as well as increased insurance deductibles implemented in early 2005 to offset a portion of our costs.
Costs of services and products increased 18% from 2003 to 2004, primarily due to network support of a larger subscriber base, higher minutes of use, expanded market coverage and increased handset costs. Handset and accessory costs were 46% of total costs of services and products in 2004 and 2003, and costs of services and products were 42% of net operating revenues in 2004 and 41% in 2003.
 
Selling, General and Administrative Expense
Selling and marketing costs primarily consist of customer acquisition costs, including commissions earned by our indirect dealers, distributors and our direct sales force for new handset activations, residual payments to our indirect dealers, payroll and facilities costs associated with our direct sales force, retail stores and marketing employees, telemarketing, advertising, media programs and sponsorships, including costs related to branding. General and administrative costs primarily consist of fees paid for billing, customer care and information technology operations, bad debt expense and back office support activities, including customer retention, collections, legal, finance, human resources, strategic planning and technology and product development, along with the related payroll and facilities costs. Selling, general and administrative expense was 31% of net operating revenues in 2005 and 30% in 2004.
Sales and marketing expense increased $1,266 million or 56% from 2004 to 2005 primarily due to the merger with Nextel including the launch of new branding initiatives and advertising campaigns in connection with the merger. The remaining increase in selling and marketing expense reflects:
 
 
General and administrative costs increased $1,160 million or 53% from 2004 to 2005 primarily due to the merger with Nextel, as well as:
 
 
 
We expect the aggregate amount of selling, general and administrative expenses to continue increasing in absolute terms in the future primarily as a result of increased costs to support a growing customer base, including costs associated with billing, collection, customer retention and customer care activities. See "Forward Looking Statements."
Selling, general and administrative expense increased 8% from 2003 to 2004, reflecting an increase in sales and distribution costs primarily driven by higher gross additions and an increase in the number of direct retail stores. Selling and marketing costs also contributed to the increase as a significant campaign was launched to reposition the Sprint PCS brand in 2004. Selling, general and administrative expense was 30% of net operating revenues in 2004 and 32% in 2003. Bad debt expense as a percentage of net operating revenues was 1.1% in 2004 and 2.0% in 2003. The reserve for bad debt as a percent of outstanding accounts receivable was 7% in both 2004 and 2003. The stability of the 2004 percentage mainly reflects sales of previously written-off subscriber receivables and reductions in reserves because number portability churn did not occur as anticipated.
Restructuring and Asset Impairment
In 2005, asset impairment charges of $27 million were recorded primarily related to the write-down of various software applications. Restructuring credits of $7 million were the result of an analysis and finalization of original estimates related to our organizational realignment initiated in 2003. We have completed substantially all activities related to this realignment.
 
In 2004, we recorded a $30 million restructuring charge related to severance costs associated with our organizational realignment.
In 2003, we recorded asset impairments of $349 million primarily related to the termination of development of a new billing platform. We also recorded restructuring charges of $13 million for severance costs associated with our organizational realignment, and contractual obligations related to the termination of the development of the billing platform, partially offset by the finalization of all 2001 and 2002 restructuring activities.
Additional information regarding our asset impairments can be found in note 8 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements appearing in this Exhibit 99.1 to the Form 8-K.
Depreciation and Amortization Expense
Estimates and assumptions are used both in setting depreciable lives and testing for recoverability. Assumptions are based on internal studies of use, industry data on lives, recognition of technological advancements and understanding of business strategy. Depreciation expense consists mainly of depreciation of network assets. Amortization expense consists mainly of amortization of customer relationship intangible assets.
Depreciation expense increased $793 million or 31% from 2004 to 2005 primarily due to the merger with Nextel. Excluding this impact, depreciation expense increased as a result of an increase in transmitter and receiver sites in service and the costs to modify existing switches and transmitter and receiver sites in existing markets primarily to enhance the capacity of our networks.
Amortization expense increased $1,329 million from 2004 to 2005 due primarily to amortization expense related to the customer contracts acquired with the Sprint-Nextel merger and acquisition of five PCS Affiliates.
Depreciation expense increased 4% in 2004 mainly reflecting depreciation of the network assets placed in service during that year.
Long Distance
Through our Long Distance segment, we provide a broad suite of wireline voice and data communications services targeted to domestic business and residential customers, multinational corporations and other communications companies. These services include domestic and international voice, data communications using various protocols such as MPLS, IP, ATM, and frame relay and managed network services. We are one of the nation's largest providers of long distance services and operate all-digital long distance and Tier 1 IP networks. We also provide services to the cable telephony market through arrangements with cable companies that resell our long distance service, local services such as 911, directory and basic local features, and/or use our back office systems and network assets in support of their local telephone service provided over cable facilities.
We determined that business conditions and events that occurred in 2004 and impacted our operations constituted a "triggering event" requiring an evaluation of the recoverability of our long-lived assets pursuant to SFAS No. 144, . We reevaluated our strategy and financial forecasts in 2004 resulting in a $3.5 billion pre-tax non-cash impairment charge to the Long Distance long-lived assets. Additional information regarding our asset impairments can be found in note 8 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements appearing in this Exhibit 99.1 to the Form 8-K.
Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets
 
 
    Net Operating Revenues
Net operating revenues decreased 7% in 2005 and 8% in 2004. Lower pricing associated with voice services, the decline in the unbundled network element platform as we exited that market, and migration from legacy data products played a large role in the declines for both years. Additionally, the termination of a large Dial IP contract during 2004 and the sale of our wholesale Dial IP business in 2004 further contributed to the decreasing revenues. Partially offsetting these declines in revenue were incremental revenues from selling services to the cable companies.
 
In October 2004, we completed the sale of our wholesale Dial IP business for $34 million. These assets were classified as held for sale on September 30, 2004, and an associated pre-tax non-cash charge of $21 million was included in the 2004 impairment charge.
In 2006, we expect to see continued revenue declines in Long Distance due to lower pricing on commercial contracts and continued pressures in the consumer long distance market. Increased competition and the significant increase in capacity resulting from new technologies and networks may drive already low prices down further. See "Forward Looking Statements."
Voice Revenues
Voice revenues decreased 8% in 2005 and 9% in 2004. Intense competition from the cable industry and the major local exchange carriers for consumer and small business customers, as well as wireless, e-mail and instant messaging substitution continue to erode the retail base and drive lower prices per minute, despite an 11% increase in call volume in 2005 and a 13% increase in 2004. These declines were partially offset by an increase in lower-yielding affiliate and wholesale revenue primarily from our relationships with certain cable providers. Voice revenues generated from the provision of services to Wireless represented 14% of total voice revenues in 2005 compared to 12% in 2004.
Data Revenues
Data revenues reflect sales of current-generation data services, including ATM, managed network services, private line, and frame relay services. Data revenues decreased 5% in 2005 and 7% in 2004. In 2005, frame relay and ATM declined due to customers migrating to IP-based technologies. These declines were partially offset by growth in managed network services. In 2004, the decrease in frame relay and private line services was partially offset by an increase in ATM and managed network services.
Internet Revenues
Internet revenues decreased 7% in 2005 and 18% in 2004. The 2005 decline was primarily due to the loss of the Dial IP revenues due to the sale of our Dial IP business in October 2004. These revenues were partially replaced by an increase in dedicated IP revenue as customers migrated from ATM and frame relay technologies to next generation MPLS technologies. The decline in 2004 was the result of a decrease in Dial IP revenues and the discontinuation of our web hosting service, partially offset by an increase in dedicated IP revenue .
Other Revenues
Other revenues remained flat in 2005 after increasing 40% in 2004. The 2004 increase was primarily due to higher equipment sales.
    Costs of Services and Products
Costs of services and products include access costs paid to local phone companies, including those reflected as discontinued operations, other domestic service providers and foreign phone companies to complete calls made by our domestic customers, costs to operate and maintain our networks, and costs of equipment. Costs of services and products increased 3% in 2005 and 2% in 2004. The 2005 increase was driven by access volume and international access costs, somewhat offset by renegotiated access rate agreements and initiatives to reduce access unit costs. These costs were partially offset by the recognition of a portion of the deferred gain from the sale of the conferencing business, which was sold in June 2005. The 2004 increase was primarily attributable to higher access volume, somewhat offset by renegotiated access rate agreements and initiatives to reduce access unit costs.
Costs of services and products were 64% of net operating revenues in 2005, 58% in 2004 and 52% in 2003. These increases occurred as a result of the overall reductions in net operating revenues.
    Selling, General and Administrative Expense
Selling, general and administrative expense decreased 26% in 2005 and 15% in 2004. The 2005 decline was due primarily to continued restructuring efforts, headcount reductions, aggressive cost savings initiatives, reduced rent costs and lower bad debt expense in the wholesale markets. The 2004 decline was due to restructuring efforts and general cost controls.
 
Selling, general and administrative expense includes charges for estimated bad debt expense. The reserve for bad debt requires management's judgment and is based on customer-specific indicators, as well as historical trending, industry norms and recognition of then-current market indicators about general economic conditions. Bad debt expense as a percentage of net operating revenues was less than 1% in 2005, 2% in 2004, and 1% in 2003. The reserve for bad debt as a percentage of outstanding accounts receivable was 8% in 2005, 12% in 2004 and 11% in 2003.
Total selling general and administrative expense was 21% of net operating revenues in 2005, 27% in 2004, and 29% in 2003.
Restructuring and Asset Impairments
In 2005, we recorded restructuring and asset impairment charges of $15 million, of which $9 million related to the write-off of certain internal-use software systems that are no longer being utilized. The remaining charges are costs associated with the wind down of our web hosting service. Activities related to this wind down are substantially complete; however, we continue to be obligated under facility leases that expire from 2007 through 2014.
In 2004, we recorded asset impairments of $3.5 billion related to our property, plant and equipment. We also recorded charges of $121 million related to severance costs and termination of facility leases associated with our transformation initiatives and the ongoing wind down of our web hosting service.
In 2003, we recorded asset impairments of $1.2 billion related to a decline in the fair value of our BRS spectrum. The decision to wind down the web hosting service resulted in a $316 million asset impairment charge, and associated restructuring charges of $60 million related to severance and facility lease terminations.
Additional information regarding our asset impairments can be found in note 8 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements appearing in this Exhibit 99.1 to the Form 8-K.
    Depreciation Expense
Depreciation expense decreased 54% in 2005 and 25% in 2004. The decrease in both years was primarily driven by the reduction in value of assets associated with the impairment of our property, plant and equipment in 2004, as well as a decreased asset base due to the wind-down of the web hosting service in 2003. Additionally, in 2004, we extended the depreciable life of certain high-capacity transmission equipment from eight years to twelve years due to slower anticipated evolution of technology. This extension in life decreased the 2004 depreciation expense by approximately $74 million. Depreciation expense was 7% of net operating revenues in 2005, 15% in 2004, and 18% in 2003.
Nonoperating Items
 
 
    Interest Expense
The effective interest rates in the following table reflect interest expense on long-term debt only. Interest costs on short-term borrowings, deferred compensation plans and amortization of debt costs have been excluded so as not to distort the effective interest rates on long-term debt. See "Liquidity and Capital Resources" for more information on our financing activities.
 
The effective interest rate includes the effect of interest rate swap agreements. Additional information regarding our interest rate swaps can be found in note 12 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements appearing in this Exhibit 99.1 to the Form 8-K. Although interest expense increased $76 million in 2005 compared to 2004 due to additional indebtedness assumed in connection with the Nextel merger and the PCS Affiliate acquisitions, the effective interest rate on long-term debt decreased in 2005 from 7.1% to 6.8%. The decrease is primarily due to lower effective interest rates on the assumed Nextel long-term debt. As of December 31, 2005, the average floating rate of interest on the swapped debt was 7.0%, while the weighted average coupon on the underlying debt was 7.2%. Our effective interest rate on long-term debt decreased in 2004 as compared to 2003, primarily due to fair value interest rate swaps on $1 billion of long-term debt that were entered into during 2003.
    Interest Income
Interest income for 2005, 2004 and 2003 includes dividends received from our investments in equity securities and interest earned on marketable debt securities. The $176 million increase in interest income from 2004 to 2005 is primarily due to the increase in the average cash and cash equivalents balances due to the Sprint-Nextel merger. Interest income also benefited from a 200basis point increase in Federal funds rates during 2005.
    Equity in Earnings (Losses) of Unconsolidated Subsidiaries
Under the equity method of accounting, we record our proportional share of the losses of the company in which we have invested, up to the amount of our investment. We recorded $107 million of net equity in earnings of unconsolidated subsidiaries in 2005, primarily the result of recording $137 million of equity in earnings associated with our ownership interest in Nextel Partners, the majority of which related to a release by Nextel Partners of a significant portion of its deferred tax valuation allowance in the third quarter 2005.
We recorded $41 million and $79 million of equity in losses of unconsolidated subsidiaries during 2004 and 2003, respectively, primarily driven by our investments in Virgin Mobile. Our equity in losses of unconsolidated subsidiaries decreased from 2003 to 2004 because, during 2004, our recorded losses from Virgin Mobile reached the amount of our investment and we suspended the recognition of our equity in Virgin Mobile's losses at that time. Additional information regarding our equity method investments can be found in note 5 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements appearing in this Exhibit 99.1 to the Form 8-K.
 
    Loss on Retirement of Debt
We recorded charges of $60 million and $16 million in 2004 and 2003, respectively, to expense the carrying value of debt premiums due to the early retirement of debt. We did not incur any charges due to the early retirement of debt during 2005. Additional information regarding our long-term debt can be found in note 9 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements appearing in this Exhibit 99.1 to the Form 8-K.
    Other, net
We recognized $71 million of gains on the sale of investments during 2005. During the year, we realized a gain of $15 million from our sale of 5 million shares of our investment in NII Holdings Inc. We also used 10.5 million shares of our investment in Earthlink, Inc. to settle certain variable prepaid forward contracts for a gain of $9 million. Additionally, during 2005, Rogers Communications, Inc. acquired Call-Net Enterprises, Inc., in which we held an equity method investment. This acquisition resulted in a gain of $18 million. In December 2005, we sold our remaining investment in Barak I.T.C. (1995)  The International Telecommunications Services Corp. Ltd. for a nominal amount, and reversed previously-recognized losses of $28 million.
We recognized $15 million of gains on the sale of investments during 2004. These gains were primarily attributable to transactions involving our investment in Earthlink. We used 5.6 million shares to settle certain variable prepaid forward contracts and sold an additional 1 million shares of this investment for gains totaling $11 million.
During 2003, we sold 10.8 million shares of our investment in Earthlink for a loss of $3 million.
Our derivative transactions are used principally for hedging purposes. However, we entered into several derivative instruments during 2005 that did not qualify for hedge accounting treatment. As a result, all changes in the fair values of these instruments were reflected in our results of operations in the period in which the change occurred. During 2005, we recognized approximately $9 million of losses due to the change in fair values of these instruments. Additional information regarding our derivative instruments and hedging activities can be found in note 12 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements appearing in this Exhibit 99.1 to the Form 8-K.
Other increases in nonoperating income during 2005 included favorable foreign exchange rates used in foreign currency transactions and favorable terms in certain customer contracts. During 2004, we realized losses due to unfavorable foreign exchange transactions and charges of $15 million in advisory fees related to the recombination of our tracking stocks. During 2003, we recorded a $50 million charge, net of insurance settlements, to settle shareholder litigation. We also incurred losses related to foreign exchange transactions.
    Income Tax (Provision) Benefit
Our consolidated effective tax rates were 36.4% in 2005, 38.2% in 2004, and 39.2% in 2003. Information regarding the differences that caused the effective income tax rates to vary from the statutory federal rate for income taxes related to continuing operations can be found in note 13 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements appearing in this Exhibit 99.1 to the Form 8-K.
    Discontinued Operations, net
On May 17, 2006, we completed the spin-off of Embarq. Prior to the spin-off, Embarq's results were reported primarily as the Local segment in our financial statements. See Note 25 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements appearing in this Exhibit 99.1 to the Form 8-K for additional information.
Income from discontinued operations related to the spin-off of Embarq remained relatively stable from 2004 through 2005. Additionally in 2003, we completed the sale of our directory publishing business to R.H. Donnelley for $2.2 billion in cash. The pre-tax gain was $2.1 billion, $1.3 billion after tax.
Financial Condition
Our consolidated assets of $102.6 billion as of December 31, 2005 reflect an increase of $61.3 billion from 2004. This increase was primarily due to business combination activity, $56.4 billion of which reflects the fair value of Nextel's assets, net of cash paid, and $555 million of which reflects the fair value of US Unwired's assets, net of cash paid, both of which were acquired in the third quarter 2005, $93 million of which reflects the fair value of Gulf Coast Wireless' assets, net of cash paid, and $239 million of which reflects the fair value of IWO Holding's assets, net of cash paid, both of which were acquired in the fourth quarter 2005. Additional information regarding the impact of business combinations on consolidated
 
assets can be found in note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements appearing in this Exhibit 99.1 to the Form 8-K. The remainder of the increase in consolidated assets is primarily driven by cash and equivalents. Excluding net cash paid of $188 million in the Sprint-Nextel merger and the acquisitions of US Unwired, Gulf Coast Wireless and IWO Holdings, cash and equivalents increased $4.9 billion. See "Liquidity and Capital Resources" for additional information on the increase in cash.
In August 2005, all three major credit rating agencies upgraded our debt ratings. Standard and Poor's Corporate Ratings upgraded our long-term senior unsecured debt to A- from BBB- and changed our credit rating outlook to stable from positive. Moody's Investor Service upgraded our long-term senior unsecured debt rating to Baa2 from Baa3 and changed the credit rating outlook to stable from positive. Fitch Ratings upgraded our senior unsecured debt rating to BBB+ from BBB and changed our credit rating outlook to stable from positive.
Liquidity and Capital Resources
 
During December 2005, we entered into a new unsecured bank credit facility, consisting of a five year $6.0 billion revolving credit facility and a 364-day $3.2 billion term loan, for a total financing capacity of $9.2 billion. This facility replaced the existing Nextel credit agreement, which included a $4.0 billion revolving credit facility, $1.0 billion of which was drawn, and a $2.2 billion term loan, all of which was outstanding. The new $3.2 billion term loan was used to refinance the outstanding revolving credit and term loans under the existing Nextel credit agreement. The $2.5 billion letter of credit required by the FCC Report and Order that was outstanding under the Nextel credit agreement remains outstanding under the new $6.0 billion revolving credit facility and reduces the available revolving loan commitments by an equivalent amount, leaving $3.5 billion of borrowing capacity available under the new credit facility at December 31, 2005. The full revolving loan commitment under our existing $1.0 billion bank credit facility was also available as of December 31, 2005.
The credit agreements described above provide for interest rates equal to the London Interbank Offered Rate, or LIBOR, or Prime Rate plus a spread that varies depending on the applicable borrower's or guarantor's credit ratings. None of these facilities includes rating triggers that would allow the lenders involved to terminate the facilities in the event of a credit rating downgrade.
We had letters of credit of $124 million as of December 31, 2005, in addition to the $2.5 billion letter of credit related to the Report and Order.
As of December 31, 2005, we were in compliance with all debt covenants, including all financial ratio tests, associated with our borrowings.
Our ability to fund our capital needs is ultimately impacted by the overall capacity and terms of the bank and securities markets. Given the volatility in these markets, we continue to monitor them closely and to take steps to maintain financial flexibility and a reasonable capital structure cost.
As of December 31, 2005, we had working capital of $5.0 billion compared to $3.1 billion as of December 31, 2004. In addition to cash, cash equivalents and current marketable securities, a significant portion of our working capital consists of accounts receivable, handset inventory, prepaid expenses, deferred tax assets and other current assets, net of accounts payable, accrued expenses and the current portion of long-term debt and capital lease obligations. The increase in working capital is primarily due to the approximately $2.6 billion of working capital acquired as a result of the Nextel merger.
Discontinued Operations
On May 17, 2006, we completed the spin-off of Embarq that we had announced at the time of our merger with Nextel Communications. The separation of Embarq from us results in two separate companies that can each focus on
 
maximizing opportunities for its distinct business. We believe this separation will present the opportunity for enhanced performance of each of the two companies, including: allowing each company separately to pursue the business and regulatory strategies that best suit its long-term interests and, by doing so, addressing the growing strategic divergence between Embarq's local wireline-centric focus and our increasingly national wireless-centric focus; creating separate companies that have different financial characteristics, which may appeal to different investor bases; creating opportunities to more efficiently develop and finance expansion plans; and creating effective management incentives tied to the relevant company's performance.
In the spin-off, we distributed pro rata to our shareholders one share of Embarq common stock for every 20 shares of our voting and non-voting common stock, or about 149 million shares of Embarq common stock. Cash was paid for fractional shares. The distribution of Embarq common stock is considered a tax-free transaction for us and for our shareholders, except cash payments made in lieu of fractional shares which are generally taxable.
In connection with the spin-off, Embarq transferred to our parent company $2.1 billion in cash and about $4.5 billion of Embarq senior notes in partial consideration for, and as a condition to, our transfer to Embarq of the local communications business. Embarq also retained about $665 million in debt obligations of its subsidiaries. The cash and senior notes were transferred by our parent company to our finance subsidiary, Sprint Capital Corporation, in satisfaction of indebtedness owed by our parent company to Sprint Capital. On May 19, 2006, Sprint Capital sold the Embarq senior notes to the public, receiving about $4.4 billion in net proceeds.
The separation and distribution agreement and related agreements with Embarq provide that generally each party will be responsible for its respective assets, liabilities and businesses following the spin-off and that we and Embarq will provide each other with certain transition services relating to our respective businesses for specified periods at cost-based prices. We also entered into agreements pursuant to which we and Embarq will provide each other with specified services at commercial rates. Further, the agreements provide for a settlement process surrounding the transfer of certain assets and liabilities. It is possible that adjustments will occur in future periods as these matters are settled.
If the spin-off of Embarq does not qualify as a tax-free transaction, tax could be imposed on both our shareholders and us.
Cash Flows
 
Operating Activities
Net cash provided by continuing operations of $8.7 billion increased $4.2 billion in 2005 from 2004. Cash received from customers increased by approximately $7.3 billion, which was partially offset by a $4.3 billion increase in cash paid to suppliers and employees. These increases were primarily the result of the operations of Nextel being included with our operations beginning on August 12, 2005, as well as continued growth in the Wireless customer base, partially offset by merger-related costs. Additionally, cash flows provided by operating activities for 2005 include the receipt of $1.2 billion in prepaid tower rentals from Global Signal in exchange for granting Global Signal the exclusive rights to lease or operate more than 6,560 communications towers owned by us.
Investing Activities
Net cash used in investing activities totaled $4.7 billion in 2005 compared to $4.1 billion in 2004. Capital expenditures, which accounted for $5.1 billion of our investing activities in 2005, increased from $4.0 billion in 2004 due primarily to higher spending related to our Wireless segment. We invested in our Wireless segment primarily to maintain and enhance network reliability and upgrade capabilities for providing new products and services, including the deployment of EV-DO technology, as well as to maintain the iDEN network reliability as we fulfill our obligations under the Report and Order. We invested in our Long Distance segment to maintain network reliability, upgrade capabilities for providing new products and services and meet capacity demands.
Investing activities also reflect $1.2 billion of net cash acquired in the merger with Nextel, offset by $968 million of net cash paid to acquire US Unwired, $211 million of net cash paid to acquire Gulf Coast Wireless and $192 million of net cash paid
 
to acquire IWO Holdings. Additionally, investing activities include proceeds from the sale of assets, including the receipt of $376 million from the sale of shares of NII Holdings common stock in the third quarter 2005, and the receipt of $200 million from the sale of the Long Distance conferencing business in the second quarter 2005. The $200 million received from Virgin Mobile in the third quarter 2005 is reflected in the distribution from affiliates activity.
    
Financing Activities
Net cash used in financing activities totaled $1.2 billion in 2005 compared to $680 million in 2004. Debt-related financing activities consisted of the retirement of almost $1.1 billion of senior notes and capital lease obligations and the retirement of a $2.2 billion term loan and a $1.0 billion revolving credit loan with a new $3.2 billion term loan. Financing activities for 2005 also include $432 million in proceeds from common stock issuances, primarily resulting from exercises of employee stock options. Proceeds from common stock issuances of $1.9 billion in 2004 were mainly from the settlement of equity unit forward contracts.
We paid cash dividends of $525 million in 2005 compared with $670 million in 2004. The decrease in cash dividends paid is due to a decrease in the dividend rate in the third quarter 2005 to 2.5 cents per share from 12.5 cents per share in prior quarters. This was partially offset by an increase in the number of shares of common stock outstanding in 2005, primarily as a result of the Nextel merger, compared to 2004.
Capital Requirements, Contractual Obligations and Funding Sources
Capital Requirements
We anticipate that future funding needs in the near term will principally relate to:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Future Contractual Obligations
The following table sets forth our best estimates as to the amounts and timing of contractual payments for our most significant contractual obligations as of December 31, 2005. The information in the table reflects future unconditional payments and is based upon, among other things, the terms of the relevant agreements, appropriate classification of items under GAAP currently in effect and certain assumptions, such as future interest rates. Future events, including additional purchases of our securities and refinancing of those securities, could cause actual payments to differ significantly from these amounts. See " Forward-Looking Statements."
 
The table above does not include the costs to be paid in connection with the Report and Order over the next approximately two and one half years. The total minimum cash obligation is approximately $2.8 billion. Costs incurred under the Report and Order associated with the reconfiguration of the 800 MHz band may be applied against the $2.8 billion obligation, subject to approval by the Transition Administrator under the Report and Order. In addition, costs associated with the reconfiguration of the 1.9 GHz spectrum are not fully approved for credit until the completion of the entire reconfiguration process. Because the final reconciliation and audit of the entire reconfiguration obligation outlined in the Report and Order will not take place until after the completion of all aspects of the reconfiguration process, there can be no assurance that we will be given full credit for the expenditures that we have incurred under the Report and Order. Additionally, since we, the Transition Administrator and the FCC have not yet reached an agreement on our methodology for calculating certain amounts of property, plant and equipment to be submitted for credit, we cannot provide assurance that we will be granted full credit for certain of these network costs. As of December 31, 2005, we had incurred, on a cash basis, approximately $338 million of costs under the Report and Order.
The above table excludes amounts that may be paid or will be paid in connection with spectrum acquisitions. We have committed, subject to certain conditions, which may not be met, to pay up to about $393 million for pending spectrum acquisitions.
In addition, we had less than $5 billion of open purchase orders for goods or services as of December 31, 2005 that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms, but were not recorded as liabilities as of December 31, 2005 or included in the table above. We will include the open purchase orders figure in the table above beginning in the 2006 Form 10-K. We expect substantially all of these commitments to become due in the next twelve months. Included in the "Purchase obligations and other" caption are minimum amounts due under some of our service contracts, including agreements for telecommunications and customer billing services, advertising services and contracts related to information technology and customer care outsourcing arrangements. Amounts actually paid under some of these "other" agreements will likely be higher due to variable components of these agreements. The more significant variable components that determine the ultimate obligation owed include items such as hours contracted, subscribers, and other factors. In addition, we are party to various arrangements that are conditional in nature and create an obligation to make payments only upon the occurrence of certain events, such as the delivery of functioning software or products. Because it is not possible to predict the timing or amounts that may be due under these conditional arrangements, no such amounts have been included in the table above.
Expected pension contributions are disclosed in note 18 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements appearing in this Exhibit 99.1 to the Form 8-K and have not been included in unconditional purchase obligations.
 
Funding Sources
As of December 31, 2005, our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities totaled $10.7 billion.
We have two credit agreements, each with a syndicate of banks. The first, a $9.2 billion unsecured credit agreement entered into in December 2005, is comprised of a 5-year $6.0 billion revolving credit facility and a 364-day $3.2 billion term loan. The full $3.2 billion term loan was borrowed at closing and used to refinance an existing Nextel credit facility. As of December 31, 2005, about $2.5 billion of letters of credit are outstanding under the new $6.0 billion revolving credit facility. As a result, approximately $3.5 billion is available under the new facility. The second credit agreement is a $1.0 billion unsecured facility, structured as a 364-day revolving credit facility expiring in June 2006, with a subsequent one-year, $1.0 billion term-out option, none of which has been drawn.
The credit agreements described above provide for interest rates equal to the LIBOR or the prime rate plus a spread that varies depending on the applicable borrower's or guarantor's credit ratings. None of these facilities includes rating triggers that would allow the lenders involved to terminate the facilities in the event of a credit rating downgrade.
We had letters of credit of $124 million as of December 31, 2005, in addition to the $2.5 billion letter of credit related to the Report and Order.
As of December 31, 2005, we were in compliance with all debt covenants, including all financial ratio tests, associated with our borrowings.
Our ability to fund our capital needs is ultimately impacted by the overall capacity and terms of the bank and securities markets. Given the volatility in these markets, we continue to monitor them closely and take steps to maintain financial flexibility and a reasonable capital structure cost.
Off-Balance Sheet Financing
We do not participate in, or secure, financings for any unconsolidated, special purpose entities. We do have bankruptcy-remote entities that are included in our accompanying consolidated financial statements.
Future Outlook
As of December 31, 2005, we expect to be able to meet our currently identified funding needs for at least the next 12 months by using
 
 
 
In making this assessment, we have considered:
 
 
 
 
 
 
If there are material changes in our business plans, or currently prevailing or anticipated economic conditions in any of our markets or competitive practices in the mobile wireless telecommunications industry, or if other presently unexpected circumstances arise that have a material effect on our cash flow or profitability, anticipated cash needs could change significantly.
 
The conclusion that we expect to meet our funding needs for at least the next 12 months as described above does not take into account:
 
 
 
Any of these events or circumstances could involve significant additional funding needs in excess of anticipated cash flows from operating activities and the identified currently available funding sources, including existing cash on hand, borrowings available under existing credit facilities and funding received in connection with the spin-off of the local telecommunications business. If existing capital resources are not sufficient to meet these funding needs, it would be necessary to raise additional capital to meet those needs. Our ability to raise additional capital, if necessary, is subject to a variety of additional factors that cannot currently be predicted with certainty, including:
 
 
 
 
We have in the past and may in the future have discussions with third parties regarding potential sources of new capital to satisfy actual or anticipated financing needs. At present, other than the existing arrangements that have been consummated or are described in this report, we have no legally binding commitments or understandings with any third parties to obtain any material amount of additional capital.
The entirety of the above discussion is subject to the risks and other cautionary and qualifying factors set forth under "Forward-Looking Statements" and in Part I, Item 1A. "Risk Factors" to our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005, as amended.
Financial Strategies
General Risk Management Policies
We use derivative instruments only for hedging and risk management purposes. Hedging activity may be done for purposes of mitigating the risks associated with an asset, liability, committed transaction or probable forecasted transaction. We seek to minimize counterparty credit risk through stringent credit approval and review processes, the selection of only the most creditworthy counterparties, continual review and monitoring of all counterparties, and thorough legal review of contracts. We also control exposure to market risk by regularly monitoring changes in hedge positions under normal and stress conditions to ensure they do not exceed established limits.
Our board of directors has authorized us to enter into derivative transactions, and all transactions comply with our risk management policies. We do not purchase or hold any derivative financial instrument for speculative purposes.
Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk
We are primarily exposed to the market risk associated with unfavorable movements in interest rates, foreign currencies, and equity prices. The risk inherent in our market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in those factors.
 
Interest Rate Risk
The communications industry is a capital intensive, technology driven business. We are subject to interest rate risk primarily associated with our borrowings. Interest rate risk is the risk that changes in interest rates could adversely affect earnings and cash flows. Specific interest rate risk include: the risk of increasing interest rates on short-term debt; the risk of increasing interest rates for planned new fixed rate long-term financings; and the risk of increasing interest rates for planned refinancing using long-term fixed rate debt.
Cash Flow Hedges
We enter into interest rate swap agreements designated as cash flow hedges to reduce the impact of interest rate movements on future interest expense by effectively converting a portion of our floating-rate debt to a fixed-rate. As of December 31, 2005, we had no outstanding interest rate cash flow hedges.
Fair Value Hedges
We enter into interest rate swap agreements to manage exposure to interest rate movements and achieve an optimal mixture of floating and fixed-rate debt while minimizing liquidity risk. The interest rate swap agreements designated as fair value hedges effectively convert our fixed-rate debt to a floating-rate by receiving fixed rate amounts in exchange for floating rate interest payments over the life of the agreement without an exchange of the underlying principal amount. As of December 31, 2005, we had outstanding interest rate swap agreements that were designated as fair value hedges.
Approximately 79% of our debt as of December 31, 2005 was fixed-rate debt excluding interest rate swaps. While changes in interest rates impact the fair value of this debt, there is no impact to earnings and cash flows because we intend to hold these obligations to maturity unless market and other conditions are favorable.
As of December 31, 2005, we held fair value interest rate swaps with a notional value of $1 billion. These swaps were entered into as hedges of the fair value of a portion of our senior notes. These interest rate swaps have maturities ranging from 2008 to 2012. On a semiannual basis, we pay a floating rate of interest equal to the six-month LIBOR plus a fixed spread and receive an average interest rate equal to the coupon rates stated on the underlying senior notes. On December 31, 2005, the rate we would pay averaged 7.0% and the rate we would receive was 7.2%. Assuming a one percentage point increase in the prevailing forward yield curve, the fair value of the interest rate swaps and the underlying senior notes would change by $36 million. These interest rate swaps met all the requirements for perfect effectiveness under derivative accounting rules as all of the critical terms of the swaps perfectly matched the corresponding terms of the hedged debt; therefore, there is no impact to earnings and cash flows for any fair value fluctuations.
We perform interest rate sensitivity analyses on our variable rate debt including interest rate swaps. These analyses indicate that a one percentage point change in interest rates would have an annual pre-tax impact of $45 million on our statements of operations and cash flows as of December 31, 2005. While our variable-rate debt may impact earnings and cash flows as interest rates change, it is not subject to changes in fair values.
We also perform a sensitivity analysis on the fair market value of our outstanding debt. A 10% decline in market interest rates would cause a $961 million increase in fair market value of our debt to $28 billion. This analysis includes the hedged debt.
We entered into a series of interest rate collars associated with the issuance of debt by Embarq at the time of its spin-off on May 17, 2006. These collars were designated as cash flow hedges in Embarq's financial statements against the variability in interest payments that would result from a change in interest rates before the debt was issued at the time of the spin-off. However, because the forecasted interest payments of debt started after the spin-off, the derivative instruments did not qualify for hedge accounting treatment in our consolidated financial statements, and so any changes in the fair value of these instruments are recognized in earnings from discontinued operations during the period of change. Based on market prices on December 31, 2005, a one percentage point change in interest rates would result in a decrease in the fair value of these instruments by about $179 million.
Foreign Currency Risk
We also enter into forward contracts and options in foreign currencies to reduce the impact of changes in foreign exchange rates. Our foreign exchange risk management program focuses on reducing transaction exposure to optimize consolidated cash flow. We use foreign currency derivatives to hedge our foreign currency exposure related to settlement of international telecommunications access charges and the operation of our international subsidiaries. The dollar equivalent of our net foreign currency payables from international settlements was $20 million and net foreign currency receivables from international operations was $24 million as of December 31, 2005. The potential immediate pre-tax loss to us that would result from a hypothetical 10% change in foreign currency exchange rates based on these positions would be less than $1 million.
Equity Risk
We are exposed to market risk as it relates to changes in the market value of our investments. We invest in equity instruments of public and private companies for operational and strategic business purposes. These securities are subject to significant fluctuations in fair market value due to volatility of the stock market and industries in which the companies operate. These securities, which are classified in investments and marketable securities on the accompanying consolidated balance sheets, include equity method investments, investments in private securities, available-for-sale securities and equity derivative instruments.
 
We entered into a series of option contracts associated with our investment in NII Holdings in order to hedge the price risk associated with this security. The first of these contracts did not qualify for hedge accounting and the changes in fair value of the derivative instrument are recognized in earnings during the period of change. Based on these contracts and market prices on December 31, 2005, a 10% increase or decrease in NII Holdings' market price would result in a decrease or increase of approximately $7 million. Changes in the market price will also affect the fair value of our holdings in NII Holdings; however, we will not recognize such gains or losses unless the investment is sold. See note 12 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements appearing in this Exhibit 99.1 to the Form 8-K for further detail of these derivative instruments.
In certain business transactions, we are granted warrants to purchase the securities of other companies at fixed rates. These warrants are supplemental to the terms of the business transaction and are not designated as hedging instruments.
During 2002 and 2003, we entered into variable prepaid forward contracts to monetize equity securities held as available for sale. The derivatives have been designated as cash flow hedges to reduce the variability in expected cash flows related to the forecasted sale of the underlying equity securities. These prepaid contracts were settled between the fourth quarter 2004 and fourth quarter 2005.
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
The consolidated financial statements appear on pages F-1  F-55 of this Exhibit 99.1 to the Form 8-K. The financial statement schedule required under Regulation S-X appears on page F-56 of this Exhibit 99.1 to the Form 8-K.
 
 
 
The Board of Directors and Shareholders
Sprint Nextel Corporation:
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Sprint Nextel Corporation, formerly known as Sprint Corporation, and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the related consolidated statements of operations, comprehensive income (loss), cash flows, and shareholders' equity, for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004. In connection with our audits of the consolidated financial statements, we also have audited the financial statement schedule, Schedule II  Consolidated Valuation and Qualifying Accounts for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004. These consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule based on our audits.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Sprint Nextel Corporation and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Also in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein.
As discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company adopted the provisions of FASB Interpretation No. 47, , in the fourth quarter of 2005.
Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the effectiveness of Sprint Nextel Corporation's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005, based on criteria established in issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO), and our report dated March 7, 2006 expressed an unqualified opinion on management's assessment of, and the effective operation of, internal control over financial reporting.
Internal ControlIntegrated Framework
McLean, Virginia
March 7, 2006, except for the effects of discontinued operations,
as discussed in Note 25, which is as of September 14, 2006
 
The Board of Directors and Shareholders
Sprint Nextel Corporation:
We have audited the accompanying consolidated statements of operations, comprehensive income (loss), cash flows and shareholders' equity of Sprint Nextel Corporation (formerly Sprint Corporation) for the year ended December 31, 2003. Our audit also included the financial statement schedule at Item 8 for the year ended December 31, 2003 listed in the Index to Financial Statements, Financial Statement Schedule and Exhibits. These financial statements and the schedule are the responsibility of the management of Sprint Nextel Corporation. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and the schedule based on our audit.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects the consolidated results of operations and cash flows of Sprint Nextel Corporation for the year ended December 31, 2003, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule for the year ended December 31, 2003, when considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all material respects the information set forth therein.
/s/ Ernst & Young LLP
Kansas City, Missouri
February 3, 2004, except for
        Note 3, as to which the date is April 23, 2004, Note 23,
        as to which the date is November 2, 2004, and Note 25,
        as to which the date is September 14, 2006
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note 1. Summary of Operations and Significant Accounting Policies
Operations
We are a global communications company offering a comprehensive suite of wireless and wireline communications products and services that are designed to meet the needs of our targeted customer groups: individuals and business and government customers. Although our operations are divided into two lines of business: Wireless and Long Distance, we have organized our sales and distribution efforts to focus on the needs of our targeted customer groups, which enables us to create customer-focused communications solutions. We are one of the three largest wireless companies in the United States based on the number of wireless subscribers. We own extensive wireless networks and a global long distance, Tier 1 Internet backbone. Our Series 1 voting common stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange, or NYSE, under the symbol "S."
We, together with third party affiliates, each referred to as a PCS Affiliate, and Nextel Partners, Inc., offer digital wireless service in all 50 states, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. The PCS Affiliates, through commercial arrangements with us, provide wireless personal communication services, or PCS, under the Sprint brand name in certain mid-sized and tertiary U.S. markets on wireless networks built and operated at their expense using spectrum licensed to and controlled by us. Nextel Partners provides digital wireless communications services under the Nextel brand name in certain mid-sized and tertiary U.S. markets on wireless networks built and operated at its expense.
We offer a wide array of wireless mobile telephone and wireless data transmission services on networks that utilize code division multiple access, or CDMA, and integrated Digital Enhanced Network, or iDEN, technologies. We market wireless services provided on our CDMA network under the Sprint brand. We are deploying high-speed evolution data optimized, or EV-DO, technology across our CDMA network. We first introduced EV-DO commercially in the second quarter 2005, and we will continue to expand EV-DO into additional markets. We operate an all-digital long distance and Tier 1 Internet protocol, or IP, network, over which we provide a broad suite of wireline communications services targeted to domestic business and residential customers, multinational corporations and other communications companies.
Basis of Consolidation and Presentation
On August 12, 2005, a subsidiary of ours merged with Nextel Communications, Inc. for aggregate consideration of $37.8 billion. In connection with the Nextel merger, we changed our name to Sprint Nextel Corporation, or Sprint Nextel. On August 12, 2005, we acquired US Unwired Inc. for $968 million in cash. We also acquired Gulf Coast Wireless Limited Partnership for $211 million in cash on October 3, 2005 as well as IWO Holdings, Inc. for $192 million in cash on October 20, 2005. Each of these companies is now a wholly owned subsidiary of Sprint Nextel. Each transaction was accounted for as a purchase. See note 2 for further discussion of these transactions.
These financial statements reflect the spin-off of the local communications business that was completed on May 17, 2006. This business, which is now known as Embarq Corporation, consists primarily of the business that we had reported as the Local segment in our consolidated financial statements in prior periods. As a result of the spin-off, we have distributed to our shareholders shares of Embarq common stock. In connection with the spin-off, we received from Embarq cash and senior notes of Embarq, which we sold at the time of the spin-off. As required by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards, or SFAS, No. 144, , and as required by SFAS No. 95, , the results of operations, balance sheets and cash flows from continuing operations of this business are presented as discontinued operations for all periods presented. See note 25 for additional information.
Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets
Statement of Cash Flows
The accompanying consolidated financial statements include our accounts, and those of our wholly owned subsidiaries, and subsidiaries we control, as well as variable interest entities where we are the primary beneficiary. All significant intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated in consolidation. We use the equity method to account for equity investments in unconsolidated entities in which we exercise significant influence over operating and financial policies but do not control. We recognize all changes in our proportionate share of the unconsolidated subsidiaries' equity resulting from their equity transactions as adjustments to our investment and shareholders' equity balances. We use the cost method to account for equity investments in all other unconsolidated entities. See note 5 for additional information.
We prepare our consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, which require management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Due to the inherent uncertainty involved in making those estimates, actual results could differ from those estimates.
 
Certain prior-period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation. In 2005, we determined that recategorization of certain costs from costs of services and products to selling, general and administrative would be more consistent with current industry practices, and accordingly reclassified $1.1 billion of expenses in each of the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003. These costs primarily consist of certain customer care and information technology costs for the Wireless and Long Distance segments.
Previously, our operations included a Local segment, now known as Embarq Corporation, which we spun-off to our shareholders on May 17, 2006. Except as noted, the notes accompanying these financial statements generally exclude information related to the Local segment.
Revenue Recognition
Operating revenues primarily consist of wireless service revenues, revenues generated from handset and accessory sales and revenues from wholesale operators and PCS Affiliates, as well as long distance voice, data and internet revenues.
We recognize operating revenues as services are rendered or as products are delivered to customers in accordance with Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 104, , and the Emerging Issues Task Force, or EITF, Issue No. 00-21, Revenues consist of fixed monthly recurring charges, variable usage charges, equipment charges and miscellaneous fees such as activation fees, directory assistance, operator-assisted calling, equipment protection, late payment charges and certain regulatory fees. We recognize revenue for access charges and other services charged at fixed amounts ratably over the service period, net of credits and adjustments for service discounts, billing disputes and fraud or unauthorized usage. We recognize excess usage and long distance revenue at contractual rates per minute as minutes are used. As a result of the cutoff times of our multiple billing cycles each month, we are required to estimate the amount of subscriber revenues earned but not billed from the end of each billing cycle to the end of each reporting period. These estimates are based primarily on rate plans in effect and our historical usage and billing.
Revenue Recognition
Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables.
Certain of our bundled products and services, primarily in Wireless, have been determined to be revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables. Total consideration received in these arrangements is allocated and measured using units of accounting within the arrangement based on relative fair values. We recognize revenue from handset sales when title to the handset passes to the dealer or end user customer. We classify handset sales as equipment revenue.
Wireless offerings include wireless phones and service contracts sold together in our company-operated stores. The activation fee revenue associated with these direct channel sales is recognized at the time the related wireless phone is sold and is classified as equipment sales. Wireless activation fees earned prior to the 2003 adoption of EITF Issue No. 00-21 are being deferred and amortized over the estimated average life of the end user customer. Certain activation fees associated with unbundled sales in our Wireless segment are deferred and amortized over the estimated average life of the end user customer.
Advertising Expense
We recognize advertising expense as incurred. These expenses include production, media and other promotional and sponsorship costs. Advertising expenses totaled $1.4 billion in 2005, $923 million in 2004, and $903 million in 2003.
Research and Development
We recognize research and development expense as incurred. Research and development expenses totaled $47 million in 2005, $31 million in 2004, and $16 million in 2003.
Income Taxes
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on the temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities, applying enacted statutory tax rates in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to reverse. Future tax benefits, such as net operating loss carryforwards, are recognized to the extent that realization of these benefits is considered to be more likely than not. See note 13 for more information.
Earnings (Loss) per Common Share
Basic earnings (loss) per common share is calculated by dividing income (loss) available to common shareholders by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings per common share adjust basic earnings per common share for the effects of potentially dilutive common shares. Potentially dilutive common shares primarily include the dilutive effects of shares issuable under our equity plans computed using the treasury stock method, and the dilutive effects of shares issuable upon the conversion of our convertible senior notes computed using the if-converted method.
 
Dilutive securities consisting of shares issuable under our equity plans used in calculating earnings per common share were 20.5 million shares for 2005. All 11.3 million shares issuable upon the assumed conversion of our convertible senior notes could potentially dilute earnings per common share in the future but were excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings per common share for 2005 due to their antidilutive effects. Additionally, about 65.6 million shares issuable under the equity plans that could also potentially dilute earnings per common share in the future were excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings per common share in 2005 as the exercise prices exceeded the average market price during this period.
Shares issuable under our equity plans were antidilutive in 2004 because we incurred net losses from continuing operations. Although not used in the determination of earnings per common share for 2004, our dilutive securities totaled 12.3 million shares in 2004. About 88 million shares issuable under the equity plans could potentially dilute earnings per common share in the future, but were excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings per common share in 2004 as the exercise prices exceeded the average market price during this period.
Shares issuable under our equity plans were antidilutive in 2003 because we incurred net losses from continuing operations. Although not used in the determination of earnings per common share for 2003, our dilutive securities totaled 3.0 million shares in 2003. About 103 million shares issuable under the equity plans could potentially dilute earnings per common share in the future, but were excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings per common share in 2003 as the exercise prices exceeded the average market price during this period.
Stock-based Compensation
Effective January 1, 2003, we adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards, or SFAS, No. 123, , as amended by SFAS No. 148, using the prospective method. Upon adoption we began expensing the fair value of stock-based compensation of all grants, modifications or settlements made on or after January 1, 2003 using a Black-Scholes option-pricing model. The following table illustrates the effect on net income (loss) and earnings per common share of stock-based compensation included in net income (loss) and the effect on net income (loss) and earnings (loss) per common share for grants issued on or before December 31, 2002, had we applied the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS No. 123.
Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation
, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation  Transition and Disclosure
Compensation costs are expensed over the vesting period of the award using the straight-line method. The amount of compensation cost recognized at any date is at least equal to the vested portion of the award.
 
We recognized pre-tax charges of $234 million, $81 million, and $37 million in 2005, 2004 and 2003 related to stock-based grants issued after December 31, 2002; of those amounts $36 million, $27 million and $13 million were allocated to our Local segment prior to the spin-off of Embarq. We believe these amounts approximate the pre-tax expense related to participants designated to work for Embarq, and, accordingly, these amounts are included in discontinued operations in the accompanying statements of operations
In 2005, we recognized pre-tax charges of $32 million of non-cash compensation expense in connection with Sprint employee separations as a result of the Nextel merger. The charges were associated with accounting for modifications, which accelerated vesting and extended exercise periods of stock options granted in prior periods, as required by SFAS No. 123.
Prior to April 23, 2004, we had two tracking stocks. The FON tracking stock represented all of the operations and assets of our Long Distance and Local segments. The operations and assets of our Local segment are now included as discontinued operations. The PCS tracking stock represented the operations and assets of our Wireless operations. On April 23, 2004, we
 
recombined these two tracking stocks. As a result, in 2004, we recognized pre-tax charges of $48 million of non-cash compensation expense related to the recombination of FON common stock and PCS common stock. As required by SFAS No. 123, we accounted for the conversion of PCS stock options to FON stock options as a modification and accordingly applied stock option expensing to FON stock options resulting from the conversion of PCS stock options granted before January 1, 2003. In connection with this, we recognized pre-tax charges of $37 million in 2005.
In 2003, we recognized pre-tax charges of $15 million for non-cash expense in connection with separation agreements between us and former executives. The charges were associated with accounting for modifications, which accelerated vesting and extended vesting and exercise periods of stock options granted in prior periods, as required by SFAS No. 123.
Cash and Cash Equivalents
Cash equivalents generally include highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less. These investments include money market funds, U.S. government and government-sponsored debt securities, corporate debt securities, municipal securities, repurchase agreements, and bank-related securities. All securities meet our investment policy guidelines and are stated at cost, which approximates market value. As of December 31, 2005, we have $93 million of restricted cash, which is included in prepaid expenses and other current assets on the consolidated balance sheets. See note 9 for more information.
Our prior year amounts for auction rate securities have been reclassified from cash and cash equivalents to marketable securities.
Supplemental Cash Flow Information from Continuing Operations
 
Our non-cash activities included the following:
 
Investments in Debt Securities
We classify our investments in marketable debt securities as available-for-sale and, therefore, report them at fair value, based on quoted market prices. Interest on investments in debt securities is reinvested and recorded in interest income in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations. We record unrealized holding gains and losses as other comprehensive income (loss), net of related income taxes.
Investments in Equity Securities
We classify our investments in marketable equity securities as available-for-sale and, therefore, report them at fair value, based on available market information. We record unrealized holding gains and losses as other comprehensive income (loss), net of related income taxes. Realized gains or losses are recorded in earnings and calculated using average cost. We assess declines in the value of individual investments to determine whether the decline is other-than-temporary and thus the investment is impaired. We make this assessment by considering available evidence, including changes in general market conditions, specific industry and individual company data, the length of time and the extent to which the market value has been less than cost, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the individual company and our intent and ability to hold the investment. We record impairment losses on investments in equity securities in other income (expense) in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations when our investment's market value declines below our cost basis on an other-than-temporary basis.
 
Allowance for Doubtful Accounts
We establish an allowance for doubtful accounts receivable sufficient to cover probable and reasonably estimable losses. Because it is not practical to review the collectibility of each account individually when we determine the amount of our allowance for doubtful accounts receivable each period, our reserve reflects an estimate of accounts receivable that we believe to be uncollectible. We consider a number of factors in establishing the allowance for our portfolio of customers, including historical collection experience, current economic trends, estimates of forecasted write-offs, agings of the accounts receivable portfolio and other factors.
Inventories
Inventories of handsets in Wireless are stated at the lower of cost or market. We determine cost by the first-in, first-out, or FIFO, method. Handset costs in excess of the revenues generated from handset sales, or handset subsidies, are expensed at the time of sale. We do not recognize the expected handset subsidies prior to the time of sale because the promotional discount decision is made at the point of sale and/or because we expect to recover the handset subsidies through service revenues.
Inventories in Long Distance are stated at the lower of cost or market.
Property, Plant and Equipment
We record property, plant and equipment, including improvements that extend useful lives, at cost. The cost of property, plant and equipment is generally depreciated on a straight-line basis over estimated economic useful lives. Amortization of assets recorded under capital leases is recorded in depreciation expense. We amortize leasehold improvements over the shorter of the lease terms or the estimated useful lives of the assets. We depreciate buildings and network equipment and software over estimated useful lives of up to 31 years, with approximately 70% being between 5 and 15 years, and office equipment and depreciable property, plant and equipment over estimated useful lives of up to 30 years with approximately 80% being between 3 and 5 years. Repair and maintenance costs are expensed as incurred. We calculate depreciation on certain of our assets using the group life method; accordingly, ordinary asset retirements and disposals are charged against accumulated depreciation with no gain or loss recognized.
We capitalize costs for network and non-network software developed or obtained for internal use during the application development stage. These costs are included in property, plant and equipment, and when the software is placed in service, are amortized over estimated useful lives of up to 10 years. Costs incurred during the preliminary project stage, as well as maintenance and training costs, are expensed as incurred. For those software projects that are under development, we periodically assess the probability of deployment into the business to determine if an impairment charge is required.
Since changes in technology or in our intended use of these assets, as well as changes in broad economic or industry factors, may cause the estimated period of use or the value of these assets to change, we perform annual internal studies to confirm the appropriateness of depreciable lives for most categories of property, plant and equipment. These studies utilize models, which take into account actual usage, physical wear and tear, replacement history, and assumptions about technology evolution, to calculate the remaining life of our asset base. When these factors indicate property, plant and equipment assets may not be useful for as long as originally anticipated, we depreciate the remaining book values over the remaining estimated useful lives. In 2004, we extended the depreciable life of certain high-capacity transmission equipment from eight years to twelve years due to slower anticipated evolution of technology. This extension in life decreased the 2004 depreciation expense in Long Distance by approximately $74 million.
Network equipment and software includes switching equipment and cell site towers, base transceiver stations, other radio frequency equipment, internal use software, digital fiber-optic cable, conduit, transport facilities, and transmission-related equipment. Buildings and improvements principally consists of owned general office facilities, leasehold improvements and retail stores.
Non-network internal use software, office equipment and other principally consists of furniture, information technology equipment and vehicles.
Network asset inventory and construction in progress primarily includes materials, transmission and related equipment, labor, engineering, site development, interest and other costs relating to the construction and development of our network. Assets under construction are not depreciated until placed into service.
 
Our gross property, plant and equipment aggregated by business segment was as follows:
 
We review our long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. If the total of the expected undiscounted future cash flows is less than the carrying amount of our assets, a loss, if any, is recognized for the difference between the fair value and carrying value of the assets. Impairment analyses, when performed, are based on our current business and technology strategy, our views of growth rates for our business, anticipated future economic and regulatory conditions and expected technological availability.
Asset Retirement Obligations
In accordance with SFAS No. 143, , we record an asset retirement obligation and an associated asset retirement cost when we have a legal obligation in connection with the retirement of tangible long-lived assets.
Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations
Adoption of SFAS No. 143 on January 1, 2003, affected the cost of removal historically recorded by the Local segment. Consistent with regulatory requirements and industry practice, our Local segment historically accrued costs of removal in its depreciation reserves. These costs of removal do not meet the SFAS No. 143 definition of an asset retirement obligation. Upon adoption of SFAS No. 143, we recorded a reduction in our historical depreciation reserves of approximately $420 million to remove the accumulated excess cost of removal, resulting in a cumulative effect of change in accounting principle credit, net of tax, in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations of $258 million.
Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, Interpretation No. 47, or FIN 47, was issued in 2005, interpreting the application of SFAS No. 143. FIN 47 requires the recognition of a liability for legal obligations to perform an asset retirement activity in which the timing and (or) method of the settlement are conditional on a future event. We adopted FIN 47 in the fourth quarter 2005 resulting in the recognition of asset retirement obligations primarily related to our discontinued operations for environmental remediation requirements and contractual obligations for which estimated settlement dates can be determined. The asset retirement obligations are comprised primarily of decommissioning of leased building spaces, cell sites and removal and environmental cleanup of fuel storage tanks used in standby power supply systems. Upon adoption in the fourth quarter 2005, an asset retirement obligation of $33 million, a related asset of $6 million and a cumulative adjustment due to change in accounting principle, net of tax, of $16 million were recorded.
Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations
Capitalized Interest
Capitalized interest totaled $53 million in 2005, $56 million in 2004, and $58 million in 2003. Capitalized interest is incurred in connection with the construction of capital assets. SFAS No. 34, , requires that assets under construction be incurring interest cost through the payment of cash or incurrence of an interest-bearing liability in order to qualify for interest capitalization.
Capitalization of Interest Costs
Intangible Assets
Goodwill and Other Indefinite Life Intangibles
In conformity with SFAS No. 142, we do not amortize our indefinite life intangibles, which consist of our Federal Communications Commission, or FCC, licenses, goodwill, and the Sprint and Boost Mobile trade names. We are required to test these assets for impairment at least annually or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. We perform our annual review for impairment in the fourth quarter of each year using the direct value method.
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,
Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the net assets acquired in business combinations accounted for as purchases. All of our goodwill is allocated to the Wireless segment. We determine impairment of goodwill by comparing the net assets of the reporting unit, identified as our operating segments, to their respective fair values. In the
 
event a unit's net assets exceed its fair value, an implied fair value of goodwill must be determined by assigning the unit's fair value to each asset and liability of the unit. The excess of the fair value of the reporting unit over the amounts assigned to its assets and liabilities is the implied fair value of goodwill. An impairment loss is measured by the difference between the goodwill carrying value and the implied fair value.
For FCC licenses and other indefinite lived intangibles, we determine impairment by comparing an asset's respective carrying value to estimates of fair value using the direct value method, which requires the use of estimates, judgments and projections. In the event impairment exists, a loss is recognized based on the amount by which the carrying value exceeds the fair value of the asset. In accordance with EITF Issue No. 02-07, , our FCC licenses are combined as a single unit of accounting for impairment testing purposes.
Unit of Accounting for Testing Impairment of Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets
In 2005, we were assisted in our annual impairment review by an independent third party valuation firm and we concluded that as of December 31, 2005, no impairments existed.
Definite Life Intangibles
Definite life intangibles include the value associated with acquired Wireless subscriber bases, or customer relationships, the Nextel and Direct Connect
SM
trade names and the value of our patents. We evaluate the recoverability of definite life intangible assets when events or circumstances indicate that these assets might be impaired. We determine impairment by comparing an asset's respective carrying value to estimates of the sum of the future cash flows expected to result from our asset, undiscounted and without interest charges. If the carrying amount is more than the recoverable amount, a loss is recognized based on the amount by which the carrying value exceeds the fair value of the asset. Customer relationships are amortized over the estimated customer lives using the sum of the years' digits method, which we believe best reflects the estimated pattern in which the economic benefits will be consumed. All other definite life intangibles are amortized over their estimated useful lives, using the straight line method.
Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities
We recognize derivative instruments as either assets or liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets and measure those instruments at fair value in accordance with SFAS No. 133, , as amended. Changes in the fair value of derivatives are recorded each period in current earnings or other comprehensive income (loss) depending on the use of the derivative and whether it qualifies for hedge accounting.
Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities
We use derivative instruments only for hedging and risk management purposes. Hedging activity may be done for purposes of mitigating the risks associated with an asset, liability, committed transaction or probable forecasted transaction. We are primarily exposed to the market risk associated with unfavorable movements in interest rates, equity prices and foreign currencies. We do not enter into derivative transactions for speculative or trading purposes.
At inception and on an on-going basis, we assess whether each derivative that qualifies for hedge accounting continues to be highly effective in offsetting changes in the cash flows or fair value of the hedged item. If and when a derivative instrument is no longer expected to be highly effective, hedge accounting is discontinued. Hedge ineffectiveness, if any, is included in current period earnings.
We formally document all hedging relationships between the hedging instrument and the hedged item as well as our risk management objectives and strategies for undertaking various hedge transactions.
Restructuring and Employee Severance Costs
In June 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 146, . This standard provides accounting guidance on when a liability for a cost associated with an exit or disposal activity is incurred. We adopted this standard effective January 1, 2003 for restructuring activities occurring after that date.
Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
Employee termination benefits to be paid that are not directly associated with restructuring activities are recorded in accordance with SFAS No. 112, . Liabilities for termination benefits to be provided to employees are recognized under SFAS No. 112 when such costs are probable and estimable.
Employers' Accounting for Postemployment Benefits
Debt Financing Costs
We amortize our debt financing costs as interest expense over the terms of the underlying obligations using the effective interest method.
 
Note 2. Business Combinations
In 2005, we acquired Nextel Communications, US Unwired, Gulf Coast Wireless and IWO Holdings in transactions accounted for under the purchase method as required by SFAS No. 141,
Business Combinations.
SFAS No. 141 requires that the total purchase price of each of the acquired entities be allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their fair values at the respective merger dates. The allocation process requires an analysis of customer relationships, acquired contractual rights and assumed contractual commitments and legal contingencies to identify and record the fair value of all assets acquired and liabilities assumed. In valuing acquired assets and assumed liabilities, fair values are based on, but are not limited to: quoted market prices, where available; our intent with respect to whether the assets purchased are to be held, sold or abandoned; expected future cash flows; current replacement cost for similar capacity for certain fixed assets; market rate assumptions for contractual obligations; and appropriate discount rates and growth rates.
Nextel Communications, Inc.
On August 12, 2005, a subsidiary of Sprint Corporation merged with Nextel and, as a result, Sprint acquired 100% of the outstanding common shares of Nextel. Nextel, now a wholly owned subsidiary of Sprint Nextel, provides wireless voice and data services in the United States. This transaction was consummated as part of our overall strategy to offer the most comprehensive selection of voice, data and multimedia products and services. The results of Nextel's operations have been included in the consolidated financial statements since the merger date.
The aggregate consideration paid for the merger is as follows:
 
To mitigate the risk that the Sprint Nextel stock that was issued in the merger would preclude the tax-free treatment of the spin-off of the local communications business and to ensure that Sprint Corporation would be treated as the acquiring entity for accounting purposes, the merger agreement provided for an allocation of cash and shares of Sprint Nextel common stock, determined as of the date of the merger, to ensure that former Nextel shareholders would own slightly less than 50% of the equity interests of Sprint Nextel. Pursuant to this allocation, Nextel common shareholders received $969 million in cash and 1.452 billion shares of Sprint Nextel voting and non-voting common stock in the aggregate, or $0.84629198 and 1.26750218 shares of our stock in exchange for each share of Nextel stock. In connection with the merger, we amended our articles of incorporation to increase to 6.5 billion the number of shares of common stock authorized for issuance.
The value of the newly issued shares was calculated using the average of the per share closing sales prices of Sprint Corporation Series 1 common stock on the NYSE for the period two business days before and through the two business days after the December 15, 2004 announcement of the merger.
In addition, Nextel stock-based awards were converted into Sprint Nextel stock-based awards with the shares issuable under the employee stock option plan and exercise prices of the awards adjusted based on an exchange ratio of 1.3 shares of Sprint Nextel common stock for each share of Nextel common stock, which represents approximately 104 million shares of Sprint Nextel common stock in the aggregate. The value of these awards was calculated by applying the fair value method under SFAS No. 123, as amended by SFAS No. 148, and resulted in $1.1 billion in stock-based awards. The fair value was calculated on the stock-based awards outstanding on the date of completion of the merger, which include options to purchase our shares and deferred shares.
We incurred approximately $78 million of direct acquisition costs associated with financial advisory, legal and other services, which were included in the total purchase price.
 
We paid a premium (i.e., goodwill) over the fair value of the net tangible and identified intangible assets of Nextel for a number of potential strategic and financial benefits that are expected to be realized as a result of the merger, including, but not limited to, the following:
 
 
 
 
Allocation of Purchase Price
The approach to the estimation of the fair values of the Nextel intangible assets was primarily based on the income approach valuation technique and involved the following:
 
 
 
 
Under the purchase method of accounting, the assets and liabilities of Nextel were recorded at their respective fair values as of the date of the merger. We are in the process of finalizing valuations of assets, including investments, property, plant and equipment, intangible assets, and certain liabilities. Given the size of the merger, the fair values set forth below are based on preliminary valuations and are subject to adjustment as additional information is obtained. Such additional information includes, but may not be limited to, the following: valuations of property, plant and equipment, plans relative to the disposition of certain assets acquired, exit from certain contractual arrangements and the expected involuntary termination of employees in connection with our integration activities and rationalization of the combined work force. When finalized, adjustments to goodwill may result. The following table summarizes the preliminary estimated fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed and related deferred income taxes as of the acquisition date. The amounts reported as of September 30, 2005 reflect the estimated fair values as of the acquisition date of August 12, 2005, plus adjustments made during the third quarter of 2005. The adjustments listed in the table below include purchase price allocation adjustments made during the fourth quarter of 2005.
 
In the fourth quarter 2005, a net increase was made to goodwill in the amount of $24 million primarily due to adjustments to liabilities in connection with the merger, which includes the recognition of involuntary termination benefits, costs associated with the termination of contracts and exit activities, the rationalization of property plant and equipment, and identification of loss contingencies that were in existence prior to consummation of the merger. Prior to the end of the purchase price allocation period, if information becomes available with respect to any material pre-merger contingencies where the related asset, liability or impairment is probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated, such items will be included in the purchase price allocation.
Management continues to finalize its plans for rationalizing certain redundant assets and activities, such as facilities, software and infrastructure assets, and to integrate the combined companies. These plans affect many areas of the combined company, including sales and marketing, network, information technology, customer care and general and administrative functions. In connection with these activities, we expect to incur significant costs over the next several years associated with dispositions and integration activities. Management is in the process of finalizing these plans and expects to execute these plans over the next few years. We expect that the finalization of certain integration plans will result in adjustments to the purchase price allocation for the acquired assets and assumed liabilities of Nextel and may also result in the need to adjust the useful lives of certain network and other property, plant and equipment.
In 2005, we recorded $197 million of costs recognized under EITF Issue No. 95-3, , as well as other purchase accounting guidance, as liabilities assumed in the purchase business combination. These costs are primarily associated with Nextel employee retention bonuses earned on the date of the merger and severance benefits for involuntary separations of Nextel employees. Additional liabilities for termination benefits to be provided to involuntarily separated Nextel employees are expected to be recognized as liabilities assumed in the purchase business combination.
Recognition of Liabilities in Connection with a Purchase Business Combination
Property, Plant and Equipment Acquired
The fair values preliminarily allocated to property, plant and equipment acquired in the merger are as follows:
 
The weighted average remaining useful lives are 6 years for network assets, 3 years for building and improvements and 2 years for non-network internal use software, office equipment and other assets.
 
Goodwill and Intangibles Acquired
Goodwill resulting from the merger with Nextel is allocated to the Wireless segment. Goodwill includes a portion of value for assembled workforce, which is not separately classified from goodwill in accordance with SFAS No. 141. Goodwill, spectrum licenses and the Boost Mobile trademark are considered to have indefinite lives. They are not amortized, but rather are reviewed annually for impairment, or more frequently if indicators of impairment exist.
Definite life intangibles include $9.5 billion associated with Nextel's customer relationships, which will be amortized over five years using the sum of the years' digits method, which we believe approximately reflects the estimated pattern in which the economic benefits will be consumed. Other definite life intangibles primarily include the Nextel and Direct Connect
SM
trademarks, which will be amortized over 10 years on a straight-line basis. See note 7 for information regarding the amortization expense of these assets.
In accordance with SFAS No. 109, a deferred income tax liability was not recorded on the goodwill since it is not tax deductible. Deferred income tax liabilities were recorded on the net assets acquired and will reverse as a tax benefit in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations in proportion to and over the amortization period of the related intangibles or upon their write-off or disposition, if any.
, Accounting for Income Taxes
Long-term Debt Assumed
The fair value of long-term debt assumed as of the merger date is as follows:
 
Pro Forma Financial Information
The following pro forma consolidated results of operations assume that the merger with Nextel was completed as of January 1, 2005 and 2004 for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively.
 
The pro forma amounts represent the historical operating results of Sprint and Nextel with adjustments for purchase accounting and to conform accounting policies that affect net operating revenues, costs of services and products, selling, general and administrative expenses, depreciation and amortization, interest expense, other income (expense), income taxes, and the elimination of intercompany activity.
 
Affiliate Acquisitions
During 2005, we acquired three PCS Affiliates. We believe that the acquisitions of Nextel Partners and the PCS Affiliates we have acquired to date will give us control of the distribution of services under our Sprint and Nextel brands, and provide us with the strategic and financial benefits associated with a larger customer base and expanded network coverage, which include a number of markets with favorable growth and competitive characteristics.
US Unwired Inc.
On August 12, 2005, we acquired US Unwired, a PCS Affiliate, for a purchase price of $968 million in cash. As of December 31, 2005, the majority of the purchase price has been preliminarily allocated to goodwill in the amount of $872 million and customer relationships in the amount of $276 million. See note 7 for information regarding amortization expense for customer relationships. We are in the process of completing our valuation of US Unwired's assets and liabilities, as well as internal studies of assets, property, plant and equipment, intangible assets, certain liabilities, and commercial contracts, which when final, may result in additional adjustments to the purchase price allocation for the acquired assets and assumed liabilities of US Unwired.
Gulf Coast Wireless, Limited Partnership
On October 3, 2005, we acquired Gulf Coast Wireless, a PCS Affiliate, for $211 million in cash, net of the 13.4% ownership interest held by US Unwired, Inc. As of December 31, 2005, the majority of the purchase price has been preliminarily allocated to intangible assets including goodwill in the amount of $220 million and customer relationships of $48 million. See note 7 for information regarding the amortization expense for customer relationships. We are in the process of completing our valuation of Gulf Coast Wireless' assets and liabilities, as well as internal studies of assets, property, plant and equipment, intangible assets, certain liabilities, and commercial contracts, which when final, may result in additional adjustments to the purchase price allocation for the acquired assets and assumed liabilities of Gulf Coast Wireless.
IWO Holdings, Inc.
On October 20, 2005, we acquired IWO Holdings, a PCS Affiliate, for $192 million in cash. As of December 31, 2005, the excess purchase price over the fair value of the net assets acquired has been preliminarily allocated to intangible assets including goodwill in the amount of $249 million and customer relationships of $94 million. See note 7 for information regarding the amortization expense for customer relationships. We are in the process of completing our valuation of IWO Holdings' assets and liabilities, as well as internal studies of assets, property, plant and equipment, intangible assets, certain liabilities, and commercial contracts, which when final, may result in additional adjustments to the purchase price allocation for the acquired assets and assumed liabilities of IWO Holdings.
The results of operations of these 2005 affiliate purchase acquisitions are included in our consolidated financial statements from the respective dates of acquisition. Pro forma information has not been provided for any of the 2005 affiliate acquisitions, as the impact to prior periods would have been immaterial.
First Quarter 2006 Acquisitions
On January 31, 2006, we completed the acquisition of Enterprise Communications Partnership, a PCS Affiliate, for $77 million in cash.
On February 1, 2006, we completed the acquisition of Alamosa Holdings Inc., the largest PCS Affiliate, for $3.4 billion in cash.
On February 21, 2006, we acquired 94% of the voting stock of Velocita Wireless Holding Corporation for $157 million in cash. We expect to acquire the remaining 6% of Velocita Wireless in May 2006 for an additional $7 million in cash. Velocita Wireless owns and operates a nationwide digital packet-switched wireless data network in the 900 MHz frequency band.
Note 3. Recombination of Tracking Stock
On April 23, 2004, we recombined our two tracking stocks. Each share of PCS common stock automatically converted into 0.50 shares of FON common stock. The conversion of PCS common stock into FON common stock resulted in an increase in FON common stock outstanding of 518.5 million shares as of April 23, 2004. As of April 23, 2004, the FON Group and the PCS Group ceased to exist. Our common stock now represents all of our operations and assets, including wireless and wireline operations. The financial statements are shown as if the recombination had occurred as of the earliest period presented.
 
Earnings Per Common Share
For 2003, all per share amounts have been restated to reflect the recombination of the FON common stock and PCS common stock at an identical conversion ratio of 0.50. The conversion ratio was also applied to dilutive PCS securities (mainly stock options, employee stock purchase plan shares, convertible preferred stock and restricted stock units) to determine diluted weighted average shares on a consolidated basis.
Following is previously reported earnings per common share information for the FON Group and the PCS Group, adjusted for the spin-off of Embarq:
 
 
 
Note 4. Supplemental Balance Sheet Information
 
 
Note 5. Investments
Specific investment types and the related carrying amounts include:
 
Investments in Debt Securities
Our investments in debt securities, including auction rate securities, with original or remaining maturities at purchase of greater than 90 days but less than one year, are classified in current assets as marketable securities on the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. We also invested in debt securities with original or remaining maturities at purchase of 90 days or less. These securities were included in cash and cash equivalents on the accompanying consolidated balance sheets.
Interest on debt securities is reinvested and recognized in interest income in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations. We recognized approximately $96 million of interest income on these investments in 2005 compared to $11 million in 2004. Accumulated unrealized holding gains and losses were immaterial in both 2005 and 2004.
Investments in Equity Securities
As of December 31, 2005, $617 million of our marketable equity securities relates to our investment in NII Holdings Inc. common stock and is reflected in current assets as marketable securities on the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. We acquired this investment as part of the merger with Nextel in the third quarter 2005 at a fair value of $892 million. In 2005, we received approximately $376 million in cash and recognized a $15 million gain on the sale of a portion of our holdings in NII Holdings common stock. We continue to hold 14.7 million shares, following a two-for-one stock split in November 2005, or less than 10% of the outstanding common stock of NII Holdings. We have entered into a series of option contracts associated with the planned sale of our remaining investment in NII Holdings, which will mature during the fourth quarter 2006. See note 12 for additional information.
In 2005, in connection with the maturity of the remaining EarthLink variable prepaid forward contracts, 10.5 million shares of EarthLink common stock were used to settle approximately $90 million of the forward contracts recorded in outstanding long-term debt. We recognized a $9 million gain on these transactions. In 2004, in connection with the maturity of certain EarthLink variable prepaid forward contracts, 5.6 million shares were used to settle approximately $48 million of the forward contracts recorded in outstanding long-term debt. We sold an additional 1.0 million shares in the open market upon settlement of the contracts. We recognized an $11 million gain on these transactions. As of December 31, 2005, we held 1.8 million shares of EarthLink common stock, valued at $20 million. See note 12 for additional information.
We hold approximately $97 million in other investments at December 31, 2005 which are included in investments on the accompanying consolidated balance sheets.
Accumulated unrealized holding gains, net of tax, resulting from our investments in equity securities of $90 million as of December 31, 2005 and $42 million as of December 31, 2004 were included in accumulated other comprehensive loss on the accompanying consolidated balance sheets.
Equity Method Investments
As of December 31, 2005, investments accounted for using the equity method consisted primarily of our investments in Nextel Partners and Virgin Mobile USA, LLC. These investments were reflected in investments on the accompanying consolidated balance sheets.
 
Nextel Partners, Inc.
We owned approximately 30% of the outstanding common stock of Nextel Partners with a carrying value of $2.3 billion as of December 31, 2005. In 2005, we recorded $137 million of equity in earnings associated with our ownership interest in Nextel Partners, the majority of which related to a release by Nextel Partners of a significant portion of its deferred tax valuation allowance.
As a result of the merger with Nextel, the shareholders of Nextel Partners in October 2005, exercised their right to require us to purchase, at fair market value, the 70% of the outstanding shares of Nextel Partners stock that we do not already own. In December 2005, we and Nextel Partners announced that the purchase price for each share of Nextel Partners stock under this right had been determined to be $28.50. As a result, the aggregate amount payable to shareholders of Nextel Partners at closing will be about $6.5 billion including amounts payable upon conversion of debt securities and settlement of options. The purchase is subject to customary regulatory approvals and is currently expected to be completed by the end of the second quarter 2006.
Virgin Mobile USA, LLC
As of December 31, 2005, we held a 49% ownership interest in Virgin Mobile USA. Since Virgin Mobile USA's inception, we have contributed approximately $180 million to the venture in the form of cash and discounted network services, thereby satisfying 100% of our original commitments. In 2004, we advanced $10 million to Virgin Mobile USA in the form of a loan to be repaid in 2005. An additional $10 million was advanced in the form of a loan in January 2005. Applying equity method accounting, we have recognized losses to the extent of our investment, except that under the terms of the joint venture agreement, we were guaranteed a $20 million distribution in the event of liquidation.
In July 2005, we received approximately $200 million from Virgin Mobile USA representing a loan repayment of $20 million and a return of capital of $180 million resulting in a negative investment balance of $180 million as of December 31, 2005. Virgin Mobile USA funded the distribution with proceeds from a loan. Although we have no obligation to provide future funding to the joint venture or to return the distribution, we have accounted for the return of capital as a negative investment. As a result of this repayment, under the terms of the joint venture agreement, we no longer hold any right to a guaranteed distribution in liquidation. Our investment in Virgin Mobile USA was $20 million as of December 31, 2004.
Rogers Communications, Inc.
In July 2005, Rogers Communications, Inc., or RCI, acquired Call-Net Enterprises, Inc. in a stock for stock transaction, including the common shares and Class B shares of Call-Net owned by us. Prior to Call-Net's acquisition by RCI, we accounted for our investment in Call-Net as an equity method investment carried at a zero basis with previously recognized carry-over losses. The RCI stock received in exchange was recorded at fair value as an equity security investment and a gain of $18 million was recognized. Subsequent changes in the value of this investment have been recorded in other comprehensive income.
Combined, unaudited, summarized financial information as reported by the investees accounted for using the equity method was as follows:
 
The carrying amount of our investment in Nextel Partners exceeds the amount of the underlying equity in net assets by $2.1 billion due to purchase price accounting applied at the time of the Sprint-Nextel merger. This difference is principally related to customer relationships, spectrum licenses and goodwill. The customer relationship portion is being amortized over seven years, using the sum of the years digits' method. The portion related to spectrum licenses and goodwill is not being amortized.
Note 6. Fair Value of Financial Instruments
We have determined the estimated fair values of financial instruments using available market information and appropriate valuation methodologies. However, considerable judgment is required in interpreting market data to develop fair value estimates. As a result, the estimates presented below are not necessarily indicative of the amounts that we could realize or be required to pay in a current market exchange. The use of different market assumptions, as well as estimation methodologies, may have a material effect on the estimated fair value amounts.
The carrying amounts and estimated fair values of our financial instruments at year-end were as follows:
 
Cash and Cash Equivalents, Marketable Securities, Restricted Cash, Accounts Receivable, Deposits, Accounts Payable and Accrued Expenses
Due to the short term nature of these items, the carrying amounts are reasonable estimates of fair value.
Marketable Debt and Equity Securities
We estimate the fair value of these securities based on quoted market prices. As of December 31, 2005 and 2004, marketable debt and equity securities included within marketable securities and investments consist of the following:
 
 
Long-Term Debt
The fair value of our long-term debt, including the current portion, is estimated based on available market prices of our senior notes and loans under our bank credit facility.
Derivative Instruments
The fair value of these instruments is based on estimates using available market information and appropriate valuation methodologies. See note 12 for additional information.
Redeemable Preferred Stock
We estimate the fair value of these securities by using available market data to value a debt instrument with embedded optionality.
Letters of Credit
Outstanding letters of credit totaled $2.6 billion as of December 31, 2005 and $118 million as of December 31, 2004. Pursuant to the terms of the Report and Order described in note 15 below, we were required to establish a letter of credit in the amount of $2.5 billion to provide assurance that funds will be available to pay the relocation costs of the incumbent users of the 800 MHz spectrum in connection with the band reconfiguration process. We obtained the letter of credit using borrowing capacity under Nextel's then existing revolving credit facility and it continues to be supported by the new credit facility entered into in December 2005. The letter of credit reflects fair value as a condition of its underlying purpose and is subject to fees competitively determined in the market place. We also use letters of credit to provide credit support for various financial obligations.
Concentrations of Risk
Our accounts receivable are not subject to any concentration of credit risk. We are exposed to the risk of loss that would occur if a counterparty defaults on a derivative transaction used for hedging and risk management purposes. This exposure is controlled through credit approvals, continual review and monitoring of all counterparties and legal review of contracts. In the event of nonperformance by the counterparties, our accounting loss would be limited to the net amount we would be entitled to receive under the terms of the applicable interest rate swap agreement or foreign currency contract. However, we do not anticipate nonperformance by any of the counterparties to these contracts.
We rely on Motorola, Inc. to provide us with technology improvements designed to expand our iDEN-based wireless voice capacity and improve our services. Motorola provides all of the iDEN infrastructure equipment used in the iDEN network, and substantially all iDEN handset devices. Motorola is and is expected to continue to be our sole source supplier of iDEN infrastructure and iDEN handsets, except BlackBerry devices, which are manufactured by Research in Motion, or RIM. Further, our ability to timely and efficiently implement the spectrum reconfiguration plan in connection with the FCC's Report and Order is dependent, in part, on Motorola.
 
Note 7. Intangible Assets
 
Indefinite Life Intangibles
We have identified goodwill, spectrum licenses and our Sprint and Boost Mobile trademarks as indefinite life intangibles after considering the expected use of the assets, the regulatory and economic environment within which they are being used, and the effects of obsolescence on their use.
Substantially all of the goodwill is allocated to the wireless segment. Goodwill includes a portion of value for assembled workforce, which is not separately classified from goodwill in accordance with SFAS No. 141.
The changes in the carrying value of goodwill are as follows:
 
We hold several kinds of licenses to deploy our services: 1.9 gigahertz, or GHz, PCS licenses utilized in our CDMA network, 800 megahertz, or MHz, and 900 MHz licenses utilized in our iDEN network, and 2.5 GHz licenses that we use for first generation wireless internet access services. We also hold 2.5 GHz, 1.9 GHz and other FCC licenses that we currently do not utilize in our networks or operations. As long as we act within the requirements and constraints of the regulatory authorities, the renewal and extension of our licenses is reasonably certain at minimal cost. Spectrum licenses authorize wireless carriers to use radio frequency spectrum. That spectrum is a renewable, reusable resource that does not deplete or exhaust over time. At present there is no competing technology on the horizon that would render spectrum obsolete. Currently, there are no changes in the competitive or legislative environments that would put in question the future need for spectrum licenses.
The Sprint and Boost Mobile trademarks are highly respected brands with positive connotations. We have no legal, regulatory or contractual limitations associated with our trademarks. We cultivate and protect the use of our brands.
Definite Life Intangibles
Definite life intangibles consist primarily of customer relationships of which $9.5 billion was acquired through our merger with Nextel. Customer relationships are amortized over three to five years using the sum of the years' digits method, which we believe best reflects the estimated pattern in which the economic benefits will be consumed. Other definite life intangibles primarily include the Nextel and Direct Connect
SM
trade names, which will be amortized over 10 years on a straight-line basis. Based on the definite life intangibles as of December 31, 2005, amortization expense will be $3.2 billion in 2006, $2.5 billion in 2007, $1.8 billion in 2008, $1.1 billion in 2009 and $0.5 billion in 2010.
 
Spectrum Reconfiguration Obligations
On February 7, 2005, Nextel accepted the terms and conditions of the Report and Order of the FCC, which implemented a spectrum reconfiguration plan designed to eliminate interference with public safety operators in the 800 MHz band. Under the terms of the Report and Order, prior to the August 12, 2005 merger date, Nextel surrendered its spectrum rights in the 700 MHz spectrum band and certain portions of its spectrum rights in the 800 MHz band, and received spectrum rights in the 1.9 GHz band and spectrum rights in a different part of the 800 MHz band and undertook to pay the costs incurred by Nextel and third parties in connection with the reconfiguration plan. Based on the FCC's determination of the values of the spectrum rights received and relinquished by Nextel, the minimum obligation incurred under the Report and Order is $2.8 billion. The Report and Order also provides that qualifying costs we incur as part of the reconfiguration plan, including costs to reconfigure our own infrastructure and spectrum positions, can be used to offset the minimum obligation of $2.8 billion; however, we are obligated to pay the full amount of the costs relating to the reconfiguration plan, even if those costs exceed that amount.
The Report and Order requires us to complete the reconfiguration plan within a 36-month period, subject to certain exceptions particularly with respect to markets that border Mexico and Canada. If, as a result of events within our control we fail to complete the reconfiguration plan within the 36-month period, we could be subject to actions, which could be material. In addition, a financial reconciliation is required to be completed in 2008 at the end of the reconfiguration implementation, at which time we are required to make a payment to the U.S. Department of the Treasury to the extent that the value of the spectrum rights received exceeds the total of (i) the value of spectrum rights that are surrendered and (ii) the qualifying costs referred to above.
At August 12, 2005, we had recorded a liability of $403 million associated with the then-estimated portion of the reconfiguration costs that represented our best estimate of amounts to be paid under the Report and Order that would not benefit our infrastructure or spectrum positions. As of December 31, 2005, we reduced that estimate by $137 million, through a reduction in goodwill, to reflect updated estimates of these costs. All other costs incurred pursuant to the Report and Order that relate to the spectrum and infrastructure, when expended, are accounted for either as property, plant and equipment or as additions to the spectrum license intangible asset, consistent with our accounting and capitalization policy.
Certain of our reconfiguration costs which we will submit to an FCC appointed Transition Administrator seeking credit against our $2.8 billion obligation are based on estimated allocations between reconfiguration activity and our normal network growth. These estimated allocations may vary depending on key assumptions including subscribers, call volumes and other factors over the life of the reconfiguration program. As a result, the amount allocated to reconfiguration activity is subject to change based on final assessments made at the conclusion of the reconfiguration program process. Since we, the Transition Administrator and the FCC have not yet reached an agreement on our methodology for calculating the amount to be submitted for credit, we cannot provide assurance that we will be granted full credit for certain of these network costs.
Note 8. Restructuring and Asset Impairments
Organizational Realignment
In late 2003, we initiated a company-wide effort to create a more efficient cost structure by realigning internal resources to enhance our focus on the needs and preferences of two distinct consumer typesbusinesses and individuals. In conjunction with the market-facing realignment, we also undertook initiatives to improve productivity.
We recognized related pre-tax charges of $42 million in 2003 and $113 million in 2004 primarily associated with severance benefits associated with the involuntary employee separation of approximately 4,300 employees. We have completed substantially all activities related to this realignment, and in the fourth quarter 2005, we completed an analysis to finalize original estimates. This analysis resulted in an $11 million reduction in liabilities. The remaining $4 million commitment has been reclassified as other current liabilities.
Web Hosting Wind-down
In 2003, we announced the wind-down of web hosting services offered by Long Distance. This decision resulted in a $316 million pre-tax charge for asset impairments. This wind-down, along with related restructurings in other Long Distance operations, also resulted in pre-tax charges of $60 million in 2003, $63 million in 2004 and $9 million in 2005, primarily related to facility lease terminations. As of December 31, 2005, substantially all activities associated with this wind-down have been completed; however, we continue to be obligated under facility leases that expire from 2007 through 2014.
 
Wireless Billing Platform Termination
In 2003, we announced the termination of the development of a new billing platform in Wireless. This decision resulted in pre-tax charges of $351 million, consisting of $339 million for asset impairments and $12 million for other contractual obligations. In 2004, we recorded an expense reduction of $2 million as a result of finalizing the contractual obligations associated with this action.
The 2005, 2004 and 2003 restructuring activity is summarized as follows:
 
 
 
Restructuring charges in the tables above include a credit of $1 million in 2005, an expense of $23 million in 2004 and an expense of $3 million in 2003, which were allocated to our Local segment prior to the spin-off of Embarq. We believe these amounts approximate the expense related to participants designated to work for Embarq, and, accordingly, these amounts are included in discontinued operations in the accompanying statements of operations. The responsibility to pay the corresponding liability remained with us.
 
During 2003, we finalized estimates related to prior years' restructuring activities, resulting in a $46 million reduction in liabilities, and reclassification of remaining liabilities to other current liabilities.
Other Asset Impairments
In 2005, we incurred $19 million in asset impairments related to hurricane damage, which were substantially recovered from insurance carriers. Also in 2005, we recorded $44 million in asset impairments related to the write-down of various software applications.
In 2004, we determined that business conditions and events occurring in 2004 and impacting our Long Distance operations constituted a "triggering event" requiring an evaluation of the recoverability of the Long Distance long-lived assets pursuant to SFAS No. 144, .
Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets
The industry-wide business conditions and events included the continuing impacts of the highly-competitive Long Distance market, the related aggressive pricing, recent changes in the regulatory climate negatively impacting the long-term ability of Long Distance to bridge the last mile in the consumer and small business market segments, product substitution and customers' accelerated demands for cost-effective, advanced, IP-driven telecommunications solutions requiring transparent wireline and wireless connectivity. In light of these industry-wide business conditions and events, we reevaluated our strategy and financial forecasts in 2004.
Evaluations of asset recoverability are performed at the lowest asset or asset group level for which identifiable cash flows are largely independent of the cash flows of other assets or asset groups. Due to the integrated nature of the long distance network, we conducted our testing of the asset group at the Long Distance entity level (excluding assets held for sale), as this is the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows are available. Further, it was concluded that the fiber-optic backbone constituted the primary asset of the Long Distance asset group. Accordingly, cash flows were projected over the remaining useful life of the fiber-optic backbone. These cash flow projections reflect estimated future operating results, considering all relevant circumstances and events, and estimated capital expenditures required to maintain, but not to increase, the service potential of the asset group. The resulting undiscounted future cash flows were less than the carrying value of the Long Distance asset group, requiring that the asset group be reduced to fair value.
The fair value of the asset group was determined by discounting the cash flow projections at a 10% discount rate, reflecting a risk-adjusted weighted average cost of capital. The resulting fair value of the asset group required a $3.52 billion pre-tax non-cash impairment charge, reducing the net carrying value of Long Distance property, plant and equipment by about 60%, to $2.29 billion at September 30, 2004.
Also in 2004, we completed the sale of our wholesale Dial IP business for $34 million, resulting in a pre-tax non-cash charge of $21 million.
In 2003, we recorded a pre-tax, non-cash charge of $1.2 billion related to the write-down in the carrying value of our BRS spectrum. Our evaluation of our business use for this asset resulted in a decision to end pursuit of a residential fixed wireless strategy. This decision required an impairment analysis of the asset. As a result of our merger, we have increased our BRS spectrum holdings, and intend to use this spectrum in combination with other spectrum holdings to offer wireless interactive multimedia services.
 
Note 9. Long-term Debt and Capital Lease Obligations
Our long-term debt and capital lease obligations at year-end were as follows:
 
Senior Notes
As of December 31, 2005, we have $21.4 billion in principal amount of convertible and senior serial redeemable notes. This balance primarily consists of newly acquired debt from the merger with Nextel of $5.8 billion, the acquisition of PCS Affiliates of $659 million and the existing debt of one of our subsidiaries of $14.9 billion. Cash interest on these notes is payable semiannually in arrears. We may choose to redeem some or all of these notes at the then applicable redemption price, plus accrued and unpaid interest. The $607 million in aggregate principal amount of our 5.25% notes are convertible at any time prior to redemption, repurchase or maturity at the option of the holders into our Series 1 common stock at an effective conversion price of $53.65 per share, plus $11.37 in cash for each $1,000 principal amount. As of December 31, 2005, senior notes also included $130 million of debt associated with a consolidated variable interest entity.
Our weighted average effective interest rate related to these borrowings was 7.0% for the year-ended December 31, 2005 and 7.1% for the year-ended 2004. The effective interest rate includes the effect of interest rate swap agreements accounted for as fair value hedges. See note 12 for more details regarding interest rate swaps.
In February 2006, we completed the redemption of all of our outstanding 9.5% senior redeemable notes due 2011, of which $85 million in aggregate principal amount was outstanding as of December 31, 2005. As of December 31, 2005, we have recorded $93 million of restricted cash in prepaid expenses and other current assets to satisfy this obligation.
Bank Credit Facilities
As of December 31, 2005, our bank credit facilities provide for total unsecured financing capacity of $10.2 billion, of which we have borrowed $3.2 billion and have $2.5 billion of outstanding letters of credit, resulting in $4.5 billion of available revolving credit.
On December 19, 2005, we entered into a new bank credit facility, consisting of a five year $6.0 billion revolving credit facility and a 364 day $3.2 billion term loan, for a total unsecured financing capacity of $9.2 billion. Under the terms of this new loan, the interest rate equates to the London Interbank Offered Rate, or LIBOR, or the prime rate plus a spread that varies depending on the applicable borrower's or guarantor's credit ratings. The $6.0 billion revolving credit facility is also
 
subject to a facility fee on the total facility which is payable quarterly. Facility fees can vary between 4 to 15 basis points based upon our credit ratings. This facility replaces the existing Nextel credit agreement, which included a $4.0 billion revolving credit facility and a $2.2 billion term loan. In connection with the execution of the new credit agreement, the $3.2 billion term loan was used to refinance the outstanding term loan and revolving credit loans under the existing Nextel credit agreement, which was terminated in connection with entering into the new credit agreement.
The transaction related to the term loan was accounted for as a modification of debt in accordance with EITF Issue No. 96-19, , because the terms of the new loan were not substantially different from the terms of the original loan. Thus, the $15 million unamortized premium associated with the original $2.2 billion loan will be amortized over the remaining life of the new loan.
Debtor's Accounting for a Modification or Exchange of Debt Instruments
The refinancing of the revolving credit facility was accounted for in accordance with EITF Issue No. 98-14, . Because the borrowing capacity of the new facility is greater than the borrowing capacity of the original facility, any unamortized discount plus any debt issue costs are deferred and amortized over the remaining term of the new facility. Thus, $9 million of unamortized discount and $4 million of debt issue costs will be amortized over the remaining life of the new facility.
Debtor's Accounting for Changes in Line-of-Credit or Revolving-Debt Arrangements
The $2.5 billion of letters of credit that were outstanding under the Nextel credit agreement remain outstanding under the new $6.0 billion revolving credit facility. We also have an additional $124 million of outstanding letters of credit as of December 31, 2005 used for various financial obligations.
Our credit facility requires compliance with a financial ratio test as defined under the credit agreement. The maturity dates of the loans may accelerate if we do not comply with the financial ratio test. As of December 31, 2005, we were in compliance with the financial ratio test under our credit facility. We are also obligated to repay the loans if certain change of control events occur. Borrowings under the facility are unsecured.
Our ability to borrow additional amounts under the credit facility may be restricted by provisions included in some of our public notes that limit the incurrence of additional indebtedness in certain circumstances. The availability of borrowings under this facility also is subject to the satisfaction or waiver of specified borrowing conditions. As of December 31, 2005, we have satisfied the conditions under this facility.
The credit facility also contains covenants which limit our ability and the ability of some of our subsidiaries to incur additional indebtedness, including guaranteeing obligations of other entities, creating liens, consolidating, merging or selling all or substantially all of our and their assets and entering into transactions with affiliates. Although these covenants are similar to those contained in our previous credit facility, they have been revised under the new credit facility to provide us with greater operating flexibility.
In June 2005, we entered into a revolving credit facility of $1.0 billion. This facility is unsecured and is structured as a 364-day credit line with a subsequent one-year, $1.0 billion term-out option. In connection with the execution of the new credit agreement, on December 16, 2005, we amended this facility to allow Nextel to participate in the new facility. We had no outstanding borrowings against this facility as of December 31, 2005.
Debentures
As of December 31, 2005, we have $200 million in principal amount of debentures. This balance is comprised of the principal amount of our 9.25% debentures due 2022. Cash interest on these debentures is payable semiannually in arrears and the debentures are not redeemable prior to maturity.
Capital Lease Obligations
As of December 31, 2005, we have $163 million in capital lease obligations primarily for the use of communication switches, which are secured by $415 million of gross property, plant and equipment.
Other
In December 2005, we terminated two accounts receivable asset securitization facilities that provided us with up to $1.2 billion of additional liquidity. Neither facility had an outstanding balance when it was terminated, and both were scheduled to expire during 2006.
We are currently in compliance with all restrictive and financial covenants associated with the borrowings discussed above. There is no provision under any of our indebtedness that requires repayment in the event of a downgrade by any ratings service.
 
Sprint Nextel, the parent corporation, has about $200 million of debt outstanding. In addition, about $24.7 billion of our long-term debt and capital lease obligations have been issued by wholly-owned subsidiaries and have been fully and unconditionally guaranteed by Sprint Nextel. In addition, the indentures and financing arrangements of certain of our subsidiaries contain provisions that limit cash dividend payments on subsidiary common stock held by Sprint Nextel. The transfer of cash in the form of advances from the subsidiaries to us is generally not restricted.
2004 Retirements
In 2004, we purchased and retired a total of $1.4 billion of our senior notes before their scheduled maturities in exchange for cash. As a result, we recorded a loss due to the premium paid of $60 million and wrote-off $12 million of unamortized debt costs associated with this repayment. We also paid $13 million in cash to complete an early buy out on certain capital lease obligations.
2003 Retirements
In 2003, we purchased and retired $1.5 billion of our long-term debt before scheduled maturities. The prepayments consisted of current maturities of a $300 million Export Development Canada loan with an interest rate of 2.8% and $34 million of our senior notes with interest rates ranging from 5.7% to 5.9%. We recorded a gain of $3 million associated with these early retirements. We also completed a tender offer to purchase $1.1 billion principal amount of our senior notes before their scheduled maturities. The notes had interest rates ranging from 5.7% to 5.9% and maturity dates ranging from 2003 to 2004. A loss was recorded due to a premium paid of $19 million associated with these prepayments.
Future Maturities of Long-term Debt and Capital Lease Obligations
For the years subsequent to December 31, 2005, scheduled annual principal payments of long-term debt, including our bank credit facility and capital lease obligations outstanding, as of December 31, 2005 are as follows:
 
Included in the above schedule are payments to be made in connection with various capital lease obligations. A substantial portion of the capital lease payments will be in Japanese yen and we already satisfied this obligation by depositing the present value of the future yen payment obligations at various banks. These amounts are included on the accompanying consolidated balance sheet in other assets.
Note 10. Equity Unit Notes
In 2001, we completed a registered offering of 69 million equity units, each with a stated amount of $25. Each equity unit initially consisted of a corporate unit. Each corporate unit consisted of a forward purchase contract and $25 principal amount of senior notes, or Notes, of our wholly-owned subsidiary, Sprint Capital Corporation. The corporate unit could be converted by the holder into a treasury unit consisting of the forward purchase contract and a treasury portfolio of zero-coupon U.S. treasury securities by substituting the treasury securities for the Notes. The underlying Notes, or treasury portfolio, were pledged to us to secure the holder's obligations under the forward purchase contract.
Forward Purchase Contract
As a component of the equity units, the forward purchase contracts originally obligated the holders to purchase, and obligated us to sell, on August 17, 2004, a variable number of newly issued shares of PCS common stock, which became FON common stock as a result of the recombination. These forward purchase contracts included a provision permitting the equity unit holders to benefit from or "participate" in any dividends declared on the common stock during the contract period. On August 17, 2004 the forward purchase contracts were settled by the issuance of approximately 35 million shares of FON common stock in exchange for $1.7 billion in cash.
 
Notes
The Notes were originally issued as part of the equity units and had an interest rate of 6.0% for a notional amount of $1.7 billion. In May 2004, we purchased $750 million principal amount of the Notes before their scheduled maturity. As a result, we recognized a $29 million loss in other income due to the premium paid and the write-off of unamortized debt issuance costs.
The interest rate on the Notes was reset to 4.8% on May 24, 2004, after a successful remarketing, and after the remarketing the Notes were no longer pledged to secure the obligations under the original forward purchase contracts.
As of December 31, 2005, $880 million of the remarketed Notes, which are due in August 2006, are included in current portion of long-term debt and capital lease obligations on the accompanying consolidated balance sheets.
Note 11. Seventh Series Redeemable Preferred Stock
The redeemable preferred stock outstanding at year-end is as follows:
 
At December 31, 2005, the Seventh series preferred stock was convertible into approximately 32.5 shares of voting common stock for each Seventh series share. The Seventh series preferred stock is mandatorily redeemable in November 2008 at the stated value plus any accrued but unpaid dividends. On February 28, 2006, notices were sent out to holders of our Seventh series preferred stock with our intent to redeem the preferred stock. We completed the redemption in March 2006 for a price of $1,000 per outstanding share plus accumulated unpaid dividends.
Note 12. Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities
Risk Management Policies
Our derivative instruments typically include interest rate swaps, stock warrants, option contracts, and foreign currency forward and option contracts. We primarily use our derivative transactions to hedge our exposure to the market risks associated with unfavorable movements in interest rates, equity prices, and foreign currencies. Our board of directors has authorized us to enter into derivative transactions, and all transactions comply with our risk management policies.
Interest rate risk is the risk that changes in interest rates could adversely affect earnings or cash flows. Specific interest rate risks include the risk of increasing interest rates on short-term debt, the risk of increasing interest rates for planned new fixed rate long-term financing and the risk of increasing interest rates for planned refinancings using long-term fixed rate debt.
Exposure to strategic investments in other companies includes the risk that unfavorable changes in market prices could adversely affect earnings and cash flows. We may also obtain equity rights in other companies, usually in the form of warrants to purchase common stock of the companies. These equity rights are typically obtained in connection with commercial agreements or strategic investments.
Our foreign exchange risk management program focuses on reducing transaction exposure to optimize consolidated cash flow. We enter into forward and option contracts in foreign currencies to reduce the impact of changes in foreign exchange rates. Our primary transaction exposure results from net payments made to and received from overseas telecommunications companies for completing international calls made by our domestic customers and the operations of our international subsidiaries.
Interest Rate Swaps
As of December 31, 2005, we held fair value interest rate swaps with a notional value of $1 billion. These swaps were entered into as hedges of the fair value of a portion of our senior notes. These interest rate swaps have maturities ranging from 2008 to 2012. On a semiannual basis, we pay a floating rate of interest equal to the six-month LIBOR plus a fixed spread and receive an average interest rate equal to the coupon rates stated on the underlying senior notes. On December 31, 2005, the rate we would pay averaged 7.0% and the rate we would receive was 7.2%.
 
Our interest rate swaps meet all the required criteria under SFAS No. 133, , as amended, in order to apply the shortcut method in accounting for these instruments. Under the shortcut method we can assume that our interest rate swaps are perfectly effective in hedging our interest rate risk. We recognize all changes in the fair values of these instruments currently as a gain or loss within other income (expense) on the Consolidated Statements of Operations. Under the shortcut method, these changes in the fair value of the hedging instrument are offset by an equal change in the underlying debt, with no impact on earnings. We held only fair-value hedges during 2005 and 2004.
Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities
Our interest rate swap activity generated a net liability of $18 million at December 31, 2005 compared to a net asset of $19 million as of December 31, 2004, resulting from changes in the fair value of the interest rate swaps. As the swaps have been deemed perfectly effective, an offset was recorded to the underlying long-term debt.
During the fourth quarter 2005, we entered into a series of interest rate collars associated with the issuance of debt by Embarq at the time of its spin-off on May 17, 2006. These collars were designated as cash flow hedges in Embarq's financial statements against the variability in interest payments that would result from a change in interest rates before the debt was issued at the time of the spin-off. However, because the forecasted interest payments of debt started after the spin-off, the derivative instruments did not qualify for hedge accounting treatment in our consolidated financial statements, and so any changes in the fair value of these instruments are recognized in earnings from discontinued operations during the period of change. During the fourth quarter 2005, the fair value of these derivatives decreased, resulting in a pre-tax loss of $18 million as of December 31, 2005.
Stock Warrants
The stock warrants are not designated as hedging instruments and changes in the fair value of these derivative instruments are recognized in earnings during the period of change. Our net derivative gains on stock warrants were immaterial in all periods presented.
Equity Options
We have also entered into a series of option contracts associated with our investment in NII Holdings, Inc. The first of these contracts was not designated as a hedging instrument, and changes in the fair value of the derivative instrument are recognized in earnings during the period of change. The change in fair value of this instrument resulted in a pre-tax loss of $9 million as of December 31, 2005. The remaining instruments are designated as cash flow hedges and meet all the required criteria under SFAS No. 133 and the Derivative Implementation Group Issue No. G-20, , in order to assume that these option contracts are perfectly effective in hedging the market risk associated with our investment in NII Holdings. As a result, we recognize all changes in the fair values of these remaining instruments in accumulated other comprehensive loss on the Consolidated Balance Sheets, with no impact on earnings during the life of the hedging relationship. Changes in fair value of these instruments resulted in an unrealized loss of $16 million at December 31, 2005. These unrealized losses were included in accumulated other comprehensive loss on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. These derivative instruments will be settled by December 31, 2006.
Assessing and Measuring the Effectiveness of a Purchased Option Used in a Cash Flow Hedge
The net purchased equity options embedded in variable prepaid forward contracts are designated as cash flow hedges. During 2005, we used 10.5 million shares of EarthLink common stock to settle the prepaid forward contracts, which resulted in a $9 million pre-tax gain. There are no variable prepaid forward contracts outstanding at December 31, 2005.
Foreign Currency Forward and Option Contracts
Foreign currency forward and option contracts held during 2005 and 2004 were not designated as hedges as defined in SFAS No. 133, , as amended, and changes in the fair value of these derivative instruments are recognized in earnings during the period of change. The activity associated with these contracts was immaterial in all periods presented.
Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities
 
Note 13. Income Taxes
Income tax expense (benefit) allocated to continuing operations consists of the following:
 
The differences that caused our effective income tax rates to vary from the 35% federal statutory rate for income taxes related to continuing operations were as follows:
 
Income tax expense (benefit) allocated to other items was as follows:
 
We recognize deferred income taxes for the temporary differences between the carrying amounts of our assets and liabilities for financial statement purposes and their tax bases. The sources of the differences that give rise to the deferred income tax assets and liabilities at year-end 2005 and 2004, along with the income tax effect of each, were as follows:
 
The foreign income (loss) included in income (loss) from continuing operations totaled $27 million in 2005, $(203) million in 2004 and $(141) million in 2003. We have no material un-remitted earnings of foreign subsidiaries.
In 2005, we acquired approximately $2.8 billion of potential income tax benefits related to net operating loss carryforwards, capital loss carryforwards and tax credit carryforwards in the Nextel and PCS Affiliates acquisitions. In 1999 we acquired approximately $193 million of potential tax benefits related to net operating loss carryforwards in the acquisitions of broadband fixed wireless companies. In 1998, we acquired approximately $229 million of potential tax benefits related to net operating loss carryforwards in the controlling interest acquisition of our wireless joint venture, which we call the PCS Restructuring. The benefits from these acquisitions are subject to certain realization restrictions under various tax laws. As of December 31, 2005, a valuation allowance of $820 million remains on these deferred tax benefits. If the benefits for which a valuation allowance has been provided are subsequently recognized, they will first reduce goodwill or intangibles resulting from the application of the purchase method of accounting for these transactions. If goodwill and intangibles related to the acquisition are reduced to zero, any additional tax benefits recognized would reduce tax expense.
In connection with the PCS Restructuring, we are required to reimburse the former cable company partners of the joint venture for net operating loss and tax credit carryforward benefits generated before the PCS Restructuring if realization by us produces a cash benefit that would not otherwise have been realized. The reimbursement will equal 60% of the net cash benefit received by us and will be made to the former cable company partners in shares of our stock. The unexpired carryforward benefits subject to this requirement total $202 million.
As of December 31, 2005, we had federal operating loss carryforwards of approximately $7.0 billion and state operating loss carryforwards of approximately $12.6 billion. Related to these loss carryforwards are federal tax benefits of $2.5 billion and state tax benefits of $866 million. In addition, we had available, for income tax purposes, federal alternative minimum tax net operating loss carryforwards of $5.5 billion and state alternative minimum tax net operating loss carryforwards of $1.1 billion. The loss carryforwards expire in varying amounts through 2025. We also had available capital loss carryforwards of approximately $1.2 billion. Related to these capital loss carryforwards are tax benefits of $431 million. Included in the capital loss carryforward amount is $966 million which expires in 2006. The remaining capital loss carryforward expires in varying amounts through 2009.
We also had available $556 million of federal and state income tax credit carryforwards as of December 31, 2005. Included in this amount are $350 million of income tax credits which expire in varying amounts through 2025. The remaining $206 million do not expire.
The valuation allowance related to deferred income tax assets increased $401 million in 2005 and increased $49 million in 2004. The 2005 increase is primarily related to the Nextel and PCS Affiliate acquisitions.
 
Management believes it is more likely than not that these deferred income tax assets, net of the valuation allowance, will be realized based on current income tax laws and expectations of future taxable income stemming from the reversal of existing deferred tax liabilities or ordinary operations. Uncertainties surrounding income tax law changes, shifts in operations between state taxing jurisdictions and future operating income levels may, however, affect the ultimate realization of all or some of these deferred income tax assets. When we evaluated these and other qualitative factors and uncertainties concerning our industry, we found that they provide continuing evidence requiring the valuation allowance which we currently recognize related to the realization of the tax benefit of our net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards as of December 31, 2005. Additionally, we establish reserves when, despite our belief that our tax return positions are fully supportable, certain positions could be challenged, and the positions may not be fully sustained.
Note 14. Discontinued Operations  Sale of Directory Publishing Business
In 2002, we reached a definitive agreement to sell our directory publishing business, held in the Local segment, to R.H. Donnelley for $2.2 billion in cash. The sale closed on January 3, 2003. The pretax gain recognized in 2003 was $2.1 billion, $1.3 billion after tax. In accordance with SFAS No. 144, , and as required by SFAS No. 95, , we have presented the results of operations of the directory publishing business as a discontinued operation in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. Summary financial information is as follows:
Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets
Statement of Cash Flows
 
In prior years, we reported the cash flows attributable to these discontinued operations on a combined basis as a single amount. In 2005, these cash flows are no longer reported as a single amount, and have been combined with the cash flows of our continuing operations.
See note 25 for additional discontinued operations of Embarq.
Note 15. Commitments and Contingencies
Litigation, Claims and Assessments
In 2005, several PCS Affiliates filed lawsuits in various courts, alleging that the merger between Sprint and Nextel would result in breaches of exclusivity provisions in their management agreements with our subsidiaries. Suits were brought by UbiquiTel and UbiquiTel Operating Company, iPCS Wireless, Inc., Horizon Personal Communications Inc. and Bright Personal Communications Services LLC, which are both subsidiaries of iPCS Wireless and Northern PCS Services, LLC. The lawsuits seek, among other things, to enjoin us from engaging in certain post-merger business conduct in the respective service areas of the PCS Affiliates, and unspecified damages caused by the alleged breach. UbiquiTel, Horizon Personal Communications and Bright Personal Communications Services have all entered into forbearance agreements with us governing certain business practices addressed by the litigation until a decision is rendered by the trial court in the lawsuits. We and our subsidiaries intend to defend all of these lawsuits vigorously.
In March 2004, eight purported class action lawsuits relating to the recombination of the tracking stocks were filed against us and our directors by holders of PCS common stock. Seven of the lawsuits were consolidated in the District Court of Johnson County, Kansas. The eighth, pending in New York, has been voluntarily stayed. The consolidated lawsuit alleges breach of fiduciary duty in connection with allocations between the wireline operations and the wireless operations before the recombination of the tracking stocks and breach of fiduciary duty in the recombination. The lawsuit seeks to rescind the recombination and monetary damages. In early 2005, the court denied defendants' motion to dismiss the complaint and discovery is proceeding. All defendants have denied plaintiffs' allegations and intend to defend this matter vigorously.
In 2003, certain participants in the Sprint Nextel Retirement Savings Plan and the Sprint Nextel and Centel Retirement Savings Plans for Bargaining Unit Employees filed suit in the U.S. District Court for the District of Kansas against us, the committees that administer the plans, the plan trustee, and various current and former directors and officers. The consolidated lawsuit alleges that defendants breached their fiduciary duties to the plans and violated the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, or ERISA, statutes by making the company matching contribution in company stock and by including company stock among the thirty investment options offered to plan participants. The lawsuit seeks to recover any decline in the value of our tracking stocks during the class period. A settlement agreement has been filed with the court and is subject to final court approval. The settlement calls for us to make certain changes to the savings plans, to allow for vesting of certain Sprint Nextel stock in the accounts of certain former employees, and to distribute $4 million in cash to former employees who no longer have accounts in the savings plans. We have insurance coverage for the cash component of this settlement.
 
In September 2004, the U.S. District Court for the District of Kansas denied a motion to dismiss a shareholder lawsuit alleging that our 2001 and 2002 proxy statements were false and misleading in violation of federal securities laws to the extent they described new employment agreements with certain senior executives without disclosing that, according to the allegations, replacement of those executives was inevitable. These allegations, made in an amended complaint in a lawsuit originally filed in 2003, are asserted against us and certain current and former officers and directors, and seek to recover any decline in the value of our tracking stocks during the class period. The parties have stipulated that the case can proceed as a class action. All defendants have denied plaintiffs' allegations and intend to defend this matter vigorously. Allegations in the original complaint, which asserted claims against the same defendants and our former independent auditor, were dismissed by the court in April 2004.
A number of putative class action cases that allege Sprint Communications Company LP failed to obtain easements from property owners during the installation of its fiber optic network in the 1980's have been filed in various courts. Several of these cases sought certification of nationwide classes, and in one case, a nationwide class has been certified. In 2002, a nationwide settlement of these claims was approved by the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Illinois, but objectors appealed the preliminary approval order to the Seventh Circuit Court of Appeals, which overturned the settlement and remanded the case to the trial court for further proceedings. The parties now are proceeding with litigation and/or settlement negotiations on a state by state basis. In 2001, we accrued an expense reflecting the estimated settlement costs of these suits.
Various other suits, proceedings and claims, including purported class actions, typical for a business enterprise, are pending against us or our subsidiaries. While it is not possible to determine the ultimate disposition of each of these proceedings and whether they will be resolved consistent with our beliefs, we expect that the outcome of such proceedings, individually or in the aggregate, will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations or our business segments.
Spectrum Reconfiguration Obligations
On February 7, 2005, Nextel accepted the terms and conditions of the Report and Order of the FCC which implemented a spectrum reconfiguration plan designed to eliminate interference with public safety operators in the 800 MHz band. Under the terms of the Report and Order, prior to the August 12, 2005 merger date, Nextel surrendered its spectrum rights in the 700 MHz spectrum band and certain portions of its spectrum rights in the 800 MHz band, and received spectrum rights in the 1.9 GHz band and spectrum rights in a different part of the 800 MHz band and undertook to pay the costs incurred by Nextel and third parties in connection with the reconfiguration plan. Based on the FCC's determination of the values of the spectrum rights received and relinquished by Nextel, the minimum obligation incurred under the Report and Order will be $2.8 billion. The Report and Order also provides that qualifying costs we incur as part of the reconfiguration plan, including costs to reconfigure our own infrastructure and spectrum positions, can be used to offset the minimum obligation of $2.8 billion; however, we are obligated to pay the full amount of the costs relating to the reconfiguration plan, even if those costs exceed that amount. See note 7 for further information.
Operating Leases
We lease various equipment, office facilities, retail outlets and kiosks, switching facilities, transmitter and receiver sites and spectrum under operating leases. The non-cancelable portion of these leases ranges from monthly up to 25 years. These leases, with few exceptions, provide for automatic renewal options and escalations that are either fixed or based on the consumer price index. Any rent abatements, along with rent escalations, are included in the computation of rent expense calculated on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Our lease term for most leases includes the initial non-cancelable term plus at least one renewal period, as the exercise of the related renewal option or options is reasonably assured. Our cell site leases generally provide for an initial non-cancelable term of 5 to 7 years with up to 5 renewal options for 5 years each.
As of December 31, 2005, our rental commitments for operating leases, including lease renewals that are reasonably assured, consisted mainly of leases for cell and switch sites, real estate, data processing equipment and office space were as follows (in millions):
 
 
Total rental expense was $1.4 billion in 2005, $1.0 billion in 2004, and $1.1 billion in 2003.
Leasehold improvements are depreciated over the lesser of the estimated useful life of the asset or the lease term, including renewal option periods that are reasonably assured.
Commitments
We are a party to service and other contracts in connection with conducting our business. Minimum amounts due under some of the more significant agreements are $2,386 million in 2006, $1,853 million in 2007, $1,410 million in 2008, $1,180 million in 2009, $603 million in 2010 and $577 million thereafter. Amounts actually paid under some of these agreements will likely be higher due to variable components of these agreements. The more significant variable components that determine the ultimate obligation owed include such items as hours contracted, subscribers and other factors. In addition, we are party to various arrangements that are conditional in nature and obligate us to make payments only upon the occurrence of certain events, such as the delivery of functioning software or a product.
We had less than $5 billion of open purchase orders for goods or services as of December 31, 2005 that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms, but were not recorded as liabilities as of December 31, 2005. These outstanding commitments consist primarily of network equipment and maintenance, access commitments, advertising and marketing, information technology services and customer support provided by third parties, handset purchases and other expenses related to normal business operations. We expect substantially all of these commitments to become due in the next twelve months as services are rendered or goods are received. Certain of these service and other contracts are in the process of being re-negotiated as a result of our merger with Nextel, and could result in changes to these minimum commitments, which could be material.
Environmental Compliance
We have identified seven sites, not currently owned or operated by us, that formerly contained manufactured gas plants that may have been owned or operated by entities acquired by one of our subsidiaries before we acquired it. We and the current land owner of the site in Columbus, Nebraska are working with the Environmental Protection Agency, or EPA, pursuant to an administrative consent order. Amounts expended pursuant to the order are not expected to be material. We are negotiating with the EPA as to whether clean up is required at two additional sites. In addition, our subsidiary has entered into agreements with another potentially responsible party to share costs in connection with four of the sites, including two of those where the EPA is involved. We are working to assess the scope and nature of these sites and our potential responsibility. Other environmental compliance and remediation expenditures result mainly from the operation of standby power generators for our telecommunications equipment. These expenditures arise in connection with standards compliance, permits or occasional remediation, which are usually related to generators, batteries or fuel storage. Although we cannot assess with certainty the impact of any future compliance and remediation obligations, we do not believe that future environmental compliance and remediation expenditures will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.
Note 16. Capital Stock and Stock Rights
We have the authority to issue 6,620,000,000 shares of capital stock as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
Classes of Common Stock
Series 1 Common Stock
The holders of our Series 1 common stock are entitled to one vote per share on all matters submitted for action by the shareholders.
Series 2 Common stock
The holders of our Series 2 common stock are entitled to 10% of one vote per share, but otherwise have rights that are substantially identical to those of the Series 1 common stock.
We paid a dividend of $0.025 per share on the common stock, Series 1, the common stock, Series 2, and the non-voting common stock in the third and fourth quarters 2005. The non-voting common stock was issued in the Sprint-Nextel merger in August 2005. We paid a dividend of $0.125 per share on the common stock, Series 1 in the first two quarters of 2005 and in each of the quarters of 2004 and 2003 and a dividend of $0.125 per share on the common stock, Series 2 in the first two quarters of 2005 and in each of the last three quarters of 2004. The common stock, Series 2 was issued at the time of the recombination of the PCS common stock and the FON common stock in April 2004.
Common Stock Reserved for Future Grants
As of December 31, 2005, Series 1 common stock reserved for future grants under plans providing for the grant of stock options and other equity-based awards, future grants under the employees stock purchase plan or future issuances under various other arrangements included:
 
Note 17. Stock Plans
The tables and disclosures in this note have not been adjusted for discontinued operations since we did not know as of December 31, 2005 and prior which employees would transfer to Embarq and it was not practical to make assumptions on their status at the date of the spin-off.
Management Incentive Stock Option Plan
Under the Management Incentive Stock Option Plan, or MISOP, before 2003 we granted stock options to employees eligible to receive annual incentive compensation. Eligible employees could elect to receive stock options in lieu of a portion of their target incentive under our annual incentive compensation plans. The options generally became exercisable on December 31 of the year granted and have a maximum term of 10 years. Under the MISOP, we also granted stock options to executives in lieu of long-term incentive compensation, or LTIP-MISOP options. The LTIP-MISOP options generally became exercisable on the third December 31 following the grant date and have a maximum term of 10 years. MISOP options were granted with exercise prices equal to the market price of the underlying common stock on the grant date. No new options may be granted under this plan after April 2005. As of December 31, 2005, options to buy approximately 40.0 million common shares were outstanding.
Long-Term Stock Incentive Program
Under the 1997 Long-Term Stock Incentive Program, or the 1997 Program, we can grant stock options, restricted stock and restricted stock units and other equity based awards to directors and employees. In the 1997 Program the number of shares available for grant increases each year until 2007. No awards may be granted under the plan after April 2007. On January 1, 2006, the number of shares authorized by the 1997 Program increased by approximately 43.8 million shares. As of December 31, 2005, this plan authorized equity-based awards for approximately 146.0 million common shares, and 61.0 million common shares remained available.
 
Employees and directors who are granted restricted stock units are not required to pay for the shares but must remain employed with us, or continue to serve as a member of our board of directors, until the restrictions on the shares lapse. In addition, beginning with the 2005 awards, the number of restricted stock units granted is based on performance criteria as well. The 2005 awards vest 100% three years from the date of grant.
The 2005 stock option awards for executives holding titles of Senior Vice President or above, including our Chief Executive Officer, have a strike price equal to 110% of the market value of the underlying stock on the grant date. All other executives received stock options with a strike price equal to 100% of fair market value on the grant date. The 2005 stock option award for all participants will vest 25% per year on each of the anniversaries of the date of grant and will have a maximum term of 10 years.
Under our Restricted Stock Plan, we granted restricted stock to officers and key employees. Employees granted restricted stock are not required to pay for the shares but must remain employed with us until the restrictions on the shares lapse. The restricted stock vests at a rate of 33.3% per year on each of the first three anniversaries of the grant date. No restricted stock was granted in 2005.
Under the Sprint Retention Program, if the employment of a holder of an equity award is involuntarily terminated other than for cause within one year of the Nextel merger, then unvested equity awards held by that holder for at least one year at the end of the holders' severance period will fully vest at that time.
Nextel Incentive Equity Plan
As a result of the Sprint-Nextel merger, outstanding Nextel deferred shares, which constitute an agreement to transfer shares upon the performance of service over a defined period of time, and grants of options to purchase shares of Nextel common stock were converted into Sprint Nextel Series 1 deferred shares or options to purchase a number of shares of Sprint Nextel Series 1 common stock equal to the number of shares of Nextel common stock subject to the corresponding Nextel options or deferred shares multiplied by 1.3, with a corresponding adjustment to the option strike price.
The Nextel Incentive Equity Plan, or Nextel Equity Plan, was approved by Nextel's shareholders before the Nextel merger. This plan provides for the issuance to directors, officers, employees and consultants of our common stock (giving effect to the conversion ratio in the merger) upon the exercise or issuance of a variety of forms of equity rights, including grants of options to purchase stock and deferred shares. As of December 31, 2005, this plan authorized equity-based awards for approximately 132.9 million common shares and 48.5 million common shares remained available. Typically, nonqualified stock options to purchase stock were granted under the Nextel Equity Plan, and such options that currently are outstanding generally:
 
 
 
If an option holder's employment is involuntarily terminated within one year after the effective date of a change of control of Nextel, or, in the case of specified executives, if the employee terminates their employment for "good reason" as defined in the plan, then that holder's unvested options immediately vest or otherwise become payable, subject to some limits. A change of control was deemed to have occurred as a result of the Sprint-Nextel merger.
The Nextel Equity Plan also provides for the grant of deferred shares at no cost to selected employees generally in consideration of future services. These deferred shares generally vest over a service period ranging from several months to four years. An accelerated vesting schedule may be triggered in the event of a change in control. Accelerated vesting was triggered with respect to certain deferred shares granted prior to the Sprint-Nextel merger as a result of the Sprint-Nextel merger.
Employee Stock Purchase Plan
Under our Employees Stock Purchase Plan, or ESPP, eligible employees may subscribe quarterly to purchase shares of Series 1 common stock through payroll deductions of up to 20% of eligible compensation. The purchase price is equal to 90% of market value on the last trading day of each quarter. The aggregate number of shares purchased by an employee may not exceed 9,000 shares or $25,000 of fair market value in any calendar year, subject to limitations imposed by Section 423 of the Internal Revenue Code.
 
As of December 31, 2005, this plan authorized for purchase approximately 25.6 million shares, net of elections made in 2005 by employees participating in the fourth quarter 2005 offering under the ESPP to purchase approximately 720,000 common shares in the first quarter 2006. Employees purchased these shares for $21.11.
Fair Value Disclosures
In connection with the Nextel merger, Nextel stock options were converted into Sprint Nextel stock options with the shares issuable and exercise prices of the options adjusted based on an exchange ratio of 1.3 shares of Sprint Nextel common stock for each share of Nextel common stock. The value of these awards was calculated by applying the fair value method under SFAS No. 123, as amended by SFAS No. 148. The fair value was calculated on the stock options outstanding on the date of completion of the merger.
The following table reflects the weighted average fair value per option granted, as well as the significant weighted average assumptions used in determining those fair values using the Black-Scholes pricing model for the converted Nextel stock options, as well as the stock options issued under the 1997 Program. The following information related to PCS common stock has not been adjusted to reflect the recombination of our tracking stocks.
 
Restricted Stock Units
We granted 3.5 million restricted stock units in 2005, which vest after three years, and 1.1 million of these restricted stock units are performance based. The weighted average fair value per unit was $24.76.
Employees Stock Purchase Plan
Prior to the Sprint-Nextel merger, Nextel employees elected, under the Nextel Associate Stock Purchase Plan, to purchase approximately 244,000 shares of common stock. As a result of the Sprint-Nextel merger, we issued these shares to the former Nextel employees. Using the Black-Scholes pricing model, the weighted average fair value was $3.42 per share.
During the 2004 ESPP offering that ended in June 2005, employees elected to purchase approximately 3.6 million common shares. Using the Black-Scholes pricing model, the weighted average fair value was $3.19 per share.
During the 2003 ESPP offering that ended in June 2004, employees elected to purchase approximately 1.8 million FON and 7.2 million PCS shares. Using the Black-Scholes pricing model, the weighted average fair value was $4.11 per share for each FON election and $2.52 per share for each PCS election. Because of the recombination of the tracking stocks, the elections to purchase PCS shares were converted into elections to purchase FON shares.
 
Stock Options
Activity under our stock option plans was as follows:
 
The following is a summary of the status of employees' stock options outstanding and exercisable as of December 31, 2005:
 
The number of shares exercisable and their weighted average exercise prices were 145.6 million shares at $27.10 in 2005, 101.4 million shares at $29.04 in 2004, and 103.3 million shares at $29.36 in 2003.
Note 18. Employee Benefit Plans
In connection with the spin-off of Embarq, accrued pension and other post-retirement benefit obligations payable to participants designated to work for Embarq were transferred to Embarq. Pension plan assets owned by us will be transferred to Embarq using an agreed-upon valuation methodology. Since our employee benefit plans do not distinguish between employees of our different segments, we have not bifurcated our pension assets, employee benefit obligations, contributions or distributions between continuing and discontinuing operations for any period presented.
Defined Benefit Pension Plan
Most of our legacy Sprint employees are participants in a noncontributory defined benefit pension plan. Benefits for plan participants belonging to unions are based on negotiated schedules. For non-union participants, pension benefits are based on years of service and the participants' compensation.
At the time of the merger with Nextel, we did not extend plan participation to former Nextel employees. Additionally, as of December 31, 2005, the pension plan was amended to freeze benefit accruals for plan participants not designated to work for
 
Embarq. This amendment was treated as a curtailment under SFAS No. 88, We recognized a $4 million curtailment loss. This amendment also resulted in a $233 million reduction in the projected benefit obligation, which is offset against existing unrecognized losses.
Employers' Accounting for Settlements and Curtailments of Defined Benefit Pension Plans and for Termination Benefits.
We use a December 31 measurement date for our pension plan.
The following table shows the changes in the projected benefit obligation:
 
The plan's accumulated benefit obligation was $4.6 billion as of December 31, 2005 and $4.1 billion as of December 31, 2004.
The following table shows the changes in plan assets:
 
The funded status and amounts recognized on the accompanying consolidated balance sheets for the plan were as follows:
 
Amounts recognized on the accompanying consolidated balance sheets consist of:
 
 
In accordance with SFAS No. 87, , as of December 31, 2005 and 2004 we recorded an additional minimum pension liability representing the excess of the unfunded accumulated benefit obligation over plan assets and accrued pension costs. Recognition of the additional pension liability also resulted in an intangible asset equal to the unrecognized prior service costs and a charge to equity through other comprehensive income (loss).
Employers' Accounting for Pensions
The following table sets forth these amounts:
 
The tax effect for the charge to accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) was $38 million for 2005, $10 million for 2004, and $12 million for 2003.
This resulted in a net charge to accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) of $58 million for 2005, $8 million for 2004, and $25 million for 2003.
We also maintain a nonqualified defined benefit plan to provide supplemental retirement benefits for certain executives in addition to the benefits provided under the qualified pension plan.
For 2005, an additional minimum pension liability of $2 million was recognized for the nonqualified defined benefit plan with a charge to accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) of $1 million, net of taxes.
For 2004, an additional minimum pension liability of $20 million was recognized for the nonqualified defined benefit plan with a charge to accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) of $13 million, net of taxes.
The net pension expense consisted of the following:
 
Net pension benefit expense includes $63 million in 2005, $57 million in 2004 and a credit of $10 million in 2003 that had been allocated to our Local segment prior to the spin-off of Embarq. We believe these amounts approximate the expense related to participants designated to work for Embarq, and, accordingly, these amounts are included in discontinued operations in the accompanying statements of operations.
 
Weighted-average assumptions used to determine net periodic pension costs:
 
Weighted average assumptions used to determine benefit obligations:
 
In choosing the discount rate, our actuaries construct a hypothetical portfolio of bonds rated AA- or better that produces a cash flow matching the projected benefit payments of the plan. The average yield of this portfolio is used as the discount rate benchmark. For the December 31, 2005 measurement date, this exercise produced a range of yields between 5.67% and 5.87%, and our discount rate was set at 5.75%. For the December 31, 2004 measurement date, the bond matching described above produced a range of yields between 5.86% and 6.04%, guiding us to set the discount rate at 6.0%.
During 2005, the assumption regarding the expected long-term return on plan assets was 8.75%, unchanged from the prior year. After revising the target asset allocation policy in the second half of 2003 to reduce the pension trust's exposure to equities, we obtained from two investment consulting firms forward-looking estimates of the expected long-term returns for a portfolio invested according to the revised target policy. The average of the two firms' estimates was 8.77%, guiding a reduction in the assumed long-term return from the prior year's 9.0% to 8.75%. We validate this assumption each year against estimates provided by our third party actuaries.
The plan's asset allocations by asset category, are as follows:
 
The pension trust is invested in a well-diversified portfolio of securities. The Employee Benefits Committee has established an investment policy that specifies asset allocation targets and ranges for the trust of: Equities 65% (+/-10%), Debt 15% (+/-5%), Real Estate 10% (+/-5%), and Alternatives 10% (+/-5%). The pension trust holds no Sprint Nextel securities.
The following benefit payments, which reflect expected future service, as appropriate, are expected to be paid (in millions):
 
The plan was split into two plans in connection with the spin-off of Embarq. No contributions were made after December 31, 2005 and prior to the spin-off. Preliminary estimates of these contributions are $100 million for Sprint Nextel. Pension trust asset performance and changes in interest rates in the period leading to the plan spin-off could significantly affect these estimates.
 
Defined Contribution Plans
We sponsor defined contribution savings plans covering most employees. Participants may contribute portions of their pay to the plans. For union employees, we match contributions based on negotiated amounts. Through December 31, 2005, we matched contributions of non-union pre-merger Sprint employees in shares of company stock. The matching contribution was equal to 30% of participants' contributions up to 6% of their pay for 2005 and 25% of participants' contributions during 2004 and the second half of 2003. The matching contribution for the first half of 2003 was 75%. From the merger date through December 31, 2005, we matched contributions of pre-merger Nextel employees up to 4% of their pay. Our total matching contributions were $56 million in 2005, $29 million in 2004, and $72 million in 2003. In 2006, the pre-merger Nextel plan will be terminated and participants covered by that plan will be eligible to enroll in the amended Sprint Nextel plan. The amended plan will no longer match contributions with company stock, but we will match participants' contributions up to 5% of their pay.
Postretirement Benefits
We provide postretirement medical benefits to certain employees. We also provide postretirement life insurance to employees who retired before certain dates. Employees who retired before certain dates were eligible for medical benefits at no cost, or at a reduced cost. Employees who retire after certain dates are eligible for medical benefits on a shared-cost basis. We fund the accrued costs as benefits are paid. We use a December 31 measurement date for our postretirement benefit plans.
Because prescription drug coverage is available through Medicare beginning in 2006, we amended the retiree medical plans in the third quarter 2005 to largely eliminate prescription drug coverage for Medicare-eligible retirees. This amendment precipitated a remeasurement of retiree medical expense, using a 5.25% discount rate as of the July 1, 2005 remeasurement date. The amendment decreased the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation, or APBO, by $250 million, and decreased 2005 benefit expense by $13 million.
At the time of the Nextel merger, we did not extend plan participation in the retiree medical plan to former Nextel employees and we amended the plan to only include employees designated to work for Embarq and legacy Sprint employees born prior to 1956. Because the attribution period used to accrue retiree medical benefits begins at age 50, this amendment had no immediate impact on the APBO or expense.
In 2004, we amended certain retiree medical plans to standardize the plan design effective January 1, 2005, eliminating differences in benefit levels. These amendments decreased the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation, or APBO, related to other postretirement benefits by approximately $35 million, and decreased the 2004 net benefit expense by $5 million.
As a result of these amendments, we also recognized the then-anticipated effects of the 2003 Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act, or the Act. The Act contains a subsidy to employers who provide prescription drug coverage to retirees that is actuarially equivalent to Medicare Part D. In 2004, we planned to provide such coverage. Analysis of our retiree prescription drug claims data determined that our retiree prescription drug benefit was actuarially equivalent. In estimating the effects of the Act, estimates of participation rates and per capita claims costs were not changed. The effect of recognizing the federal subsidy related to the Act in 2004 was a $67 million reduction in the APBO, and an $11 million reduction in the 2004 net benefit cost. We have accounted for our retiree medical benefit plan in accordance with FASB Staff Position No. 106-2.
The following table shows the changes in the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation:
 
 
Amounts included on the accompanying consolidated balance sheets were as follows:
 
The net postretirement benefits cost consisted of the following:
 
Net periodic postretirement benefits cost includes $16 million in 2005, $33 million in 2004 and $43 million in 2003 that had been allocated to our Local segment prior to the spin-off of Embarq. We believe these amounts approximate the expense related to participants designated to work for Embarq, and, accordingly, these amounts are included in discontinued operations in the accompanying statements of operations.
Weighted-average assumptions used to determine net periodic postretirement benefit costs:
 
Assumed health care cost trend rates:
 
Assumed health care cost trend rates have a significant effect on the amounts reported for the health care plans. A one-percentage-point change in assumed health care cost trend rates would have the following effects (in millions):
 
Plan assets totaled $42 million and $43 million as of December 31, 2005 and 2004. We target a 60% allocation to equities and a 40% allocation to debt. The plans hold no Sprint Nextel securities.
 
We plan to contribute to the postretirement benefit plan an amount equal to the value of benefits and premiums paid.
The expected benefit payments, which reflect expected future service, as appropriate are as follows (in millions):
 
Note 19. Communication Towers Lease Transaction
In May 2005, we closed a transaction with Global Signal, Inc. under which Global Signal acquired exclusive rights to lease or operate approximately 6,560 communications towers owned by us for a negotiated lease term, which is the greater of the remaining terms of the underlying ground leases, approximately 17 years at present, or up to 32 years, assuming successful renegotiation of the underlying ground leases at the end of their current lease terms.
We have subleased space on approximately 6,350 of the towers from Global Signal. This sublease arrangement is accounted for as an operating lease. See note 15 for additional information. We will maintain ownership of the towers, and we will continue to reflect the towers on our accompanying consolidated balance sheet.
At closing, we received proceeds of approximately $1.2 billion, which we recorded in other liabilities on our accompanying consolidated balance sheet. The deferred rental income is being recognized as a reduction of lease expense related to our subleasing arrangement on a straight-line basis over the remaining terms of the underlying ground leases.
Note 20. Segment Footnote
We are divided into two main lines of business: Wireless and Long Distance.
We generally manage our segments to the operating income (loss) level of reporting. Items below operating income (loss) are managed at a corporate level. The reconciliation from operating income to net income is shown on the face of the accompanying consolidated statements of operations.
We generally account for transactions between segments based on fully distributed costs, which we believe approximate fair value. In certain transactions, pricing is set using market rates.
 
Segment financial information was as follows:
 
NM = Not meaningful
 
Included in the corporate results are the historical net revenues and related operating costs of certain consumer long distance customers transferred to Embarq in connection with the spin-off. These operating results were previously reported in our Local segment and reflect activity through the date of the spin-off. These operating results have not been reflected as discontinued operations due to our continuing involvement with these consumer long distance customers under a wholesale long distance agreement with Embarq. This agreement became effective as of the date of the spin-off.
Corporate assets are not allocated to the operating segments, and consist primarily of cash and cash equivalents, the operational headquarters campus, other assets managed at a corporate level and the assets of the discontinued operations related to Embarq. Corporate capital expenditures were incurred mainly for various administrative assets and improvements at our operational headquarters campus. Operating expenses related to corporate assets are allocated to each segment.
 
 
 
In 2005, 2004 and 2003, more than 95% of our revenues were from services and equipment provided within the United States.
More than 99% of our property, plant, and equipment are in the United States.
Net operating revenues by services and products were as follows:
 
Note 21. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements
SFAS No. 123R
In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 123R, . This statement requires an entity to recognize the cost of employee services received in share-based payment transactions, through the use of fair-value-based methods of recognizing cost. This statement is effective for us as of January 1, 2006.
Share-Based Payment
 
We voluntarily adopted fair value accounting for share-based payments effective January 1, 2003, under SFAS No. 123 as amended by SFAS No. 148, using the prospective method. Upon adoption, we began expensing the fair value of stock-based compensation for all grants, modifications or settlements made on or after January 1, 2003. In connection with the tracking stock recombination, as required by SFAS No. 123, we accounted for the conversion of PCS stock options to FON stock options as a modification and accordingly applied stock option expensing to FON stock options resulting from the conversion of PCS stock options granted before January 1, 2003. Further, in connection with the Nextel merger, we accounted for the conversion of Nextel stock options to Sprint Nextel stock options as a modification and accordingly applied stock option expensing to the unvested stock options beginning on the merger date.
The revised standard will require us to begin to recognize compensation cost for unvested common stock options granted to our employees before January 1, 2003, which are outstanding as of January 1, 2006. This requirement to recognize expense on these unvested grants is expected to be immaterial to us.
SFAS No. 151
In November 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 151, . This statement requires that items such as idle facility expense, excessive spoilage, double freight, and rehandling costs be recognized as current-period charges regardless of whether they meet the definition of abnormal provided in ARB No. 43, Chapter 4, . The statement is effective for inventory costs incurred during fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2005. We do not expect the adoption of this standard to have a material impact on our financial statements.
Inventory Costsan amendment of ARB No. 43, Chapter 4
Inventory Pricing
Note 22. Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)
 
 
 
Note 23. Restatements of Previously Issued Financial Statements
In November 2004, we restated previously issued financial statements to correct an error related to the calculation of interest capitalized during construction. The financial statements were also restated to apply an adjustment previously recorded and disclosed in the 2003 fourth quarter related to the liability for medical coverage for participants in our long-term disability plan to the appropriate pre-2003 periods.
Note 24. Subsequent Event
In February 2006, our board of directors declared dividends of 2.5 cents on our common stock to shareholders of record at the close of business on March 10, 2006. The dividends are payable March 31, 2006.
Note 25. Discontinued Operations  Spin-off of Local Communications Business
On May 1, 2006, we entered into a separation and distribution agreement with Embarq, which at the time was a wholly-owned subsidiary of ours, and, on May 17, 2006, we completed the spin-off of Embarq. Embarq offers regulated local communications services as an incumbent local exchange carrier. Embarq provides a suite of communications services, consisting of local and long distance voice and data services, including high-speed Internet access.
In the spin-off, we distributed pro rata to our shareholders one share of Embarq common stock for every 20 shares of our voting and non-voting common stock, or about 149 million shares of Embarq common stock. Cash was paid for fractional shares. The distribution of Embarq common stock is considered a tax free transaction for us and for our shareholders, except cash payments made in lieu of fractional shares which are generally taxable.
At the time of the spin-off, all outstanding options to purchase our common stock held by employees of Embarq were cancelled and replaced with options to purchase Embarq common stock. Outstanding options to purchase our common stock held by our directors and employees who remained with us were adjusted by multiplying the number of shares subject to the options by 1.0955 and dividing the exercise price by the same number in order to account for the impact of the spin-off on the value of our shares at the time the spin-off was completed.
Generally, restricted stock units awarded pursuant to our equity incentive plans and held by our employees at the time of the spin-off (including those held by those of our employees who became employees of Embarq) were treated in a manner similar to the treatment of outstanding shares of our common stock in the spin-off. Holders of these restricted stock units received one Embarq restricted stock unit for every twenty restricted stock units held. Outstanding deferred shares granted under the Nextel Incentive Equity Plan, which represent the right to receive shares of our common stock, were adjusted by multiplying the number of deferred shares by 1.0955. Cash was paid to the holders of deferred shares in lieu of fractional shares.
In connection with the spin-off, Embarq transferred to our parent company $2.1 billion in cash and about $4.5 billion of Embarq senior notes in partial consideration for, and as a condition to, our transfer to Embarq of the local communications business. Embarq also retained about $665 million in debt obligations of its subsidiaries. The cash and senior notes were transferred by our parent company to our finance subsidiary, Sprint Capital Corporation, in satisfaction of indebtedness owed by our parent company to Sprint Capital. On May 19, 2006, Sprint Capital sold the Embarq senior notes to the public, receiving about $4.4 billion in net proceeds.
The separation and distribution agreement and related agreements with Embarq provide that generally each party will be responsible for its respective assets, liabilities and businesses following the spin-off and that we and Embarq will provide each other with certain transition services relating to our respective businesses for specified periods at cost-based prices. We also entered into agreements pursuant to which we and Embarq will provide each other with specified services at commercial rates. Further, the agreements provide for a settlement process surrounding the transfer of certain assets and liabilities. It is possible that adjustments will occur in future periods as these matters are settled.
 
The results of operations of the local communications business were as follows:
 
The discontinued operations' assets and liabilities reported as of December 31, 2005 and 2004 were as follows:
 
 
 
The schedule above only reflects continuing operations.
 

Exhibit 99.2
The rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") require that when a registrant prepares, on or after the date a registrant reports a discontinued operation, a new registration, proxy or information statement (or amends a previously filed registration, proxy or information statement) that includes or incorporates by reference financial statements, the registrant must recast the prior period annual and relevant interim financial statements included or incorporated by reference in the registration, proxy or information statement to reflect the discontinued operation. Accordingly, we are filing this Form 8-K to recast our consolidated financial statements for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2005 and the three months ended March 31, 2006 and 2005, to reflect the presentation of our local communications business as discontinued operations.
The information provided in this Exhibit 99.2 does not reflect events occurring after the filing of the original Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2006 (the "First Quarter Form 10-Q"), and does not modify or update the disclosures therein, other than as required to reflect the changes in discontinued operations described above and set forth below. For example, the information provided in this Exhibit 99.2 does not update the disclosures contained in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in the First Quarter Form 10-Q, other than as required to reflect the presentation of our local communications business as discontinued operations. Significant developments with respect to those disclosures, including trends relating to subscribers and average revenue per subscriber, as well as other changes to our business, have occurred and are described in subsequent filings with the SEC, including our Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 2006 and Current Reports on Form 8-K filed subsequent to the First Quarter Form 10-Q.
 
 
 
Item 1. Financial Statements
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Our unaudited consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, and reflect all adjustments that are necessary for a fair presentation of the results for interim periods. All adjustments made were of a normal recurring nature, except as described in the notes below. Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in consolidated financial statements prepared according to accounting principles generally accepted in the United States have been condensed or omitted. As a result, you should read these consolidated financial statements along with the consolidated financial statements and notes contained in Exhibit 99.1 to the Form 8-K. Operating results for the interim period should not be viewed as representative of results that may be expected for the year ending December 31, 2006.
Note 1. Basis of Consolidation and Presentation
Consolidation and Comparative Presentation
On January 31, 2006, we acquired Enterprise Communications Partnership for $77 million in cash. On February 1, 2006, we acquired Alamosa Holdings, Inc. for $3.4 billion in cash. In August 2005, a subsidiary of ours merged with Nextel Communications, Inc. We also acquired US Unwired Inc., Gulf Coast Wireless Limited Partnership and IWO Holdings, Inc. in the second half of 2005. Each of these companies is now our wholly owned subsidiary. In addition, on February 21, 2006, we acquired 94% of the voting stock of Velocita Wireless Holding Corporation for $157 million in cash, and expect to acquire the remaining 6% in May 2006. See note 2 for further discussion of these transactions.
These financial statements reflect the spin-off of the local communications business that was completed on May 17, 2006. This business, which is now known as Embarq Corporation, consists primarily of the business that we had reported as the Local segment in our consolidated financial statements in prior periods. As part of the spin-off, we have distributed to our shareholders shares of Embarq common stock. In connection with the spin-off, we received from Embarq cash and senior notes of Embarq, which we sold at the time of the spin-off. As required by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards, or SFAS, No. 144, , and as required by SFAS No. 95, the results of operations, balance sheets and cash flows from continuing operations of this business are presented as discontinued operations for all periods presented. See note 15 for additional information.
Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets
Statement of Cash Flows,
The accompanying consolidated financial statements include our accounts, those of our wholly owned subsidiaries, and subsidiaries we control, as well as variable interest entities where we are the primary beneficiary. All significant intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated in consolidation. We use the equity method to account for equity investments in unconsolidated entities in which we exercise significant influence over operating and financial policies but do not control. We recognize all changes in our proportionate share of the unconsolidated subsidiaries' equity resulting from their equity transactions as adjustments to our investment and shareholders' equity balances. We use the cost method to account for equity investments in all other unconsolidated entities. See note 4 for additional information.
We prepare our consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, which require management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Due to the inherent uncertainty involved in making those estimates, actual results could differ from those estimates.
Certain prior-period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current-period presentation.
Classification of Operations
We are a global communications company offering a comprehensive suite of wireless and long distance wireline communications products and services that are designed to meet the needs of our targeted customer groups: individuals and business and government customers. Our operations are divided into two lines of business: Wireless and Long Distance. The results of each of the 2006 and 2005 acquisitions described above are included in the Wireless segment.
Previously, our operations included a Local segment, now known as Embarq Corporation, which we spun-off to our shareholders on May 17, 2006. Except as noted, the footnotes accompanying these financial statements exclude information related to the Local segment.
 
Supplemental Cash Flows Information
 
Concentration of Risk
We rely on Motorola, Inc. to provide us with technology improvements designed to expand our integrated Digital Enhanced Network, or iDEN
,-based wireless voice capacity and improve our services. Motorola provides all of the iDEN infrastructure equipment used in the iDEN network, and substantially all iDEN handset devices. Motorola is and is expected to continue to be our sole source supplier of iDEN infrastructure and iDEN handsets, except BlackBerry
devices, which are manufactured by Research in Motion, or RIM. Further, our ability to timely and efficiently implement the Report and Order of the Federal Commissions Commission, or FCC, which implemented a spectrum reconfiguration plan designed to eliminate interference with public safety operators in the 800 megahertz, or MHz, band, is dependent, in part, on Motorola.
Dividend Declaration
On February 7, 2006, our board of directors declared a dividend of $0.025 per share on our common stock payable to shareholders of record at the close of business on March 10, 2006. The dividend was paid on March 31, 2006.
Other
Sprint Nextel, the parent corporation, has about $200 million of debt outstanding. In addition, about $23.8 billion of our long-term debt and capital lease obligations have been issued by wholly-owned subsidiaries and have been fully and unconditionally guaranteed by Sprint Nextel. In addition, the indentures and financing arrangements of certain of our subsidiaries contain provisions that limit cash dividend payments on subsidiary common stock held by Sprint Nextel. The transfer of cash in the form of advances from the subsidiaries to Sprint Nextel is generally not restricted.
Note 2. Business Combinations
In the first quarter 2006, we acquired Enterprise Communications, Alamosa Holdings and Velocita Wireless in transactions accounted for under the purchase method as required by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards, or SFAS, No. 141, . SFAS No. 141 requires that the total purchase price of each of the acquired entities be allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their fair values at the respective acquisition dates. The allocation process requires an analysis of customer relationships, acquired contractual rights and assumed contractual commitments and legal contingencies to identify and record the fair value of all assets acquired and liabilities assumed. In valuing acquired assets and assumed liabilities, fair values are based on, but are not limited to: quoted market prices, where available; our intent with respect to whether the assets purchased are to be held, sold or abandoned; expected future cash flows; current replacement cost for similar capacity for certain fixed assets; market rate assumptions for contractual obligations; and appropriate discount rates and growth rates.
Business Combinations
PCS Affiliate and Other Acquisitions
We offer digital wireless service in all 50 states, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands, in part through commercial affiliation arrangements between us and third-party affiliates, each referred to as a PCS Affiliate, and Nextel Partners, Inc. The PCS Affiliates provide wireless personal communications services, or PCS, under the Sprint
brand name in certain mid-sized and tertiary United States markets on wireless networks built and operated at their expense, in most instances using spectrum licensed to and controlled by us. Nextel Partners provides digital wireless communications services under the Nextel
brand name in certain mid-sized and tertiary United States markets on wireless networks built and operated at its expense. During the first quarter 2006, we acquired two PCS Affiliates and we expect to complete the acquisition of Nextel Partners in the second quarter 2006 pursuant to the put rights held by the Nextel Partners' shareholders (other than us) that were triggered by the Sprint-Nextel merger. On April 20, 2006, we announced an agreement to acquire UbiquiTel, a PCS Affiliate, for about $1.0 billion in cash.
 
We believe the PCS Affiliates we have acquired to date, as well as the pending acquisitions of Nextel Partners and UbiquiTel, will give us more control of the distribution of services under our Sprint and Nextel brands, and provide us with the strategic and financial benefits associated with a larger customer base and expanded network coverage, which include a number of markets with favorable growth and competitive characteristics.
The results of operations of the PCS Affiliate acquisitions are included in our accompanying consolidated financial statements from the respective dates of acquisition.
2006 PCS Affiliate Acquisitions
As a result of our preexisting relationships with the PCS Affiliates, we evaluated the PCS Affiliate acquisitions as required by EITF Issue No. 04-01, We determined that the commercial affiliation agreements between us and the PCS Affiliates were reacquired rights that should be recognized as intangible assets, with no associated gain or loss recognition because the commercial affiliation agreements continued to reflect market terms. Additional information regarding the resulting intangible assets is provided below.
Accounting for Preexisting Relationships between the Parties to a Business Combination.
Enterprise Communications Partnership
On January 31, 2006, we acquired Enterprise Communications, for a purchase price of $77 million in cash. As of March 31, 2006, the preliminary allocation of the purchase price included the following: $44 million to goodwill, $21 million to customer relationships, and $19 million to reacquired rights. See note 5 for information regarding amortization expense for customer relationships and reacquired rights. As part of the acquisition, we also assumed $31 million in long-term debt, which we retired on the date of acquisition. We are in the process of completing our valuation of Enterprise Communications' assets and liabilities, as well as internal studies of certain assets, property, plant and equipment, intangible assets, certain liabilities, and commercial contracts, which, when finalized, may result in additional adjustments to the purchase price allocation for the acquired assets and assumed liabilities of Enterprise Communications.
Alamosa Holdings, Inc.
On February 1, 2006, we completed the acquisition of Alamosa Holdings, which at the time was our largest PCS Affiliate, for a purchase price of $3.4 billion in cash. As of March 31, 2006, the preliminary allocation of the purchase price included the following: $2.8 billion to goodwill, $623 million to customer relationships, and $654 million to reacquired rights. See note 5 for information regarding amortization expense for the customer relationships and reacquired rights. As part of the acquisition, we also assumed $1.2 billion in senior notes and other long-term debt at fair value. We are in the process of completing our valuation of Alamosa Holdings' assets and liabilities, as well as internal studies of certain assets, property, plant and equipment, intangible assets, certain liabilities and commercial contracts, which, when finalized, may result in additional adjustments to the purchase price allocation for the acquired assets and assumed liabilities of Alamosa Holdings.
We have preliminarily allocated the purchase prices of Enterprise Communications and Alamosa Holdings, as follows:
 
2005 PCS Affiliate Acquisitions
In the second half 2005, we acquired three PCS Affiliates: US Unwired, Gulf Coast Wireless and IWO Holdings. Changes to the purchase price allocations for these PCS Affiliates have occurred based on further analysis and valuations of certain assets and liabilities, which are summarized in the table below. The amounts reported as of December 31, 2005 reflect the estimated fair value as of the respective acquisition date of each PCS Affiliate, including adjustments made during the fourth quarter 2005.
 
 
We are still in the process of completing our valuation of these PCS Affiliates' assets and liabilities, as well as internal studies of certain assets, property, plant and equipment, intangible assets, certain liabilities and commercial contracts, which, when finalized, may result in additional adjustments to the purchase price allocation for the acquired assets and assumed liabilities of these PCS Affiliates.
Other Acquisitions
Velocita Wireless Holding Corporation
On February 21, 2006, we acquired 94% of the voting stock of Velocita Wireless, for a purchase price of $157 million in cash. We expect to acquire the remaining 6% of Velocita Wireless in May 2006 for an additional $7 million in cash. Velocita Wireless owns and operates a nationwide digital packet-switched wireless data network in the 900 MHz frequency band. As of March 31, 2006, a majority of the purchase price has been preliminarily allocated to our FCC licenses in the amount of $205 million, which includes the tax effect on the increase to the basis of the licenses' value. We are in the process of completing our valuation of Velocita Wireless' assets and liabilities, as well as internal studies of certain assets, property, plant and equipment, intangible assets, certain liabilities, and commercial contracts, which, when finalized, may result in additional adjustments to the purchase price allocation for the acquired assets and assumed liabilities of Velocita Wireless.
The results of operations of Velocita Wireless are included in our consolidated financial statements from the date of acquisition.
Nextel Communications, Inc.
On August 12, 2005, a subsidiary of Sprint Corporation merged with Nextel and, as a result, Sprint acquired 100% of the outstanding common shares of Nextel. Nextel, now a wholly owned subsidiary of Sprint Nextel, provides wireless voice and data services in the United States. This transaction was consummated as part of our overall strategy to offer the most comprehensive selection of voice, data and multimedia products and services.
Under the purchase method of accounting, the assets and liabilities of Nextel were recorded at their respective fair values as of the date of the merger. We are in the process of finalizing valuations of certain assets, including certain property, plant and equipment and certain liabilities. Given the size of the merger, the fair values set forth below are based on preliminary valuations and are subject to adjustment as additional information is obtained. Such additional information includes, but may not be limited to, the following: plans relative to the disposition of certain assets acquired, exit from certain contractual arrangements and the expected termination of employees in connection with our integration activities and rationalization of the combined work force. When finalized, adjustments to goodwill may result. The following table summarizes the preliminary estimated fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed and related deferred income taxes. The amounts reported as of December 31, 2005 reflect the estimated fair values as of the acquisition date of August 12, 2005, and adjustments made during the third and fourth quarters 2005. The adjustments listed in the table below include purchase price allocation adjustments made during the first quarter 2006.
 
In the first quarter 2006, a net increase was made to goodwill in the amount of $53 million, primarily due to adjustments to liabilities in connection with the merger, which include severance benefits for termination of Nextel employees, costs associated with the termination of contracts and exit activities, and identification of loss contingencies that were in existence prior to consummation of the merger. Additional liabilities for termination benefits to be provided to involuntarily separated Nextel employees are expected to be recognized as liabilities assumed in the purchase business combination. Furthermore, prior to the end of the purchase price allocation period, in accordance with SFAS No. 141, if information becomes available with respect to any material pre-merger contingencies where adjustments to the related asset, liability or impairment are probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated, such items will be included in the purchase price allocation.
Management continues to finalize its plans for rationalizing certain redundant assets and activities, such as facilities, software and infrastructure assets, and to integrate the combined companies. These plans affect many areas of the combined company, including sales and marketing, network, information technology, customer care and general and administrative functions. In connection with these activities, we expect to incur significant costs over the next several years associated with dispositions and integration activities. Management is in the process of finalizing these plans and expects to execute these plans over the next few years. We expect that the finalization of certain integration plans will result in adjustments to the purchase price allocation for the acquired assets and assumed liabilities of Nextel and may also result in the need to adjust the useful lives of certain network assets and other property, plant and equipment.
Pro Forma Financial Information
The following pro forma consolidated results of operations assume that the Sprint-Nextel merger was completed as of January 1, 2005 for the first quarter 2005.
 
The pro forma amounts represent the historical operating results of Sprint and Nextel with adjustments for purchase accounting and to conform accounting policies that affect net operating revenues, costs of services and products, selling, general and administrative expenses, depreciation and amortization, interest expense, other income (expense), income taxes, and the elimination of intercompany activity.
Pro forma information has not been provided for any of the PCS Affiliate or Velocita acquisitions, as the impact to prior periods is immaterial.
 
Note 3. Earnings Per Common Share and Stock-based Compensation
Earnings per Common Share
Basic earnings per common share is calculated by dividing income available to common shareholders by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings per common share adjust basic earnings per common share for the effects of potentially dilutive common shares. Potentially dilutive common shares primarily include the dilutive effects of shares issuable under our equity plans computed using the treasury stock method, and the dilutive effects of shares issuable upon the conversion of our convertible senior notes, acquired in the Sprint-Nextel merger, computed using the if-converted method.
Dilutive securities, consisting of shares issuable under our equity plans, used in calculating earnings per common share were 27 million shares for the first quarter 2006. All 11 million shares issuable upon the assumed conversion of our convertible senior notes could potentially dilute earnings per share in the future but were excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings per common share for the first quarter 2006 due to their antidilutive effects. Additionally, about 64 million average shares issuable under the equity plans that could also potentially dilute earnings per share in the future were excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings per common share for the first quarter 2006 as the exercise prices exceeded the average market price during this period.
Dilutive securities, consisting of shares issuable under our equity plans, used in calculating earnings per common share were 18 million shares for the first quarter 2005. About 51 million average shares issuable under the equity plans that could potentially dilute earnings per share in the future were excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings per common share for the first quarter 2005 as the exercise prices exceeded the average market price during this period.
Share-based Payment Plans
Under the 1997 Long-Term Stock Incentive Program, or the 1997 Program, we can grant stock options, restricted stock and restricted stock units and other equity-based awards to directors and employees for up to about 185 million common shares; of which about 91 million common shares remained available at March 31, 2006. Stock options are generally granted with an exercise price equal to the market value of the underlying stock on the grant date; however, the 2005 stock option awards for certain senior level executives have an exercise price equal to 110% of the market value of the underlying stock on the grant date. Stock options granted in 2006 generally vest on an annual basis over three years and have a contractual term of ten years. Stock options granted before 2006 generally vest on an annual basis over four years, and also have a contractual term of ten years. Employees and directors who are granted restricted stock units are not required to pay for the shares but must remain employed with us, or continue to serve as a member of our board of directors, until the restrictions on the shares lapse, which is typically three years. In addition, restricted stock units awarded to certain senior level executives contain performance provisions such as the achievement of defined levels of wireless subscriber additions, adjusted operating income, post-paid wireless subscriber retention, and/or other qualitative and quantitative factors. Performance provision achievement is typically evaluated one year after grant, at which point we may increase or decrease the number of awards an employee is eligible to receive. If the performance provisions are achieved, the vesting of the awards is subject only to the remaining term of employment or service discussed above. Prior to 2005, restricted stock, or nonvested shares, were granted to officers and key employees. Employees granted restricted stock are not required to pay for the shares; however, they must remain employed with us until the restrictions on the shares lapse. The nonvested shares vest on an annual basis over three years.
Under the Nextel Incentive Equity Plan, outstanding Nextel deferred shares, or nonvested shares, which constitute an agreement to deliver shares upon the performance of service over a defined period of time, and grants of options to purchase shares of Nextel common stock were converted into our nonvested shares or options to purchase a number of shares of our common stock. As of March 31, 2006, this plan authorized equity-based awards for about 124 million common shares, of which about 50 million common shares remained available. Stock options have been granted with an exercise price equal to the market value of the underlying stock on the grant date, vest on a monthly basis over periods of up to four years, and have a contractual term of ten years. Employees are not required to pay for the deferred shares; however, they must remain employed with us to earn the shares. The nonvested shares generally vest over a service period ranging from several months to four years.
Refer to note 17 in Exhibit 99.1 to the Form 8-K, for additional information regarding these plans. Plan information regarding the Management Incentive Stock Option Plan, or MISOP, and the Employees Stock Purchase Plan, or ESPP, was excluded herein due to materiality; however, we noted that as of March 31, 2006, options to buy about 38 million common shares were outstanding under the MISOP plan and as of March 31, 2006, the ESPP plan authorized for future purchases of about 25 million shares. We generally issue new stock to satisfy share-based award exercises or conversions.
 
Adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123R
Effective January 1, 2006, we adopted SFAS No. 123R, , which revises SFAS No. 123, . This statement requires a public entity to measure the cost of employee services received in exchange for an award of equity instruments based on the grant-date fair value of the award and to recognize that cost over the period that an employee is required to provide service in exchange for the award. Any awards of liability instruments to employees would be measured at fair value at each reporting date through settlement.
Share-Based Payment
Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation
We adopted SFAS No. 123R using the modified prospective transition method and accordingly the results of prior periods have not been restated. This method requires that the provisions of SFAS No. 123R are generally applied only to share-based awards granted, modified, repurchased, or cancelled on January 1, 2006 and thereafter. As we voluntarily adopted fair value accounting for share-based awards effective January 1, 2003 (under SFAS No. 123 as amended by SFAS No. 148, ), using the prospective method, we measured the cost of share-based awards granted or modified on or after January 1, 2003 using the fair value of the award and began recognizing that cost in the statements of operations over the service period. We will recognize the remaining cost of these awards over the remaining service period following the provisions of SFAS No. 123R. For those grants prior to January 1, 2003, that are nonvested and outstanding as of January 1, 2006, we started recognizing the remaining cost of these awards over the remaining service period as required by the new standard. The impact of adopting SFAS No. 123R did not have a material effect on our operations, cash flows, or financial position.
Accounting for Stock-Based CompensationTransition and Disclosure an amendment of FASB Statement No. 123
The following table illustrates the effect on net income and earnings per common share of share-based awards included in net income and the effect on net income and earnings per common share for grants issued prior to January 1, 2003, had we applied the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS No. 123 to those grants in 2005.
 
Share-based compensation cost charged against net income for our share-based award plans was $121 million for the first quarter 2006 and $37 million for the first quarter 2005. The total income tax benefit recognized in the statements of operations for share-based award compensation was $45 million for the first quarter 2006 and $13 million for the first quarter 2005. Share-based compensation cost charged against income includes $16 million in the first quarter 2006, and $13 million in the first quarter 2005 that was allocated to our Local segment prior to the spin-off of Embarq. The income tax benefit recognized in the statements of operations includes $7 million in the first quarter 2006, and $4 million in the first quarter 2005 related to our Local segment prior to the spin-off of Embarq. We believe these amounts approximate the expense and tax benefit related to participants designated to work for Embarq, and, accordingly, these amounts are included in discontinued operations in the accompanying statements of operations.
As of March 31, 2006, there was $643 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to our share-based award plans that is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 2.27 years. Cash received from exercise under all share-based payment arrangements was $185 million for the first quarter 2006 and $58 million for the first quarter 2005. The actual tax benefit realized for the tax deductions from exercise of the share-based payment arrangements totaled $4 million for the first quarter 2006 and $1 million for the first quarter 2005.
Awards with graded vesting are recognized using the straight-line method. Forfeitures were estimated for 2005 and 2006 share-based awards using a 3% annual rate.
 
Stock Options
The fair value of each option award is estimated on the grant date using the Black-Scholes-Merton option valuation model and the assumptions noted in the following table. The risk-free rate used in 2006 and 2005 is based on the zero-coupon U.S. Treasury bond, with a term equal to the expected term of the stock options. The volatility used in 2006 and 2005 is the implied volatility from traded options on our common shares and the historical volatility of our common shares, respectively, over a period that approximates the expected term of the stock options. The expected dividend yield used in 2006 and 2005 is estimated based on historical dividend yields and other factors. The expected term of options granted in 2006 and 2005 is estimated using the average of the vesting date and the contractual term and projected and historical experience. Our stock options include stock options granted under the 1997 Program, the MISOP, as well as options granted under the Nextel Incentive Equity Plan, as discussed above.
 
A summary of the status of the options under our stock option plans as of March 31, 2006, and changes during the quarter then ended, is presented below:
 
The total intrinsic value of options exercised was $135 million during the first quarter 2006 and $31 million during the first quarter 2005. As of March 31, 2006, there was $458 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested stock options; that cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.26 years.
Restricted Stock Units
The fair value of each restricted stock unit award is calculated using the stock price at the date of grant. A summary of the status of the restricted stock units as of March 31, 2006 and changes during the quarter ended March 31, 2006 is presented below. Restricted stock units consist of those units granted under the 1997 Program, as discussed above.
 
 
As of March 31, 2006, there was $173 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to restricted stock units that is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.37 years. The total fair value of restricted stock units vested was $35 million during the quarter ended March 31, 2006 and $2 million during the quarter ended March 31, 2005. The weighted-average grant date fair value of restricted stock units granted for the quarter ended March 31, 2006 was $23.14 per unit, compared with $24.27 per unit for the same prior year period.
We pay cash dividend equivalents on most outstanding restricted stock units. Dividend equivalents paid on restricted stock units are principally charged to retained earnings when paid.
Nonvested Shares
Our nonvested shares consist of restricted stock granted under the 1997 Program and deferred shares granted under the Nextel Incentive Equity Plan, as discussed above. The fair value of each nonvested share award is calculated using the stock price at the date of grant. A summary of the status of nonvested share awards as of March 31, 2006 and changes during the quarter ended March 31, 2006 is presented below.
 
As of March 31, 2006, there was $12 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to nonvested shares that is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 1.48 years. The total fair value of shares vested during the quarters ended March 31, 2006 and 2005 was $16 million.
 
Note 4. Investments
Specific investment types and the related carrying amounts include:
 
Investments in Debt Securities
Our investments in debt securities, including auction rate securities, with original or remaining maturities at purchase of greater than 90 days but less than one year, are classified in current assets as marketable securities on the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. We also invested in debt securities with original or remaining maturities at purchase of 90 days or less. These securities were included in cash and cash equivalents on the accompanying consolidated balance sheets.
Interest on debt securities is reinvested and recognized in interest income in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations. We recognized about $55 million of interest income on these investments in the first quarter 2006 compared to $9 million in the first quarter 2005. Accumulated unrealized holding gains and losses were immaterial in both periods.
Investments in Equity Securities
As of March 31, 2006, $578 million of our investments in equity securities related to our investment in NII Holdings, Inc. common stock and is reflected in current assets as marketable securities on the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. We have entered into a series of option contracts associated with the planned sale of our remaining investment in NII Holdings, which will mature during the fourth quarter 2006. In the first quarter 2006, we received cash proceeds on the sale of 1.7 million shares of NII Holdings stock and the termination of the associated option contract. As a result, we recognized a $37 million gain on the sale of stock. We continue to hold 13 million shares, or less than 10%, of the outstanding common stock of NII Holdings. See note 8 for additional information on the option contracts.
Accumulated unrealized holding gains, net of tax, resulting from our investments in equity securities of $196 million as of March 31, 2006, and $90 million as of December 31, 2005, were included in accumulated other comprehensive loss on the accompanying consolidated balance sheets.
Equity Method Investments
As of March 31, 2006, investments accounted for using the equity method consisted primarily of our investments in Nextel Partners and Virgin Mobile USA, LLC. These investments were reflected in investments on the accompanying consolidated balance sheets.
We owned about 29% of the outstanding common stock of Nextel Partners with a carrying value of $2.4 billion as of March 31, 2006. In the first quarter 2006, we recorded $20 million of equity in earnings associated with our ownership interest in Nextel Partners.
As a result of the Sprint-Nextel merger, the shareholders of Nextel Partners exercised their right to require us to purchase, at fair market value, the 71% of the outstanding shares of Nextel Partners stock that we do not already own. In December 2005, we and Nextel Partners announced that the purchase price for each share of Nextel Partners stock under this right had been determined to be $28.50. As a result, the aggregate amount payable to shareholders of Nextel Partners at closing will be about $6.5 billion, including amounts payable upon conversion of debt securities and settlement of outstanding options. The purchase is subject to customary regulatory approvals and is currently expected to be completed in the second quarter 2006.
As of March 31, 2006, we held a 49% ownership interest in Virgin Mobile USA.
 
Combined, unaudited, summarized financial information as reported by the investees accounted for using the equity method was as follows:
 
The carrying amount of our investment in Nextel Partners exceeds the amount of the underlying equity in net assets by $2.1 billion due to purchase price accounting applied at the time of the Sprint-Nextel merger. This difference is principally related to customer relationships, spectrum licenses and goodwill. The customer relationship portion is being amortized over seven years, using the sum of the years' digits method. The portion related to spectrum licenses and goodwill is not being amortized.
Note 5. Intangible Assets
 
Indefinite Life Intangible Assets
We have identified goodwill, spectrum licenses and our Sprint and Boost Mobile
trademarks as indefinite life intangible assets after considering the expected use of the assets, the regulatory and economic environment within which they are being used, and the effects of obsolescence on their use. The Sprint and Boost Mobile trademarks are highly respected brands with positive connotations. We have no legal, regulatory or contractual limitations associated with our trademarks. We cultivate and protect the use of our brands. Substantially all of the goodwill is allocated to the Wireless segment.
The changes in the carrying value of goodwill are as follows:
 
 
Definite Life Intangible Assets
Definite life intangible assets consist primarily of customer relationships that are amortized over three to five years using the sum of the years' digits method, which we believe best reflects the estimated pattern in which the economic benefits will be consumed. Other definite life intangible assets primarily include the Nextel and Direct Connect
SM
trade names, which will be amortized over 10 years on a straight-line basis, and certain reacquired rights, which are amortized over the remaining terms of those affiliation agreements on a straight-line basis. During the first quarter 2006, we increased the gross carrying value of definite life intangible assets by $1.6 billion primarily due to the acquisitions of Enterprise Communications and Alamosa Holdings. We recorded aggregate amortization expense of $938 million and $3 million for the first quarter 2006 and the first quarter 2005. Based only on the definite life intangible assets as of March 31, 2006, amortization expense will be $2.6 billion for the remainder of 2006, $2.8 billion in 2007, $2.0 billion in 2008, $1.2 billion in 2009 and $561 million in 2010.
Spectrum Reconfiguration Obligations
On February 7, 2005, Nextel accepted the terms and conditions of the Report and Order of the FCC, which implemented a spectrum reconfiguration plan designed to eliminate interference with public safety operators in the 800 MHz band. The minimum obligation incurred under the Report and Order is $2.8 billion. The Report and Order also provides that qualifying costs we incur as part of the reconfiguration plan, including costs to reconfigure our own infrastructure and spectrum positions, can be used to offset the minimum obligation of $2.8 billion; however, we are obligated to pay the full amount of the costs relating to the reconfiguration plan, even if those costs exceed that amount.
As of March 31, 2006, we had recorded a liability of $224 million associated with the estimated portion of the reconfiguration costs that represents our best estimate of amounts to be paid under the Report and Order that would not benefit our infrastructure or spectrum positions. All other costs incurred pursuant to the Report and Order that relate to the spectrum and infrastructure, when expended, are accounted for either as property, plant and equipment or as additions to the spectrum license intangible asset, consistent with our accounting and capitalization policy. The following table represents expenditures incurred directly attributable to our performance under the Report and Order from the inception of the program:
 
In addition, not included in the table above are about $373 million of reconfiguration costs incurred to date, including about $63 million in the first quarter 2006, that are included in property, plant and equipment. These reconfiguration costs are based on estimated allocations between reconfiguration activity and our normal network growth. These estimated allocations may vary depending on key assumptions, including subscribers, call volumes and other factors over the life of the reconfiguration program. As a result, the amount allocated to reconfiguration activity is subject to change based on additional assessments made over the course of the reconfiguration program. Since we, the FCC-appointed Transition Administrator and the FCC have not yet reached an agreement on our methodology for calculating the amount to be submitted for credit, we cannot provide assurance that we will be granted full credit for certain of these network costs.
Note 6. Restructuring and Asset Impairment
Restructuring Activity
 
 
Organizational Restructurings
In the first quarter 2006, in connection with the ongoing merger and integration cost rationalization projects, we continued to align our internal resources to achieve the synergies from the Sprint-Nextel merger and the acquisition of the PCS Affiliates. These projects affect many areas of our business and operations, including network, information technology, customer care and general and administrative functions. We expect to incur significant costs over the next several years associated with such realignment activities, including costs associated with the separations of some employees. This restructuring has resulted in $17 million in severance and related costs associated with work force reductions of legacy Sprint employees across both of our segments. An additional $57 million associated with the termination of legacy Nextel employees was adjusted to goodwill in accordance with purchase price accounting during the first quarter 2006.
Web Hosting Wind-down
In 2003, we began to wind-down the web hosting services offered by the Long Distance segment, which resulted in asset impairment charges, severance expense and facility lease termination costs. As of December 31, 2005, substantially all activities associated with this wind-down had been completed; however, we continue to be obligated under facility leases that expire from 2007 through 2014. For the first quarter 2006, we incurred $3 million in facility lease termination costs.
Other Asset Impairments
In the first quarter 2006, we wrote-off $18 million of assets primarily related to software asset impairment and abandonment in our Wireless segment.
Total restructuring and asset impairment costs, including those recorded as part of purchase price accounting, were $95 million as of March 31, 2006.
Note 7. Seventh Series Redeemable Preferred Stock
On March 31, 2006, we redeemed for cash all of our outstanding Seventh series preferred stock at the stated value of $1,000 per share for an aggregate face amount of $247 million, which approximated the carrying value at the time of redemption. Dividends of $6.73 per share were paid quarterly through March 31, 2006.
Note 8. Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities
Risk Management Policies
There have been no material changes in our risk management policies from those reported in note 12 of the "Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements" in our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005, as amended.
Interest Rate Derivatives
As of March 31, 2006, we held fair value interest rate swaps with a notional value of $1.0 billion. These swaps were entered into as fair value hedges for a portion of our senior notes. These interest rate swaps have maturities ranging from 2008 to 2012. On a semiannual basis, we pay a floating rate of interest equal to the six-month London Interbank Offered Rate, or LIBOR, plus a fixed spread and receive an average interest rate equal to the coupon rates stated on the underlying senior notes.
Our interest rate swaps meet all the required criteria under SFAS No. 133, , as amended, in order to apply the shortcut method in accounting for these instruments. Under the shortcut method, we can assume that our interest rate swaps are perfectly effective in hedging our interest rate risk. We recognize all changes in the fair value of the interest rate swaps currently as a gain or loss within other income (expense) on the consolidated statement of operations, in accordance with SFAS No. 133, as amended. Under the shortcut method, these changes in the fair value of the hedging instrument are offset by an equal change in fair value of the underlying interest payment, with no net impact on earnings.
Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities
Our interest rate swap activity generated a net liability of $35 million as of March 31, 2006 compared to $18 million as of December 31, 2005, resulting from changes in the fair value of the interest rate swaps with an offset recorded to the underlying long-term debt.
During the fourth quarter 2005, we entered into a series of interest rate collars associated with the issuance of debt by Embarq at the time of its spin-off. See note 15 for additional information. These derivative instruments did not qualify for hedge accounting treatment in our consolidated financial statements, and changes in the fair value of these instruments are recognized in earnings from discontinued operations during the period of change. During the first quarter 2006, the fair value of these derivatives increased, resulting in a pre-tax gain of $38 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2006.
Equity Derivatives
We have also entered into a series of option contracts associated with our investment in NII Holdings, which we acquired through the Sprint-Nextel merger. The first of these contracts was not designated as a hedging instrument, and changes in the
 
fair value of the derivative instrument were recognized in earnings during the period of change. This option contract was terminated on March 31, 2006 in conjunction with the sale of the underlying shares of NII Holdings. The sale of the underlying stock resulted in a $37 million gain. The change in fair value of the option contract prior to termination resulted in a loss of $23 million during the first quarter 2006. The remaining instruments are designated as cash flow hedges and meet all the required criteria under SFAS No. 133, as amended, and the Derivative Implementation Group Issue No. G-20, , in order to assume that these option contracts are perfectly effective in hedging the market risk associated with our investment in NII Holdings. Changes in fair value of these instruments resulted in an unrealized loss of $110 million during the first quarter 2006, offset by unrealized holding gains during the first quarter 2006 of $126 million on the underlying investment in NII Holdings. These unrealized gains and losses were included in accumulated other comprehensive loss on the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. These derivative instruments will be settled by December 31, 2006.
Assessing and Measuring the Effectiveness of a Purchased Option Used in a Cash Flow Hedge
Note 9. Comprehensive Income
Comprehensive income consists of net income and other gains and losses affecting shareholders' investment that, under generally accepted accounting principles, are excluded from net income.
The components of other comprehensive income are as follows:
 
Note 10. Employee Benefit Information
The net periodic benefit cost consisted of the following:
 
Most individuals employed with us prior to the Sprint-Nextel merger are participants in a noncontributory defined benefit pension plan. We did not extend plan participation to Nextel employees in connection with the Sprint-Nextel merger. As of December 31, 2005, the pension plan was amended to freeze benefit accruals for plan participants not designated for employment with Embarq following the spin-off. We also did not extend participation in the retiree medical plan to Nextel employees in connection with the Sprint-Nextel merger, and we amended that plan to include only employees designated for employment with Embarq following the spin-off, and those individuals employed with us prior to the Sprint-Nextel merger who were born prior to 1956.
 
Net benefit expense includes $15 million in the first quarter 2006 and $23 million in the first quarter 2005 that had been allocated to our Local division prior to the spin-off of Embarq. We believe these amounts approximate the expense related to participants designated to work for Embarq, and accordingly, these amounts are included in discontinued operations in the accompanying statements of operations.
Note 11. Income Taxes
The differences that caused our effective income tax rates to vary from the 35% federal statutory rate for income taxes were as follows:
 
We maintain a valuation allowance against certain of our deferred tax assets in instances where we determine that it is more likely than not that a tax benefit will not be realized. As of March 31, 2006, we continued to maintain a total valuation allowance of about $1.1 billion related to our deferred tax assets.
Note 12. Commitments and Contingencies
Litigation, Claims and Assessments
In 2005, several PCS Affiliates filed lawsuits in various courts, alleging that the Sprint-Nextel merger would result in breaches of exclusivity provisions in their commercial affiliation agreements with our subsidiaries. Suits were brought by UbiquiTel and UbiquiTel Operating Company, iPCS Wireless, Inc., Horizon Personal Communications Inc. and Bright Personal Communications Services LLC, which are both subsidiaries of iPCS Wireless, and Northern PCS Services, LLC. The lawsuits seek, among other things, to enjoin us from engaging in certain post-merger business conduct in the respective service areas of the PCS Affiliates, and unspecified damages caused by the alleged breach. Horizon Personal Communications, Inc. and Bright Personal Communications Services have entered into a forbearance agreement with us governing certain business practices addressed by the litigation until a decision is rendered by the trial court in the lawsuit filed by them. As part of the agreement to acquire UbiquiTel, the lawsuit filed by UbiquiTel and UbiquiTel Operating Company was stayed, with a final resolution to become effective upon closing of the acquisition. We and our subsidiaries intend to defend all of the other lawsuits vigorously.
In March 2004, eight purported class action lawsuits relating to the recombination of the tracking stocks were filed against us and our directors by holders of PCS common stock. Seven of the lawsuits were consolidated in the District Court of Johnson County, Kansas. The eighth, pending in New York, has been voluntarily stayed. The consolidated lawsuit alleges breach of fiduciary duty in connection with allocations between the wireline operations and the wireless operations before the recombination of the tracking stocks and breach of fiduciary duty in the recombination. The lawsuit seeks to rescind the recombination and monetary damages. In early 2005, the court denied defendants' motion to dismiss the complaint and discovery is proceeding. All defendants have denied plaintiffs' allegations and intend to defend this matter vigorously.
In 2003, certain participants in the Sprint Nextel Retirement Savings Plan and the Sprint Nextel and Centel Retirement Savings Plans for Bargaining Unit Employees filed suit in the U.S. District Court for the District of Kansas against us, the committees that administer the plans, the plan trustee, and various of our current and former directors and officers. The consolidated lawsuit alleges that defendants breached their fiduciary duties to the plans and violated the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, or ERISA, statutes by making the company matching contribution in company stock and by including company stock among the thirty investment options offered to plan participants. The lawsuit seeks to recover any decline in the value of our tracking stocks during the class period. A settlement agreement has been filed with the
 
court and is subject to final court approval. The settlement calls for us to make certain changes to the savings plans, to allow for vesting of certain Sprint Nextel stock in the accounts of certain former employees, and to distribute $4 million in cash to former employees who no longer have accounts in the savings plans. We have insurance coverage for the cash component of this settlement.
In September 2004, the U.S. District Court for the District of Kansas denied a motion to dismiss a shareholder lawsuit alleging that our 2001 and 2002 proxy statements were false and misleading in violation of federal securities laws to the extent they described new employment agreements with certain senior executives without disclosing that, according to the allegations, replacement of those executives was inevitable. These allegations, made in an amended complaint in a lawsuit originally filed in 2003, are asserted against us and certain current and former officers and directors, and seek to recover any decline in the value of our tracking stocks during the class period. The parties have stipulated that the case can proceed as a class action. All defendants have denied plaintiffs' allegations and intend to defend this matter vigorously. Allegations in the original complaint, which asserted claims against the same defendants and our former independent auditor, were dismissed by the court in April 2004.
A number of putative class action cases that allege Sprint Communications Company LP failed to obtain easements from property owners during the installation of its fiber optic network in the 1980's have been filed in various courts. Several of these cases sought certification of nationwide classes, and in one case, a nationwide class has been certified. In 2002, a nationwide settlement of these claims was approved by the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Illinois, but objectors appealed the preliminary approval order to the Seventh Circuit Court of Appeals, which overturned the settlement and remanded the case to the trial court for further proceedings. The parties now are proceeding with litigation and/or settlement negotiations on a state by state basis. In 2001, we accrued an expense reflecting the estimated settlement costs of these suits.
Various other suits, proceedings and claims, including purported class actions, typical for a business enterprise are pending against us or our subsidiaries. While it is not possible to determine the ultimate disposition of each of these proceedings and whether they will be resolved consistent with our beliefs, we expect that the outcome of such proceedings, individually or in the aggregate, will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.
Note 13. Segment Information
We are divided into two main lines of business: Wireless and Long Distance.
We generally manage our segments to the operating income (loss) level of reporting. Items below operating income (loss) are managed at a corporate level. The reconciliation from operating income to net income is shown on the face of the accompanying consolidated statements of operations.
We generally account for transactions between segments based on fully distributed costs, which we believe approximates fair value. In certain transactions, pricing is set using market rates.
Segment financial information was as follows:
 
 
Net operating revenues by product and services were as follows:
 
Note 14. Subsequent Events
Commercial Paper Program
In April 2006, we commenced a commercial paper program, which is expected to reduce our borrowing costs by allowing us to issue short-term debt at lower rates than those available under our revolving credit facilities. The $2.0 billion program is backed by our $6.0 billion revolving credit facility and reduces the amount we can borrow under that facility to the extent of the commercial paper outstanding. As of April 30, 2006, we had about $500 million of commercial paper outstanding.
Dividend Declaration
On April 28, 2006, our board of directors declared a dividend of $0.025 per share on our common stock, payable on June 30, 2006, to shareholders of record at the close of business on May 17, 2006.
Note 15. Discontinued Operations
On May 1, 2006, we entered into a separation and distribution agreement with Embarq, which at the time was a wholly-owned subsidiary of ours, and, on May 17, 2006, we completed the spin-off of Embarq. Embarq offers regulated local communications services as an incumbent local exchange carrier. Embarq provides a suite of communications services, consisting of local and long distance voice and data services, including high-speed Internet access.
In the spin-off, we distributed pro rata to our shareholders one share of Embarq common stock for every 20 shares of our voting and non-voting common stock, or about 149 million shares of Embarq common stock. Cash was paid for fractional shares. The distribution of Embarq common stock is considered a tax free transaction for us and for our shareholders, except cash payments made in lieu of fractional shares which are generally taxable.
At the time of the spin-off, all outstanding options to purchase our common stock held by employees of Embarq were cancelled and replaced with options to purchase Embarq common stock. Outstanding options to purchase our common stock held by our directors and employees who remained with us were adjusted by multiplying the number of shares subject to the options by 1.0955 and dividing the exercise price by the same number in order to account for the impact of the spin-off on the value of our shares at the time the spin-off was completed.
 
Generally, restricted stock units awarded pursuant to our equity incentive plans and held by our employees at the time of the spin-off (including those held by those of our employees who became employees of Embarq) were treated in a manner similar to the treatment of outstanding shares of our common stock in the spin-off. Holders of these restricted stock units received one Embarq restricted stock unit for every twenty restricted stock units held. Outstanding deferred shares granted under the Nextel Incentive Equity Plan, which represent the right to receive shares of our common stock, were adjusted by multiplying the number of deferred shares by 1.0955. Cash was paid to the holders of deferred shares in lieu of fractional shares.
In connection with the spin-off, Embarq transferred to our parent company $2.1 billion in cash and about $4.5 billion of Embarq senior notes in partial consideration for, and as a condition to, our transfer to Embarq of the local communications business. Embarq also retained about $665 million in debt obligations of its subsidiaries. The cash and senior notes were transferred by our parent company to our finance subsidiary, Sprint Capital Corporation, in satisfaction of indebtedness owed by our parent company to Sprint Capital. On May 19, 2006, Sprint Capital sold the Embarq senior notes to the public, receiving about $4.4 billion in net proceeds.
In connection with the spin-off, we incurred $29 million of net costs for the first quarter 2006, which have been classified as discontinued operations. These costs were primarily transition costs. Also included in discontinued operations for the first quarter 2006 are $38 million in net gains realized from the change in fair value of certain cash flow hedges that were entered into in anticipation of the issuance by Embarq of senior notes.
The separation and distribution agreement and related agreements with Embarq provide that generally each party will be responsible for its respective assets, liabilities and businesses following the spin-off and that we and Embarq will provide each other with certain transition services relating to our respective businesses for specified periods at cost-based prices. We also entered into agreements pursuant to which we and Embarq will provide each other with specified services at commercial rates. Further, the agreements provide for a settlement process surrounding the transfer of certain assets and liabilities. It is possible that adjustments will occur in future periods as these matters are settled.
The net revenue and net earnings for the discontinued operations of the local communications business were as follows:
 
The discontinued operations' assets and liabilities as reported were as follows as of the periods ended:
 
 
The Board of Directors
Sprint Nextel Corporation:
We have reviewed the consolidated balance sheet of Sprint Nextel Corporation and subsidiaries (the Company) as of March 31, 2006, the related consolidated statements of operations and cash flows for the quarters ended March 31, 2006 and 2005, and the related consolidated statement of shareholders' equity for the quarter ended March 31, 2006. These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management.
We conducted our reviews in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). A review of interim financial information consists principally of applying analytical procedures and making inquiries of persons responsible for financial and accounting matters. It is substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the objective of which is the expression of an opinion regarding the financial statements taken as a whole. Accordingly, we do not express such an opinion.
Based on our reviews, we are not aware of any material modifications that should be made to the consolidated financial statements referred to above for them to be in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
We have previously audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheet of Sprint Nextel Corporation and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2005, and the related consolidated statements of operations, comprehensive income (loss), cash flows, and shareholders' equity for the year then ended (not presented herein); and in our report dated March 7, 2006, except for the effects of discontinued operations, as discussed in Note 25, which is as of September 14, 2006, we expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial statements. In our opinion, the information set forth in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2005, is fairly stated, in all material respects, in relation to the consolidated balance sheet from which it has been derived.
McLean, Virginia
May 4, 2006, except for the effects of discontinued operations,
as discussed in Note 15, which is as of September 14, 2006
 
Item 2.
Forward-Looking Statements
We include certain estimates, projections and other forward-looking statements in our annual report and in our quarterly and current reports, and in other publicly available material. Statements regarding expectations, including performance assumptions and estimates relating to capital requirements, as well as other statements that are not historical facts, are forward-looking statements.
These statements reflect management's judgments based on currently available information and involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. With respect to these forward-looking statements, management has made assumptions regarding, among other things, customer and network usage, customer growth and retention, pricing, operating costs, the timing of various events and the economic environment.
Future performance cannot be assured. Actual results may differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. Some factors that could cause actual results to differ include:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The words "estimate", "project", "forecast", "intend", "expect", "believe", "target", "providing guidance" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are found throughout this Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and elsewhere in this report. The reader should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this report. We are not obligated to publicly release any revisions to forward-looking statements to reflect events after the date of this report, including unforeseen events.
Overview
We are a global communications company offering a comprehensive suite of wireless and wireline communications products and services that are designed to meet the needs of our targeted customer groups: individuals and business and government customers. Although our operations are divided into two lines of business, wireless and long distance, we have organized our sales and distribution efforts to focus on the needs of two distinct customer types  individuals, and businesses and government agencies, which enable us to create customer-focused communications solutions that can incorporate any of our wireless and long distance wireline services and their capabilities. We are one of the three largest wireless companies in the United States based on the number of wireless subscribers. We own extensive wireless networks and a global long distance, Tier 1 Internet backbone.
Nextel Merger and Local Communications Business Spin-off
On August 12, 2005, a subsidiary of our company merged with Nextel Communications, Inc. In connection with the Nextel merger, we changed our name to Sprint Nextel Corporation.
We merged with Nextel to secure a number of potential strategic and financial benefits. These benefits include those arising from the combination of our network and spectrum assets, the combination of our diverse customer bases and services, the size and scale of the combined company and the opportunity to focus on the fastest growing areas of the communications industry. We also believe that the merger provides significant opportunities to achieve operating efficiencies by realizing revenue, operating cost and capital spending synergies.
We have begun to recognize synergies, and over a number of years expect to continue to recognize significant synergies, associated with the merger. However, we believe that our operating results for at least the next several quarters will be negatively impacted by costs that will be incurred to achieve these synergies. Such costs are generally not expected to be recurring in nature, and will include costs associated with the spin-off of Embarq Corporation, costs associated with integrating back office systems, severance costs associated with the termination of the employment of certain employees, and lease and other contract termination costs. The merger and integration costs that we incur can be dependent on a number of business or strategic decisions whose timing cannot be predicted with certainty, which could cause merger and integration costs to vary from period to period. Additionally, certain merger and integration-related expenditures are not recorded as expenses, but instead could represent changes to our purchase price allocation estimates, which would affect goodwill. The ability to achieve these synergies and the timing in which the benefits can be realized will depend in large part on the ability to integrate our networks, business operations, back-office functions and other support systems and infrastructure.
 
At the time that we announced the merger, we also announced our plans to spin-off our local communications business to our shareholders on a tax-free basis. This business, which consists primarily of the business previously reported as the Local segment in our consolidated financial statements, is referred to as Embarq. On May 1, 2006, we entered into a separation and distribution agreement with Embarq and on May 17, 2006, we completed the spin-off of Embarq and distributed all of the shares of Embarq common stock to our shareholders by means of a stock dividend. The results of operations of Embarq are presented as discontinued operations for all periods presented. See note 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. The stock dividend of one share of Embarq common stock for every 20 shares of Sprint Nextel voting and non-voting common stock was paid pro rata to Sprint Nextel shareholders who held their shares at the close of business on May 8, 2006, which was the record date for the distribution. No fractional shares of Embarq common stock were distributed. Instead of fractional shares, Sprint Nextel shareholders received cash. Following the distribution, Sprint Nextel does not own any shares of Embarq, and Embarq is an independent company.
We have received a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service that, based on certain facts, assumptions, representations and undertakings set forth in the ruling, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the distribution of Embarq common stock is not taxable to us or U.S. holders of our common stock, except with respect of cash received in lieu of fractional share interests, which generally is taxable.
Business
We offer a comprehensive suite of wireless and wireline communications products and services that are designed to meet the needs of our two targeted customer groups: individuals, and businesses and government agencies. We conduct our operations through two segments referred to as Wireless and Long Distance.
We, together with the remaining PCS Affiliates and Nextel Partners, offer digital and wireless services in all 50 states, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands and provide wireless coverage to a total domestic population of more than 277 million people. The PCS Affiliates, through commercial arrangements with us, provide wireless services under the Sprint brand name in certain mid-sized and tertiary U.S. markets on wireless networks built and operated at their expense, in most instances using spectrum licensed to, and controlled by, us. Nextel Partners provides digital wireless communications services under the Nextel brand name in certain mid-sized and tertiary U.S. markets on wireless networks built and operated at its expense. During 2005, we acquired three PCS Affiliates and, in the first quarter 2006, we acquired two additional PCS Affiliates. In the second quarter 2006, we expect to acquire Nextel Partners and UbiquiTel, one of the remaining PCS Affiliates. We believe the acquisitions of these PCS Affiliates, as well as the pending acquisitions of Nextel Partners and UbiquiTel, will give us more control of the distribution of services under our Sprint and Nextel brands, and provide us with the strategic and financial benefits associated with a larger customer base and expanded network coverage. We also are one of the nation's largest providers of long distance services.
We believe the communications industry has been and will continue to be highly competitive on the basis of price, the types of services offered and quality of service. Although we believe that our targeted customer base of individuals and businesses and government agencies generally base their purchase decisions on quality of service and the availability of differentiated features and services, competitive pricing is often an important factor in potential customers' purchase decisions.
Our industry has been and continues to be subject to consolidation and dynamic change. To maintain our operating margins in an environment of intense competition that could put pressure on customer pricing, we continually seek ways to create or improve capital and operating efficiencies in our business. Consequently, we routinely reassess our business strategies and their implications on our operations and these assessments may continue to impact the future valuation of our long-lived assets. As part of our overall business strategy, we regularly evaluate opportunities to expand and complement our business and may at any time be discussing or negotiating a transaction that, if consummated, could have a material effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and/or results of operations.
The FCC regulates the licensing, operation, acquisition and sale of the licensed radio spectrum that is essential to our business. The FCC and state Public Utilities Commissions, or PUCs, also regulate the provision of telecommunications services. Future changes in regulations or legislation related to spectrum licensing or other matters related to our business could impose significant additional costs on us either in the form of direct out-of-pocket costs or additional compliance obligations.
Statements contained in this quarterly report relating to our business strategies, operating plans, planned expenditures, expected capital requirements and other forward-looking statements regarding our business generally do not take into account the spin-off of Embarq.
 
Management Overview
Wireless
Through our Wireless segment, we, together with the remaining PCS Affiliates and Nextel Partners, offer digital wireless service in all 50 states, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands, and provide wireless coverage in over 300 metropolitan markets, including the 125 largest U.S. metropolitan areas, where more than 277 million people live or work. Including subscribers who purchase services from the PCS Affiliates, Nextel Partners and our mobile virtual network operators, or MVNOs, we served 51 million subscribers as of March 31, 2006. We offer a wide array of wireless mobile telephone and wireless data transmission services on networks that utilize code division multiple access, or CDMA, and iDEN technologies.
Our strategy is to utilize state-of-the-art technology to provide differentiated wireless services and applications in order to acquire and retain high-quality wireless subscribers. To enable us to offer innovative applications and services, we are deploying high-speed evolution data optimized, or EV-DO, technology across our CDMA network. As of March 31, 2006, EV-DO technology covered over 150 million people and served customers in 215 communities with populations of at least 100,000, as well as 470 airports across the country. The services supported by this technology, marketed as PowerVision
SM
, give consumer and business subscribers with EV-DO-enabled devices access to numerous sophisticated high-speed data messaging, imaging, entertainment and location-based applications. On our iDEN network, we continue to develop features and services that are designed to meet the needs of business and government customers with a particular focus on services that build upon our unique walkie-talkie features. We also seek to realize operating efficiencies in our business, largely from merger-related synergies, and optimize the performance of our network while minimizing costs.
We offer wireless mobile telephone and data transmission services and features in a variety of pricing plans, including prepaid service plans. Excluding prepaid service plans, we offer these services on a contract basis, typically for one or two year periods, with services billed on a monthly basis according to the applicable pricing plan. We market our prepaid services under the Boost Mobile brand, as a means to directly target the youth and prepaid wireless service markets. We also offer wholesale wireless services to MVNOs, which purchase wireless services from us at wholesale rates and resell the services to their customers under their own brand names. Under these MVNO arrangements, the operators bear the costs of acquisition, billing and customer service. We also entered into an agreement with several cable companies to develop converged next generation products for consumers designed to combine many of cable's core products and interactive features with wireless technology to deliver a broad range of services, including video, wireless voice and data services, high speed Internet and cable phone service.
Our Wireless segment generates revenues from the provision of wireless services, the sale of wireless equipment and the provision of wholesale and other services. The ability of our Wireless segment to generate service revenues is primarily a function of:
 
 
We believe that wireless carriers increasingly must attract a greater proportion of new customers from the existing customer bases of competitors rather than from first time purchasers of wireless services. Certain of our competitors have continued to increase their focus on customer retention efforts, which may make it harder for us to acquire new customers from these competitors. As part of our effort to improve our customer retention, we are implementing programs to improve the quality of our customer care and eliminate situations that create customer dissatisfaction at points where we interact with our customers. In addition, the higher market penetration of wireless services may suggest that customers purchasing wireless services for the first time may, on average, have a lower credit rating than existing wireless users, which generally results in both a higher churn rate due to involuntary churn and in a higher bad debt expense.
We have also experienced declines in the average voice revenue per subscriber/user due to competitive pricing in the market. We are developing and implementing plans designed to offset these declines in revenue generated from fixed priced plans that include significant numbers of voice minutes by offering a wide array of wireless imaging, data communications, entertainment and locations-based services.
The ability of our Wireless segment to generate equipment revenues is primarily a function of the number of new and existing subscribers who purchase handsets and other accessories. The ability of our Wireless segment to generate wholesale revenues is primarily a function of the number and type of MVNOs that resell our wireless service and the rates that we charge MVNOs for utilization of our network.
 
Although many of the costs relating to the operation of our wireless networks are fixed in the short-term, other costs, such as interconnection fees, fluctuate based on the utilization of the networks. Sales and marketing expenses are largely dependent on the number of subscriber additions and the nature and extent of our marketing and promotional activities. Customer care costs are dependent on the number of subscribers that we serve and the nature of programs designed to retain subscribers. General and administrative expenses consist of fees paid for billing, customer care and information technology operations, bad debt expense and back office support activities, including customer retention, collections, legal, finance, human resources, strategic planning and technology and product development, along with the related payroll and facilities costs. Although our goal is to improve operating margins through cost savings initiatives and the benefits of scale, costs that fluctuate based on network utilization and the number of subscribers that we serve generally will increase in absolute terms over time.
In February 2005, Nextel accepted the terms and conditions of the FCC Report and Order, which implemented a spectrum reconfiguration plan designed to eliminate interference with public safety operators in the 800 MHz band. Under the terms of the Report and Order, prior to the August 12, 2005 merger date, Nextel surrendered certain spectrum rights and received certain other spectrum rights, and undertook to pay the costs incurred by Nextel and third parties in connection with the reconfiguration plan, which is required to be completed within a 36-month period, subject to certain exceptions particularly with respect to markets that border Mexico and Canada. If, as a result of events within our control, we fail to complete the reconfiguration plan within the 36-month period, the FCC could take actions against us to enforce the Report and Order. These actions could have adverse operating or financial impacts on us, some of which could be material. As part of the reconfiguration process in most markets, we must cease using portions of the surrendered 800 MHz spectrum before we are able to commence use of replacement 800 MHz spectrum, which could adversely affect the performance of our iDEN network and result in increased subscriber churn and/or require us to curtail subscriber additions on that network in relevant markets until the capacity limitation can be corrected or incur substantial capital costs in order to replace capacity lost as a result of the spectrum reconfiguration.
Based on the FCC's determination of the values of the spectrum rights received and surrendered by Nextel, the minimum obligation to be incurred under the Report and Order is $2.8 billion. The Report and Order also provides that qualifying costs we incur as part of the reconfiguration plan, including costs to reconfigure our own infrastructure and spectrum positions, can be used to offset the minimum obligation of $2.8 billion; however, we are obligated to pay the full amount of the costs relating to the reconfiguration plan, even if those costs exceed that amount.
In addition, a financial reconciliation is required to be completed in 2008 at the end of the reconfiguration implementation, at which time we will be required to make a payment to the U.S. Department of the Treasury to the extent that the value of the spectrum rights received exceeds the total of (i) the value of spectrum rights that are surrendered and (ii) the qualifying costs referred to above.
As required under the terms of the Report and Order, we have delivered a $2.5 billion letter of credit to provide assurance that funds will be available to pay the relocation costs of the incumbent users of the 800 MHz spectrum. Although the Report and Order provides for periodic reductions in the amount of the letter of credit, no reductions had been made as of March 31, 2006.
Long Distance
Through our Long Distance segment, we provide a broad suite of wireline voice and data communications services targeted to domestic business and residential customers, multinational corporations and other communications companies. These services include domestic and international voice, data communications using various protocols such as next generation multi-protocol label switching, or MPLS, technologies, as well as IP, asynchronous transfer mode, or ATM, and frame relay, and managed network services. We also provide services to the cable companies that resell our long distance service and/or use our back office systems and network assets in support of their telephone service provided over cable facilities. We are one of the nation's largest providers of long distance services and operate all-digital long distance and Tier 1 IP networks.
For several years, our long distance voice services have experienced an industry-wide trend of lower revenue from lower prices and competition from other wireline and wireless communications companies, as well as cable companies and Internet service providers. Growth in cable revenue is accelerating as consumers are becoming more comfortable with using cable companies as alternatives to local and long distance voice communications providers; we have entered into contracts with several large cable companies that enable us to provide local and long distance voice communications service as part of our bundled service offering. In addition to increased emphasis on selling IP services, we are converting existing customers from ATM and frame relay to more advanced IP technologies through a data simplification initiative. Over time, this will result in decreasing revenue from frame relay and ATM service offset by increases in IP and other data revenues.
 
Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reflected in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. We base our estimates on historical experience, where applicable, and other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from those estimates under different assumptions or conditions. For the quarter ended March 31, 2006, there were no material changes in Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates from those reported in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates" in Exhibit 99.1 to the Form 8-K.
Significant New Accounting Pronouncement
Effective January 1, 2006, we adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards, or SFAS, No. 123R, utilizing the modified prospective method. The revised standard requires us to begin to recognize compensation cost for unvested common stock options granted to our employees before January 1, 2003, which were outstanding as of January 1, 2006. This requirement to recognize expense on these unvested grants is immaterial to us because we had previously accounted for stock option grants in accordance with SFAS No. 123, , as amended by SFAS No. 148, using the prospective method and most of these options had been modified and repriced in 2004.
Share-Based Payment,
Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation
, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation  Transition and Disclosure
Results of Operations
Consolidated
 
The discussion of our results of operations for the first quarter 2005 does not include the financial results of Nextel or any of the acquired PCS Affiliates, consistent with generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. The exclusion of these results renders direct comparisons with results for the first quarter 2006 less meaningful, due to the impact of the Sprint-Nextel merger in August 2005 and the acquisition of the PCS Affiliates during 2005 and the first quarter 2006.
Net operating revenues increased 83% from the first quarter 2005 to the first quarter 2006, primarily reflecting growth in revenues of our Wireless segment driven by the Sprint-Nextel merger.
Operating expenses increased 96% from the first quarter 2005 to the first quarter 2006 primarily within our Wireless segment, driven by the Sprint-Nextel merger.
During the first quarter 2006, we recorded merger and integration expenses of $76 million. Merger and integration costs are generally non-recurring in nature and primarily include charges for costs to adopt and launch a new branding strategy and logos, including costs to re-brand company-owned stores and facilities, costs to train customer-facing employees and prepare systems for the launch of the common customer interfacing systems, processes and other integration planning and execution costs, and costs related to employee retention. These costs were primarily related to the Sprint-Nextel merger. Merger and integration costs have primarily been reflected as unallocated corporate selling, general and administrative expenses and, therefore, are excluded from segment results. In addition, we also recorded $17 million of costs related to the separation of legacy Sprint employees as part of the Sprint-Nextel merger and integration initiatives. These costs were recorded as restructuring charges.
 
Segmental Results of Operations
Wireless
Through our Wireless segment, we, together with the remaining PCS Affiliates and Nextel Partners, offer digital wireless service in all 50 states, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands and provide wireless coverage in over 300 metropolitan markets, including the 125 largest U.S. metropolitan areas, to more than 277 million people. Combined with the PCS Affiliates, Nextel Partners and our MVNO wholesale resellers, we served 51 million subscribers at the end of first quarter 2006.
We provide a comprehensive suite of advanced wireless services, including digital wireless mobile telephone service, instant national and international walkie-talkie capabilities and wireless data transmission services. These services are provided using two networks, the CDMA technology-based network that was operated by us prior to the Nextel merger and the iDEN technology-based network that was operated by Nextel prior to the merger. We plan to develop handsets that are capable of operating on both of these networks, which is expected to enhance the services available to our customers. We expect to take other actions to capture capital and operating efficiencies as the network operations are combined.
We offer wireless international voice roaming in various countries. International roaming is available with a PCS tri-mode (CDMA/analog) phone in areas of more than 40 countries, including countries in the Asia-Pacific, South American and Caribbean regions, as well as Canada and Mexico. International roaming is also available with a dual-mode global system for mobile communications, or GSM,-capable phone in areas in over 140 countries in Europe, the Middle East, Africa and the South Pacific rim. We also have roaming or interoperability agreements with iDEN-based wireless service providers that operate in Latin America and Canada.
We are continuing to execute plans that will enable us to offer faster wireless data speeds by deploying EV-DO technology across the CDMA network. With peak rates of up to 2.4 megabits per second for downloads, EV-DO will accelerate average mobile-device data speeds up to 10 times when compared to the prior generation technology. This technology is expected to deliver superior application and service performance on EV-DO-capable handsets and laptops equipped with EV-DO-enabled Sprint PCS Connection Cards
. Our first commercial rollout of EV-DO was in the second quarter 2005 and subsequent rollouts will continue to expand our footprint to provide coverage to more people and markets.
The following are included in the results of our Wireless segment for the first quarter 2006: the results of Enterprise Communications from the January 31, 2006 acquisition date, the results of Alamosa Holdings from the February 1, 2006 acquisition date, and the results of Velocita Wireless from the February 21, 2006 acquisition date.
 
 
Net Operating Revenues
The following represents the summary of our subscriber activity and related subscriber metrics. The level of subscribers impacts both service revenues and costs of service as well as support costs like customer care and bad debt expenses which are recorded in general and administrative expenses.
 
Net operating revenues primarily consist of direct wireless service revenues, revenues from handset and accessory sales and revenues from arrangements with wholesale operators and PCS Affiliates. Service revenues consist of fixed monthly recurring charges, variable usage charges, charges related to the use of specified features and miscellaneous fees such as directory assistance, operator-assisted calling, equipment protection, late payment charges, and certain regulatory fees. Wholesale, affiliate and other revenues consist primarily of net revenues retained from wireless subscribers residing in PCS Affiliate territories and revenues from the sale of wireless services to companies that resell those services to their subscribers.
Service revenues increased $4,172 million or 126% from the first quarter 2005 to the first quarter 2006 primarily due to the Sprint-Nextel merger in the third quarter 2005 and the increase in the number of our direct subscribers, while our average monthly service revenue per user remained flat. We had 1.1 million direct net subscriber additions during the first quarter 2006, excluding PCS Affiliate subscriber additions of Alamosa Holdings and Enterprise Communications that occurred before those companies were acquired, and ended the first quarter 2006 with 42.2 million direct subscribers. We believe that the growth in direct subscribers, separate from those subscribers acquired as a result of the Sprint-Nextel merger and the PCS Affiliate acquisitions, is the result of a number of factors, principally:
 
 
 
 
Our average monthly service revenue per user remained flat at $61 in the first quarter 2006 and the first quarter 2005 as:
 
 
 
 
Revenues from sales of handsets and accessories, generated from both new subscribers and upgrades, were 10% of net operating revenues for the first quarter 2006 and 8% for the first quarter 2005. These revenues increased $503 million or 154% from the first quarter 2005 to the first quarter 2006 primarily due to the Sprint-Nextel merger in the third quarter 2005. The remainder of the increase was due to a moderate increase in the number of CDMA handsets sold during the first quarter 2006 as compared to the first quarter 2005 in addition to a 38% increase in the average sales price of the CDMA handsets. The increase in the average sales price of our CDMA handsets was primarily affected by the change in the compensation of our third party dealers from a discounted handset-based plan to a commission-based plan in the second quarter 2005, higher activation and upgrade fees, and increased sales of our PowerVision enabled handsets. Consistent with industry practice, our marketing plans assume that handsets, net of rebates, will continue to be sold at prices below cost in most instances. Our retention efforts, which often include providing incentives towards new handsets, may cause our handset subsidies to increase as our customer base continues to grow. In addition, we may increase handset subsidies in response to the competitive environment. See " Forward-Looking Statements."
Wholesale, affiliate and other revenues decreased $27 million or 12% from the first quarter 2005 to the first quarter 2006, reflecting a lower number of subscribers in the wholesale and PCS Affiliate bases largely due to the subscribers of the PCS Affiliates that we have acquired since the third quarter 2005 becoming a part of our direct subscriber base. Additionally, wholesale, affiliate and other revenues decreased due to a more competitive market for our MVNOs and a rate reduction for Virgin Mobile USA, LLC, one of our wholesale operators, under the terms of our network services agreement with them. The PCS Affiliates ended the first quarter 2006 with 1.2 million subscribers, a reduction from the fourth quarter 2005 due to our acquisitions of Alamosa Holdings and Enterprise Communications during the first quarter 2006. Our wholesale operators added 227 thousand subscribers during the first quarter 2006, ending the quarter with 5.4 million subscribers.
Costs of Services and Products
Costs of services and products consist of our cost of providing wireless service and cost of our handset and accessory revenues. Cost of providing wireless service consists primarily of:
 
 
 
Cost of handset and accessory revenues consists primarily of the cost of the handsets and accessories sold, order fulfillment related expenses and write-downs of handset and related accessory inventory for shrinkage. We recognize the cost of handset revenues, including the handset costs in excess of the revenues generated from handset sales and accessory revenues, when title to the handset or accessory passes to the dealer or end-user customer.
Cost of service was 57% of total costs of services and products for the first quarter 2006 and the first quarter 2005. These costs increased $866 million or 97% from the first quarter 2005 to the first quarter 2006 primarily due to the Sprint-Nextel merger in the third quarter 2005, as well as increased costs relating to the expansion of our network and increased minutes of use on our networks. Specifically, we experienced:
 
 
 
 
We expect the aggregate amount of cost of service to increase as customer usage of our networks increases and we add more sites and other equipment to expand the coverage and capacity of our CDMA and iDEN networks. See "Forward-Looking Statements" and "Liquidity and Capital Resources".
Handset and accessory costs were 43% of total costs of services and products for the first quarter 2006 and the first quarter 2005. These costs increased $676 million or 102% from the first quarter 2005 to the first quarter 2006 primarily due to the Sprint-Nextel merger in the third quarter 2005. The remainder of the increase reflects a moderate increase in the volume of CDMA handsets sold in addition to a 4% increase in the average cost per handset. Additionally, equipment refurbishment costs have declined since the first quarter 2005 due to operational improvements in the handset exchange and insurance programs as well as increased insurance deductibles implemented in early 2005 to offset a portion of our costs.
Selling, General and Administrative Expense
Selling and marketing costs primarily consist of customer acquisition costs, including commissions earned by our indirect dealers, third-party distributors and our direct sales force for new handset activations, residual payments to our indirect dealers, payroll and facilities costs associated with our direct sales force, retail stores and marketing employees, telemarketing, advertising, media programs and sponsorships, including costs related to branding. General and administrative costs primarily consist of fees paid for billing, customer care and information technology operations, bad debt expense and back office support activities, including customer retention, collections, legal, finance, human resources, strategic planning and technology and product development, along with the related payroll and facilities costs. Selling, general and administrative expense was 32% of net operating revenues for the first quarter 2006 and 31% for the first quarter 2005.
Sales and marketing expense increased $770 million or 124% from the first quarter 2005 to the first quarter 2006 primarily due to the Sprint-Nextel merger in the third quarter 2005. The remaining increase in selling and marketing expense reflects:
 
 
General and administrative costs increased $742 million or 124% from the first quarter 2005 to the first quarter 2006 primarily due to the Sprint-Nextel merger in the third quarter 2005, as well as:
 
 
 
 
 
We expect certain selling, general and administrative expenses to continue to increase in absolute terms primarily as a result of increased costs to support a growing customer base, including costs associated with billing, collection, customer retention and customer care activities. We expect the increase in the costs to support a growing customer base will be largely offset by reductions in certain other selling, general and administrative expenses as we recognize the benefits of scale as a result of the Sprint-Nextel merger. See "Forward-Looking Statements."
Restructuring and Asset Impairment
In the first quarter 2006, we recorded an asset impairment charge of $18 million primarily related to software asset impairment and abandonment. We also recorded a $10 million restructuring charge during the first quarter 2006 primarily represented by severance related to our ongoing organizational realignment initiatives.
Additional information regarding our restructuring and asset impairment can be found in note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
Depreciation and Amortization Expense
Estimates and assumptions are used both in setting depreciable lives and testing for recoverability. Assumptions are based on internal studies of use, industry data on lives, recognition of technological advancements and understanding of business strategy. Depreciation expense consists mainly of depreciation of network assets. Amortization expense consists mainly of amortization of customer relationship intangible assets.
Depreciation expense increased $643 million or over 100% from the first quarter 2005 to the first quarter 2006 primarily due to the Sprint-Nextel merger in the third quarter 2005 and the PCS Affiliate acquisitions during the second half of 2005 and first quarter 2006. Excluding this impact, depreciation expense increased as a result of an increase in transmitter and receiver sites in service and the costs to modify existing switches and transmitter and receiver sites in existing markets primarily to enhance the capacity of our networks. Also during the first quarter 2006, we shortened the lives of certain CDMA cell sites expected to be decommissioned as a result of the Sprint-Nextel merger. This resulted in an incremental depreciation expense in the first quarter 2006 of about $20 million.
Amortization expense increased $935 million from the first quarter 2005 to the first quarter 2006 primarily related to the customer contracts acquired in connection with the Sprint-Nextel merger and PCS Affiliate acquisitions.
Long Distance
Through our Long Distance segment, we provide a broad suite of wireline voice and data communications services targeted to domestic business and residential customers, multinational corporations and other communications companies. These services include domestic and international voice, data communications using various protocols such as MPLS, IP, ATM, and frame relay and managed network services. We are one of the nation's largest providers of long distance services and operate all-digital long distance and Tier 1 IP networks. We also provide services to the cable telephony market through arrangements with cable companies that resell our long distance service, local services such as 911, directory and basic local features, and/or use our back office systems and network assets in support of their local telephone service provided over cable facilities.
 
Net Operating Revenues
Net operating revenues decreased 3% from the first quarter 2005 to the first quarter 2006. Lower pricing associated with voice services, the decline in revenues from our unbundled network element platform, or UNE-P, services as we exited that market, and migration from legacy data products played a large role in the declines. Partially offsetting these declines were revenues from selling services to the cable companies.
Voice Revenues
Voice revenues decreased 5% from the first quarter 2005 to the first quarter 2006 primarily as a result of the sale of our UNE-P customers in the first quarter 2006. Additionally, competition from the cable industry and the major local exchange carriers for consumer and small business customers, as well as wireless, e-mail and instant messaging substitution, continue to erode the retail base and drive lower prices per minute, despite a 10% increase in call volume from the first quarter 2005 to the first quarter 2006. These declines were partially offset by an increase in lower-yielding affiliate and wholesale revenue primarily from our relationships with certain cable providers. Voice revenues generated from the provision of services to the Wireless segment represented 15% of total voice revenues for the first quarter 2006 compared to 14% for the first quarter 2005.
Data Revenues
Data revenues reflect sales of current-generation data services, including ATM, managed network services, private line, and frame relay services. Data revenues decreased 9% from the first quarter 2005 to the first quarter 2006 primarily related to declines in frame relay and ATM services as customers migrate to IP-based technologies.
Internet Revenues
Internet revenues reflect sales of next-generation IP-based data services, including MPLS. Internet revenues increased 26% from the first quarter 2005 to the first quarter 2006 primarily due to an increase in dedicated IP revenue as customers migrate from ATM and frame relay technologies to next generation MPLS technologies.
Costs of Services and Products
Costs of services and products include access costs paid to local phone companies, other domestic service providers and foreign phone companies to complete calls made by our domestic customers, costs to operate and maintain our networks, and costs of equipment. Costs of services and products increased 3% from the first quarter 2005 to the first quarter 2006. This increase was driven by increases in access volume and rates, somewhat offset by a decrease in costs related to the sale of our UNE-P customers in the first quarter 2006.
 
Selling, General and Administrative Expense
Selling, general and administrative expense decreased 14% from the first quarter 2005 to the first quarter 2006. This decline was due primarily to lower bad debt expense, decreased selling and marketing activities and continued headcount reductions and aggressive cost savings initiatives.
Selling, general and administrative expense includes charges for estimated bad debt expense. The reserve for bad debt requires management's judgment and is based on customer-specific indicators, as well as historical trending, industry norms and recognition of then-current market indicators about general economic conditions. Bad debt expense as a percentage of net operating revenues was 0.3% for the first quarter 2006 and 1.2% for the first quarter 2005. The reserve for bad debt as a percentage of outstanding accounts receivable was 7% for the first quarter 2006 and 13% for the first quarter 2005.
Restructuring
During the first quarter 2006, we recorded restructuring charges of $10 million primarily related to our ongoing organizational realignment initiatives. The remaining charges are costs associated with the wind down of our web hosting service. Activities related to this wind-down are substantially complete; however, we continue to be obligated under facility leases that expire from 2007 through 2014. Additional information regarding our restructuring can be found in note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
Nonoperating Items
 
Interest Expense
The effective interest rates in the following table reflect interest expense on long-term debt only. Interest costs on short-term borrowings, deferred compensation plans and amortization of debt costs have been excluded so as to not distort the effective interest rates on long-term debt. See "Liquidity and Capital Resources" for more information on our financing activities.
 
The effective interest rate includes the effect of interest rate swap agreements. Additional information regarding our interest rate swaps can be found in note 8 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Although interest expense increased $105 million in the first quarter 2006 compared to the first quarter 2005 due to the additional indebtedness assumed in connection with the Sprint-Nextel merger and the PCS Affiliate acquisitions, the effective interest rate on long-term debt decreased in the first quarter 2006 from 7.0% to 6.5%. This decrease is primarily due to lower effective interest rates on the assumed Nextel long-term debt. As of March 31, 2006, the average floating rate of interest on the interest rate swaps was 7.6%, while the weighted average coupon on the underlying debt was 7.2%.
Interest Income
Interest income includes dividends received from our investments in equity securities and interest earned on marketable debt securities and cash equivalents. The $55 million increase in interest income from the first quarter 2005 to the first quarter 2006 is primarily due to the increase in the average cash and cash equivalents balances due to the Sprint-Nextel merger in the third quarter 2005.
 
Equity in Earnings (Losses) of Unconsolidated Subsidiaries
Under the equity method of accounting, we record our proportional share of the earnings or losses of the companies in which we have invested, up to the amount of our investment in the case of losses. We recorded $20 million of net equity in earnings of unconsolidated subsidiaries during the first quarter 2006, primarily due to our ownership interest in Nextel Partners.
Other, net
During the first quarter 2006, we recognized $78 million of gains on the sale and exchange of certain equity investments.
Our derivative transactions are used principally for hedging purposes. However, we entered into several derivative instruments during 2005 that did not qualify for hedge accounting treatment. As a result, all changes in the fair values of these instruments were reflected in our results of operations in the period in which the change occurred. During the first quarter 2006, we recognized $15 million of net gains due to the change in fair values of these instruments. Additional information regarding our derivative instruments and hedging activities can be found in note 8 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
Income Tax Expense
Our consolidated effective tax rates were 34.4% for the first quarter 2006 and 37.4% for the first quarter 2005. Information regarding the items that caused the effective income tax rates to vary from the statutory federal rate for income taxes related to continuing operations can be found in note 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
As of March 31, 2006, we had within our total valuation allowance $70 million related to separate company state operating losses incurred by PCS entities during periods they were owned by us. The valuation allowance was provided on these separate company state operating loss benefits since these entities had no history of taxable income. However, if current trends continue, it is possible that our cumulative historical test will yield sufficient positive evidence later in 2006 that it is more likely than not that we will realize the tax benefit of many of the separate company state operating losses for which the valuation allowance has been provided. If that is the case, subject to review of other qualitative factors and uncertainties, we would expect to start reversing some of the valuation allowance into income as a credit to tax expense.
Discontinued Operations
Income from discontinued operations represents the results of operations of our local communications business, previously reported as our Local segment, which was spun-off on May 17, 2006. Income from discontinued operations for the first quarter 2006 remained flat from the first quarter 2005. See note 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.
Financial Condition
Our consolidated assets were $102.8 billion as of March 31, 2006, which included $53.0 billion of intangible assets, and $102.6 billion as of December 31, 2005, which included $49.3 billion of intangible assets. The increase to our consolidated assets in the first quarter 2006 was due primarily to business combination activity, payments of debt and the retirement of our Seventh series redeemable preferred stock. Additional information regarding the impact of business combinations on consolidated assets can be found in note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. See "Liquidity and Capital Resources" for additional information on the change in cash.
Liquidity and Capital Resources
Management exercises discretion regarding the liquidity and capital resource needs of our business segments. This responsibility includes the ability to prioritize the use of capital and debt capacity, to determine cash management policies and to make decisions regarding the timing and amount of capital expenditures.
Discontinued Operations
On May 17, 2006, we completed the spin-off of Embarq that we had announced at the time of our merger with Nextel Communications. The separation of Embarq from us results in two separate companies that can each focus on maximizing opportunities for its distinct business. We believe this separation will present the opportunity for enhanced performance of each of the two companies, including: allowing each company separately to pursue the business and regulatory strategies that best suit its long-term interests and, by doing so, addressing the growing strategic divergence between Embarq's local wireline-centric focus and our increasingly national wireless-centric focus; creating separate companies that have different financial characteristics, which may appeal to different investor bases; creating opportunities to more efficiently develop and finance expansion plans; and creating effective management incentives tied to the relevant company's performance.
 
In the spin-off, we distributed pro rata to our shareholders one share of Embarq common stock for every 20 shares of our voting and non-voting common stock, or about 149 million shares of Embarq common stock. Cash was paid for fractional shares. The distribution of Embarq common stock is considered a tax free transaction for us and for our shareholders, except cash payments made in lieu of fractional shares which are generally taxable.
In connection with the spin-off, Embarq transferred to our parent company $2.1 billion in cash and about $4.5 billion of Embarq senior notes in partial consideration for, and as a condition to, our transfer to Embarq of the local communications business. Embarq also retained about $665 million in debt obligations of its subsidiaries. The cash and senior notes were transferred by our parent company to our finance subsidiary, Sprint Capital Corporation, in satisfaction of indebtedness owed by our parent company to Sprint Capital. On May 19, 2006, Sprint Capital sold the Embarq senior notes to the public, receiving about $4.4 billion in net proceeds.
The separation and distribution agreement and related agreements with Embarq provide that generally each party will be responsible for its respective assets, liabilities and businesses following the spin-off and that we and Embarq will provide each other with certain transition services relating to our respective businesses for specified periods at cost-based prices. We also entered into agreements pursuant to which we and Embarq will provide each other with specified services at commercial rates. Further, the agreements provide for a settlement process surrounding the transfer of certain assets and liabilities. It is possible that adjustments will occur in future periods as these matters are settled.
If the spin-off of Embarq does not qualify as a tax-free transaction, tax could be imposed on both our shareholders and us.
Cash Flows
 
Operating Activities
Net cash provided by continuing operations of $2.3 billion increased $1.6 billion for the first quarter 2006 from the first quarter 2005. Cash received from customers increased by about $4.8 billion, which was partially offset by a $3.1 billion increase in cash paid to suppliers and employees. These increases were primarily the result of the operations of Nextel being included with our operations beginning on August 12, 2005, as well as continued growth in the Wireless customer base, partially offset by merger-related costs.
Investing Activities
Net cash used in investing activities totaled $4.3 billion for the first quarter 2006 compared to $745 million for the first quarter 2005. Capital expenditures, which accounted for $1.7 billion of our investing activities for the first quarter 2006, increased from $659 million for the first quarter 2005 due primarily to the Sprint-Nextel merger as well as higher spending related to our Wireless segment. We invested in our Wireless segment primarily to maintain and enhance network reliability and upgrade capabilities for providing new products and services, including the deployment of EV-DO technology, as well as to maintain the iDEN network reliability as we fulfill our obligations under the FCC Report and Order. We invested in our Long Distance segment to maintain network reliability, upgrade capabilities for providing new products and services and meet capacity demands.
Investing activities also reflect $3.2 billion of net cash paid to acquire Alamosa Holdings, $66 million of net cash paid to acquire Enterprise Communications and $144 million of net cash paid to acquire Velocita Wireless. Additionally, investing activities include proceeds from the sale of assets, including the sale of shares of NII Holdings common stock in the first quarter 2006.
 
Financing Activities
Net cash used in financing activities totaled $1.0 billion for the first quarter 2006 compared to $1.1 billion for the first quarter 2005. Debt-related financing activities consisted of the retirement of $868 million of senior notes and capital lease obligations. Financing activities for the first quarter 2006 also included the retirement of our Seventh series redeemable preferred stock for $247 million as well as $185 million in proceeds from common stock issuances, primarily resulting from exercises of employee stock options.
We paid cash dividends of $76 million for the first quarter 2006 compared to $187 million for the first quarter 2005. The decrease in cash dividends paid is due to a decrease in the dividend rate from $0.125 per share in the first quarter 2005 to $0.025 in the first quarter 2006. This was partially offset by an increase in the number of shares of common stock outstanding in the first quarter 2006, primarily as a result of the Sprint-Nextel merger, compared to the first quarter 2005.
Capital Requirements
We anticipate that future funding needs in the near term will principally relate to:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Liquidity
As of March 31, 2006, our cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities totaled $7.5 billion.
As of March 31, 2006, we had a five-year $6.0 billion revolving credit facility, a 364-day $3.2 billion term loan, and a $1.0 billion revolving credit facility for a total financing capacity of $10.2 billion. As of March 31, 2006, we had a $2.5 billion letter of credit required by the FCC Report and Order outstanding under the $6.0 billion revolving credit facility. This letter of credit reduces the availability under the revolving loan facility by an equivalent amount, leaving $3.5 billion of borrowing capacity available under that facility. Also, as of March 31, 2006, the $3.2 billion term loan had been fully drawn and matures in December 2006. The $1.0 billion revolving credit facility has no outstanding borrowings against it and we intend to let this facility expire in the second quarter 2006.
The credit arrangements described above provide for interest rates equal to the London Interbank Offered Rate, or LIBOR, or Prime Rate plus a spread that varies depending on the applicable borrower's or guarantor's credit ratings. None of these facilities includes rating triggers that would allow the lenders involved to terminate the facilities in the event of a credit rating downgrade.
In April 2006, we commenced a commercial paper program, which is expected to reduce our borrowing costs by allowing us to issue short-term debt at lower rates than those available under our revolving credit facilities. The $2.0 billion program is backed by our $6.0 billion revolving credit facility and reduces the amount we can borrow under that facility to the extent of the commercial paper outstanding. As of April 30, 2006, we had about $500 million of commercial paper outstanding.
 
We had letters of credit of $120 million as of March 31, 2006, in addition to the $2.5 billion letter of credit related to the Report and Order.
As of March 31, 2006, we were in compliance with all debt covenants, including all financial ratio tests, associated with our borrowings.
Our ability to fund our capital needs is ultimately impacted by the overall capacity and terms of the banking and securities markets. Given the volatility in these markets, we continue to monitor them closely and to take steps to maintain financial flexibility and a reasonable capital cost structure.
As of March 31, 2006, we had working capital of $1.0 billion compared to $5.0 billion as of December 31, 2005. In addition to cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, our working capital consists of accounts receivable, handset and accessory inventory, prepaid expenses, deferred tax assets and other current assets, net of accounts payable, accrued expenses and the current portion of long-term debt and capital lease obligations. The decrease in working capital is primarily due to our first quarter 2006 acquisitions, debt payments and the retirement of our Seventh series redeemable preferred stock.
Future Contractual Obligations
In addition to the future contractual obligations disclosed in our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005, as amended, the following is a discussion of additional contractual obligations.
We currently estimate the total minimum cash obligation for the Report and Order to be about $2.8 billion. Costs incurred under the Report and Order associated with the reconfiguration of the 800 MHz band may be applied against the $2.8 billion obligation, subject to approval by the Transition Administrator under the Report and Order. In addition, costs associated with the reconfiguration of the 1.9 gigahertz, or GHz, spectrum are not fully approved for credit until the completion of the entire rebanding process. Because the final reconciliation and audit of the entire rebanding obligation outlined in the Report and Order will not take place until after the completion of all aspects of the reconfiguration process, there can be no assurance that we will be given full credit for the expenditures that we have incurred under the Report and Order. Additionally, since we, the Transition Administrator and the FCC have not yet reached an agreement on the methodology for calculating certain amounts of property, plant and equipment to be submitted for credit associated with reconfiguration activity with our own network, we cannot provide assurance that we will be granted full credit for certain of these network costs. Since the inception of the program through March 31, 2006, we estimate that we had incurred $331 million of costs directly attributable to the reconfiguration program. This amount does not include any network costs that we have preliminarily allocated to the reconfiguration program.
As a result of the Sprint-Nextel merger, the shareholders of Nextel Partners exercised their right to require us to purchase, at fair market value, the 71% of the outstanding shares of Nextel Partners stock that we do not already own. In December 2005, we and Nextel Partners announced that the purchase price for each share of Nextel Partners stock under this right had been determined to be $28.50. As a result, the aggregate amount payable to shareholders of Nextel Partners will be about $6.5 billion, including amounts payable upon conversion of debt securities and settlement of options. The purchase is subject to customary regulatory approvals and is currently expected to be completed by the end of the second quarter 2006.
On April 20, 2006, we announced an agreement to acquire UbiquiTel, a PCS Affiliate, for about $1.0 billion in cash. The acquisition is expected to close during the second quarter 2006.
Off-Balance Sheet Financing
We do not participate in, or secure, financings for any unconsolidated, special purpose entities. We do have bankruptcy-remote entities that are included in our accompanying consolidated financial statements.
Future Outlook
As of March 31, 2006, we expect to be able to meet our currently identified funding needs for at least the next 12 months by using:
 
 
 
In making this assessment, we have considered:
 
 
 
 
 
 
If there are material changes in our business plans, or currently prevailing or anticipated economic conditions in any of our markets or competitive practices in the mobile wireless communications industry, or if other presently unexpected circumstances arise that have a material effect on our cash flow or profitability, anticipated cash needs could change significantly.
The conclusion that we expect to meet our funding needs for at least the next 12 months as described above does not take into account:
 
 
 
Any of these events or circumstances could involve significant additional funding needs in excess of anticipated cash flows from operating activities and the identified currently available funding sources, including existing cash on hand, borrowings available under existing credit facilities and our commercial paper program. If existing capital resources are not sufficient to meet these funding needs, it would be necessary to raise additional capital to meet those needs. Our ability to raise additional capital, if necessary, is subject to a variety of additional factors that cannot currently be predicted with certainty, including:
 
 
 
 
We have in the past and may in the future have discussions with third parties regarding potential sources of new capital to satisfy actual or anticipated financing needs. At present, other than the existing arrangements that have been consummated or described in this report, we have no legally binding commitments or understandings with any third parties to obtain any material amount of additional capital.
The above discussion is subject to the risks and other cautionary and qualifying factors set forth under " Forward-Looking Statements" and Part I, Item 1A, "Risk Factors" in our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005, as amended.
 
Financial Strategies
General Risk Management Policies
We primarily use derivative instruments for hedging and risk management purposes. Hedging activity may be done for purposes of mitigating the risks associated with an asset, liability, committed transaction or probable forecasted transaction. We seek to minimize counterparty credit risk through stringent credit approval and review processes, the selection of only the most creditworthy counterparties, continual review and monitoring of all counterparties, and thorough legal review of contracts. We also control exposure to market risk by regularly monitoring changes in hedge positions under normal and stress conditions to ensure they do not exceed established limits.
Our board of directors has authorized us to enter into derivative transactions, and all transactions comply with our risk management policies. With the exception of equity rights obtained in connection with commercial agreements or strategic investments, usually in the form of warrants to purchase common stock, we do not purchase or hold any derivative financial instrument for speculative purposes.
Item 3. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk
We are primarily exposed to the market risk associated with unfavorable movements in interest rates, foreign currencies, and equity prices. The risk inherent in our market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in those factors.
Interest Rate Risk
The communications industry is a capital intensive, technology driven business. We are subject to interest rate risk primarily associated with our borrowings. Interest rate risk is the risk that changes in interest rates could adversely affect earnings and cash flows. Specific interest rate risks include: the risk of increasing interest rates on short-term debt; the risk of increasing interest rates for planned new fixed rate long-term financings; and the risk of increasing interest rates for planned refinancings using long-term fixed rate debt.
Cash Flow Hedges
We enter into interest rate swap agreements designated as cash flow hedges to reduce the impact of interest rate movements on future interest expense by effectively converting a portion of our floating-rate debt to a fixed-rate. As of March 31, 2006, we had no outstanding interest rate cash flow hedges.
Fair Value Hedges
We enter into interest rate swap agreements to manage exposure to interest rate movements and achieve an optimal mixture of floating and fixed-rate debt while minimizing liquidity risk. The interest rate swap agreements designated as fair value hedges effectively convert our fixed-rate debt to a floating-rate by receiving fixed rate amounts in exchange for floating rate interest payments over the life of the agreement without an exchange of the underlying principal amount. As of March 31, 2006, we had outstanding interest rate swap agreements that were designated as fair value hedges.
About 82% of our debt as of March 31, 2006 was fixed-rate debt, excluding interest rate swaps. While changes in interest rates impact the fair value of this debt, there is no impact to earnings and cash flows because we intend to hold these obligations to maturity unless market and other conditions are favorable.
As of March 31, 2006, we held interest rate swaps with a notional value of $1.0 billion. These swaps were entered into as fair value hedges for a portion of our senior notes. These interest rate swaps have maturities ranging from 2008 to 2012. On a semiannual basis, we pay a floating rate of interest equal to the six-month LIBOR plus a fixed spread and receive an average interest rate equal to the coupon rates stated on the underlying senior notes. On March 31, 2006, the rate we would pay averaged 7.6% and the rate we would receive was 7.2%. Assuming a one percentage point increase in the prevailing forward yield curve, the fair value of the interest rate swaps and the underlying senior notes would change by $33 million. These interest rate swaps met all the requirements for perfect effectiveness under derivative accounting rules as all of the critical terms of the swaps perfectly matched the corresponding terms of the hedged debt; therefore, there was no impact to earnings for any fair value fluctuations.
We perform interest rate sensitivity analyses on our variable rate debt, including interest rate swaps. These analyses indicate that a one percentage point change in interest rates would have an annual pre-tax impact of $47 million on our statements of operations and cash flows as of March 31, 2006. While our variable-rate debt may impact earnings and cash flows as interest rates change, it is not subject to changes in fair values.
 
We also perform a sensitivity analysis on the fair market value of our outstanding debt. A 10% decline in market interest rates would cause a $1.0 billion increase in the fair market value of our debt to $27.8 billion. This analysis includes the hedged debt.
We entered into a series of interest rate collars associated with the issuance of debt by Embarq at the time of its spin-off on May 17, 2006. These collars were designated as cash flow hedges in Embarq's financial statements against the variability in interest payments that would result from a change in interest rates before the debt was issued at the time of the spin-off. However, because the forecasted interest payments of debt started after the spin-off, the derivative instruments did not qualify for hedge accounting treatment in our consolidated financial statements, and so any changes in the fair value of these instruments are recognized in earnings from discontinued operations during the period of change. Based on market prices on March 31, 2006, a one percentage point change in interest rates would result in a change in fair value of these instruments by about $105 million.
Foreign Currency Risk
We also enter into forward contracts and options in foreign currencies to reduce the impact of changes in foreign exchange rates. Our foreign exchange risk management program focuses on reducing transaction exposure to optimize consolidated cash flow. We use foreign currency derivatives to hedge our foreign currency exposure related to settlement of international telecommunications access charges and the operation of our international subsidiaries. The dollar equivalent of our net foreign currency payables from international settlements was $12 million and net foreign currency receivables from international operations was $20 million as of March 31, 2006. The potential immediate pre-tax loss to us that would result from a hypothetical 10% change in foreign currency exchange rates based on these positions would be less than $1 million.
Equity Risk
We are exposed to market risk as it relates to changes in the market value of our investments. We invest in equity instruments of public and private companies for operational and strategic business purposes. These securities are subject to significant fluctuations in fair market value due to volatility of the stock market and industries in which the companies operate. These securities, which are classified in investments and marketable securities on the accompanying consolidated balance sheets, include equity method investments, investments in private securities, available-for-sale securities and equity derivative instruments.
We entered into a series of option contracts associated with our investment in NII Holdings in order to hedge the price risk associated with this security. Changes in the market price will affect the fair value of our investment in NII Holdings and the associated option contracts; however, we will not recognize such gains or losses unless the investment is sold and the option contracts are settled in December 2006. See note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail of these derivative instruments.
In certain business transactions, we are granted warrants to purchase the securities of other companies at fixed rates. These warrants are supplemental to the terms of the business transaction and are not designated as hedging instruments.
 

Exhibit 99.3
 
 


