FILE:S/S-8K-20060420135953.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01 Other Events.
Proposed Acquisition of UbiquiTel Inc.
On April 19, 2006, Sprint Nextel Corporation, UbiquiTel Inc. and Eagle Merger Sub Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of Sprint Nextel, entered into an agreement and plan of merger, pursuant to which Sprint Nextel agreed to acquire UbiquiTel for approximately $1.3 billion, which includes the assumption of approximately $300 million of net debt.
Pursuant to the terms of the merger agreement, Sprint Nextel will acquire all of UbiquiTel's outstanding common stock in a cash merger at a price of $10.35 per share (the "Merger"). Upon completion of the Merger, UbiquiTel will become a wholly owned subsidiary of Sprint Nextel.
The merger with UbiquiTel is expected to close in the second quarter of 2006 and is subject to regulatory approvals, as well as other customary closing conditions.
As part of the merger agreement, Sprint Nextel and UbiquiTel will seek an immediate tay of litigation pending in the Delaware Court of Chancery, with a final resolution to become effective upon the closing of the acquisition.
s
Sprint Nextel also entered into a stockholders agreement with certain stockholders of UbiquiTel pursuant to which such stockholders have agreed to vote their shares in favor of the Merger, subject to the terms and conditions contained therein and in the merger agreement.
Additional Information and Where to Find It
In connection with the proposed acquisition and required shareholder approval, UbiquiTel will file with the SEC a proxy statement. The proxy statement will be mailed to the shareholders of UbiquiTel. UbiquiTel's shareholders are urged to read the proxy statement and other relevant materials when they become available because they will contain important information about the acquisition and UbiquiTel. Investors and security holders may obtain free copies of these documents (when they are available) and other documents filed with the SEC at the SEC's web site at www.sec.gov. In addition, investors and security holders may obtain free copies of the documents filed with the SEC by UbiquiTel by going to UbiquiTel's Investor Relations page on its corporate website at www.ubiquitelpcs.com.
UbiquiTel and its officers and directors may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies from UbiquiTel's shareholders with respect to the acquisition. Information about UbiquiTel's executive officers and directors and their ownership of UbiquiTel stock is set forth in the proxy statement for the UbiquiTel 2005 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, which was filed with the SEC on April 8, 2005. Investors and security holders may obtain more detailed information regarding the direct and indirect interests of UbiquiTel and its executive officers and directors in the acquisition by reading the preliminary and definitive proxy statements regarding the merger, which will be filed with the SEC.
In addition, Sprint Nextel and its officers and directors may be deemed to have participated in the solicitation of proxies from UbiquiTel's shareholders in favor of the approval of the Merger. Information concerning Sprint Nextel's directors and executive officers is set forth in the proxy statement for the Sprint Nextel 2006 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, which was filed with the SEC on March 17, 2006, and other reports filed with the SEC. These documents are available free of charge at the SEC's web site at www.sec.gov or by going to Sprint Nextel's Investor Relations page on its corporate website at www.sprint.com.
"Safe Harbor" Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995
A number of the matters discussed in this document that are not historical or current facts deal with potential future circumstances and developments, in particular, whether and when the transactions contemplated by
the merger agreement will be consummated. The discussion of such matters is qualified by the inherent risks and uncertainties surrounding future expectations generally, and also may materially differ from actual future experience involving any one or more of such matters. Such risks and uncertainties include: the result of the review of the proposed transactions by various regulatory agencies, and any conditions imposed on the companies in connection with consummation of the transactions described herein; approval of the Merger by the stockholders of UbiquiTel; satisfaction of various other conditions to the closing of the transactions described herein; and the risks that are described from time to time in Sprint Nextel's and UbiquiTel's respective reports filed with the SEC, including each company's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005, as amended. This document speaks only as of its date, and Sprint Nextel disclaims any duty to update the information herein.
Press Release
On April 20, 2006, Sprint Nextel and UbiquiTel issued a press release announcing that their boards of directors have approved a definitive agreement for Sprint Nextel to purchase UbiquiTel for approximately $1.3 billion, as discussed above. A copy of the press release is filed as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
Sprint PCS Affiliates
Through its relationship with independent PCS affiliates, Sprint Nextel has expanded its wireless footprint into certain areas of the United States. These Sprint PCS Affiliates, including UbiquiTel, currently serve approximately 1.3 million subscribers. As previously disclosed, Sprint Nextel is subject to exclusivity and other provisions under its arrangements with the Sprint PCS Affiliates. Sprint Nextel has been engaged in discussions with various Sprint PCS Affiliates in addition to UbiquiTel regarding possible amendments to those affiliates' commercial arrangements with Sprint Nextel and other possible resolutions to Sprint Nextel's relationship with Sprint PCS Affiliates in light of the Sprint Nextel merger. These discussions are ongoing, and there can be no assurance that any agreements will be reached with any Sprint PCS Affiliates or, if reached, of the timing or nature of any such agreements. No further disclosure will be made by Sprint Nextel unless and until definitive agreements are reached.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
Sprint Nextel Media Contact:
Aimee Metrick, 703-433-4795
aimee.metrick@sprint.com
Sprint Nextel Investor Relations Contact:
Kurt Fawkes, 800-259-3755
Investor.relations@sprint.com
UbiquiTel Public Relations Contact:
Brighid de Garay, 610-832-3311
bdegaray@ubiquitelpcs.com
UbiquiTel Investor Relations Contact:
Tayo Ogundipe, 610-832-3340
togundipe@ubiquitelpcs.com
 
 
Sprint Nextel Corp. (NYSE: S) and UbiquiTel Inc. (NASDAQ: UPCS) today announced an agreement for Sprint Nextel to acquire UbiquiTel for approximately $1.3 billion, including the assumption of about $300 million of net debt. This transaction value represents 9.4x projected 2006 Adjusted Operating Income Before Depreciation and Amortization ("Adjusted OIBDA" *).
RESTON, Va. and CONSHOHOCKEN, Pa.,  April 20, 2006 
Under the terms of the agreement, Sprint Nextel will acquire all of UbiquiTel's outstanding common shares for $10.35 per share in an all-cash merger. The acquisition is subject to the approval of UbiquiTel shareholders and customary regulatory approvals, and is expected to be completed in the second quarter of 2006. As part of the agreement, Sprint Nextel and Ubiquitel will seek an immediate stay of litigation pending in the Delaware Court of Chancery with a final resolution to become effective upon closing of the acquisition.
About UbiquiTel Inc.
UbiquiTel, based in Conshohocken, Pa., provides Sprint PCS services in mid-size markets in California, Idaho, Indiana, Kentucky, Nevada, Tennessee, Utah, Washington and Wyoming, covering 8.3 million people. As of March 31, 2006, the company served approximately 452,000 direct wireless subscribers and 151,000 wholesale subscribers. UbiquiTel employs about 425 people and had revenues for the 12 months ended Dec. 31, 2005 of $422.7 million.
About Sprint Nextel
Sprint Nextel offers a comprehensive range of communications services bringing mobility to consumer, business and government customers. Sprint Nextel is widely recognized for developing, engineering and deploying innovative technologies, including two robust wireless networks offering industry leading mobile data services; instant national and international walkie-talkie capabilities; and an award-winning and global Tier 1 Internet backbone. For more information, visit
www.sprint.com.
Advisors
Sprint Nextel's financial advisor for the transaction was Citigroup Global Markets Inc. Its principal legal advisor was King & Spalding LLP. UbiquiTel's financial advisor was Bear, Stearns & Co. Inc. and its principal legal advisor was Kirkland & Ellis LLP.
*
Financial Measures
Certain financial measures included in this release have been generated using adjustments to amounts determined under generally accepted accounting principles (non-GAAP). The non-GAAP financial measures reflect industry conventions, or standard measures of liquidity, profitability or performance commonly used by the investment community for comparability purposes. The financial measures used in this release include the following:
is defined as operating income plus depreciation, amortization and special items. We believe that Adjusted OIBDA provides useful information to investors because it is an indicator of the strength and performance of ongoing business operations. While depreciation and amortization are considered operating costs under generally accepted accounting principles, these expenses primarily represent non-cash current period allocation of costs associated with long-lived assets acquired or constructed in prior periods.
Adjusted OIBDA
UbiquiTel - Adjusted OIBDA Reconciliation
 
A number of the matters discussed in this document that are not historical or current facts deal with potential future circumstances and developments, in particular, information regarding the
"Safe Harbor" Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995
acquisition of UbiquiTel Inc. and its projected 2006 operating performance. The discussion of such matters is qualified by the inherent risks and uncertainties surrounding future expectations generally, and also may materially differ from actual future experience involving any one or more of such matters. Such risks and uncertainties include: the result of the review of the proposed merger by various regulatory agencies, and any conditions imposed in connection with consummation of the merger; approval of the merger by the shareholders of Ubiquitel; satisfaction of various other conditions to the closing of the merger contemplated by the merger agreement; and the risks that have been described from time to time in Sprint Nextel's and UbiquiTel's respective reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), including each company's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005. This document speaks only as of its date, and each of Sprint Nextel and UbiquiTel disclaims any duty to update the information herein.
UbiquiTel shareholders will receive a proxy regarding this proposal and a shareholder's meeting will be held at a future date to seek shareholder approval.
Additional Information and Where to Find It
In connection with the proposed acquisition and required shareholder approval, UbiquiTel will file with the SEC a proxy statement. The proxy statement will be mailed to the shareholders of UbiquiTel. UbiquiTel's shareholders are urged to read the proxy statement and other relevant materials when they become available because they will contain important information about the acquisition and UbiquiTel. Investors and security holders may obtain free copies of these documents (when they are available) and other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission at the SEC's web site at www.sec.gov. In addition, investors and security holders may obtain additional details on the transaction as well as free copies of the documents filed with the SEC by UbiquiTel by going to UbiquiTel's Investor Relations page on its corporate website at http://www.ubiquitelpcs.com. Ubiquitel and its officers and directors may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies from UbiquiTel's shareholders with respect to the acquisition. Information about UbiquiTel's executive officers and directors and their ownership of UbiquiTel stock is set forth in the proxy statement for the UbiquiTel 2005 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, which was filed with the SEC on April 8, 2005. Investors and security holders may obtain more detailed information regarding the direct and indirect interests of the UbiquiTel and its respective executive officers and directors in the acquisition by reading the preliminary and definitive proxy statements regarding the merger, which will be filed with the SEC.
In addition, Sprint Nextel and its officers and directors may be deemed to have participated in the solicitation of proxies from UbiquiTel's shareholders in favor of the approval of the acquisition. Information concerning Sprint Nextel's directors and executive officers is set forth in Sprint Nextel's definitive proxy statement, which was filed with the SEC on March 17, 2006, and other reports filed with the SEC. These documents are available free of charge at the SEC's web site at www.sec.gov or by going to Sprint Nextel's Investor Relations page on its corporate website at http://www.sprint.com.


