FILE:S/S-8K-20061010134819.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
On October 8, 2006, the Board of Directors of Sprint Nextel Corporation (the "Company") accepted the resignation of Timothy M. Donahue as Executive Chairman of the Company, effective December 31, 2006. The Company and its Board expressed its appreciation for Mr. Donahue's service to the Board and the Company.
On October 8, 2006, the Board of Directors of the Company appointed a new independent director, Robert R. Bennett. Mr. Bennett has not been appointed to any committees of the board.
A copy of the press release issued by the Company on October 10, 2006 announcing Mr. Donahue's resignation and the appointment of Mr. Bennett is included as Exhibit 99 to this report and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
The following exhibits are filed with this report:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99
Media Contact:
Leigh Horner, (919) 465-3712
leigh.horner@sprint.com
Investor Contact:
Kurt Fawkes, (800) 259-3755
investor.relations@sprint.com
 Sprint Nextel Corp. (NYSE: S) today announced the retirement of Tim Donahue, executive chairman of Sprint Nextel's Board of Directors effective Dec. 31, 2006. In addition, Sprint Nextel announced the appointment of Robert R. Bennett, former president and chief executive officer of Liberty Media Corp., to serve on the Sprint Nextel Board.
RESTON, Va.  Oct. 10, 2006
"I have poured my heart and soul into Sprint Nextel and I am confident that the promise of the merger will be realized," said Tim Donahue. "Instead of being in the thick of the action, it's time for me to start cheering Sprint Nextel along from the sidelines. I have been a part of the telecommunications industry for more than 20 years and while it has been a thrilling journey, I am looking forward to spending time with my wife, our family and our friends."
"We are going to miss Tim's dynamic personality and shrewd business sense but we wish him all the best," said Gary Forsee, Sprint Nextel's president and CEO. "Like Tim, I am passionate about the huge potential for the wireless industry and Sprint Nextel's ability to harness that potential for our customers, employees and shareholders. Over the next two and half months, Tim and I will be working with the Board and the management team to ensure a seamless transition as he retires at the end of this year."
The Sprint Nextel Board will announce the Chairman position at a later date. Donahue is 57 years old.
Robert R. "Dob" Bennett will join the Sprint Nextel Board effective immediately. He currently serves as president of Discovery Holding Company, which was spun off from Liberty Media in 2005.
"Sprint Nextel will benefit from Dob's expertise in the communications and entertainment sector as well as his strong financial experience," said Forsee. "Dob is extremely focused and will bring tremendous industry knowledge and financial acumen to Sprint Nextel. We are pleased to have him join the board."
Dob Bennett served as president and CEO of Liberty Media from April 1997 until August 2005 and continued as president until March 2006. He was with Liberty Media from its inception, serving as its principal financial officer and in various other capacities. Prior to his tenure at Liberty Media, Bennett worked with Tele-Communications, Inc., (TCI) and the Bank of New York. Bennett is 48 years old.
About Sprint Nextel
Sprint Nextel offers a comprehensive range of communications services bringing mobility to consumer, business and government customers. Sprint Nextel is widely recognized for developing, engineering and deploying innovative technologies, including two robust wireless networks offering industry leading mobile data services; instant national and international walkie-talkie capabilities; and an award-winning and global Tier 1 Internet backbone. For more information, visit
www.sprint.com.


