FILE:S/S-8K-20060803060310.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On August 3, 2006, Sprint Nextel Corporation (the "Company") announced its results for the second quarter of 2006. The press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 8.01 Other Events.
The Company also announced in the press release that its Board of Directors has approved a share repurchase program authorizing the purchase through the open market of up to $6 billion of the Company's common stock over the next eighteen months.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
The following exhibits are filed with this report:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
Inquiries should be directed to:
Media Relations
James Fisher
703-433-8677
james.w.fisher@sprint.com
Investor Relations
Kurt Fawkes
800-259-3755
Investorrelations@sprint.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
today reported second quarter 2006 financial results.
Sprint Nextel Corp. (NYSE: S)
For the quarter, diluted earnings per share (EPS) from continuing operations were 10 cents, compared to 22 cents per share for the second quarter of 2005. The year-ago results do not include the Nextel operations or the acquired PCS affiliates and results from Local have been classified as discontinued operations in all periods presented. In the current quarter, reported earnings include 19 cents of merger-related amortization expense and 3 cents of charges for special items. The year ago period includes charges for special items of 2 cents.
For the quarter, Adjusted EPS before Amortization*, which removes the effects of special items and merger related amortization expense, increased 7% to 32 cents per share versus pro forma Adjusted EPS before Amortization* of 30 cents in the year-ago period. These results reflect growth in Adjusted Operating Income Before Depreciation and Amortization (OIBDA)* for both the Wireless and Long Distance segments and lower net interest cost, partially offset by higher Wireless segment depreciation expense.
In the current quarter, the company reported consolidated revenue of $10.0 billion, an increase of 76 percent on a reported basis and 5 percent compared to pro forma revenues in the 2005 second quarter. Consolidated Adjusted OIBDA* of $3.2 billion increased 10 percent compared to the second quarter of 2005 pro forma results. In the quarter, the company reported strong sequential and year-over-year improvements in Adjusted OIBDA Margins* in both the Wireless and Long Distance segments. Year-to-date Consolidated Free Cash Flow* provided by continuing operations was $1.6 billion.
Second quarter Long Distance revenues were again better than expected, but Wireless revenue gains from a larger subscriber base and industry-leading demand for data services were offset by an increased number of customers adopting lower priced voice service plans and lower pre-paid pricing. In the quarter, Wireless retail net subscriber additions were 708,000 on strong pre-paid but lower post-paid performance. Wireless acquisition and revenue trends are expected to cause full-year net operating revenues and Adjusted OIBDA* to be below prior targets. Financial guidance has been revised to reflect these trends and to incorporate the Nextel Partners and UbiquiTel acquisitions.
"In the second quarter, our distinctive asset mix again produced consolidated revenue growth that exceeded rates posted by the other large cap telecom service providers," said Gary Forsee, Sprint Nextel President and Chief Executive Officer. "In the period, we also had solid margin improvement, made good strides on merger and acquisition integration activities and produced strong cash flows. However, following the adoption of initiatives earlier this year to improve our customer credit mix and customer loyalty, we achieved higher quality post-paid additions in the quarter, but we did not meet our expectations on quantity. In addition, we had higher-than-anticipated migrations in our base to lower-priced service plans.
 
"As a result, we will produce slower growth in the near-term, and we have identified a series of actions that we will take to improve our competitiveness and accelerate value creation. These include:
 
 
 
 
 
"In the year since we completed our merger, we have aggressively pursued our strategic focus on the mobility market, including completing the spin-off of our Local operations in the second quarter, closing several wireless acquisitions, achieving milestones on the integration of our iDEN and CDMA networks, planning for our 4G wireless network and establishing a partnership with cable companies for wireless and wireline services," Forsee said.
"In total, these activities have consumed significant resources and have had an impact on our reported near-term profits. However, we believe that our shareholders will benefit over the long run from each of these efforts. With our strategic repositioning largely complete, including our Board's recent approval of our 4G business case, we are now able to focus on creating value by providing direct returns to our shareholders," said Forsee. "Reflecting our strong balance sheet and investment grade credit rating, substantial free cash flows and confidence in our future, I am pleased to announce that our Board of Directors has authorized common stock purchases through the open market of up to $6 billion over the next 18 months. At yesterday's closing price, this level of investment would equate to approximately 10% of our shares outstanding."
Editor's Note:
In accordance with purchase accounting rules, Sprint Nextel's 2005 reported results are comprised of Sprint's stand-alone results prior to the Aug. 12, 2005, merger with Nextel Communications Inc., plus combined Sprint and Nextel results for the remainder of the year. Results from Sprint PCS affiliates acquired in 2005 and 2006 are included as of the date that the applicable acquisition was completed. At the end of the second quarter, Sprint Nextel completed the acquisition of Nextel Partners shares that it did not already own, and the acquired assets and liabilities are included in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. Through the second quarter of 2006 Sprint Nextel recognized equity income from its minority interest in Nextel Partners. Beginning in the third quarter the company will no longer recognize this equity income and full operating results will be included in the Statement of Operations.
In the second quarter of 2006, the company completed the spin-off of its Local operations (EMBARQ) and the results for each reported period reflect EMBARQ as discontinued operations. Effective with the date of the spin-off, certain revenues and profits associated with Long Distance customers within EMBARQ territories and general corporate overhead allocations have been revised from previous reporting formats. This had an immaterial impact on reported results.
To provide comparability with previously reported periods, Sprint Nextel also is providing pro forma Consolidated and Wireless results and certain other financial measures* for 2005 reporting periods. The pro forma results assume the merger of Sprint and Nextel occurred at the beginning of each 2005 reporting period and include the impact of conforming the accounting policies and both financial and non-financial measures of the two companies. The pro forma Consolidated and Wireless information excludes results of acquired affiliates prior to their respective acquisition close dates.
 
Consolidated
TABLE No. 1 Selected Unaudited Financial Data (in millions, except per share amounts) Diluted EPS below is from continuing operations.
 
The following is a discussion of Consolidated pro forma results.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Wireless
TABLE No. 2 Selected Unaudited Financial Data (dollars in millions)
 
Discussion of the following Wireless results is on a pro forma basis.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Long Distance
TABLE No. 3 Selected Unaudited Financial Data (dollars in millions)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Forward-Looking Guidance
Sprint Nextel's prior guidance did not include the Nextel Partners and UbiquiTel acquisitions. The following financial targets reflect these acquisitions effective July 1.
 
 
 
 
 
*Financial Measures
Sprint Nextel provides financial measures generated using generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and using adjustments to GAAP (non-GAAP). The non-GAAP financial measures reflect industry conventions, or standard measures of liquidity, profitability or performance commonly used by the investment community for comparability purposes. These non-GAAP measures are not measurements under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. These measurements should be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the information contained in our financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. We have defined below each of the non-GAAP measures we use, but these measures may not be synonymous to similar measurement terms used by other companies.
Sprint Nextel provides reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures in its financial reporting. Because Sprint Nextel does not predict special items that might occur in the future, and our forecasts are developed at a level of detail different than that used to prepare GAAP-based financial measures, Sprint Nextel does not provide reconciliations to GAAP of its forward-looking financial measures.
The measures used in this release include the following:
is defined as income from continuing operations, before special items, net of tax and the diluted EPS calculated thereon. is defined as income from continuing operations, before special items and amortization, net of tax, and the diluted EPS calculated thereon. These non-GAAP measures should be used in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the analysis provided in the statement of operations. We believe that these measures are useful because they allow investors to evaluate our performance for different periods on a more comparable basis by excluding items that relate to acquired amortizable intangible assets and not to the ongoing operations of our businesses.
Adjusted Earnings per Share (EPS)
Adjusted EPS before Amortization
is defined as income (loss) from continuing operations before special items. is defined as income (loss) from continuing operations before special items and amortization, net of tax. These non-GAAP measures should be used in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the analysis provided in the statement of operations. We believe that these measures are useful because they allow investors to evaluate our performance for different periods on a more comparable basis by excluding items that do not relate to the ongoing operations of our businesses.
Adjusted Net Income
Adjusted Net Income before Amortization
is defined as operating income before special items. This non-GAAP measure should be used in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the analysis provided in the statement of operations. We believe this measure is useful because it allows investors to evaluate our operating results for different periods on a more comparable basis by excluding special items.
Adjusted Operating Income
is defined as operating income before depreciation, amortization, restructuring and asset impairments, and special items. represents Adjusted OIBDA divided by non-equipment net operating revenues for Wireless and Adjusted OIBDA divided by net operating revenues for Long Distance. Although we have used substantially similar measures in the past, which we called "Adjusted EBITDA," we now use the term Adjusted OIBDA and Adjusted OIBDA Margin to describe the measure we use as it more clearly reflects the elements of the measure. These non-GAAP measures should be used in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the analysis provided in the statement of operations. We believe that Adjusted OIBDA and Adjusted OIBDA Margin provide useful information to investors because they are an indicator of the strength and performance of our ongoing business operations, including our ability to fund discretionary spending such as capital expenditures, spectrum acquisitions and other investments and our ability to incur and service debt. While depreciation and amortization are considered operating costs under generally accepted accounting principles, these expenses primarily represent non-cash current period allocation of costs associated with long-lived assets acquired or constructed in prior periods. Adjusted OIBDA and Adjusted OIBDA Margin are calculations commonly used as a basis for investors, analysts and credit rating agencies to evaluate and compare the periodic and future operating performance and value of companies within the telecommunications industry.
Adjusted OIBDA
Adjusted OIBDA Margin
is defined as the change in cash and cash equivalents less the change in debt, investment in certain securities, proceeds from common stock and other financing activities, net, from continuing operations. This non-GAAP measure should be used in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the analysis provided in the statement of cash flows. We believe that Free Cash Flow provides useful information to investors, analysts and our management about the cash generated by our core operations after interest and dividends and our ability to fund scheduled debt maturities and other financing activities, including discretionary refinancing and retirement of debt and purchase or sale of investments.
Free Cash Flow
 
is consolidated debt, including current maturities, less cash and cash equivalents, current marketable securities and restricted cash. This non-GAAP measure should be used in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the analysis provided in the balance sheet and statement of cash flows. We believe that Net Debt provides useful information to investors, analysts and credit rating agencies about the capacity of the company to reduce the debt load and improve its capital structure.
Net Debt
Safe Harbor
This news release includes "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the securities laws. The statements in this news release regarding the business outlook, expected performance, as well as other statements that are not historical facts, are forward-looking statements. The words "estimate," "project," "forecast," "intend," "expect," "believe," "target," "providing guidance" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are estimates and projections reflecting management's judgment based on currently available information and involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested by the forward-looking statements. With respect to these forward-looking statements, management has made assumptions regarding, among other things, customer and network usage, customer growth and retention, pricing, operating costs, the timing of various events and the economic environment.
Future performance cannot be ensured. Actual results may differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. Some factors that could cause actual results to differ include:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sprint Nextel believes these forward-looking statements are reasonable; however, you should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which are based on current expectations and speak only as of the date of this release. Sprint Nextel is not obligated to publicly release any revisions to forward-looking statements to reflect events after the date of this release.
About Sprint Nextel
Sprint Nextel offers a comprehensive range of communications services bringing mobility to consumer, business and government customers. Sprint Nextel is widely recognized for developing, engineering and deploying innovative technologies, including two robust wireless networks offering industry leading mobile data services; instant national and international walkie-talkie capabilities; and an award-winning and global Tier 1 Internet backbone. For more information, visit
www.sprint.com.
 
TABLE No. 4
 
(1), (2), (3), (4) See accompanying Notes to Financial Data on page 21.
 
TABLE No. 5
 
(1), (2), (3), (4) See accompanying Notes to Financial Data on page 21.
Pro forma consolidated statements of operations have been presented as if the Sprint-Nextel merger occurred at the beginning of each 2005 period presented. Because the merger occurred in the third quarter 2005, the second quarter and the year-to-date 2006 results reflect actual combined results. The pro forma results do not include the results of any acquired PCS Affiliate prior to the dates of their respective acquisitions because they do not significantly affect reported results.
 
TABLE No. 6
 
 
TABLE No. 7
 
 
TABLE No. 8
 
Results from PCS Affiliates acquired in 2006 are included beginning at each PCS Affiliate's acquisition close date.
 
TABLE No. 9
 
Pro forma consolidated statements of operations have been presented as if the Sprint Nextel merger occurred at the beginning of each period presented. Because the merger occurred in the third quarter of 2005, the second quarter and year-to-date 2006 reflect actual results. The pro forma results do not include the results of any acquired PCS Affiliate prior to the dates of their respective acquisitions because they do not significantly affect reported results.
 
TABLE No. 10
 
 
TABLE No. 11
 
 
TABLE No.12
 
 
TABLE No. 13
 
TABLE No.14
 
 
TABLE No. 15
 
Long Distance
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


