FILE:S/S-8K-20060523135903.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
Effective at the time of the spin-off by Sprint Nextel Corporation ("Sprint Nextel") of its local communications business, known as Embarq Corporation ("Embarq"), all outstanding options to purchase Sprint Nextel common stock held by employees of Embarq were cancelled and replaced with options to purchase Embarq common stock. Outstanding options to purchase Sprint Nextel common stock held by directors of Sprint Nextel and employees (including executive officers) who remained with Sprint Nextel were adjusted by multiplying the number of shares subject to the options by 1.0955 and dividing the exercise price by the same number. This number was obtained by dividing the "regular way" closing price of Sprint Nextel common stock on the New York Stock Exchange on May 17, 2006 by the "ex-dividend" closing price of Sprint Nextel common stock on the New York Stock Exchange on May 17, 2006.
Also effective at the time of the spin-off, outstanding deferred shares representing Sprint Nextel stock granted under the Nextel Incentive Equity Plan were adjusted by multiplying the number of shares by the same number, 1.0955. Cash will be paid to the holders of the deferred shares in lieu of fractional shares.
Item 2.01 Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
On May 17, 2006, Sprint Nextel completed the spin-off of Embarq. Sprint Nextel distributed pro rata to its shareholders one share of Embarq common stock for every 20 shares of Sprint Nextel voting and non-voting common stock, or approximately 149.1 million shares of Embarq common stock. Cash was paid for fractional shares. The distribution of Embarq common stock is expected to be tax free to shareholders of Sprint Nextel; however, any cash payment made instead of fractional shares will generally be taxable.
In connection with the spin-off, Embarq transferred to Sprint Nextel approximately $2.1 billion in cash and approximately $4.5 billion of Embarq senior notes in partial consideration for, and as a condition to, Sprint Nextel's transfer to Embarq of the local communications business. The cash and senior notes were transferred by Sprint Nextel to its finance subsidiary, Sprint Capital Corporation, in satisfaction of indebtedness owed by Sprint Nextel to Sprint Capital Corporation. Sprint Capital Corporation completed the sale of the senior notes to the public on May 19, 2006.
A registration statement on Form 10 describing the spin-off was filed by Embarq with the Securities and Exchange Commission and was declared effective on May 3, 2006.
Embarq offers regulated local communications services as an incumbent local exchange carrier to roughly 5% of U.S. households, with approximately 7.26 million consumer and business access lines, as of March 31, 2006. Embarq provides a suite of communications services, consisting of local and long distance voice and data services, including high-speed Internet access. The local communications business had 2005 net operating revenues of approximately $6.25 billion.
Item 8.01 Other Events
Daniel R. Hesse submitted his resignation as Chief Executive Officer, Local Telecommunications Division of Sprint Nextel effective May 17, 2006. He had previously been elected Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer of Embarq.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(b) Pro forma financial information
(1) Sprint Nextel Corporation Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Financial Information
(d) Exhibits
 
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial information presented below has been derived from and should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005, as amended, and with the unaudited consolidated financial statements included in our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2006. The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial information gives effect to the separation of our local communications business, known as Embarq Corporation, and distribution of its common stock to our shareholders. On the distribution date, May 17, 2006, we transferred certain assets and liabilities to Embarq in exchange for shares of common stock of Embarq and about $6.6 billion in the form of cash and senior notes. We distributed these shares of common stock of Embarq on a pro rata basis to our shareholders of record as of May 8, 2006 in a ratio of one Embarq share for every 20 shares of Sprint Nextel common stock. The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial information is being presented because Embarq has not previously been presented as a discontinued operation in our consolidated financial statements included in previous filings. As a result, our historical results have been adjusted on a pro forma basis to give effect to the separation and distribution, or spin-off, of Embarq.
The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated balance sheet as of March 31, 2006 gives effect to the spin-off as if it had occurred on March 31, 2006. The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated statements of operations for the quarter ended March 31, 2006 and for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003 give effect to the spin-off as if it had occurred on January 1, 2003.
The pro forma adjustments are based on the best information available and assumptions that management believes are reasonable. The pro forma adjustments may differ from those that will be calculated to report Embarq as a discontinued operation in our future filings. The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial information is for illustrative and informational purposes only and is not intended to represent or be indicative of what our results of operations or financial position would have been had the spin-off occurred on the dates indicated. The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial information also should not be considered representative of our future results of operations or financial position.
The pro forma adjustments give effect to the following transactions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
See the notes to unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial information for a more detailed discussion of these events.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Our number of common shares outstanding did not change as a result of the spin-off.
Options to purchase shares of our stock held by Sprint Nextel employees who became Embarq employees were replaced by new options to purchase shares of Embarq common stock. The exercise price of, and number of shares of Sprint Nextel common stock underlying, options to purchase shares of Sprint Nextel common stock held by any other current or former Sprint Nextel employee and Sprint Nextel directors were adjusted to maintain the aggregate intrinsic value of the options, pursuant to the terms of the applicable Sprint Nextel equity incentive plans, taking into account the change in the value of the Sprint Nextel common stock as a result of the distribution. Sprint Nextel restricted stock units, or RSUs, awarded pursuant to the Sprint Nextel equity incentive plans and held by employees and Sprint Nextel directors at the time of the distribution generally continue to represent the right to receive shares of Sprint Nextel common stock and, in addition, the holders of these RSUs received RSUs granted by Embarq that represent the right to receive the number of shares of Embarq common stock equivalent to the number of shares of Embarq common stock that would be received with respect to each share of Sprint Nextel common stock issuable under the RSU at the time of the distribution. Deferred shares awarded pursuant to the Nextel equity plan and held by employees at the time of the distribution continue to represent the right to receive shares of Sprint Nextel common stock, and the number of such shares was adjusted to maintain the aggregate fair value, taking into account the change in the value of the Sprint Nextel common stock as a result of the distribution. The change in the number of diluted weighted average common shares outstanding resulting from these changes to the number of outstanding stock options and deferred shares is not expected to be significant. Additionally, incremental expense resulting from the modifications to stock-based awards is not expected to be significant, and has not been included as a pro forma adjustment.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 


