FILE:S/S-8K-20061026061405.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On October 26, 2006, Sprint Nextel Corporation announced its results for the third quarter of 2006. The press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
Inquiries should be directed to:
Media Relations
James Fisher
703-433-8677
james.w.fisher@sprint.com
Investor Relations
Kurt Fawkes
800-259-3755
Investorrelations@sprint.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
today reported third quarter 2006 financial results. In the quarter, the company improved profitability and launched several initiatives to enhance operating performance.
RESTON, Va.  Oct. 26, 2006  Sprint Nextel Corp. (NYSE: S)
For the quarter, diluted earnings per share (EPS) from continuing operations were 8 cents, compared to 12 cents per share for the third quarter 2005. The reported earnings include charges of 2 cents for special items and 22 cents for merger and acquisition-related amortization cost. For the quarter, Adjusted EPS before Amortization*, which removes these effects, increased 7% to 32 cents per share, versus pro forma Adjusted EPS before Amortization* of 30 cents in the year-ago period. Third quarter results reflect growth in operating income from the Wireless segment, offset by a lower contribution from Long Distance.
In the current quarter, the company reported consolidated revenue of $10.5 billion, an increase of 8% compared to pro forma revenues in the 2005 third quarter. Consolidated Adjusted OIBDA* of $3.4 billion increased 14 percent compared to the third quarter of 2005 pro forma results. In the quarter, the company reported a 38.4% Adjusted OIBDA margin* in the Wireless segment and a Consolidated Adjusted OIBDA margin of 34.8%, a 150-basis point improvement from the year-ago period. Third-quarter Consolidated Free Cash Flow* was $769 million.
Total wireless net subscriber additions were 233,000 for the quarter due to growth in CDMA post-paid subscribers, a gain in Boost pre-paid service subscribers and renewed growth in wholesale subscribers, offset by a decline in iDEN post-paid subscribers. At the end of the quarter, Sprint Nextel's total base was 51.9 million subscribers.
In the third quarter, Wireless data revenues increased 74% compared to the year-ago period. Long Distance IP services increased 26% and Cable Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) users served by Sprint Nextel more than doubled from the third quarter a year-ago.
In August, the company initiated its common stock buy-back program which is expected to total up to $6 billion over an 18-month period. In the third quarter, the company acquired 91 million common shares at an aggregate cost of approximately $1.5 billion. The company will vary the amount and timing of its common stock purchases from time to time as the program proceeds.
"In the third quarter, our margins benefited from merger synergies and the scale provided by acquisitions," said Sprint Nextel President and Chief Executive Officer Gary Forsee. "Our profitability in the quarter is encouraging and demonstrates the potential of an asset mix that now is predominantly wireless. In the third quarter we took some actions to improve the quality of the customers coming into our business, and this is constraining our near-term growth. At the same time, we have taken a number of actions we believe will improve our top-line growth performance over time. Activities in the quarter included:
 
 
to enhance their lifestyles and productivity. The campaign focuses on both the Nextel and Sprint brands, and utilizes traditional national channels, local network advertising, new media and innovative placement approaches;
 
 
 
"We have established an intense focus on execution across the company, and I am confident this will produce stronger customer growth and loyalty, improved margins and increased shareholder value over time," Forsee said.
Editor's Note:
In accordance with purchase accounting rules, Sprint Nextel's 2005 reported results are comprised of Sprint's stand-alone results prior to the Aug. 12, 2005, merger with Nextel Communications Inc., plus combined Sprint and Nextel results for the remainder of the year. Results from acquired Sprint PCS affiliates and Nextel Partners are included as of the date the applicable acquisition was completed.
To provide comparability with previously reported periods, Sprint Nextel also is providing pro forma Consolidated and Wireless results and certain other financial measures* for 2005 reporting periods. The pro forma results assume the merger of Sprint and Nextel occurred at the beginning of each 2005 reporting period and include the impact of conforming the accounting policies and both financial and non-financial measures of the two companies. The pro forma Consolidated and Wireless information excludes results of acquired affiliates prior to their respective acquisition close dates.
Consolidated
TABLE No. 1 Selected Unaudited Financial Data (in millions, except per share amounts). Diluted EPS below is from continuing operations.
 
 
The following is a discussion of Consolidated pro forma results.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Wireless
TABLE No. 2 Selected Unaudited Financial Data (dollars in millions)
 
Discussion of the following Wireless results is on a pro forma basis.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Long Distance
TABLE No. 3 Selected Unaudited Financial Data (dollars in millions)
 
The following is a discussion of Long Distance results.
 
 
 
 
 
Forward-Looking Guidance
The company is reiterating prior guidance which calls for full-year revenues of $41.0 billion to $41.5 billion, Adjusted OIBDA* of $12.6 billion to $12.9 billion and capital expenditures, inclusive of re-banding requirements, of $7 billion to $7.1 billion. This guidance includes results for Nextel Partners and UbiquiTel operations from July 1, 2006.
*Financial Measures
Sprint Nextel provides financial measures generated using generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and using adjustments to GAAP (non-GAAP). The non-GAAP financial measures reflect industry conventions, or standard measures of liquidity, profitability or performance commonly used by the investment community for comparability purposes. These non-GAAP measures are not measurements under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. These measurements should be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the information contained in our financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. We have defined below each of the non-GAAP measures we use, but these measures may not be synonymous to similar measurement terms used by other companies.
Sprint Nextel provides reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures in its financial reporting. Because Sprint Nextel does not predict special items that might occur in the future, and our forecasts are developed at a level of detail different than that used to prepare GAAP-based financial measures, Sprint Nextel does not provide reconciliations to GAAP of its forward-looking financial measures.
The measures used in this release include the following:
is defined as income from continuing operations, before special items, net of tax and the diluted EPS calculated thereon. is defined as income from continuing operations, before special items and amortization, net of tax, and the diluted EPS calculated thereon. These non-GAAP measures should be used in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the analysis provided in the statement of operations. We believe that these measures are useful because they allow investors to evaluate our performance for different periods on a more comparable basis by excluding items that relate to acquired amortizable intangible assets and not to the ongoing operations of our businesses.
Adjusted Earnings per Share (EPS)
Adjusted EPS before Amortization
is defined as income (loss) from continuing operations before special items. is defined as income (loss) from continuing operations before special items and amortization, net of tax. These non-GAAP measures should be used in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the analysis provided in the statement of operations. We believe that these measures are useful because they allow investors to evaluate our performance for different periods on a more comparable basis by excluding items that do not relate to the ongoing operations of our businesses.
Adjusted Net Income
Adjusted Net Income before Amortization
is defined as operating income before special items. This non- GAAP measure should be used in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the analysis provided in the statement of operations. We believe this measure is useful because it allows investors to evaluate our operating results for different periods on a more comparable basis by excluding special items.
Adjusted Operating Income
 
is defined as operating income before depreciation, amortization, restructuring and asset impairments, and special items. represents Adjusted OIBDA divided by non-equipment net operating revenues for Wireless and Adjusted OIBDA divided by net operating revenues for Long Distance. Although we have used substantially similar measures in the past, which we called "Adjusted EBITDA," we now use the term Adjusted OIBDA and Adjusted OIBDA Margin to describe the measure we use as it more clearly reflects the elements of the measure. These non-GAAP measures should be used in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the analysis provided in the statement of operations. We believe that Adjusted OIBDA and Adjusted OIBDA Margin provide useful information to investors because they are an indicator of the strength and performance of our ongoing business operations, including our ability to fund discretionary spending such as capital expenditures, spectrum acquisitions and other investments and our ability to incur and service debt. While depreciation and amortization are considered operating costs under generally accepted accounting principles, these expenses primarily represent non-cash current period allocation of costs associated with long-lived assets acquired or constructed in prior periods. Adjusted OIBDA and Adjusted OIBDA Margin are calculations commonly used as a basis for investors, analysts and credit rating agencies to evaluate and compare the periodic and future operating performance and value of companies within the telecommunications industry.
Adjusted OIBDA
Adjusted OIBDA Margin
is defined as the change in cash and cash equivalents less the change in debt, investment in certain securities, proceeds from common stock, repurchase of the company's common stock and other financing activities, net, from continuing operations. This non-GAAP measure should be used in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the analysis provided in the statement of cash flows. We believe that Free Cash Flow provides useful information to investors, analysts and our management about the cash generated by our core operations after interest and dividends and our ability to fund scheduled debt maturities and other financing activities, including discretionary refinancing and retirement of debt and purchase or sale of investments.
Free Cash Flow
is consolidated debt, including current maturities, less cash and cash equivalents, current marketable securities and restricted cash. This non-GAAP measure should be used in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the analysis provided in the balance sheet and statement of cash flows. We believe that Net Debt provides useful information to investors, analysts and credit rating agencies about the capacity of the company to reduce the debt load and improve its capital structure.
Net Debt
Safe Harbor
This press release includes "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the securities laws. The statements in this presentation regarding the business outlook and expected performance, as well as other statements that are not historical facts, are forward-looking statements. The words "estimate," "project," "forecast," "intend," "expect," "believe," "target," "providing guidance" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are estimates and projections reflecting management's judgment based on currently available information and involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested by the forward-looking statements. With respect to these forward-looking statements, management has made assumptions regarding, among other things, customer and network usage, customer growth and retention, pricing, operating costs, the timing of various events and the economic environment. Future performance cannot be ensured. Actual results may differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. Some factors that could cause actual results to differ include:
 
 
 
 
 
PCS, under the Sprint brand that we have acquired, and Nextel Partners, Inc., including the risk that these difficulties could prevent or delay Sprint Nextel's realization of the cost savings and other benefits we expect to achieve as a result of these integration efforts and the risk that Sprint Nextel will be unable to continue to retain key employees;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sprint Nextel believes these forward-looking statements are reasonable; however, you should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which are based on current expectations and speak only as of the date of this presentation. Sprint Nextel is not obligated to publicly release any revisions to forward-looking statements to reflect events after the date of this release.
About Sprint Nextel
Sprint Nextel offers a comprehensive range of wireless and wireline communications services bringing the freedom of mobility to consumers, businesses and government users. Sprint Nextel is widely recognized for developing, engineering and deploying innovative technologies, including two robust wireless networks covering nearly 282 million people and serving more than 51 million customers at the end of third quarter 2006; industry-leading mobile data services; instant national and international walkie-talkie capabilities; and an award-winning and global Tier 1 Internet backbone. For more information, visit .
www.sprint.com
 
TABLE No. 4
 
(1), (2), (3) See accompanying Notes to Financial Data.
 
TABLE No. 5
 
(1), (2), (3) See accompanying Notes to Financial Data.
Pro forma consolidated statements of operations have been presented as if the Sprint-Nextel merger occurred at the beginning of each 2005 period presented. Because the merger occurred in the third quarter 2005, the third quarter and the year-to-date 2006 results reflect actual combined results. The pro forma results do not include the results of any acquired PCS Affiliate, Nextel Partners or Velocita prior to the dates of their respective acquisitions because they do not significantly affect reported results.
 
TABLE No. 6
 
 
TABLE No. 7
 
 
TABLE No. 8
 
 
TABLE No. 9
 
Pro forma consolidated statements of operations have been presented as if the Sprint-Nextel merger occurred at the beginning of each period presented. Because the merger occurred in the third quarter of 2005, the third quarter and year-to-date 2006 reflect actual results. The pro forma results do not include the results of any acquired PCS Affiliate, Velocita or Nextel Partners prior to the dates of their respective acquisitions because they do not significantly affect reported results.
 
TABLE No. 10
 
 
TABLE No. 10
 
 
TABLE No. 11
 
 
TABLE No. 12
 
 
TABLE No. 13
 
TABLE No. 14
 
 
TABLE No. 15
 
Long Distance
 
 
 
 
 
 


