FILE:S/S-8K-20060503130126.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
Separation and Distribution Agreement
On May 1, 2006, Sprint Nextel Corporation ("Sprint Nextel') entered into a separation and distribution agreement with Embarq Corporation ("Embarq") that contains the key provisions relating to the separation of Embarq's business and the distribution of Embarq's common stock to Sprint Nextel's shareholders.
The separation and distribution agreement provides that, subject to the terms and conditions contained in the agreement and before the distribution,
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The separation and distribution agreement provides that the separation and the completion of the distribution will be subject to several conditions that must be satisfied or waived by Sprint Nextel, in its sole discretion, including:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In general, under the separation and distribution agreement, each party will indemnify the other against certain liabilities from third-party claims to the extent relating to, arising out of or resulting from:
 
 
In addition, Embarq will indemnify Sprint Nextel for any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or material omission or alleged material omission in the registration statements filed in connection with the separation and distribution, other than certain information relating to Sprint Nextel as to which Sprint Nextel will indemnify Embarq.
The foregoing description of the separation and distribution agreement does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the separation and distribution agreement, which is filed as Exhibit 2 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
Embarq 2006 Equity Incentive Plan
Also on May 1, 2006, Sprint Nextel, as the sole shareholder of Embarq, adopted and approved the Embarq 2006 Equity Incentive Plan (the "Embarq Plan"). The Embarq Plan provides for the grant of a wide range of awards related to Embarq common stock, including stock options, restricted stock awards and restricted stock unit awards. As previously reported in Sprint Nextel's Current Report on Form 8-K filed December 16, 2005, employees of Sprint Nextel (including directors and executive officers) who hold shares of Sprint Nextel restricted stock and/or restricted stock units representing shares of Sprint Nextel common stock on the date of distribution of the Embarq common stock to Sprint Nextel shareholders will receive shares of Embarq restricted stock and restricted stock units representing shares of Embarq common stock. The restricted stock units representing shares of Embarq common stock will be granted under the Embarq Plan and the Embarq restricted stock will be subject to the terms of the Embarq Plan.
The foregoing description of the Embarq Plan does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Embarq Plan, which is filed as Exhibit 10 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
Stephanie M. Shern submitted her resignation as a director of Sprint Nextel effective April 30, 2006. On May 1, 2006. Ms. Shern was named to the Board of Directors of Embarq.
Item 8.01 Other Events
On April 28, 2006, Sprint Nextel issued a press release in which it announced details for the completion of the spin-off of Embarq. Sprint Nextel will distribute pro rata to its shareholders all of the shares of Embarq common stock by means of a stock dividend on May 17, 2006. The stock dividend of one share of Embarq common stock for every 20 shares of Sprint Nextel voting and non-voting common stock will be paid to holders of Sprint Nextel who hold their shares at the close of business on May 8, 2006, which is the record date for the distribution. A copy of the press release is included as Exhibit 99 to this report and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99
Media Contacts:
James Fisher, 703-433-8677
james.w.fisher@sprint.com
Mark Bonavia, 913-794-1088
mark.bonavia@sprint.com
Investor Relations Contact:
Kurt Fawkes, 800-259-3755
investor.relations@sprint.com
 April 28, 2006  Sprint Nextel Corp. (NYSE: S) announced today that it plans to complete the spin-off of its local communications business on May 17, 2006. The new company will be called Embarq Corporation, and it is expected to be listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol "EQ."
RESTON, Va.
Sprint Nextel will distribute pro rata to its stockholders all of the shares of Embarq common stock by means of a stock dividend on May 17, 2006. The stock dividend of one share of Embarq common stock for every 20 shares of Sprint Nextel voting and non-voting common stock will be paid pro rata to holders of Sprint Nextel who hold their shares at the close of business on May 8, 2006, which is the record date for the distribution. No fractional shares of Embarq common stock will be distributed. Instead of fractional shares, Sprint Nextel stockholders will receive cash. Following the distribution, Sprint Nextel will not own any shares of Embarq, and Embarq will be an independent company. Payment of the stock dividend is subject to final clearance from the Securities and Exchange Commission and the New York Stock Exchange, and other conditions described in the information statement included as an exhibit to the registration statement on Form 10, as amended, filed by Embarq with the Securities and Exchange Commission and available at the Commission's website at http://www.sec.gov.
Any stockholder of Sprint Nextel common stock as of the record date who sells shares of Sprint Nextel common stock on or before the distribution date May 17, 2006 may also be foregoing their entitlement to receive the dividend of shares of Embarq common stock. Holders of Sprint Nextel common stock are encouraged to consult with their financial
advisors regarding the specific impact of selling Sprint Nextel common stock after the record date and on or before the distribution date on their right to receive the stock dividend.
No action is required by holders of Sprint Nextel stock to receive their shares of Embarq common stock in the distribution, and Sprint Nextel stockholders will not be required to surrender any Sprint Nextel shares or pay anything in order to receive the dividend. Sprint Nextel stockholders who are entitled to receive the stock dividend will receive a book-entry account statement reflecting their ownership of shares of Embarq common stock or their brokerage account will be credited for the shares. Embarq will not issue physical stock certificates, even if requested.
Sprint Nextel has received a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service that, based on certain facts, assumptions, representations and undertakings set forth in the ruling, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the distribution of Embarq common stock will not be taxable to Sprint Nextel and its U.S. holders of Sprint Nextel common stock, except in respect of cash received in lieu of fractional share interests, which generally will be taxable.
Sprint Nextel will mail an information statement to all stockholders entitled to receive the dividend of Embarq common stock on or about May 11, 2006. The information statement will describe the new company, the various risks involved, including the risks of holding Embarq common stock, and other details of the transaction, including additional details regarding the distribution. The information statement is also included as part of the registration statement on Form 10, as amended, filed by Embarq with the Securities and Exchange Commission in connection with the transaction and is available at the Commission's website at .
http://www.sec.gov
Stockholders with inquiries should contact:
Sprint Nextel Corporation
P.O. Box 7997
Shawnee Mission, KS 66207-0997
Attention: Shareholder Relations
(800)-259-3755
Email:
shareholder.sprintcom@sprint.com
"Safe Harbor" Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995
This release includes forward-looking statements, which are subject to risks and uncertainties. The words "expect," "intend," "will," "may" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Readers are cautioned not to place undue
reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date on which they are made. Neither Sprint Nextel nor Embarq undertakes any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, (1) the underlying assumptions and expectations related to the spin-off of Embarq proving to be inaccurate or unrealized, including, among other things, the likelihood of and expected timing for completion of the spin-off, the expected date the shares of Sprint Nextel and Embarq will trade as separate issues, the timing and development of a "when issued" trading market for Embarq common stockthe timing of the mailing of the information statement to Sprint Nextel stockholders, and (2) the timing of the New York Stock Exchange's approval for listing of the Embarq common stock. Additional factors related to these and other expectations are detailed in the registration statement on Form 10, as amended, filed by Embarq with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
,
About Sprint Nextel
Sprint Nextel offers a comprehensive range of communications services bringing mobility to consumer, business and government customers. Sprint Nextel is widely recognized for developing, engineering and deploying innovative technologies, including two robust wireless networks offering industry leading mobile data services; instant national and international walkie-talkie capabilities; and an award-winning and global Tier 1 Internet backbone. For more information, visit .
www.sprint.com
About EMBARQ
Following its spin-off from Sprint Nextel, EMBARQ will provide a suite of communications services, consisting of local and long distance voice and data services, including high-speed Internet access to consumer, business and wholesale customers. Embarq will also provide wireless, entertainment, logistics and other communications-related services and equipment.The company is expected to be a NYSE-listed company with approximately $6.3 billion in annual revenues, rank among the Fortune 500 and serve as the fifth largest local communications company in the United States based on the company's 7.35 million access lines as of December 31, 2005. The company expects to have approximately 20,000 employees at the time of the spin-off from Sprint Nextel.


