FILE:S/S-8K-20070622082420.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
This current report on Form 8-K is filed for the purpose of filing the attached exhibits in connection with Registration Statement No. 333-138548.
 
 
Not applicable.
 
Not applicable.
 
Not applicable.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: June 21, 2007
 

Exhibit 5.1
Sprint Nextel Corporation
2001 Edmund Halley Drive
Reston, Virginia 20191
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
We are acting as counsel for Sprint Nextel Corporation, a Kansas corporation (the "Company"), in connection with the issuance and sale of $750,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's Floating Rate Notes due 2010 (the "Debt Securities"), pursuant to the Underwriting Agreement, dated as of June 20, 2007 (the "Underwriting Agreement"), entered into by and among the Company and Barclays Capital Inc., Bear, Stearns & Co. Inc. and Greenwich Capital Markets, Inc., acting as representatives of the several underwriters named therein. The Debt Securities will be issued under the Indenture, dated as of November 20, 2006 (the "Indenture"), by and between the Company and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., as trustee (the "Trustee").
In connection with the opinion expressed herein, we have examined such documents, records and matters of law as we have deemed relevant or necessary for purposes of this opinion. Based on the foregoing, and subject to the further limitations, qualifications and assumptions set forth herein, we are of the opinion that the Debt Securities, when executed by the Company and authenticated by the Trustee in accordance with the Indenture and issued and delivered to the Underwriters pursuant to the terms of the Underwriting Agreement, will constitute valid and binding obligations of the Company.
For purposes of the opinion expressed herein, we also have assumed that the Trustee has authorized, executed and delivered the Indenture and that the Indenture is the valid, binding and enforceable obligation of the Trustee.
The opinion expressed herein is limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, fraudulent transfer and fraudulent conveyance, voidable preference, moratorium or other similar laws and related regulations and judicial doctrines from time to time in effect relating to or affecting creditors' rights generally, and by general equitable principles, whether such principles are considered in a proceeding at law or at equity.
The opinion expressed herein is limited to the laws of the State of New York, as currently in effect, and we express no opinion as to the effect of the laws of any other jurisdiction.
Sprint Nextel Corporation
June 21, 2007
Page 2
In rendering our opinion expressed herein, we have relied solely upon the opinion of Polsinelli Shalton Flanigan Suelthaus P.C., a copy of which has been filed as Exhibit 5.2 to the Current Report on Form 8-K dated the date hereof, with respect to matters governed by the laws of Kansas.
We hereby consent to the filing of this opinion as Exhibit 5.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K dated the date hereof filed by the Company relating to the Registration Statement on Form S-3, as amended (Reg. No. 333-138548) (the "Registration Statement"), filed by the Company to effect the registration of the Debt Securities under the Securities Act of 1933 (the "Act") and to the reference to Jones Day under the caption "Legal Matters" in the prospectus constituting a part of such Registration Statement. In giving such consent, we do not hereby admit that we are included in the category of persons whose consent is required under Section 7 of the Act or the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission promulgated thereunder.
Very truly yours,
/s/ Jones Day

Exhibit 5.2
 
Sprint Nextel Corporation
2001 Edmund Halley Drive
Reston, Virginia 20191
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
We are special Kansas counsel to Sprint Nextel Corporation, a Kansas corporation (the ""), in connection with the offering by the Company of $750,000,000 in aggregate principal amount of the Company's Floating Rate Notes due 2010 (the ""), as contemplated by the Company's Registration Statement No. 333-138548 on Form S-3 as amended by Post-Effective Amendment No. 1 to Form S-3 (as the same may be amended from time to time, the ""). The Securities will be issued under the Indenture, dated as of November 20, 2006 (the ""), by and between Company and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., as trustee (the "").
Company
Securities
Registration Statement
Indenture
Trustee
In such capacity, we have reviewed and relied on:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The documents listed in clause (A) are collectively referred to herein as the "." The documents listed in clause (B) are collectively referred to herein as the "." The documents listed in clauses (C) through (G) are collectively referred to herein as the "."
Corporate Records
Transaction Documents
Due Diligence Information
We call your attention to the fact that, to the extent specifically qualified and limited below in Paragraphs (a) through (e) and in the specific opinions rendered, we did not conduct an investigation that independently confirms the facts upon which we render this opinion and, with your permission, we have assumed and relied upon the accuracy of all factual information set forth in and made by the Company in the Registration Statement, the Prospectus, the Transaction Documents and the Officer's Certificate, together with certain representations and statements made to us by public officials as to factual matters material to the opinions expressed herein.
In rendering our opinions as to the good standing of the Company, we have relied exclusively on a certificate of a public official, although we have not obtained tax good standing certificates and no opinion is provided with respect to tax good standing.
The opinions and statements expressed herein are subject to the following assumptions, comments, conditions, exceptions, qualifications and limitations:
(a) Our opinions and statements expressed herein are restricted to matters governed by the internal laws of the State of Kansas, without regard to conflict of laws.
(b) In reviewing the Transaction Documents, Corporate Records, and Due Diligence Information, we have assumed the genuineness of all signatures and initials thereon, the genuineness of all notaries contained thereon, and the conformance of all copies with the original thereof and originals to all copies thereof. We have further assumed that all certificates, documents and instruments dated prior to the date hereof remain accurate and correct on the date hereof. We have made no review of agreements, documents or transactions described or referred to in the Corporate Records, and we express no opinion as to the effect of such terms, conditions or provisions of such agreements, documents and transactions upon the Transaction Documents or the matters discussed herein. We have further assumed that all Due Diligence Information is accurate, complete and authentic (including proper indexing and filing).
 
(c) None of the opinions below include any implied opinion unless such implied opinion is both (i) essential to the legal conclusion reached by the express opinions set forth below, and (ii) based upon prevailing norms and expectations among experienced lawyers in the State of Kansas, reasonable under the circumstances.
(d) The issuance of Securities is not prohibited under any agreement that is binding upon the Company.
(e) The Registration Statement, and any post-effective amendments thereto, is effective. No stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement or of any post-effective amendment to the Registration Statement is in effect and no proceedings for such purpose or pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act of 1933 have been instituted or threatened by the Commission against the Company or related to the offering contemplated in the Registration Statement.
Based on the foregoing, and qualified in the manner and to the extent set forth herein, we are of the opinion that:
1.        The Company is a corporation existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of Kansas, with the corporate power generally to conduct business and to own or lease properties.
2.        The Indenture has been authorized by all necessary corporate action of the Company.
3.        The Securities have been authorized by all necessary corporate action of the Company.
We hereby consent to the filing of this opinion as Exhibit 5.2 to the Registration Statement and to the reference to Polsinelli Shalton Flanigan Suelthaus PC under the caption "Legal Matters" in the prospectus constituting a part of such Registration Statement. In giving such consent, we do not thereby admit that we are included in the category of persons whose consent is required under Section 7 of the Securities Act or the rules and regulations of the Commission promulgated thereunder.
Very truly yours,
/s/ Polsinelli Shalton Flanigan Suelthaus PC
Polsinelli Shalton Flanigan Suelthaus PC
 
025837 / 111281
KSSUL 1559342

Exhibit 12
 
 
 
 
 


