FILE:S/S-8K-20070808070747.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
On August 8, 2007, Sprint Nextel Corporation announced its results for the second quarter of 2007. The press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
Wireless
 
 
 
Wireline
 
 
 
today reported second quarter 2007 financial results. In the quarter, the company reported a strong sequential improvement in post-paid net additions and profitability. The company experienced continued strong demand for wireless data services and wireline IP services and growth of the base of PowerSource
RESTON, Va.  Aug. 8, 2007  Sprint Nextel Corp. (NYSE: S)
TM
subscribers. Sprint Nextel also continues to build momentum around its planned WiMAX offering and to achieve key milestones in the development of high-performance push-to-talk services to be delivered on its CDMA network.
 
In the second quarter of 2007, diluted earnings per share (EPS) from continuing operations was 1 cent, compared to 10 cents in the second quarter of 2006, and a loss of 7 cents per share in the first quarter of 2007. Adjusted EPS before Amortization* was 25 cents, compared to 32 cents in the year-ago period and 18 cents in the first quarter of 2007. The yearly decline in earnings per share is due to a lower contribution from operations, start-up costs associated with the WiMAX initiative and increased net interest expense, partially offset by fewer common shares outstanding. The sequential improvement is due to a stronger contribution from operations.
Consolidated net operating revenues of $10.2 billion in the second quarter were 2% above the year-ago period and increased 1% sequentially. Consolidated adjusted OIBDA* of $2.9 billion declined 10% from the second quarter of 2006 but increased 12% sequentially. Second quarter capital expenditures were $1.7 billion and free cash flow* was $183 million.
Post-paid net additions increased more than 235,000 from the first quarter and were a positive 16,000 for the quarter. In the quarter, Sprint Nextel experienced strong post-paid demand on the CDMA platform. These gains were offset by lower demand for iDEN post-paid services. MVNO partners reported solid growth in what has typically been a seasonally weak quarter. At the end of the period, the company had enrollments of approximately 100,000 subscribers for the trial of the Boost Mobile unlimited local calling plan. These subscribers are reflected in the pre-paid subscriber category.
"A year ago, and again in January of this year, we highlighted areas for improvement in our core operations and outlined investments we would be making to address these areas. These investments are focused on improving iDEN network performance, increasing customer retention, enhancing our brand image and reinvigorating our third-party channels," said Gary Forsee, Sprint Nextel chairman and CEO. "In the second quarter, Sprint began to realize benefits from our increased funding of business operations. We reported a double-digit gain in subscriber acquisitions in our business channels. We met our goal of reducing churn to 2.0%, and network performance continued to improve. Industry-leading average post-paid customer revenues of $60 in the quarter and staffing actions in the first quarter supported a strong sequential improvement in adjusted OIBDA.
"Overall we are pleased with the second quarter progress under highly competitive market conditions, and we are reiterating our 2007 targets for revenues, adjusted OIBDA and capital spending," Forsee said. "Our focus remains on closing churn and customer care gaps, building on our recently-launched Sprint Ahead marketing campaign, and extending the EVDO footprint to meet strong demand for wireless data services. We will also continue to have significant resources assigned to the consolidation of many of our major systems, migrating customers from iDEN to CDMA utilizing PowerSource devices, preparing for the deployment of high-performance push-to-talk on our CDMA network, and cementing our plans for WiMAX deployment. While these initiatives are expected to impact reported results in the near term, we expect they will produce significant value over the long term."
Editor's Note:
In accordance with purchase accounting rules, Sprint Nextel's reported results herein reflect affiliate acquisitions as of the date of the acquisition or from the start of the month closest to the acquisition date.
 
CONSOLIDATED RESULTS
TABLE No. 1 Selected Unaudited Financial Data (in millions, except per share amounts.) Diluted EPS below is from continuing operations.
 
The following is a discussion of Consolidated results.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
WIRELESS RESULTS
TABLE No. 2 Selected Unaudited Financial Data (dollars in millions)
 
The following is a discussion of our Wireless results.
Subscribers
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Churn
 
 
 
Revenues/ARPU
 
 
 
 
 
Operating Expenses
 
 
 
 
 
Capital Spending
In the quarter, Adjusted OIBDA* exceeded capital investment by $1.3 billion, and year-to-date the excess was $2.3 billion. Capital investment in the quarter was $1.4 billion. Capital expenditures continue to be mainly targeted at increasing network capacity and footprint and extending EVDO data coverage.
 
WIRELINE RESULTS
TABLE No. 3 Selected Unaudited Financial Data (dollars in millions)
 
The following is a discussion of our Wireline results.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Forward-Looking Guidance
Sprint Nextel's 2007 target financial performance includes:
 
 
 
The company expects to continue with its program of buying back shares of its common stock over the course of the year. The company will vary the amount and timing of these purchases from time to time as the program proceeds.
 
*FINANCIAL MEASURES
Sprint Nextel provides financial measures generated using generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and using adjustments to GAAP (non-GAAP). The non-GAAP financial measures reflect industry conventions, or standard measures of liquidity, profitability or performance commonly used by the investment community for comparability purposes. These non-GAAP measures are not measurements under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. These measurements should be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the information contained in our financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. We have defined below each of the non-GAAP measures we use, but these measures may not be synonymous to similar measurement terms used by other companies.
Sprint Nextel provides reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures in its financial reporting. Because Sprint Nextel does not predict special items that might occur in the future, and our forecasts are developed at a level of detail different than that used to prepare GAAP-based financial measures, Sprint Nextel does not provide reconciliations to GAAP of its forward-looking financial measures.
The measures used in this release include the following:
is defined as income from continuing operations, before special items, net of tax and the diluted EPS calculated thereon. is defined as income (loss) from continuing operations before special items and amortization, net of tax, and the diluted EPS calculated thereon. These non-GAAP measures should be used in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the analysis provided in the statement of operations. We believe that these measures are useful because they allow investors to evaluate our performance for different periods on a more comparable basis by excluding items that relate to acquired amortizable intangible assets and not to the ongoing operations of our businesses.
Adjusted Earnings (Loss) per Share (EPS)
Adjusted EPS before Amortization
is defined as income (loss) from continuing operations before special items, net of tax. is defined as income (loss) from continuing operations before special items and amortization, net of tax. These non-GAAP measures should be used in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the analysis provided in the statement of operations. We believe that these measures are useful because they allow investors to evaluate our performance for different periods on a more comparable basis by excluding items that do not relate to the ongoing operations of our businesses.
Adjusted Net Income (Loss)
Adjusted Net Income before Amortization
is defined as operating income (loss) before special items. This non-GAAP measure should be used in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the analysis provided in the statement of operations. We believe this measure is useful because it allows investors to evaluate our operating results for different periods on a more comparable basis by excluding special items.
Adjusted Operating Income (Loss)
is defined as operating income before depreciation, amortization, severance, exit costs and asset impairments, and special items. represents Adjusted OIBDA divided by non-equipment net operating revenues for Wireless and Adjusted OIBDA divided by net operating revenues for Long Distance. These non-GAAP measures should be used in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the analysis provided in the statement of operations. We believe that Adjusted OIBDA and Adjusted OIBDA Margin provide useful information to investors because they are an indicator of the strength and performance of our ongoing business operations, including our ability to fund discretionary spending such as capital expenditures, spectrum acquisitions and other investments and our ability to incur and service debt. While depreciation and amortization are considered operating costs under generally accepted accounting principles, these expenses primarily represent non-cash current period allocation of costs associated with long-lived assets acquired or constructed in prior periods. Adjusted OIBDA and Adjusted OIBDA Margin are calculations commonly used as a basis for investors, analysts and credit rating agencies to evaluate and compare the periodic and future operating performance and value of companies within the telecommunications industry.
Adjusted OIBDA
Adjusted OIBDA Margin
is defined as the change in cash and cash equivalents less the change in debt, investment in certain securities, proceeds from common stock and other financing activities, net, from
Free Cash Flow
 
continuing operations. This non-GAAP measure should be used in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the analysis provided in the statement of cash flows. We believe that Free Cash Flow provides useful information to investors, analysts and our management about the cash generated by our core operations after interest and dividends and our ability to fund scheduled debt maturities and other financing activities, including discretionary refinancing and retirement of debt and purchase or sale of investments.
is consolidated debt, including current maturities, less cash and cash equivalents, current marketable securities and restricted cash. This non-GAAP measure should be used in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the analysis provided in the balance sheet and statement of cash flows. We believe that Net Debt provides useful information to investors, analysts and credit rating agencies about the capacity of the company to reduce the debt load and improve its capital structure.
Net Debt
SAFE HARBOR
This news release includes "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the securities laws. The statements in this news release regarding the business outlook, expected performance, forward-looking guidance, continuation of our previously announced share buy-back program, as well as other statements that are not historical facts, are forward-looking statements. The words "estimate," "project," "forecast," "intend," "expect," "believe," "target," "providing guidance" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are estimates and projections reflecting management's judgment based on currently available information and involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested by the forward-looking statements. With respect to these forward-looking statements, management has made assumptions regarding, among other things, customer and network usage, customer growth and retention, pricing, operating costs, the timing of various events and the economic environment.
Future performance cannot be assured. Actual results may differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. Some factors that could cause actual results to differ include:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sprint Nextel believes these forward-looking statements are reasonable; however, you should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which are based on current expectations and speak only as of the date of this release. Sprint Nextel is not obligated to publicly release any revisions to forward-looking statements to reflect events after the date of this release.
ABOUT SPRINT NEXTEL
Sprint Nextel offers a comprehensive range of wireless and wireline communications services bringing the freedom of mobility to consumers, businesses and government users. Sprint Nextel is widely recognized for developing, engineering and deploying innovative technologies, including two robust wireless networks serving more than 54 million customers at the end of the second quarter 2007; industry-leading mobile data services; instant national and international walkie-talkie capabilities; and a global Tier 1 Internet backbone. For more information, visit .
www.sprint.com
 
TABLE No. 4
 
(1), (2), (3) See accompanying Notes to Financial Data.
 
TABLE No. 5
 
(1), (2) See accompanying Notes to Financial Data.
 
TABLE No. 6
 
 
TABLE No. 7
 
 
TABLE No. 8
 
 
TABLE No. 9
 
 
TABLE No. 10
 
 
TABLE No. 11
 
 
TABLE No. 12
 
TABLE No. 13
 
 
TABLE No. 14
 
 
 
All merger costs were related to the Sprint-Nextel merger and/or the PCS Affiliates and Nextel Partners' acquisitions. Merger and integration costs are generally non-recurring in nature and primarily include costs to prepare systems for the launch of common customer interfacing systems, processes and other integration and planning activities, certain costs to provide wireless devices that operate seamlessly between the CDMA and iDEN networks, certain customer care costs, costs to retain employees, costs related to re-branding, and other costs. Merger and integration expenses which are solely and directly attributable to the Wireless segment have been allocated to that segment. These expenses are classified as selling, general and administrative, cost of products, or equipment revenues as appropriate on our consolidated statement of operations. Merger and integration expenses that are not solely and directly attributable to the Wireless segment are included in the Corporate segment and are classified as selling, general and administrative expenses on our consolidated statement of operations. In the second quarter of 2007, we reclassified certain historical merger and integration expenses from the Corporate segment to the Wireless segment to conform with the policies described above.
 
In the second quarter ended June 30, 2006, we recorded severance, exit costs and asset impairment charges of $40 million pre-tax ($23 million, net of tax), which consists of $16 million in severance and related costs associated with work force reductions of legacy Sprint employees and $24 million of asset impairments primarily related to software asset impairment and abandonment. For the six months ended June 30, 2006, we recorded severance, exit costs and asset impairment charges of $78 million pre-tax ($46 million, net of tax), which consists of about $36 million in severance and related costs associated with work force reductions of legacy Sprint employees and $42 million of asset impairments primarily related to software asset impairment and abandonment. Severance, exit costs and asset impairment charges are allocated to the appropriate segment results.
 
 
 


