FILE:S/S-8K-20081229151814.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(e) On December 29, 2008, the Board of Directors of Sprint Nextel Corporation ("Sprint Nextel") approved an amended and restated Change in Control Severance Plan (the "CIC Plan"). The main purpose of the revisions to the CIC Plan is to bring it into compliance with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code").
The effective date of the CIC Plan restatement is retroactive to January 1, 2008. Use of January 1, 2008 as the effective date of the CIC Plan is consistent with the effective date of other plans restatements complying with Section 409A.
In general, documentary changes required by Section 409A that are in the CIC Plan include:
 
 
 
 
Additional changes to the CIC Plan include:
 
 
 
A copy of the amended and restated CIC Plan is attached hereto.
 
 
The following exhibit is filed with this report:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
 
 
The Sprint Nextel Corporation Change in Control Severance Plan (the "Plan") provides primarily for severance compensation benefits for certain key employees following termination of employment in connection with and/or following a Change in Control. Given the level of acquisition and change in control activity in today's business environment, the Board recognizes and understands that many key employees face uncertainty with respect to their job security. In addition, the Board believes that the concerns of key employees regarding a possible Change in Control transaction may cause them to consider career changes in an effort to assure financial security for themselves and their families. Consequently, the Corporation desires to increase the willingness of its key employees to remain with the Corporation (or its Subsidiaries) notwithstanding the employment uncertainties related to a possible Change in Control by providing certain economic benefits in the event of a Change in Control, thus allowing such key employees to make career decisions without undue time pressure and financial uncertainty.
The Plan is intended to provide severance compensation and benefits pursuant to the Plan if a Change in Control of the Corporation has occurred and the Participant's employment is either (a) terminated by a Company without Cause or (b) voluntarily terminated by the Participant for Good Reason in accordance with the terms of this Plan. The purpose and intent of the Plan is to help the Corporation attract and retain key employees and reduce distractions resulting from a potential Change in Control. The Board has considered the effect that a Change in Control of the Corporation may have on key employees of the Corporation and its Subsidiaries, and has found that such a Plan is in the best interest of the Corporation and its stockholders.
Capitalized terms used throughout the Plan have the meanings set forth in Article Two, except as otherwise defined in the Plan or where the context clearly requires otherwise.
 
The Plan is intended to be a plan providing Severance Benefits following a Change in Control. The Plan is intended to be a top hat plan for a select group of management or highly compensated executives, subject only to the administration and enforcement provisions of ERISA.
 
This document, including any Appendix hereto, and any documents incorporated herein by reference set forth the provisions of the Plan effective as of the date of this current amendment and restatement of the Plan.
 
The Human Capital and Compensation Committee of the Board (the "Compensation Committee") shall administer the Plan; , , that none of the members of the Compensation Committee will be a Participant. The powers and duties of the Compensation Committee in administering the Plan are set forth in Section 6.02.
provided
however
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For purposes of this Plan, an act, or failure to act, shall not be deemed to be "willful" unless it is done, or omitted to be done, by the Participant in bad faith or without a reasonable belief that the action or omission was in the best interests of a Company.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
, , that a Participant's right to resign his employment for Good Reason will lapse unless such resignation occurs within sixty (60) days of the event giving rise to Good Reason in accordance with Section 6.15(b) (the "Good Reason Period"). Notwithstanding the foregoing, the lapse of such Participant's right to resign for Good Reason will only apply to the event giving rise to Good Reason. For the avoidance of
provided
however
 
doubt, the Participant shall have the right to resign for Good Reason, as provided in this Section 2.01(u), upon the occurrence of a subsequent and independent event giving rise to Good Reason.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Each full-time employee of the Corporation or a Participating Employer who has been recommended to the Compensation Committee to be a Tier I or Tier II Executive by the Chief Executive Officer and whose participation in the Plan has been approved by the Compensation Committee, as of the Effective Date will be a Participant in the Plan.
 
Except as provided in the next sentence, each full-time employee of the Corporation or a Participating Employer who is recommended to the Compensation Committee to be a Tier I or Tier II Executive by the Chief Executive Officer will be a Participant in the Plan only if the Compensation Committee approves his or her participation after the Effective Date and before a Change in Control.
 
Appendix I lists, as of the date of this current amendment and restatement of the Plan, the individuals whom the Compensation Committee has designated as Participants in accordance with Sections 3.01 and 3.02.
 
At any time prior to the six (6) month period preceding the occurrence of a Change in Control, the Compensation Committee may authorize a Company to provide a Participant with written notice of termination of the Participant's designation as a Participant in the Plan.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Any right of the Participant to receive Severance Benefits hereunder shall be forfeited to the extent of any amounts payable or benefits due after any breach of Section 6.09 by the Participant.
 
All expenses of a Participant incurred in enforcing the Participant's rights and/or to recover the Participant's benefits under this Article Four, including but not limited to, attorneys' fees, court costs, arbitration costs, and other expenses shall be paid by the Corporation. The Corporation shall pay, or reimburse the Participant for such fees, costs and expenses, promptly upon presentment of appropriate documentation, but only if, to the extent and at the earliest date(s) such payment or reimbursement does not violate Code Section 409A.
 
Anything in the Plan to the contrary notwithstanding, if it is determined (as hereafter provided) that any payment or distribution by or on behalf of a Company to or for the benefit of the Participant, whether paid or payable or distributed or distributable pursuant to the terms of the Plan or otherwise pursuant to or by reason of any other agreement, policy, plan, program or arrangement, including without limitation any stock option, stock appreciation right or similar right, or the lapse or termination of any restriction on or the vesting or exercisability of any of the foregoing (a "Payment"), would be subject to the Excise Tax, but for the application of this sentence, then the Payment shall be reduced to the minimum extent necessary (but in no event to less than zero) so that no portion of any such Payment, as so reduced, constitutes an "Excess Parachute Payment" within the meaning of Section 280G of the Code; provided, however, that the foregoing reduction shall be made only if and to the extent that such reduction would result in an increase in the aggregate Payment to be provided, determined on an after-tax basis (taking into account the Excise Tax imposed, any tax imposed by any comparable provision of state law, and any applicable federal, state and local income taxes). The fact that the Participant's right to a Payment may be reduced by reason of the limitations contained in this Section 4.05 shall not of itself limit or otherwise affect any other rights of the Participant other than under the Plan. In the event that a Payment intended to be provided under the Plan is required to be reduced pursuant to this Section 4.05, the Corporation may effect such reduction in any manner it deems appropriate.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Corporation reserves the right to amend, modify or change the Plan, at any time without any Participant's consent; , , that any amendment, modification or change that adversely affects a Participant's severance benefits and/or rights will not apply to a Participant if the revision is made within six (6) months prior to, the occurrence of a Change in Control without the Participant's written consent (and before all payments and benefits hereunder or at or following the occurrence of such Change in Control associated with such Change in Control are paid or made available as set forth herein), except as may be otherwise required to comply with changes in applicable laws or regulations, including as set forth in Section 4.02.
provided
however
 
The term of the Plan shall be for an initial term of two (2) years commencing on the Effective Date and shall continue through December 31, 2008 (the "Initial Term"); , , that at the end of the Initial Term and on each succeeding anniversary of the Effective Date, the Plan will be automatically extended by an additional one (1) year (each, a "Renewal Term"), unless, not less than one (1) year prior to the end of the Initial Term or any Renewal Term, a Company has given the Participants written notice of nonrenewal. Notwithstanding the foregoing, following the commencement of any discussions with a third party that result in a Change in Control, the Plan shall continue subject to Section 5.01, until the applicable Participating Employer has fully performed all of such Participating Employer's obligations under the Plan with respect to all Participants, and shall have paid all Severance Benefits under the Plan in full to all Participants.
provided
however
 
 
Each Company intends this Plan to constitute a legally enforceable obligation between (A) such Company and (B) each Participant.
It is also intended that the Plan shall confer vested and non-forfeitable rights for each Participant to receive benefits to which the Participant is entitled under the terms of the Plan with Participants being third party beneficiaries.
Except as provided in the definitions of Cause and Good Reason, nothing in this Plan shall be construed to confer on any Participant any right to continue in the employ of any Company or a Subsidiary or affiliate of the Corporation or to affect in any way the right of the Corporation or a Subsidiary or affiliate of the Corporation to terminate a Participant's employment without prior notice at any time for any reason or no reason.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Appeals with respect to any claim for benefits which, under the terms of the Plan, are provided under another employee benefit plan maintained by a Company (e.g., group health, life insurance, etc.), shall be subject to the claims and appeals procedure specified in such other employee benefit plan.
 
The Compensation Committee will maintain adequate records of all of their proceedings and acts and all such books of account, records, and other data as may be necessary for administration of the Plan. The Compensation Committee will make available to each Participant upon the Participant's request such of the Plan's records as pertain to him for examination at reasonable times during normal business hours.
 
In administering the Plan, the Compensation Committee is entitled to the extent permitted by law to rely conclusively upon all tables, valuations, certificates, opinions and reports which are furnished by accountants, legal counsel or other experts employed or engaged by the Compensation Committee. The Compensation Committee will be fully protected in respect of any action taken or suffered by the Compensation Committee in good faith reliance upon all such tables, valuations, certificates, reports, opinions or other advice. The Compensation Committee is also entitled to rely upon any data or information furnished by a Participating Employer or by a Participant as to any information pertinent to any calculation or determination to be made under the provisions of the Plan, and, as a condition to payment of any benefit under the Plan the Compensation Committee may request a Participant to furnish such information as it deems necessary or desirable in administering the Plan.
 
Any Participant having a question concerning the administration of the Plan or the Participant's eligibility for participation in the Plan or for the payment of benefits under the Plan may contact the Compensation Committee and request a copy of the Plan document. Each Participating Employer will keep copies of this Plan document, exhibits and amendments hereto, and any related documents on file in its administrative offices, and such documents will be available for review by a Participant or a designated representative of the Participant at any reasonable time during regular business hours. Reasonable copying charges for such documents will be paid by the party requesting copies.
 
All Plan administration expenses incurred by the Compensation Committee shall be paid by the Corporation and all other administration expenses incurred by a Company shall be paid by such Company.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Except as otherwise provided herein, the Plan shall not affect any Participant's rights or entitlement under any other retirement or employee benefit plan offered to him by the Corporation or a Subsidiary or affiliate of the Corporation (as appropriate) as of the date of the Participant's termination of employment.
 
The Plan shall be binding upon any successor in interest of any Company and shall inure to the benefit of, and be enforceable by, the Participant's assigns or heirs.
 
In determining the meaning of the Plan, words imparting the masculine gender shall include the feminine and the singular shall include the plural, unless the context requires otherwise. Headings of sections and subsections of the Plan are for convenience only and are not intended to modify or affect the meaning of the substantive provisions of the Plan. Unless otherwise stated, references to Sections are references to Sections of this Plan.
 
Each reference in the Plan to any plan, policy or program, the Plan or document of the Corporation or a Subsidiary or affiliate of the Corporation shall include any amendments or successor provisions thereto without the necessity of amending the Plan for such changes.
 
 
 
 
The Participant shall not be required to mitigate the amount of any payment contemplated under this Plan, nor shall such payment be reduced by any earnings that the Participant may receive from any other source, except as provided in this Plan. The Participant's coverage under any medical, dental, vision and employee life insurance plans will terminate as of the date that the Participant becomes eligible for comparable benefits of another employer.
 
Any Company will withhold from any amounts payable under this Plan all federal, state and local tax or other taxes as such Company is required to withhold pursuant to any law or government regulation or rule.
 
 
 
 
If any provision of this Plan or the application of any provision to any person or circumstances is held invalid, unenforceable or otherwise illegal, the remainder of this Plan and the application of such provision to any other person or circumstances will not be affected, and the provision so held to be invalid or unenforceable will be reformed to the extent (and only to the extent) necessary to make it enforceable or valid. To the extent any provisions held to be invalid or unenforceable cannot be reformed, such provisions are to be stricken herefrom and the remainder of this Plan will be binding on the Parties and their successors and assigns as if such invalid or illegal provisions were never included in this Plan from the first instance.
 
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan, the Parties' respective rights and obligations under Sections 4.02, 6.01, 6.08, 6.09 and 6.10 will survive any termination or expiration of this Plan or the termination of the Participant's employment for any reason whatsoever.
 
The list of Participants and Tier Level is on file with Sprint Nextel's Human Resources department.
 
 
 
 
 
 


