FILE:S/S-8K-20080512072902.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On May 12, 2008, Sprint Nextel Corporation announced its results for the first quarter of 2008. The press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1.
 
(d) Exhibits
The following exhibit is furnished with this report:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
Wireless
 
 
 
Wireline
 
 
 
 
today reported first quarter 2008 financial results. Consolidated net operating revenues for the quarter were $9.3 billion, an 8% decline compared to $10.1 billion reported in the first quarter of 2007 and a 5% decline compared to $9.8 billion in the fourth quarter. Reported diluted loss per share was 18 cents compared to a 7 cent loss in the year-ago period and a loss of $10.28 per share in the fourth quarter of 2007. The fourth quarter results include a loss of $10.32 per share from a pre-tax non-cash goodwill impairment charge of $29.5 billion.
OVERLAND PARK, Kan.  May 12, 2008  Sprint Nextel Corp. (NYSE: S)
Adjusted EPS before Amortization*, which removes the effects of special items and merger-related amortization expense, was 4 cents per share in the most recent quarter, compared to 18 cents in the first quarter of 2007 and 21 cents per share in the fourth quarter. The lower earnings in the current quarter are due to a reduced contribution from Wireless.
For the quarter, total wireless subscribers declined by 1.09 million due to losses of 1.07 million post-paid subscribers and 543,000 traditional prepaid users, partially offset by gains of 343,000 Boost Unlimited and 183,000 wholesale and affiliate subscribers. Post-paid subscriber additions in the quarter were impacted by lower gross additions and higher churn. Post-paid churn in the quarter was 2.45% compared to 2.3% in both the first and fourth quarters of 2007. Wireless post-paid ARPU in the quarter was a little under $56, a 6% decline compared to the year-ago period and a 4% sequential decline. The ARPU trends reflect on-going pressures on voice revenues partially offset by data growth.
"As expected, our Wireless business delivered weak financial results. While the business will continue to face challenges in the short term, we are making progress in methodically attacking the sources of our performance issues. In the first quarter, we implemented a new, more focused brand campaign, we executed on our plans to take costs out of the business, and we made progress on the larger organizational and strategic decisions that we believe will lead to improved profitability in the long term," said Dan Hesse, Sprint Nextel CEO. "We have strengthened our hand with last week's 4G announcement, which captures and leverages the value of Sprint's sizable spectrum holdings, provides Sprint with additional financial flexibility, gives us a time-to-market advantage over our competitors in the important growth area of wireless broadband, and allows Sprint management to focus our resources and attention on improving the performance of our core business.
"We continue to place the highest priority on reducing churn by improving the customer experience. Our "Simply Everything
SM
" Plan, which provides our customers with unprecedented simplicity along with the immediacy of our "Now Network," has had a good response from existing and new customers," Hesse said.
 
CONSOLIDATED RESULTS
 
The following is a discussion of consolidated results:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
WIRELESS RESULTS
 
 
The following is a discussion of Wireless results:
Subscribers
 
 
 
 
Churn
 
 
Revenues/ARPU
 
 
 
 
 
 
Operating Expenses
 
 
 
 
 
Capital Spending
Wireless capital investments were $875 million in the first quarter, or approximately 12% of service revenues. This compares to $1.4 billion in both the first and fourth quarters of 2007. Capital investments in the quarter were primarily targeted at increasing capacity and enhancing capabilities. In the quarter, dropped and blocked calls declined at an annual double-digit rate on both the CDMA and iDEN networks.
WIRELINE RESULTS
 
The following is a discussion of Wireline results.
 
 
 
 
 
Capital spending in the quarter of $191 million was 12% of revenues. Capital is mainly being deployed to support IP growth.
Forward-Looking Guidance
Sprint Nextel currently expects to experience continued downward pressure on Adjusted OIBDA*, post-paid gross additions and post-paid ARPU over the next few quarters. We expect these financial metrics will begin to stabilize towards the end of this fiscal year. In the second quarter of 2008, we expect to report an improved post-paid customer churn rate and net post-paid subscriber losses to improve marginally from the first quarter. For the balance of 2008, we expect we will continue to have positive free cash flow. In addition, we expect we have sufficient cash on hand to operate our business and repay all of our scheduled debt maturities through the end of 2009. Following an extensive rollout of CDMA EV-DO technology and increased spending to enhance iDEN network performance over the past several quarters, Wireless capital investments for the full year 2008 are expected to be significantly below 2007 levels. Wireline and corporate capital investments for the full year 2008 are also currently expected to be below 2007 levels.
In light of the trend of our declining earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, we are continuing to implement cost reduction initiatives, are exploring de-levering, disposition of non-core assets and other measures to assist the company in maintaining compliance with financial covenants contained in our credit facilities, and we may consider entering into discussions with our lenders to obtain appropriate waivers or amendments in respect of the credit facilities. We currently expect to remain in covenant compliance over the next few financial quarters while exploring and pursuing these measures.
Sprint Nextel continues to assess its business model, associated sales, distribution and marketing plans, and its financial outlook. The company expects to complete this assessment and provide an update in connection with its second quarter earnings announcement in August.
*FINANCIAL MEASURES
Sprint Nextel provides financial measures generated using generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and using adjustments to GAAP (non-GAAP). The non-GAAP financial measures reflect industry conventions, or standard measures of liquidity, profitability or performance commonly used by the investment community for comparability purposes. These non-GAAP measures are not measurements under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. These measurements should be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the information contained in our financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. We have defined below each of the non-GAAP measures we use, but these measures may not be synonymous to similar measurement terms used by other companies.
Sprint Nextel provides reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures in its financial reporting. Because Sprint Nextel does not predict special items that might occur in the future, and our forecasts are developed at a level of detail different than that used to prepare GAAP-based financial measures, Sprint Nextel does not provide reconciliations to GAAP of its forward-looking financial measures.
 
The measures used in this release include the following:
is defined as net income (loss) before special items, net of tax and the diluted EPS calculated thereon. is defined as net income (loss) before special items and amortization, net of tax, and the diluted EPS calculated thereon. These non-GAAP measures should be used in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the analysis provided in the statement of operations. We believe that these measures are useful because they allow investors to evaluate our performance for different periods on a more comparable basis by excluding items that relate to acquired amortizable intangible assets and not to the ongoing operations of our businesses.
Adjusted Earnings (Loss) per Share (EPS)
Adjusted EPS before Amortization
is defined as operating income (loss) before special items. This non-GAAP measure should be used in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the analysis provided in the statement of operations. We believe this measure is useful because it allows investors to evaluate our operating results for different periods on a more comparable basis by excluding special items.
Adjusted Operating Income (Loss)
is defined as operating income before depreciation, amortization, severance, exit costs and asset impairments, and special items. represents Adjusted OIBDA divided by non-equipment net operating revenues adjusted for certain non-recurring revenue adjustments for Wireless and Adjusted OIBDA divided by net operating revenues for Wireline. These non-GAAP measures should be used in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the analysis provided in the statement of operations. We believe that Adjusted OIBDA and Adjusted OIBDA Margin provide useful information to investors because they are an indicator of the strength and performance of our ongoing business operations, including our ability to fund discretionary spending such as capital expenditures, spectrum acquisitions and other investments and our ability to incur and service debt. While depreciation and amortization are considered operating costs under generally accepted accounting principles, these expenses primarily represent non-cash current period allocation of costs associated with long-lived assets acquired or constructed in prior periods. Adjusted OIBDA and Adjusted OIBDA Margin are calculations commonly used as a basis for investors, analysts and credit rating agencies to evaluate and compare the periodic and future operating performance and value of companies within the telecommunications industry.
Adjusted OIBDA
Adjusted OIBDA Margin
is defined as the change in cash and cash equivalents less the change in debt, investment in certain securities, proceeds from common stock and other financing activities, net. This non-GAAP measure should be used in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the analysis provided in the statement of cash flows. We believe that Free Cash Flow provides useful information to investors, analysts and our management about the cash generated by our core operations after interest and dividends and our ability to fund scheduled debt maturities and other financing activities, including discretionary refinancing and retirement of debt and purchase or sale of investments.
Free Cash Flow
is consolidated debt, including current maturities, less cash and cash equivalents, current marketable securities and restricted cash. This non-GAAP measure should be used in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the analysis provided in the balance sheet and statement of cash flows. We believe that Net Debt provides useful information to investors, analysts and credit rating agencies about the capacity of the company to reduce the debt load and improve its capital structure.
Net Debt
SAFE HARBOR
This news release includes "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the securities laws. The statements in this news release regarding the business outlook, expected performance, forward-looking guidance, as well as other statements that are not historical facts, are forward-looking statements. The words "estimate," "project," "forecast," "intend," "expect," "believe," "target," "providing guidance" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are estimates and projections reflecting management's judgment based on currently available information and involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested by the forward-looking statements. With
 
respect to these forward-looking statements, management has made assumptions regarding, among other things, customer and network usage, customer growth and retention, pricing, operating costs, the timing of various events and the economic and regulatory environment.
Future performance cannot be assured. Actual results may differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. Some factors that could cause actual results to differ include:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sprint Nextel believes these forward-looking statements are reasonable; however, you should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which are based on current expectations and speak only as of the date of this release. Sprint Nextel is not obligated to publicly release any revisions to forward-looking statements to reflect events after the date of this release.
ABOUT SPRINT NEXTEL
Sprint Nextel offers a comprehensive range of wireless and wireline communications services bringing the freedom of mobility to consumers, businesses and government users. Sprint Nextel is widely recognized for developing, engineering and deploying innovative technologies, including two wireless networks serving nearly 53 million customers at the end of the first quarter 2008; industry-leading mobile data services; instant national and international walkie-talkie capabilities; and a global Tier 1 Internet backbone. For more information, visit
www.sprint.com
.
 
TABLE NO. 4
 
 
 
TABLE NO. 5
 
 
TABLE No. 6
 
NON GAAP RECONCILIATION
 
Operating Statistics
 
 
TABLE NO. 7
 
NON GAAP RECONCILIATION
 
Operating Statistics
 
 
TABLE NO. 8
 
 
TABLE NO. 9
 
 
TABLE NO. 10
 
TABLE NO. 11
 
 
TABLE NO. 12
 
 
 
Merger and integration expenses which are solely and directly attributable to the Wireless segment have been allocated to that segment. These expenses are classified as selling, general and administrative, cost of products, or equipment revenues as appropriate on our consolidated statement of operations. Merger and integration expenses that are not solely and directly attributable to the Wireless segment are included in the Corporate segment and are classified as selling, general and administrative expenses on our consolidated statement of operations. The first quarter 2008 includes merger and integration expense associated with wireless devices that operate seamlessly between the CDMA and iDEN networks that were not recorded until the second quarter 2007 and therefore, are not comparable.
 


