FILE:S/S-8K-20080806070647.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On August 6, 2008, Sprint Nextel Corporation ("Sprint Nextel") announced its results for the second quarter of 2008. The press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1.
 
On August 6, 2008, Sprint Nextel issued a press release announcing that it intends to offer $3 billion of cumulative perpetual convertible preferred stock in a private offering, subject to market conditions and other factors, which press release is filed as Exhibit 99.2 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
 
(d) Exhibits
The following exhibit is furnished with this report:
 
The following exhibit is filed with this report:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Contacts:
Media Relations
James Fisher
703-433-8677
james.w.fisher@sprint.com
Investor Relations
Steve Virostek
800-259-3755
Investor.relations@sprint.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The company's second quarter earnings conference call will be held at 11 am EST today. Participants may dial 866-297-0891 in the US or Canada and provide the following ID 55380725 or may listen via the Internet at
www.sprint.com/investor
.
today reported second quarter 2008 financial results which included consolidated net operating revenues of $9.1 billion and a diluted loss per share of 12 cents. Adjusted EPS before Amortization*, which removes the effects of special items and non-cash amortization expense, was 6 cents per share. The company reported cash flow from operating activities of $1.1 billion and a cash position of approximately $3.5 billion in the quarter.
OVERLAND PARK, Kan.  Aug. 6, 2008 - Sprint Nextel Corp. (NYSE: S)
"We are seeing signs of progress from our efforts to improve the customer experience, rebuild the Sprint brand and increase our profitability," said Dan Hesse, Sprint Nextel CEO. "Our company-wide retention efforts, which include Simply Everything
TM
plans, our Now Network
TM
campaign and the launch of the Instinct
TM
handset are proving to be effective retention tools, particularly for high-value customers, and this is beginning to have positive
 
1
impacts on churn and ARPU. Our sequential improvement in post-paid churn is the best reported by any national wireless carrier since 2004, and it equals Sprint's best-ever churn performance post-merger.
"To increase profitability, we are taking a more aggressive stance on reducing costs, including a more stringent spending review process, minimizing external labor costs, and we have streamlined our distribution channels by more than 25% since the beginning of 2008. Further, our disciplined customer credit and collections efforts have reduced bad debt and strengthened the credit profile of our customer base," Hesse said.
CONSOLIDATED RESULTS
 
TABLE No. 1 Selected Unaudited Financial Data (dollars in millions, except per share data)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
WIRELESS RESULTS
 
TABLE No. 2 Selected Unaudited Financial Data (dollars in millions)
 
 
Wireless Customers
 
 
 
 
 
Wireless Churn
 
 
3
 
 
Wireless Revenues
 
 
 
 
 
Wireless Operating Expenses and Adjusted OIBDA*
 
 
 
 
 
4
 
Wireless Capital Spending
Wireless capital investments were $393 million in the second quarter, significantly lower than $918 million spent in the first quarter of 2008 and $1.4 billion spent in the second quarter of 2007. This trend reflects reduced spending on several key projects, including: EVDO-Rev A network expansion, the development of Nextel Direct Connect on CDMA, and the company's Unified Billing Platform. Capital investments in the quarter were primarily targeted at increasing capacity within existing wireless coverage areas and maintaining network quality. In the quarter, dropped and blocked calls declined at a double-digit rate on both the CDMA and iDEN networks, compared to one year ago.
WIRELINE RESULTS
 
TABLE No. 3 Selected Unaudited Financial Data (dollars in millions)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5
 
Forecast
Sprint Nextel currently expects to report higher post-paid subscriber losses in the third quarter due to a seasonal uptick in churn when compared with second quarter 2008 results. We expect sequential declines in post-paid gross adds to moderate, and we expect modest pressure on post-paid ARPU for the balance of 2008. This combination of factors is expected to result in a sequential reduction in Adjusted OIBDA* for the third quarter. Capital spending for the Wireless and Wireline segments is expected to be comparable to first half levels of $1.3 billion and $261 million, respectively. Sprint Nextel also expects Free Cash Flow* to improve substantially in the second half of 2008. Furthermore, the company expects to remain in compliance with its debt covenants for the foreseeable future and expects to reduce gross debt by at least $1 billion by the end of the third quarter.
*FINANCIAL MEASURES
 
Sprint Nextel provides financial measures generated using generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and using adjustments to GAAP (non-GAAP). The non-GAAP financial measures reflect industry conventions, or standard measures of liquidity, profitability or performance commonly used by the investment community for comparability purposes. These non-GAAP measures are not measurements under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. These measurements should be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the information contained in our financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. We have defined below each of the non-GAAP measures we use, but these measures may not be synonymous to similar measurement terms used by other companies.
Sprint Nextel provides reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures in its financial reporting. Because Sprint Nextel does not predict special items that might occur in the future, and our forecasts are developed at a level of detail different than that used to prepare GAAP-based financial measures, Sprint Nextel does not provide reconciliations to GAAP of its forward-looking financial measures.
The measures used in this release include the following:
is defined as net income (loss) before special items, net of tax and the diluted EPS calculated thereon. is defined as net income (loss) before special items and amortization, net of tax, and the diluted EPS calculated thereon. These non-GAAP measures should be used in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the analysis provided in the statement of operations. We believe that these measures are useful because they allow investors to evaluate our performance for different periods on a more comparable basis by excluding items that relate to acquired amortizable intangible assets and not to the ongoing operations of our businesses.
Adjusted Earnings (Loss) per Share (EPS)
Adjusted EPS before Amortization
is defined as operating income (loss) before special items. This non-GAAP measure should be used in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the
Adjusted Operating Income (Loss)
 
6
analysis provided in the statement of operations. We believe this measure is useful because it allows investors to evaluate our operating results for different periods on a more comparable basis by excluding special items.
is defined as operating income before depreciation, amortization, severance, exit costs and asset impairments, and special items. represents Adjusted OIBDA divided by non-equipment net operating revenues adjusted for certain non-recurring revenue adjustments for Wireless and Adjusted OIBDA divided by net operating revenues for Wireline. These non-GAAP measures should be used in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the analysis provided in the statement of operations. We believe that Adjusted OIBDA and Adjusted OIBDA Margin provide useful information to investors because they are an indicator of the strength and performance of our ongoing business operations, including our ability to fund discretionary spending such as capital expenditures, spectrum acquisitions and other investments and our ability to incur and service debt. While depreciation and amortization are considered operating costs under generally accepted accounting principles, these expenses primarily represent non-cash current period allocation of costs associated with long-lived assets acquired or constructed in prior periods. Adjusted OIBDA and Adjusted OIBDA Margin are calculations commonly used as a basis for investors, analysts and credit rating agencies to evaluate and compare the periodic and future operating performance and value of companies within the telecommunications industry.
Adjusted OIBDA
Adjusted OIBDA Margin
is defined as the change in cash and cash equivalents less the change in debt, investment in certain securities, proceeds from common stock and other financing activities, net. This non-GAAP measure should be used in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the analysis provided in the statement of cash flows. We believe that Free Cash Flow provides useful information to investors, analysts and our management about the cash generated by our core operations after interest and dividends and our ability to fund scheduled debt maturities and other financing activities, including discretionary refinancing and retirement of debt and purchase or sale of investments.
Free Cash Flow
is consolidated debt, including current maturities, less cash and cash equivalents, current marketable securities and restricted cash. This non-GAAP measure should be used in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the analysis provided in the balance sheet and statement of cash flows. We believe that Net Debt provides useful information to investors, analysts and credit rating agencies about the capacity of the company to reduce the debt load and improve its capital structure.
Net Debt
SAFE HARBOR
 
This news release includes "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the securities laws. The statements in this news release regarding the business outlook, expected performance, forward-looking guidance, as well as other statements that are not historical facts, are forward-looking statements. The words "estimate," "project," "forecast," "intend," "expect," "believe," "target," "providing guidance" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are estimates and projections reflecting management's judgment based on currently available information and involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested by the forward-looking statements. With respect to these forward-looking statements, management has made assumptions regarding, among other things, customer and network usage, customer growth and retention, pricing, operating costs, the timing of various events and the economic and regulatory environment.
 
7
Future performance cannot be assured. Actual results may differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. Some factors that could cause actual results to differ include:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8
 
 
Sprint Nextel believes these forward-looking statements are reasonable; however, you should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which are based on current expectations and speak only as of the date of this release. Sprint Nextel is not obligated to publicly release any revisions to forward-looking statements to reflect events after the date of this release.
ABOUT SPRINT NEXTEL
 
Sprint Nextel offers a comprehensive range of wireless and wireline communications services bringing the freedom of mobility to consumers, businesses and government users. Sprint Nextel is widely recognized for developing, engineering and deploying innovative technologies, including two wireless networks serving nearly 52 million customers at the end of the second quarter 2008; industry-leading mobile data services; instant national and international walkie-talkie capabilities; and a global Tier 1 Internet backbone. For more information, visit
www.sprint.com
.
 
9
TABLE NO. 4
 
 
 
10
TABLE NO. 5
 
 
11
TABLE No. 6
 
 
12
TABLE NO. 7
 
 
13
TABLE NO. 8
 
TABLE NO. 9
 
 
14
TABLE NO. 10
 
TABLE NO. 11
 
 
15
TABLE NO. 12
 
 
16
 
 
 
Merger and integration expenses which are solely and directly attributable to the Wireless segment have been allocated to that segment. These expenses are classified as selling, general and administrative, cost of products, or equipment revenues as appropriate on our consolidated statement of operations. Merger and integration expenses that are not solely and directly attributable to the Wireless segment are included in the Corporate segment and are classified as selling, general and administrative expenses on our consolidated statement of operations.
 
 
Consolidated capital expenditures of $2.0 billion for the six months ended June 30, 2008 includes $489 million reduction in accrued capital expenditures less $74 million of capitalized interest. Wireless segment capital expenditures of $1.3 billion for the six months ended June 30, 2008 includes $329 million reduction in accrued capital expenditures less $39 million of capitalized interest. Wireline segment capital expenditures of $261 million for the six months ended June 30, 2008 includes $65 million reduction in accrued capital expenditures less $3 million of capitalized interest. Cash paid for capital expenditures can be found in the statements of cash flows on Table No. 8 and free cash flows on Table No. 9.
 
 
 
17
 
 
18

Exhibit 99.2
Contacts:
Media Relations
James Fisher
703-433-8677
james.w.fisher@sprint.com
Investor Relations
Steve Virostek
800-259-3755
Investor.relations@sprint.com
Sprint Nextel Corp. (NYSE: S)today announced that it intends to offer, subject to market and other conditions, approximately three million shares of cumulative perpetual convertible preferred stock through an offering within the United States to qualified institutional buyers pursuant to Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"). The preferred stock will have a liquidation preference of $1,000 per share, for an aggregate liquidation preference of $3 billion, and will be convertible into shares of series 1 common stock of Sprint Nextel. Sprint Nextel also expects to grant the initial purchasers a 30-day option to purchase up to 450,000 shares of preferred stock.
OVERLAND PARK, Kan.  Aug. 6, 2008 -
Sprint Nextel intends to use the net proceeds of this offering for general corporate purposes, which may include, among other things, debt reduction.
This press release is neither an offer to sell nor a solicitation of an offer to buy any of these securities. There shall not be any offer or sale of the securities in any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale is unlawful. These securities and the common stock issuable upon conversion of the securities will not be registered under the Securities Act or any state securities laws, and unless so registered, may not be offered or sold except pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act and applicable state securities laws.
 
1


