FILE:S/S-8K-20081107070952.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On November 7, 2008, Sprint Nextel Corporation announced its results for the third quarter of 2008. The press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1.
 
 
The following exhibit is furnished with this report:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The company's third quarter earnings conference call will be held at 8 a.m. EST today. Participants may dial 866-297-0891 in the US or Canada and provide the following ID 69374133 or may listen via the Internet at www.sprint.com/investor.
today reported third quarter 2008 financial results, which included consolidated net operating revenues of $8.8 billion and a diluted loss per share of 11 cents. Adjusted EPS before Amortization*, which removes the effects of special items and non-cash amortization expense, was zero cents. The company reported Free Cash Flow* for the quarter of $1.1 billion.
OVERLAND PARK, Kan.  Nov. 7, 2008  Sprint Nextel Corp. (NYSE: S)
During the quarter, the company retired approximately $1 billion in principal of debt and incurred a $694 million financing obligation related to the close of its tower transaction. As of Sept. 30, 2008, the company had $4.1 billion of cash and cash equivalents. In November
 
2008, the company renegotiated the terms of its revolving credit facility, providing greater flexibility regarding its financial covenants.
"During tough economic times, we tightly managed our business to generate and retain cash and maintain substantial liquidity while continuing to reduce debt. At the same time, we made advancements in improving operations and delivering on the promise of the Now Network," said Dan Hesse, Sprint Nextel CEO. "Customer care metrics have improved steadily throughout the year, and external surveys are confirming we're providing a better customer experience."
Hesse added, "Our Ready Now program revolutionizes the wireless data customer experience by personalizing and teaching customers how to take advantage of the capabilities of our Now Network; our One Click handsets allow customers easy access to applications, and we launched our fourth generation WiMAX service in Baltimore, which generated excellent reviews for a new era of high-speed mobile Internet access. All of this positions us to invite new customers to join us as we begin to focus on stabilizing gross adds in the fourth quarter."
CONSOLIDATED RESULTS
TABLE No. 1 Selected Unaudited Financial Data (dollars in millions, except per share data)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
WIRELESS RESULTS
TABLE No. 2 Selected Unaudited Financial Data (dollars in millions)
 
 
Wireless Customers
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Wireless Churn
 
 
Wireless Service Revenues
 
 
 
 
Wireless Operating Expenses and Adjusted OIBDA*
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Wireless Capital Spending
Wireless capital investments were $217 million in the third quarter, compared to $393 million spent in the second quarter of 2008 and $813 million spent in the third quarter of 2007. Lower spending levels reflect reduced capacity needs and the conclusion of several network investment initiatives. At the end of the quarter, Sprint continues to lead the competition in 3G data network reliability, and CDMA and iDEN network performance continues at best-ever levels.
WIRELINE RESULTS
TABLE No. 3 Selected Unaudited Financial Data (dollars in millions)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Forecast
Sprint Nextel expects continued pressure on post-paid subscribers in the fourth quarter; however, we expect that gross adds will stabilize and that churn rate will be consistent with the third quarter. We also expect slight downward pressure on post-paid ARPU in the fourth quarter. Consistent with recent periods, the company expects revenue pressures leading to lower Adjusted OIBDA*. The company now expects full-year capital expenditures to be in the range of $3 billion to $3.3 billion. The company expects to continue to generate positive Free Cash Flow*.
*FINANCIAL MEASURES
Sprint Nextel provides financial measures generated using generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and using adjustments to GAAP (non-GAAP). The non-GAAP financial measures reflect industry conventions, or standard measures of liquidity, profitability or performance commonly used by the investment community for comparability purposes. These non-GAAP measures are not measurements under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. These measurements should be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the information contained in our financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. We have defined below each of the non-GAAP measures we use, but these measures may not be synonymous to similar measurement terms used by other companies.
Sprint Nextel provides reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures in its financial reporting. Because Sprint Nextel does not predict special items that might occur in the future, and our forecasts are developed at a level of detail different than that used to prepare GAAP-based financial measures, Sprint Nextel does not provide reconciliations to GAAP of its forward-looking financial measures.
The measures used in this release include the following:
is defined as net income (loss) before special items, net of tax and the diluted EPS calculated thereon. is defined as net income (loss) before special items and amortization, net of tax, and the diluted EPS calculated thereon. These non-GAAP measures should be used in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the analysis provided in the statement of operations. We believe that these measures are useful because they allow investors to evaluate our performance for different periods on a more comparable basis by excluding items that relate to acquired amortizable intangible assets and not to the ongoing operations of our businesses.
Adjusted Earnings (Loss) per Share (EPS)
Adjusted EPS before Amortization
is defined as operating income (loss) before special items. This non-GAAP measure should be used in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the analysis provided in the statement of operations. We believe this measure is useful because it allows investors to evaluate our operating results for different periods on a more comparable basis by excluding special items.
Adjusted Operating Income (Loss)
is defined as operating income before depreciation, amortization, severance, exit costs and asset impairments, gains or losses on asset dispositions and exchanges and other special items. represents Adjusted OIBDA divided by non-equipment net operating revenues adjusted for certain non-recurring revenue adjustments for Wireless and Adjusted OIBDA divided by net operating revenues for Wireline. These non-GAAP measures should be used in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the analysis provided in the statement of operations. We believe that
Adjusted OIBDA
Adjusted OIBDA Margin
 
Adjusted OIBDA and Adjusted OIBDA Margin provide useful information to investors because they are an indicator of the strength and performance of our ongoing business operations, including our ability to fund discretionary spending such as capital expenditures, spectrum acquisitions and other investments and our ability to incur and service debt. While depreciation and amortization are considered operating costs under generally accepted accounting principles, these expenses primarily represent non-cash current period allocation of costs associated with long-lived assets acquired or constructed in prior periods. Adjusted OIBDA and Adjusted OIBDA Margin are calculations commonly used as a basis for investors, analysts and credit rating agencies to evaluate and compare the periodic and future operating performance and value of companies within the telecommunications industry.
is defined as the change in cash and cash equivalents less the change in debt, investment in certain securities, proceeds from common stock and other financing activities, net. This non-GAAP measure should be used in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the analysis provided in the statement of cash flows. We believe that Free Cash Flow provides useful information to investors, analysts and our management about the cash generated by our core operations after interest and dividends and our ability to fund scheduled debt maturities and other financing activities, including discretionary refinancing and retirement of debt and purchase or sale of investments.
Free Cash Flow
is consolidated debt, including current maturities, less cash and cash equivalents, current marketable securities and restricted cash. This non-GAAP measure should be used in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the analysis provided in the balance sheet and statement of cash flows. We believe that Net Debt provides useful information to investors, analysts and credit rating agencies about the capacity of the company to reduce the debt load and improve its capital structure.
Net Debt
SAFE HARBOR
This news release includes "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the securities laws. The statements in this news release regarding the business outlook, expected performance and forward-looking guidance, as well as other statements that are not historical facts, are forward-looking statements. The words "estimate," "project," "forecast," "intend," "expect," "believe," "target," "providing guidance" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are estimates and projections reflecting management's judgment based on currently available information and involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested by the forward-looking statements. With respect to these forward-looking statements, management has made assumptions regarding, among other things, customer and network usage, customer growth and retention, pricing, operating costs, the timing of various events and the economic and regulatory environment.
Future performance cannot be assured. Actual results may differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. Some factors that could cause actual results to differ include:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sprint Nextel believes these forward-looking statements are reasonable; however, you should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which are based on current expectations and speak only as of the date of this release. Sprint Nextel is not obligated to publicly release any revisions to forward-looking statements to reflect events after the date of this release.
Participants in Solicitation
Sprint, Clearwire and their respective directors and executive officers and other members of management and employees may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies in respect of the proposed transactions. Information concerning Sprint's participants is set forth in the proxy statement dated March 27, 2008 for Sprint's 2008 annual meeting of shareholders as filed with the SEC on Schedule 14A. Information concerning Clearwire's participants is set forth in the proxy statement dated April 29, 2008 for Clearwire's annual meeting of stockholders as filed with
 
the SEC on Schedule 14A. Additional information regarding the interests of participants of Sprint and Clearwire in the solicitation of proxies in respect of the proposed transactions is included in the Registration Statement on Form S-4 (File No. 333-153128), and the proxy statement/prospectus contained therein, filed with the SEC. Those documents are available free of charge at the websites of the SEC and Clearwire.
ABOUT SPRINT NEXTEL
Sprint Nextel offers a comprehensive range of wireless and wireline communications services bringing the freedom of mobility to consumers, businesses and government users. Sprint Nextel is widely recognized for developing, engineering and deploying innovative technologies, including two wireless networks serving nearly 51 million customers at the end of the third quarter 2008; industry-leading mobile data services; instant national and international walkie-talkie capabilities; and a global Tier 1 Internet backbone. For more information, visit .
www.sprint.com
 
TABLE NO. 4
 
 
 
TABLE NO. 5
 
 
TABLE No. 6
 
NON GAAP RECONCILIATION
 
Operating Statistics
 
 
TABLE NO. 7
 
NON GAAP RECONCILIATION
 
Operating Statistics
 
 
TABLE NO. 8
 
TABLE NO. 9
 
 
TABLE NO. 10
 
TABLE NO. 11
 
 
TABLE NO. 12
 
 
 
 
 
 
Consolidated capital expenditures of $2.5 billion for the year-to-date period 2008 includes $674 million reduction in accrued capital expenditures less $107 million of capitalized interest. Wireless segment capital expenditures of $1.5 billion for the year-to-date period 2008 includes $487 million reduction in accrued capital expenditures less $50 million of capitalized interest. Wireline segment capital expenditures of $342 million for the year-to-date period includes $72 million reduction in accrued capital expenditures less $5 million of capitalized interest. Cash paid for capital expenditures can be found in the statements of cash flows on Table No. 8 and free cash flows on Table No. 9.
 
 
 
 


