FILE:S/S-8K-20090219070657.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On February 19, 2009, Sprint Nextel Corporation announced its results for the fourth quarter of 2008 and the year ended December 31, 2008. The press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1.
 
(d) Exhibits
The following exhibit is furnished with this report:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The company's fourth quarter earnings conference call will be held at 8 a.m. EST today. Participants may dial 866-763-0020 in the US or Canada (706-902-1194 internationally) and provide the following ID: 83732306 or may listen via the Internet at www.sprint.com/investor.
today reported fourth quarter and full-year 2008 financial results. The company generated $536 million of Free Cash Flow* in the quarter, and $1.8 billion for full-year 2008. During the quarter, the company repaid approximately $1 billion in principal of debt and received $213 million in proceeds at the closing of the Clearwire transaction. As of Dec. 31, 2008, the company had $3.7 billion of cash and cash equivalents and $1.4 billion of borrowing capacity available under its revolving bank credit facility, for a total liquidity of $5.1 billion.
OVERLAND PARK, Kan.  Feb. 19, 2009  Sprint Nextel Corp. (NYSE: S)
 
The company reported consolidated net operating revenues of $8.4 billion and a diluted loss per share of 57 cents. Full-year 2008 revenues were $35.6 billion. The company recorded a non-cash goodwill impairment charge of approximately $1 billion in the quarter, which finalizes the accounting for the goodwill related to the Sprint Nextel merger and other acquisitions. Adjusted EPS before Amortization*, which removes the impact of non-cash goodwill and other asset impairment charges, as well as the effects of other special items and non-cash amortization expense, was a loss of 1 cent for the quarter.
"In tough economic times, we're generating substantial cash and reducing costs to ensure we remain financially sound. We already have the cash on hand to be able to meet our debt service requirements at least through the end of 2010," said Dan Hesse, Sprint Nextel CEO. "With this financial stability, we can build on the improvements we've made in customer care, strengthen our brand and maintain continued strong network performance in 2009.
"Independent evaluations report our significant improvement in customer care and network performance. Customers are responding to our messages of value, simplicity and productivity. Simply Everything
TM
provides a worry-free postpaid experience, and we are bringing the lessons learned from this success to our new family plans and to the prepaid market with the hassle-free national Boost Monthly Unlimited offer. We also have high expectations for the Palm Pre handset which will be launched later this year," Hesse said.
On Nov. 28, 2008, the company closed a transaction with Clearwire Corporation. At closing, the company contributed assets, including its 2.5 gigahertz spectrum and WiMAX-related assets, in exchange for an ownership interest in Clearwire. Clearwire is deploying WiMAX, a 4G technology, as a new nationwide network. The services supported by these technologies will give subscribers with compatible devices high-speed access to the Internet and a variety of increasingly sophisticated data services. The company has entered into a mobile virtual network operator (MVNO) arrangement with Clearwire that enables it to resell Clearwire's 4G wireless services under the Sprint brand name.
CONSOLIDATED RESULTS
TABLE No. 1 Selected Unaudited Financial Data (dollars in millions, except per share data)
 
 
 
 
 
 
WIRELESS RESULTS
TABLE No. 2 Selected Unaudited Financial Data (dollars in millions)
 
 
Wireless Customers
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Wireless Churn
 
 
Wireless Service Revenues
 
 
 
 
Wireless Operating Expenses and Adjusted OIBDA*
 
 
 
 
 
Wireless Capital Spending
Wireless capital expenditures were $304 million in the fourth quarter, compared to $217 million spent in the third quarter of 2008 and $1.4 billion spent in the fourth quarter of 2007. Fourth quarter Wireless capital expenditures increased sequentially, principally due to the timing of projects to increase capacity and introduce EVDO capability in certain smaller markets. The year-over-year decrease in wireless capital spending reflects reduced capacity needs and the conclusion of several network and IT investment initiatives. At the end of the quarter, Sprint's CDMA and iDEN networks continue to operate at best-ever levels, and Sprint has the most dependable
+
3G network in the country.
WIRELINE RESULTS
TABLE No. 3 Selected Unaudited Financial Data (dollars in millions)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Forecast
Sprint Nextel expects that both post-paid and total subscriber losses will improve in 2009, as compared to 2008. The company expects full-year capital expenditures in 2009 to be consistent with 2008 levels, excluding WiMAX. The company expects to continue to generate positive Free Cash Flow* during 2009.
*FINANCIAL MEASURES
Sprint Nextel provides financial measures generated using generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and using adjustments to GAAP (non-GAAP). The non-GAAP financial measures reflect industry conventions, or standard measures of liquidity, profitability or performance commonly used by the investment community for comparability purposes. These non-GAAP measures are not measurements under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. These measurements should be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the information contained in our financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. We have defined below each of the non-GAAP measures we use, but these measures may not be synonymous to similar measurement terms used by other companies.
Sprint Nextel provides reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures in its financial reporting. Because Sprint Nextel does not predict special items that might occur in the future, and our forecasts are developed at a level of detail different than that used to prepare GAAP-based financial measures, Sprint Nextel does not provide reconciliations to GAAP of its forward-looking financial measures.
The measures used in this release include the following:
is defined as net income (loss) before special items, net of tax and the diluted EPS calculated thereon. is defined as net income (loss) before special items and amortization, net of tax, and the diluted EPS calculated thereon. These non-GAAP measures should be used in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the analysis provided in the statement of operations. We believe that these measures are useful because they allow investors to evaluate our performance for different periods on a more comparable basis by excluding items that relate to acquired amortizable intangible assets and not to the ongoing operations of our businesses.
Adjusted Earnings (Loss) per Share (EPS)
Adjusted EPS before Amortization
is defined as income (loss) from continuing operations before special items, net of tax. is defined as income (loss) from continuing operations before special items and amortization, net of tax. These non-
Adjusted Net Income (Loss)
Adjusted Net Income before Amortization
 
GAAP measures should be used in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the analysis provided in the statement of operations. We believe that these measures are useful because they allow investors to evaluate our performance for different periods on a more comparable basis by excluding items that do not relate to the ongoing operations of our businesses.
is defined as operating income (loss) before special items. This non-GAAP measure should be used in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the analysis provided in the statement of operations. We believe this measure is useful because it allows investors to evaluate our operating results for different periods on a more comparable basis by excluding special items.
Adjusted Operating Income (Loss)
is defined as operating income before depreciation, amortization, severance, exit costs and asset impairments, gains or losses on asset dispositions and exchanges and other special items. represents Adjusted OIBDA divided by non-equipment net operating revenues adjusted for certain non-recurring revenue adjustments for Wireless and Adjusted OIBDA divided by net operating revenues for Wireline. These non-GAAP measures should be used in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the analysis provided in the statement of operations. We believe that Adjusted OIBDA and Adjusted OIBDA Margin provide useful information to investors because they are an indicator of the strength and performance of our ongoing business operations, including our ability to fund discretionary spending such as capital expenditures, spectrum acquisitions and other investments and our ability to incur and service debt. While depreciation and amortization are considered operating costs under generally accepted accounting principles, these expenses primarily represent non-cash current period allocation of costs associated with long-lived assets acquired or constructed in prior periods. Adjusted OIBDA and Adjusted OIBDA Margin are calculations commonly used as a basis for investors, analysts and credit rating agencies to evaluate and compare the periodic and future operating performance and value of companies within the telecommunications industry.
Adjusted OIBDA
Adjusted OIBDA Margin
is defined as the change in cash and cash equivalents less the change in debt, investment in certain securities, proceeds from common stock and other financing activities, net. This non-GAAP measure should be used in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the analysis provided in the statement of cash flows. We believe that Free Cash Flow provides useful information to investors, analysts and our management about the cash generated by our core operations after interest and dividends and our ability to fund scheduled debt maturities and other financing activities, including discretionary refinancing and retirement of debt and purchase or sale of investments.
Free Cash Flow
is consolidated debt, including current maturities, less cash and cash equivalents, current marketable securities and restricted cash. This non-GAAP measure should be used in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the analysis provided in the balance sheet and statement of cash flows. We believe that Net Debt provides useful information to investors, analysts and credit rating agencies about the capacity of the company to reduce the debt load and improve its capital structure.
Net Debt
SAFE HARBOR
This news release includes "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the securities laws. The statements in this news release regarding the business outlook, expected performance and forward-looking guidance, as well as other statements that are not historical facts, are forward-looking statements. The words "estimate," "project," "forecast," "intend," "expect," "believe," "target," "providing guidance" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are estimates and projections reflecting management's judgment based on
 
currently available information and involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested by the forward-looking statements. With respect to these forward-looking statements, management has made assumptions regarding, among other things, customer and network usage, customer growth and retention, pricing, operating costs, the timing of various events and the economic and regulatory environment.
Future performance cannot be assured. Actual results may differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. Some factors that could cause actual results to differ include:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sprint Nextel believes these forward-looking statements are reasonable; however, you should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which are based on current expectations and speak only as of the date of this release. Sprint Nextel is not obligated to publicly release any revisions to forward-looking statements to reflect events after the date of this release.
+
 "Dependable" based on independent third-party drive tests for 3G data connection success, session reliability and signal strength for the top 50 most populous markets, April to November 2008.
 
ABOUT SPRINT NEXTEL
Sprint Nextel offers a comprehensive range of wireless and wireline communications services bringing the freedom of mobility to consumers, businesses and government users. Sprint Nextel is widely recognized for developing, engineering and deploying innovative technologies, including two wireless networks serving over 49 million customers at the end of the fourth quarter 2008; industry-leading mobile data services; instant national and international walkie-talkie capabilities; and a global Tier 1 Internet backbone. For more information, visit .
www.sprint.com
 
TABLE NO. 4
 
 
 
TABLE NO. 5
 
 
TABLE No. 6
 
NON GAAP RECONCILIATION
 
Operating Statistics
 
 
TABLE NO. 7
NON GAAP RECONCILIATION
 
 
TABLE NO. 8
 
TABLE NO. 9
 
 
TABLE NO. 10
 
TABLE NO. 11
 
 
TABLE NO. 12
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


