FILE:S/S-8K-20090504071052.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On May 4, 2009, Sprint Nextel Corporation announced its results for the first quarter of 2009. The press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1.
 
(d) Exhibits
The following exhibit is furnished with this report:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
The company's first quarter earnings conference call will be held at 8 a.m. EDT today. Participants may dial 866-763-0020 in the US or Canada (706-902-1194 internationally) and provide the following ID: 89264535 or may listen via the Internet at www.sprint.com/investor.
today reported first quarter 2009 financial results. The company generated $796 million of Free Cash Flow* in the quarter. As of March 31, 2009, the company had $4.5 billion of cash and cash equivalents and $1.4 billion of borrowing capacity available under its revolving bank credit facility, for total liquidity of $5.9 billion.
OVERLAND PARK, Kan.  May 4, 2009  Sprint Nextel Corp. (NYSE: S)
The company reported consolidated net operating revenues of $8.2 billion and a diluted loss per share of 21 cents. The company recorded $327 million of severance and exit costs, primarily related to the reduction in work force announced in January 2009. Adjusted EPS before Amortization* was 3 cents for the quarter.
"In the first quarter, we again made progress in our major areas of focus: financial stability, improving the customer experience and reinvigorating the brand," said Dan Hesse, Sprint Nextel CEO. "We achieved the largest sequential improvement in overall gross adds and net adds in Sprint Nextel history, reduced churn versus the prior year, and we generated more than enough cash in this quarter alone to pay all of our 2009 debt maturities.
 
"In customer care, our consecutive monthly improvement in first call resolution and customer satisfaction metrics has now extended to 15 months. This occurred even as we reduced cost by discontinuing the use of another six vendor call centers in the first quarter, bringing the reduction in call centers to 17 over the past 12 months. We performed well in the J.D. Power 2009 Wireless Call Quality Performance Study, including a tie for first place in the Western region, and achieved other third-party confirmations of our solid network performance," Hesse said.
In the first quarter, the company announced it will be the exclusive carrier partner for the Palm Pre, a compelling wireless device for both consumer and business customers.
Sprint 4G WiMAX service is currently available in Baltimore and is expected to be available in Portland this summer. In the first quarter, the company announced it also plans to launch WiMAX service in Atlanta, Las Vegas, Chicago, Charlotte, Dallas/Ft. Worth, Honolulu, Philadelphia and Seattle in 2009, and expects 2010 launch cities to include New York, Boston, Washington, D.C., Houston and the San Francisco Bay Area.
CONSOLIDATED RESULTS
TABLE No. 1 Selected Unaudited Financial Data (dollars in millions, except per share data)
 
NM  Not Meaningful
 
 
 
 
 
 
WIRELESS RESULTS
TABLE No. 2 Selected Unaudited Financial Data (dollars in millions)
 
Wireless Customers
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Wireless Churn
 
 
Wireless Service Revenues
 
 
 
 
 
Wireless Operating Expenses and Adjusted OIBDA*
 
 
 
 
 
Wireless Capital Spending
Wireless capital expenditures were almost $200 million in the first quarter, compared to about $300 million spent in the fourth quarter of 2008 and more than $900 million spent in the first quarter of 2008. In the fourth quarter of 2008, we added capacity and introduced EVDO capability in certain smaller markets. Wireless capital expenditures decreased sequentially as we exited 2008 with excess capacity on our networks. The year-over-year decrease in wireless capital spending reflects reduced capacity needs due to fewer subscribers and the conclusion of several network and IT investment initiatives. At the end of the quarter, Sprint's CDMA and iDEN networks continue to operate at best-ever levels, and according to third-party data, Sprint has the most dependable
+
3G network in the country.
WIRELINE RESULTS
TABLE No. 3 Selected Unaudited Financial Data (dollars in millions)
 
 
NM  Not Meaningful
 
 
 
 
 
 
Forecast
Sprint Nextel anticipates that an increasing number of wireless customers could choose prepaid services instead of post-paid services in this economic environment. Nevertheless, the company continues to expect that not only prepaid, but also post-paid and total subscriber full-year losses should improve in 2009 as compared to 2008. In addition, the company still expects that full-year capital expenditures in 2009 will be consistent with 2008 levels, excluding WiMAX. The company expects to continue to generate positive Free Cash Flow* during the remainder of 2009, aided by the growth of Boost Monthly Unlimited.
*FINANCIAL MEASURES
Sprint Nextel provides financial measures determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and adjusted GAAP (non-GAAP). The non-GAAP financial measures reflect industry conventions, or standard measures of liquidity, profitability or performance commonly used by the investment community for comparability purposes. These measurements should be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. We have defined below each of the non-GAAP measures we use, but these measures may not be synonymous to similar measurement terms used by other companies.
Sprint Nextel provides reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures in its financial reporting. Because Sprint Nextel does not predict special items that might occur in the future, and our forecasts are developed at a level of detail different than that used to prepare GAAP-based financial measures, Sprint Nextel does not provide reconciliations to GAAP of its forward-looking financial measures.
The measures used in this release include the following:
is diluted earnings per share (EPS) before per share special items, net of tax. is Adjusted Earnings (Loss) per Share before per share amortization, net of tax. We believe that these measures are useful because they allow investors to evaluate our performance for different periods on a more comparable basis by excluding items that relate to acquired amortizable intangible assets and not to the ongoing operations of our businesses.
Adjusted Earnings (Loss) per Share
Adjusted EPS before Amortization
 
is income (loss) from continuing operations before special items, net of tax. is Adjusted Net Income (Loss) before amortization, net of tax. We believe that these measures are useful because they allow investors to evaluate our performance for different periods on a more comparable basis by excluding items that do not relate to the ongoing operations of our businesses.
Adjusted Net Income
(Loss)
Adjusted Net Income before Amortization
is operating income (loss) before special items. We believe this measure is useful because it allows investors to evaluate our operating results for different periods on a more comparable basis by excluding special items.
Adjusted Operating Income (Loss)
is operating income before depreciation, amortization, severance, exit costs, asset impairments, abandonments, gains or losses on asset dispositions and exchanges and other special items. represents Adjusted OIBDA divided by non-equipment net operating revenues adjusted for certain non-recurring revenue adjustments for Wireless and Adjusted OIBDA divided by net operating revenues for Wireline. We believe that Adjusted OIBDA and Adjusted OIBDA Margin provide useful information to investors because they are an indicator of the strength and performance of our ongoing business operations, including our ability to fund discretionary spending such as capital expenditures, spectrum acquisitions and other investments and our ability to incur and service debt. While depreciation and amortization are considered operating costs under GAAP, these expenses primarily represent non-cash current period costs associated with the use of long-lived tangible and intangible assets. Adjusted OIBDA and Adjusted OIBDA Margin are calculations commonly used as a basis for investors, analysts and credit rating agencies to evaluate and compare the periodic and future operating performance and value of companies within the telecommunications industry.
Adjusted OIBDA
Adjusted OIBDA Margin
is the change in cash and cash equivalents less the change in debt, investment in certain securities, proceeds from common stock and other financing activities, net. We believe that Free Cash Flow provides useful information to investors, analysts and our management about the cash generated by our core operations after interest and dividends and our ability to fund scheduled debt maturities and other financing activities, including discretionary refinancing and retirement of debt and purchase or sale of investments.
Free Cash Flow
is consolidated debt, including current maturities, less cash and cash equivalents, current marketable securities and restricted cash. We believe that Net Debt provides useful information to investors, analysts and credit rating agencies about the capacity of the company to reduce the debt load and improve its capital structure.
Net Debt
SAFE HARBOR
This news release includes "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the securities laws. The statements in this news release regarding the business outlook, expected performance and forward-looking guidance, as well as other statements that are not historical facts, are forward-looking statements. The words "estimate," "project," "forecast," "intend," "expect," "believe," "target," "providing guidance" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are estimates and projections reflecting management's judgment based on currently available information and involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested by the forward-looking statements. With respect to these forward-looking statements, management has made assumptions regarding, among other things, customer and network usage, customer growth and retention, pricing, operating costs, the timing of various events and the economic and regulatory environment.
 
Future performance cannot be assured. Actual results may differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. Some factors that could cause actual results to differ include:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sprint Nextel believes these forward-looking statements are reasonable; however, you should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which are based on current expectations and speak only as of the date of this release. Sprint Nextel is not obligated to publicly release any revisions to forward-looking statements to reflect events after the date of this release.
+
"Dependable" based on independent third-party drive tests for 3G data connection success, session reliability and signal strength for the top 50 most populous markets, January 2008 to February 2009.
 
ABOUT SPRINT NEXTEL
Sprint Nextel offers a comprehensive range of wireless and wireline communications services bringing the freedom of mobility to consumers, businesses and government users. Sprint Nextel is widely recognized for developing, engineering and deploying innovative technologies, including two wireless networks serving more than 49 million customers at the end of the first quarter of 2009; industry-leading mobile data services; instant national and international walkie-talkie capabilities; and a global Tier 1 Internet backbone. For more information, visit .
www.sprint.com
 
TABLE NO. 4
 
 
TABLE NO. 5
 
 
TABLE No. 6
 
 
TABLE NO. 7
 
 
TABLE NO. 8
 
 
TABLE NO. 10
 
 
TABLE NO. 12
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


