FILE:S/S-8K-20091204132252.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 8.01. Other Events.
On November 25, 2009, pursuant to the previously announced Agreement and Plan of Merger (the "Merger Agreement"), dated as of October 18, 2009, by and among Sprint Nextel Corporation, a Kansas corporation ("Sprint Nextel"), Ireland Acquisition Corporation, a Delaware corporation and wholly-owned subsidiary of Sprint Nextel (the "Offeror"), and iPCS, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("iPCS"), Sprint Nextel completed a cash tender offer (the "Tender Offer") to acquire all of the outstanding shares of common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of iPCS (the "iPCS Common Stock") at a price of $24.00 per share, net to the holder in cash, without interest and less any required withholding taxes. At the expiration of the Tender Offer, a total of approximately 11.594 million shares of iPCS Common Stock were validly tendered and not withdrawn, including shares validly tendered by notice of guaranteed delivery, representing approximately 70% of the outstanding shares of iPCS Common Stock as of the expiration of the Tender Offer. On November 27, 2009, Sprint Nextel, through the Offeror, accepted such tendered shares for payment and exercised its option pursuant to the Merger Agreement to purchase newly-issued shares of iPCS Common Stock (the "Top-Up Shares") at a price of $24.00 per share to increase its ownership percentage of the outstanding shares of iPCS Common Stock to over 90%. The purchase of the Top-Up Shares was completed on December 4, 2009, after which a short-form merger of the Offeror with and into iPCS was consummated (the "Merger"). No vote or meeting of the stockholders of iPCS to approve the Merger was required. In the Merger, Sprint Nextel acquired all of the shares of iPCS Common Stock not previously tendered pursuant to the Tender Offer (other than those shares as to which holders properly exercise appraisal rights under applicable Delaware law) at a price of $24.00 per share, net to the holder in cash, without interest and less any required withholding taxes. As a result of the Merger, the separate corporate existence of the Offeror ceased and iPCS continues as the surviving corporation of the Merger and a wholly-owned subsidiary of Sprint Nextel.
A copy of the press release issued by Sprint Nextel announcing the closing of the transactions described above is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference. A copy of the Merger Agreement was previously filed as Exhibit 99.1 to Sprint Nextel's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on October 19, 2009.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

Exhibit 99.1
Scott Sloat, 240-855-0164 Scott.sloat@sprint.com
Sprint Nextel Media Contact:
Yijing Brentano, 800-259-3755
Sprint Nextel Investor Relations Contact:
Investor.relations@sprint.com
Sprint Nextel Corporation (NYSE: S) announced today that it has successfully completed its acquisition of iPCS, Inc. (NASDAQ: IPCS). Under the terms of the transaction, announced in October, Sprint Nextel acquired iPCS for approximately $831 million, including the assumption of $405 million of net debt. Sprint Nextel acquired all of iPCS's outstanding common shares for $24.00 per share in an all-cash transaction.
OVERLAND PARK, Kan.  Dec. 4, 2009 
As a result of the completion of the merger, iPCS is now a wholly-owned subsidiary of Sprint Nextel. iPCS shares will cease trading on NASDAQ as of the closing of the market today and will be delisted. The completion of this acquisition also allows Sprint Nextel and iPCS to resolve all the litigation pending between them.
More than 700,000 former iPCS wireless customers will now be counted as direct Sprint Nextel subscribers. As part of the acquisition, Sprint also expanded its direct service territory to cover an additional 12.6 million people. Since iPCS's services were sold under the Sprint brand name and in Sprint-branded stores, iPCS customers should not experience any change in their service as a result of this transaction.
ABOUT SPRINT NEXTEL
Sprint Nextel offers a comprehensive range of wireless and wireline communications services bringing the freedom of mobility to consumers, businesses and government users. Sprint Nextel is widely recognized for developing, engineering and deploying innovative technologies, including two wireless networks serving more than 48 million customers at the end of the third quarter of 2009 and the first and only 4G service from a national carrier in the United States; industry-leading mobile data services; instant national and international push-to-talk capabilities; and a global Tier 1 Internet backbone. The company's customer-focused strategy has led to improved first call resolution and customer care satisfaction scores. For more information, visit .
www.sprint.com
SAFE HARBOR
This press release includes forward-looking statements regarding the proposed acquisition and related transactions that are not historical or current facts and deal with potential future circumstances and developments, in particular, information regarding the acquisition of iPCS. Forward-looking statements are qualified by the inherent risk and uncertainties surrounding future expectations generally and may materially differ from actual future experience. Risks and uncertainties that could affect forward-looking statements include: the failure to realize synergies as a result of operational efficiencies, unexpected costs or liabilities, and the risks that are described from time to time in Sprint Nextel's and iPCS's respective reports filed with the SEC, including the annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008 and quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, 2009, June 30, 2009 and September 30, 2009 of each of Sprint Nextel and iPCS. This press release speaks only as of its date, and Sprint disclaims any duty to update the information herein.


