FILE:S/S-8K-20100210071007.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On February 10, 2010, Sprint Nextel Corporation announced its results for the fourth quarter of 2009 and the year ended December 31, 2009. The press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1.
 
(d) Exhibits
The following exhibit is furnished with this report:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Contacts:
Media Relations
James Fisher
703-433-8677
james.w.fisher@sprint.com
Investor Relations
Yijing Brentano
800-259-3755
Investor.relations@sprint.com
 
 
 
 
 
The company's fourth quarter earnings conference call will be held at 8 a.m. EST today. Participants may dial 800-938-1120 in the U.S. or Canada (706-634-7849 internationally) and provide the following ID: 49169223, or may listen via the Internet at www.sprint.com/investor.
today reported fourth quarter and full-year 2009 financial results. The company generated $666 million of Free Cash Flow* in the quarter, and $2.8 billion for full-year 2009, the highest annual Free Cash Flow* since the Sprint Nextel merger. As of December 31, 2009, Sprint had more than $3.9 billion in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments and $2.7 billion in borrowing capacity available under its revolving bank credit facility, for a total liquidity of $6.6 billion.
OVERLAND PARK, Kan.  February 10, 2010  Sprint Nextel Corp. (NYSE: S)
 
The company reported fourth quarter consolidated net operating revenues of almost $7.9 billion, a net loss of $980 million, which includes a non-cash $306 million charge to increase the valuation allowance on deferred taxes, and a diluted loss per share of 34 cents. Full-year 2009 results included consolidated net operating revenues of $32.3 billion and a diluted loss per share of 84 cents.
Sprint lost a total of 69,000 net retail subscribers in the quarter. The company's year-over-year post-paid gross addition improvement was the best in Sprint Nextel history. Net post-paid subscriber losses improved by more than 40 percent in the second half of 2009, as compared to the second half of 2008 and the first half of 2009. For the fourth quarter, net post-paid subscriber losses improved by almost 300,000 sequentially, and by more than 600,000 year-over-year.
"Sprint's performance built notable momentum during the second half of 2009, leading to a fourth quarter with the best sequential and year-over-year improvement in net post-paid subscriber results in Sprint Nextel history, and positive post-paid net subscriber growth for services carrying the Sprint' brand," said Dan Hesse, Sprint Nextel CEO. "The company's continued focus on clear, simple offers, exciting devices, a better customer experience, dependable network performance, and industry leadership in 4G services is resonating with customers. A recent Yankee Group report, in association with magazine, ranked Sprint #1 in overall satisfaction for both wireless voice and wireless data service providers for large businesses, underscoring our progress.
Mobile Enterprise
"We continue to closely manage costs, and in 2009 we generated the highest annual Free Cash Flow* since the merger. The fourth quarter completion of the Virgin Mobile USA, Inc. and iPCS, Inc., acquisitions, as well as our additional large investment in Clearwire, are important to our future," Hesse said.
Sprint 4G is now available in 27 markets serving more than 30 million people, and is expected to cover up to 120 million people by the end of 2010. Sprint 4G service is planned for deployment in many additional markets in 2010, including the following major metropolitan areas: Boston, Houston, New York, San Francisco, and Washington, DC.
+
Sprint-branded wireless services are only available on the CDMA network, which gained more than 3,000 post-paid customers after a net transfer of 93,000 customers from the iDEN network.
CONSOLIDATED RESULTS
TABLE NO. 1 Selected Unaudited Financial Data (dollars in millions, except per share data)
 
 
 
 
 
WIRELESS RESULTS
TABLE NO. 2 Selected Unaudited Financial Data (dollars in millions)
 
Wireless Customers
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Wireless Churn
 
 
Wireless Service Revenues
 
 
 
 
 
Wireless Operating Expenses and Adjusted OIBDA*
 
 
 
 
Wireless Capital Spending
Wireless capital expenditures were $427 million in the fourth quarter of 2009, compared to $304 million spent in the fourth quarter of 2008 and $310 million in the third quarter of 2009. During the quarter, the company invested capital in the quality and performance of its networks by adding capacity, expanding coverage and modernizing acquired affiliate networks. At the end of the fourth quarter of 2009, Sprint's dependable networks continue to operate at best-ever levels.
 
WIRELINE RESULTS
TABLE NO. 3 Selected Unaudited Financial Data (dollars in millions)
 
 
 
 
 
 
Forecast
Sprint Nextel expects that both post-paid and total subscriber losses will improve in 2010, as compared to 2009. The company expects full-year capital expenditures in 2010 to be up to $2 billion. In addition, the company expects to continue to generate positive Free Cash Flow* during 2010.
++
Average monthly data service revenue per subscriber for the quarter is calculated by dividing quarterly data service revenue by the sum of the average number of subscribers for each month in the quarter. Data service revenues include revenues from data services, as well as an estimated portion of data revenues from fixed rate bundle plans.
*FINANCIAL MEASURES
Sprint Nextel provides financial measures determined in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP) and adjusted GAAP (non-GAAP). The non-GAAP financial measures reflect industry conventions, or standard measures of liquidity, profitability or performance commonly used by the investment community for comparability purposes. These measurements should be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for, financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. We have defined below each of the non-GAAP measures we use, but these measures may not be synonymous to similar measurement terms used by other companies.
 
Sprint Nextel provides reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures in its financial reporting. Because Sprint Nextel does not predict special items that might occur in the future, and our forecasts are developed at a level of detail different than that used to prepare GAAP-based financial measures, Sprint Nextel does not provide reconciliations to GAAP of its forward-looking financial measures.
The measures used in this release include the following:
is operating income/(loss) before depreciation, amortization, asset impairments and abandonments. is excluding severance, exit costs, and other special items. represents Adjusted OIBDA divided by non-equipment net operating revenues adjusted for certain non-recurring revenue adjustments for Wireless and Adjusted OIBDA divided by net operating revenues for Wireline. We believe that Adjusted OIBDA and Adjusted OIBDA Margin provide useful information to investors because they are an indicator of the strength and performance of our ongoing business operations, including our ability to fund discretionary spending such as capital expenditures, spectrum acquisitions and other investments and our ability to incur and service debt. While depreciation and amortization are considered operating costs under GAAP, these expenses primarily represent non-cash current period costs associated with the use of long-lived tangible and intangible assets. Adjusted OIBDA and Adjusted OIBDA Margin are calculations commonly used as a basis for investors, analysts and credit rating agencies to evaluate and compare the periodic and future operating performance and value of companies within the telecommunications industry.
OIBDA
Adjusted OIBDA
OIBDA
Adjusted OIBDA Margin
is the cash provided by operating activities less the cash used in investing activities other than short-term investments during the period. Free cash flow results in the change in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments less the change in debt and proceeds from other financing activities, net. We believe that Free Cash Flow provides useful information to investors, analysts and our management about the cash generated by our core operations after interest and dividends and our ability to fund scheduled debt maturities and other financing activities, including discretionary refinancing and retirement of debt and purchase or sale of investments.
Free Cash Flow
is consolidated debt, including current maturities, less cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments and restricted cash. We believe that Net Debt provides useful information to investors, analysts and credit rating agencies about the capacity of the company to reduce the debt load and improve its capital structure.
Net Debt
SAFE HARBOR
This news release includes "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the securities laws. The statements in this news release regarding the business outlook, expected performance and forward-looking guidance, as well as other statements that are not historical facts, are forward-looking statements. The words "estimate," "project," "forecast," "intend," "expect," "believe," "target," "providing guidance" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are estimates and projections reflecting management's judgment based on currently available information and involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested by the forward-looking statements. With respect to these forward-looking statements, management has made assumptions regarding, among other things, customer and network usage, customer growth and retention, pricing, operating costs, the timing of various events and the economic and regulatory environment.
 
Future performance cannot be assured. Actual results may differ materially from those in forward-looking statements. Some factors that could cause actual results to differ include:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sprint Nextel believes these forward-looking statements are reasonable; however, you should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which are based on current expectations and speak only as of the date of this release. Sprint Nextel is not obligated to publicly release any revisions to forward-looking statements to reflect events after the date of this release.
 
ABOUT SPRINT NEXTEL
Sprint Nextel offers a comprehensive range of wireless and wireline communications services bringing the freedom of mobility to consumers, businesses and government users. Sprint Nextel is widely recognized for developing, engineering and deploying innovative technologies, including two wireless networks serving more than 48 million customers at the end of the fourth quarter of 2009 and the first and only 4G service from a national carrier in the United States; industry-leading mobile data services; instant national and international push-to-talk capabilities; and a global Tier 1 Internet backbone. The company's customer-focused strategy has led to improved first call resolution and customer care satisfaction scores. For more information, visit .
www.sprint.com
 
TABLE NO. 4
 
TABLE NO. 5
 
 
TABLE NO. 6
 
 
 
 
TABLE NO. 7
 
 
TABLE NO. 8
 
TABLE NO. 9
 
 
TABLE NO. 10
 
TABLE NO. 11
 
 
TABLE NO. 12
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


