FILE:S/S-8K-20100428081009.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On April 28, 2010, Sprint Nextel Corporation announced its results for the first quarter of 2010. The press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1.
 
(d) Exhibits
The following exhibit is furnished with this report:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Contacts:
Media Relations
Scott Sloat
240-855-0164
scott.sloat@sprint.com
Investor Relations
Yijing Brentano
800-259-3755
investor.relations@sprint.com
 
 
 
 
 
The company's first quarter earnings conference call will be held at 8 a.m. EDT today. Participants may dial 800-938-1120 in the U.S. or Canada (706-634-7849 internationally) and provide the following ID: 65705796, or may listen via the Internet at www.sprint.com/investor.
today reported first quarter 2010 financial results. The company announced first quarter consolidated net operating revenues of approximately $8.1 billion, a net loss of $865 million, which includes a non-cash $365 million (12 cents per share) increase in valuation allowance on deferred tax assets resulting from net operating loss carryforwards generated during the first quarter, and a diluted loss per share of 29 cents. Excluding the increased valuation allowance on deferred tax assets, the diluted loss per share would have been 17 cents for the quarter. The company generated $506 million of Free Cash Flow* in the quarter. As of March 31, 2010, Sprint had approximately $4.4 billion in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments.
OVERLAND PARK, Kan.  April 28, 2010  Sprint Nextel Corp. (NYSE: S)
 
Sprint lost a total of 75,000 net subscribers in the quarter. Driven by the best year-over-year improvement in post-paid gross subscriber additions and the highest prepaid gross subscriber additions in five years, the company achieved the best total company net subscriber results since the third quarter of 2007. Net post-paid subscriber losses improved year-over-year as the company lost 670,000 fewer subscribers than in the first quarter of 2009.
"Sprint's first quarter results, including increased net operating revenues and significant year-over-year net post-paid subscriber improvements show we continue to make progress in improving the business," said Dan Hesse, Sprint Nextel CEO.
Consumers and businesses alike are beginning to recognize that Sprint offers what others don't  simple and predictable value-pricing, cutting-edge devices, a growing 4G network that provides download speeds up to 10 times faster than 3G networks, and now the industry's leading money-back guarantee.
In addition, Sprint's prepaid offerings continue to grow with the new $50 unlimited offer on its CDMA network and increased handset selection including the introduction of the first BlackBerry device on Boost. Sprint also continued with the successful launch of the Assurance Wireless brand, now available in five states, and introduced an enhanced Virgin Mobile broadband offer.
"Our ongoing focus on improving the customer experience, generating cash and strengthening the brand continues to pay off. Customer satisfaction has improved for the ninth consecutive quarter and we generated more than $500 million in Free Cash Flow*. The January launch of the award-winning and critically acclaimed Sprint Overdrive
TM
3G/4G Mobile Hotspot, the upcoming launch of the world's first 3G/4G Android
TM
handset, HTC EVO
TM
4G, and the introduction of the industry's first true money-back guarantee demonstrate Sprint's innovation," Hesse said.
Beyond the Overdrive and HTC EVO 4G, since the beginning of 2010 Sprint has launched or announced several additional new devices including, Motorola i1, the world's first push-to-talk Android -powered smartphone, and Motorola Brute
TM
i680, which combines ultra-rugged durability with the best-in-class push-to-talk services of Nextel Direct Connect. Sprint also announced the latest additions to its growing portfolio of eco-friendly devices  LG Remarq
TM
and Samsung Restore
TM
, as well as the new BlackBerry Bold
TM
9650 smartphone with multimedia features and international roaming capabilities. Sprint launched the fashionable LG Lotus Elite
TM
and LG Rumor Touch
TM
, and Boost Mobile launched its first-ever QWERTY clamshell phone, the Sanyo Incognito
TM
by Kyocera, and the BlackBerry Curve
TM
8330.
Sprint launched 4G service in Houston in first quarter 2010 and Sprint 4G is now available in 28 markets serving nearly 40 million people. As previously announced by Clearwire Corp. (NASDAQ: CLWR), coverage is expected to reach up to 120 million people by the end of 2010 including deployments in Boston, New York, San Francisco, Kansas City and Washington, D.C.
 
CONSOLIDATED RESULTS
TABLE NO. 1 Selected Unaudited Financial Data (dollars in millions, except per share data)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
WIRELESS RESULTS
TABLE NO. 2 Selected Unaudited Financial Data (dollars in millions)
 
 
NM - Not Meaningful
Wireless Customers
 
 
 
 
 
 
Wireless Churn
 
 
 
Wireless Service Revenues
 
 
 
 
Wireless Operating Expenses and Adjusted OIBDA*
 
 
 
 
Wireless Capital Spending
Wireless capital expenditures were $311 million in the first quarter of 2010, compared to $197 million spent in the first quarter of 2009 and $427 million in the fourth quarter of 2009. During the quarter, the company invested in coverage and capacity to maintain a competitive position in mobile broadband and overall network quality. At the end of the first quarter of 2010, Sprint's networks continue to operate at best-ever levels.
 
WIRELINE RESULTS
TABLE NO. 3 Selected Unaudited Financial Data (dollars in millions)
 
 
 
 
 
Forecast
Sprint Nextel expects that both post-paid and total subscriber losses will improve in 2010, as compared to 2009. The company still expects full-year capital expenditures in 2010 to be up to $2 billion. In addition, the company expects to continue to generate positive Free Cash Flow* during the remainder of 2010.
*FINANCIAL MEASURES
Sprint Nextel provides financial measures determined in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP) and adjusted GAAP (non-GAAP). The non-GAAP financial measures reflect industry conventions, or standard measures of liquidity, profitability or performance commonly used by the investment community for comparability purposes. These measurements should be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for, financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. We have defined below each of the non-GAAP measures we use, but these measures may not be synonymous to similar measurement terms used by other companies.
Sprint Nextel provides reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures in its financial reporting. Because Sprint Nextel does not predict special items that might occur in the future, and our forecasts are developed at a level of detail different than that used to prepare GAAP-based financial measures, Sprint Nextel does not provide reconciliations to GAAP of its forward-looking financial measures.
 
The measures used in this release include the following:
is operating income/(loss) before depreciation, amortization, asset impairments and abandonments. is excluding severance, exit costs, and other special items. represents Adjusted OIBDA divided by non-equipment net operating revenues for Wireless and Adjusted OIBDA divided by net operating revenues for Wireline. We believe that Adjusted OIBDA and Adjusted OIBDA Margin provide useful information to investors because they are an indicator of the strength and performance of our ongoing business operations, including our ability to fund discretionary spending such as capital expenditures, spectrum acquisitions and other investments and our ability to incur and service debt. While depreciation and amortization are considered operating costs under GAAP, these expenses primarily represent non-cash current period costs associated with the use of long-lived tangible and intangible assets. Adjusted OIBDA and Adjusted OIBDA Margin are calculations commonly used as a basis for investors, analysts and credit rating agencies to evaluate and compare the periodic and future operating performance and value of companies within the telecommunications industry.
OIBDA
Adjusted OIBDA
OIBDA
Adjusted OIBDA Margin
is the cash provided by operating activities less the cash used in investing activities other than short-term investments during the period. Free cash flow results in the change in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments less the change in debt and proceeds from other financing activities, net. We believe that Free Cash Flow provides useful information to investors, analysts and our management about the cash generated by our core operations after interest and dividends and our ability to fund scheduled debt maturities and other financing activities, including discretionary refinancing and retirement of debt and purchase or sale of investments.
Free Cash Flow
is consolidated debt, including current maturities, less cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments and restricted cash. We believe that Net Debt provides useful information to investors, analysts and credit rating agencies about the capacity of the company to reduce the debt load and improve its capital structure.
Net Debt
SAFE HARBOR
This news release includes "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the securities laws. The statements in this news release regarding the business outlook, expected performance and forward-looking guidance, as well as other statements that are not historical facts, are forward-looking statements. The words "estimate," "project," "forecast," "intend," "expect," "believe," "target," "providing guidance" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are estimates and projections reflecting management's judgment based on currently available information and involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested by the forward-looking statements. With respect to these forward-looking statements, management has made assumptions regarding, among other things, customer and network usage, customer growth and retention, pricing, operating costs, the timing of various events and the economic and regulatory environment.
Future performance cannot be assured. Actual results may differ materially from those in forward-looking statements. Some factors that could cause actual results to differ include:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sprint Nextel believes these forward-looking statements are reasonable; however, you should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which are based on current expectations and speak only as of the date of this release. Sprint Nextel is not obligated to publicly release any revisions to forward-looking statements to reflect events after the date of this release.
ABOUT SPRINT NEXTEL
Sprint Nextel offers a comprehensive range of wireless and wireline communications services bringing the freedom of mobility to consumers, businesses and government users. Sprint Nextel served more than 48 million customers at the end of the first quarter of 2010 and is widely recognized for developing, engineering and deploying innovative technologies, and the first and only wireless 4G service from a national carrier in the United States; offering industry-leading mobile data services, leading prepaid brands including Virgin Mobile USA, Boost Mobile and Assurance Wireless and instant national and international push-to-talk capabilities; and a global Tier 1 Internet backbone. With its customer-focused strategy, you can learn more and visit Sprint at or and .
www.sprint.com
www.facebook.com/sprint
www.twitter.com/sprint
 
TABLE NO. 4
 
TABLE NO. 5
 
 
 
 
TABLE NO. 6
 
 
 
TABLE NO. 7
 
 
TABLE NO. 8
 
TABLE NO. 9
 
 
 
 
TABLE NO. 10
 
TABLE NO. 11
 
 
 
TABLE NO. 12
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


