FILE:S/S-8K-20101213174912.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01 Other Events.
On December 13, 2010, Sprint Nextel Corporation announced that Clearwire Corporation, Sprint and the other parties to the Clearwire Equityholders Agreement amended that agreement to permit, among other things, that Sprint may, at any time, unilaterally surrender voting securities to reduce its voting security percentage below 50 percent. The Equityholders Agreement, the Amendment to the Equityholders Agreement, and the press release are filed as Exhibits 99.1, 99.2 and 99.3, respectively.
Item 9.01                      Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
The following exhibit is furnished with this report:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
News Release
   
   
   
  
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
Exhibit 99.3
Sprint Nextel
6200 Sprint Parkway
Overland Park, Kan. 66251
Media Contacts:
Cristi Allen
Cristi.i.allen@sprint.com
913-315-1092
Scott Sloat
Scott.sloat@sprint.com
240-855-0164
Investor Relations:
Yijing Brentano
800-259-3755
investor.relations@sprint.com
 
 Dec. 13, 2010 
OVERLAND PARK, Kan.
Today
 
Sprint (NYSE:S)
issued the following statement in response to the closing of Clearwire Corporations private debt offering.
We are pleased that Clearwire has been able to secure third-party funding, which demonstrates its strength as a wholesale provider of 4G network service to Sprint.
As a result of Clearwires sale of exchangeable notes, Sprint has preemptive rights for a period ending on Jan. 2, 2011, to elect to acquire up to its pro-rata share of exchangeable notes, if it chooses to do so. No decision on whether to exercise its preemptive rights has been made by Sprint. Sprint continues to hold discussions with Clearwire regarding further investment in the company but has no plans at present to acquire Clearwire.
In addition, Clearwire, Sprint and the other parties to the Clearwire Equityholders Agreement amended that agreement to permit, among other things, that Sprint may, at any time, unilaterally surrender voting securities to reduce its voting security percentage below 50 percent. Sprint now has additional flexibility to avoid any risk that Sprint incurs a default under its debt agreements because of its voting interest in Clearwire. Any reduction would only affect Sprints voting shares in Clearwire. Sprints economic interest in Clearwire would not be affected.
About Sprint Nextel
Sprint Nextel offers a comprehensive range of wireless and wireline communications services bringing the freedom of mobility to consumers, businesses and government users. Sprint Nextel served more than 48.8 million customers at the end of the third quarter of 2010 and is widely recognized for developing, engineering and deploying innovative technologies, including the first wireless 4G service from a national carrier in the United States; offering industry-leading mobile data services, leading prepaid brands including Virgin Mobile USA, Boost Mobile, Common Cents Mobile and Assurance Wireless; instant national and international push-to-talk capabilities; and a global Tier 1 Internet backbone. ranked Sprint No. 6 in its 2010 Green Rankings, listing it as one of the nat ions greenest companies, the highest of any telecommunications company. You can learn more and visit Sprint at or and .
Newsweek
www.sprint.com
www.facebook.com/sprint
www.twitter.com/sprint
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


