FILE:S/S-8K-20100721125002.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02  Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On July 19, 2010, Daniel H. Schulman tendered his resignation to Sprint Nextel Corporation (Sprint Nextel) from his position as President - Prepaid effective August 23, 2010.  Mr. Schulman is resigning for personal reasons.
Item 7.01  Regulation FD Disclosure.
On July 21, 2010, Sprint Nextel issued a press release regarding the matters described in Item 5.02 above.  A copy of the press release announcing this action is attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
The following exhibit is furnished with this report:
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 News Release
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 Sprint Nextel
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 6200 Sprint Parkway
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 Overland Park, Kan. 66213
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Media Contact:
Leigh Horner
(703) 433-3044
leigh.horner@sprint.com
Investor Contact:
Yijing Brentano
800-259-3755
investor.relations@sprint.com
 July 21, 2010  Sprint (NYSE:S) announced today that Dan Schulman, age 52, president of Sprint Prepaid, will be leaving the company effective Aug. 23, 2010 to join American Express Company (NYSE:AXP) as Group President - Enterprise Growth.
OVERLAND PARK, Kan.
I have known Dan Schulman for many years, and he is one of the best executives I have ever worked with, said Dan Hesse, Sprint CEO. We will miss Dans leadership but he leaves with our prepaid brands in strong shape. We wish Dan much success.
When I joined Sprint, we had a great opportunity to change the way prepaid was delivered to customers, said Schulman. I couldnt be more satisfied with how we have executed against the multi-brand strategy and the strong future prepaid has ahead of it. The integration of Virgin Mobile is complete and the synergies envisioned were achieved.  Dan Hesse is a good friend and I have had the pleasure to work with him for a long time.  I leave Sprint confident in the companys direction under his leadership and management team.
With tailored brand offers including Virgin Mobile USA, Boost Mobile, Common Cents Mobile and Assurance Wireless, Sprints prepaid offerings are positioned to capture market share in this competitive wireless marketplace. Robert H. (Bob) Johnson, age 56, president of Sprints Consumer organization, will assume responsibility for Sprints prepaid go-to-market strategy as part of its focus on the wireless consumer.  Johnson also will retain Sprints consumer business that encompasses Sprints postpaid consumer marketing and sales, including acquisition, growth and base marketing programs, along with approximately 11,000 retail sales touchpoints.
About Sprint Nextel
Sprint Nextel offers a comprehensive range of wireless and wireline communications services bringing the freedom of mobility to consumers, businesses and government users. Sprint Nextel served more than 48 million customers at the end of the first quarter of 2010 and is widely recognized for developing, engineering and deploying innovative technologies, and is the first and only wireless 4G service from a national carrier in the United States; offering industry-leading mobile data services, leading prepaid brands including Virgin Mobile USA, Boost Mobile, Common Cents Mobile and Assurance Wireless and instant national and international push-to-talk capabilities; and a global Tier 1 Internet backbone. With its customer-focused strategy, you can learn more and visit Sprint at or and .
www.sprint.com
www.facebook.com/sprint
www.twitter.com/sprint


