FILE:S/S-8K-20100806135856.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02  Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
(e)    On August 5, 2010, Sprint Nextel Corporation (the Company) and Keith O. Cowan, President Strategic Planning and Corporate Initiatives of the Company, entered into an amendment (the Amendment) to Mr. Cowans employment agreement (the Agreement). The Amendment is designed to provide certain benefits to Mr. Cowan in exchange for continuing his employment with the Company beyond the initial employment term provided in his Agreement.  Contingent on Mr. Cowans continued employment through the earliest of (a) June 30, 2011, (b) his resignation mutually agreeable to him and the Chief Executive Officer, or (c) termination by the Company not for Cause or by Mr. Cowan for Good Reason (each as defined in the Agreement), the Amendmen t provides for:
 
 
 
 
subject to Mr. Cowans compliance with the restrictive covenants in the Agreement through the earlier of the end of the Restricted Period (as defined in the Agreement) and such vesting date and to any applicable performance adjustments;
 
 
 
The Amendment is filed as Exhibit 10.1 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference herein.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 (d) Exhibits
 
The following exhibits are filed with this report:
 
                                
Exhibit No.
Description
 
 
.
  
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                
Exhibit No.
Description
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
This First Amendment (the Amendment) to that certain Amended and Restated Employment Agreement made and entered into as of December 31, 2008 by and between Sprint Nextel Corporation and Keith O. Cowan (the Agreement) is made and entered into August 5, 2010 (the Amendment Effective Date).  Certain capitalized term shall have the meaning ascribed to them in the Agreement.
WHEREAS, the Company and the Executive desire that Executive continue his employment beyond the Initial Employment Term and to amend the Agreement as provided herein.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and of the covenants and agreements set forth herein and for other good and valuable consideration, the sufficiency and receipt of which are hereby acknowledged, the Company and the Executive hereby amend the Agreement as follows:
Conditioned upon Executives continued employment through the earliest of (a) June 30, 2011, (b) Executives resignation mutually agreeable to Executive and the Chief Executive Officer, or (c) employment termination by the Company not for Cause or by the Executive for Good Reason (Retention Date):
subject to the continued applicability of the performance adjustments of any performance-based restricted stock units and to Executives compliance with the restrictive covenants in the Agreement through the earlier of the applicable vesting date and the end of the Restricted Period;
 
 
 
Cowan Employment Agreement First Amendment
 
In all other respects, the terms, conditions and provisions of the Agreement shall remain the same.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Amendment to be signed by an officer pursuant to the authority of its Board, and the Executive has executed this Amendment, effective as of the day and year first written above.
SPRINT NEXTEL CORPORATION
                                           
/s/ Sandra J. Price
By: Sandra J. Price
EXECUTIVE
/s/ Keith O. Cowan
Keith O. Cowan
 
 
 


