FILE:S/S-8K-20101027074148.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On October 27, 2010, Sprint Nextel Corporation announced its results for the third quarter of 2010. The press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1.
 
(d) Exhibits
The following exhibit is furnished with this report:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
News Release
Contacts:
Media Relations
Cristi Allen
913-315-1092
cristi.i.allen@sprint.com
Investor Relations
Yijing Brentano
800-259-3755
investor.relations@sprint.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
The company's third quarter earnings conference call will be held at 8 a.m. EDT today. Participants may dial 800-938-1120 in the U.S. or Canada (706-634-7849 internationally) and provide the following ID: 11720738, or may listen via the Internet at www.sprint.com/investor.
today reported that during the third quarter of 2010, the company achieved its best total company wireless subscriber net additions since 2006, adding 644,000 total wireless subscribers driven by positive net postpaid subscriber growth of 354,000 for the Sprint brand and the company's best year-over-year improvement in postpaid churn in five years. Demand for smartphones like Samsung Epic 4G
OVERLAND PARK, Kan.  Oct. 27, 2010  Sprint Nextel Corp. (NYSE: S)
TM
and HTC EVO
TM
4G remained strong, and the company delivered postpaid churn of 1.93 percent  the best postpaid churn result Sprint has reported in the third quarter of any year.
Sprint announced third quarter consolidated net operating revenues of almost $8.2 billion, a net loss of $911 million and a diluted loss per share of 30 cents. The company generated $384 million of Free Cash Flow* in the quarter, and maintained a strong liquidity position with approximately $4.7 billion in cash and cash equivalents at the end of the quarter.
"Driven by record customer satisfaction, and the performance of iconic devices like the EVO and Epic, Sprint's momentum continued this quarter," said Dan Hesse, Sprint CEO. "The Sprint brand gained postpaid customers for the fourth consecutive quarter as, for the second consecutive quarter based on porting data, more customers switched to Sprint from our competitors than switched from Sprint to our competitors. In addition, our last two quarters have been all-time bests for postpaid churn. We also saw improvement sequentially in prepaid net adds and our lowest prepaid churn in almost five years."
 
 
Sprint continued to receive recognition, including the No. 6 spot in Green Ranking and multiple awards for customer satisfaction during the quarter. Sprint won seven ATLANTIC-ACM Awards for Business Connectivity and Wireless Business Excellence. For the second year in a row, Sprint received top honors in the Nemertes 2010 Pilothouse awards for MPLS Services. And in the device category, HTC EVO 4G was honored with Breakthrough Award which recognizes the innovators and products poised to change the world in the fields of technology, medicine, aviation, environmental engineering and more.
Newsweek's
POPULAR MECHANICS'
Sprint's multi-brand prepaid strategy continued to roll out during the third quarter as the company's new Virgin Mobile "Beyond Talk" data-centric plans and Assurance Wireless plans significantly contributed to increased gross additions. The focus on data and connectivity was also supported by a new $40 unlimited data plan for Virgin's Broadband2Go product line. As part of the broader portfolio, Sprint also launched payLo by Virgin Mobile, providing value for the customer with basic communications needs with a 400 Minutes for $20/month plan. And Boost Mobile added another dimension to its unlimited offer with a $2 Daily option.
"Earlier this month at CTIA, we introduced Sprint ID, a ground-breaking innovation available on devices using the Android platform that lets customers download up to five packs' of mobile content built around customers' interests or business needs. Recognized and respected brands like Yahoo!, HSN, Disney, ESPN, LatCel and eBay have teamed with Sprint to deliver easy navigation and simplicity in a growing ocean of mobile applications. Sprint will differentiate itself by bringing simplicity and openness to the mobile Internet," Hesse said.
Heading into the holidays, Sprint boasts a varied and compelling device portfolio that includes more than a dozen products that offer 4G service, including phones, USB modems, mobile hotspots and routers. The popular Samsung Epic 4G became Sprint's second 4G handset when it debuted in stores in September. The award-winning Samsung Galaxy
TM
Tab will be available to customers Nov. 14, with 3G network speeds and integrated Sprint ID. Last week, Sprint became the first wireless carrier in America to offer an embedded 3G/4G netbook and notebook, announcing the availability of Dell Inspiron Mini 10 (1012) and Dell Inspiron 11z. And debuting Oct. 31, 2010, the Blackberry Style
TM
9670 will offer an elegant flip design, full QWERTY keyboard, advanced smartphone features and new BlackBerry 6 OS.
Sprint launched 4G service in 19 new cities during the quarter, including Boston, Orlando and Nashville. Sprint 4G is now available in 55 markets. As previously announced by Clearwire Corp. (NASDAQ: CLWR), coverage is expected to reach up to 120 million people by the end of 2010, including a deployment in New York on Nov. 1, and in December, Sprint will launch 4G service in Los Angeles, Miami, and San Francisco, to name a few.
 
 
CONSOLIDATED RESULTS
 
 
TABLE NO. 1 Selected Unaudited Financial Data (dollars in millions, except per share data)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
WIRELESS RESULTS
 
 
TABLE NO. 2 Selected Unaudited Financial Data (dollars in millions)
 
Wireless Customers
 
 
 
 
 
 
Wireless Churn
 
 
 
 
 
Wireless Service Revenues
 
 
 
 
Wireless Operating Expenses and Adjusted OIBDA*
 
 
 
 
 
 
WIRELINE RESULTS
 
 
TABLE NO. 3 Selected Unaudited Financial Data (dollars in millions)
 
 
 
 
Forecast
Sprint Nextel expects that postpaid, prepaid and total net subscriber results will improve in the fourth quarter of 2010, as compared to the third quarter of 2010. The company continues to expect full-year capital expenditures in 2010 to be up to $2 billion. In addition, the company expects to continue to generate positive Free Cash Flow* during the remainder of 2010.
 
 
*FINANCIAL MEASURES
 
 
Sprint Nextel provides financial measures determined in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP) and adjusted GAAP (non-GAAP). The non-GAAP financial measures reflect industry conventions, or standard measures of liquidity, profitability or performance commonly used by the investment community for comparability purposes. These measurements should be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for, financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. We have defined below each of the non-GAAP measures we use, but these measures may not be synonymous to similar measurement terms used by other companies.
Sprint Nextel provides reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures in its financial reporting. Because Sprint Nextel does not predict special items that might occur in the future, and our forecasts are developed at a level of detail different than that used to prepare GAAP-based financial measures, Sprint Nextel does not provide reconciliations to GAAP of its forward-looking financial measures.
The measures used in this release include the following:
is operating income/(loss) before depreciation and amortization. is excluding severance, exit costs, and other special items. represents Adjusted OIBDA divided by non-equipment net operating revenues for Wireless and Adjusted OIBDA divided by net operating revenues for Wireline. We believe that Adjusted OIBDA and Adjusted OIBDA Margin provide useful information to investors because they are an indicator of the strength and performance of our ongoing business operations, including our ability to fund discretionary spending such as capital expenditures, spectrum acquisitions and other investments and our ability to incur and service debt. While depreciation and amortization are considered operating costs under GAAP, these expenses primarily represent non-cash current period costs associated with the use of long-lived tangible and intangible assets. Adjusted OIBDA and Adjusted OIBDA Margin are calculations commonly used as a basis for investors, analysts and credit rating agencies to evaluate and compare the periodic and future operating performance and value of companies within the telecommunications industry.
OIBDA
Adjusted OIBDA
OIBDA
Adjusted OIBDA Margin
is the cash provided by operating activities less the cash used in investing activities other than short-term investments and equity method investments during the period. We believe that Free Cash Flow provides useful information to investors, analysts and our management about the cash generated by our core operations after interest and dividends and our ability to fund scheduled debt maturities and other financing activities, including discretionary refinancing and retirement of debt and purchase or sale of investments.
Free Cash Flow
is consolidated debt, including current maturities, less cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments and restricted cash. We believe that Net Debt provides useful information to investors, analysts and credit rating agencies about the capacity of the company to reduce the debt load and improve its capital structure.
Net Debt
 
 
SAFE HARBOR
 
 
This news release includes "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the securities laws. The statements in this news release regarding the business outlook, expected performance and forward-looking guidance, as well as other statements that are not historical facts, are forward-looking statements. The words "estimate," "project," "forecast," "intend," "expect," "believe," "target," "providing guidance" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are estimates and projections reflecting management's judgment based on currently available information and involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested by the forward-looking statements. With respect to these forward-looking statements, management has made assumptions regarding, among other things, customer and network usage, customer growth and retention, pricing, operating costs, the timing of various events and the economic and regulatory environment.
Future performance cannot be assured. Actual results may differ materially from those in forward-looking statements. Some factors that could cause actual results to differ include:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sprint Nextel believes these forward-looking statements are reasonable; however, you should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which are based on current expectations and speak only as of the date of this release. Sprint Nextel is not obligated to publicly release any revisions to forward-looking statements to reflect events after the date of this release.
Clearwire's third quarter 2010 results from operations have not yet been finalized. As a result, the amount reflected for Sprint's share of Clearwire's results of operations for the quarter ended September 30, 2010, is an estimate and, based upon the finalization of Clearwire's results, may need to be revised if our estimate materially differs from Clearwire's actual results. Changes in our estimate, if any, would affect the carrying value of our investment in Clearwire, net loss and basic and diluted loss per common share but would have no effect on Sprint's operating income, OIBDA, Adjusted OIBDA or consolidated statement of cash flows.
About Sprint Nextel
Sprint Nextel offers a comprehensive range of wireless and wireline communications services bringing the freedom of mobility to consumers, businesses and government users. Sprint Nextel served more than 48.8 million customers at the end of the third quarter of 2010 and is widely recognized for developing, engineering and deploying innovative technologies, including the first wireless 4G service from a national carrier in the United States; offering industry-leading mobile data services, leading prepaid brands including Virgin Mobile USA, Boost Mobile, Common Cents Mobile and Assurance Wireless; instant national and international push-to-talk capabilities; and a global Tier 1 Internet backbone. With its customer-focused strategy, you can learn more and visit Sprint at or and .
www.sprint.com
www.facebook.com/sprint
www.twitter.com/sprint
 
 
TABLE NO. 4
 
TABLE NO. 5
 
 
 
TABLE NO. 6
 
 
 
 
TABLE NO. 7
 
 
 
TABLE NO. 8
 
TABLE NO. 9
 
 
 
TABLE NO. 10
 
TABLE NO. 11
 
 
 
TABLE NO. 12
 
 
TABLE NO. 13
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


