FILE:S/S-8K-20100728075734.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On July 28, 2010, Sprint Nextel Corporation announced its results for the second quarter of 2010. The press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1.
 
(d) Exhibits
The following exhibit is furnished with this report:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Contacts:
Media Relations
Cristi Allen
913-315-1092
cristi.i.allen@sprint.com
Investor Relations
Yijing Brentano
800-259-3755
investor.relations@sprint.com
 
 
 
The company's second quarter earnings conference call will be held at 8 a.m. EDT today. Participants may dial 800-938-1120 in the U.S. or Canada (706-634-7849 internationally) and provide the following ID: 84971063, or may listen via the Internet at www.sprint.com/investor.
today reported that during the second quarter of 2010, the company achieved its first total net wireless subscriber growth in three years and its best postpaid churn result ever.
OVERLAND PARK, Kan.  July 28, 2010  Sprint Nextel Corp. (NYSE: S)
Sprint announced second quarter consolidated net operating revenues of approximately $8.0 billion, a net loss of $760 million and a diluted loss per share of 25 cents, which includes a non-cash $302 million (10-cent-per-share charge) increase in valuation allowance
 
on deferred tax assets resulting from net operating loss carryforwards generated during the second quarter, for a pro forma diluted loss per share of 15 cents. The company generated $709 million of Free Cash Flow* in the quarter, and maintained a strong liquidity position with approximately $4.3 billion in cash and cash equivalents at the end of the quarter after retiring all 2010 note maturities of $750 million in the quarter.
"Our intense focus for the past ten quarters on improving the customer experience, strengthening our brands, and generating cash are paying off," said Dan Hesse, Sprint Nextel CEO. "With strong cash flow, stable OIBDA and widespread third-party recognition for the improvements we're making in the customer experience, which in turn strengthens our brands, we feel we can confidently improve our subscriber forecasts for the second half of 2010 and deliver positive total net wireless subscriber additions for the remainder of the year."
Evidence of the company's momentum in customer satisfaction has come from a variety of sources. With accolades from American Customer Satisfaction Index, Gartner, Forrester, and Frost & Sullivan, Sprint's significant improvements in customer service are being recognized.
Sprint gained a total of approximately 111,000 net subscribers in the quarter. Demand for smartphones like HTC EVO 4G and BlackBerry Curve  combined with Sprint's best ever postpaid churn of 1.85 percent  led to positive net postpaid subscriber growth of 136,000 on the CDMA network and 285,000 for the Sprint brand, and best ever year-over-year quarterly net postpaid subscriber loss improvement of 763,000. The company achieved its best year-over-year quarterly improvement in postpaid gross subscriber additions in more than five years.
"I also want to underscore the importance of the prepaid business. We re-launched the Virgin Mobile brand, introduced Common Cents
SM
Mobile in about 700 Walmart stores this quarter, and we are encouraged by the customer response to Assurance Wireless
SM
, our government-subsidized program for qualified customers who need reliable wireless service," Hesse said.
As part of the re-launch of the Virgin Mobile brand to serve data-centric customers, Sprint introduced the brand's first smartphone, BlackBerry Curve 8530, and its first touchscreen handset, LG Rumor Touch. The Virgin Mobile brand will continue to focus on more sophisticated handsets to complement its Beyond Talk plans. Further enhancing the Virgin Mobile brand's prepaid Broadband2Go
SM
product, Sprint introduced MiFi 2200, a USB device which allows customers to link up to 5 wireless devices.
The world's first 3G/4G Android phone, HTC EVO 4G, became available in June. Sprint's second 4G-capable handset, the Samsung Epic 4G, was recently announced as the only Galaxy S phone to offer 4G as well as a slide-out QWERTY keyboard. Sprint extended its green leadership in the wireless industry by introducing eco-friendly devices LG Remarq and Samsung Restore. In addition, Samsung Seek debuted as a messaging device with first-of-its-kind reusable packaging. For push-to-talk customers, Sprint launched Motorola i1, a Nextel Direct Connect Android smartphone.
Sprint launched 4G service in eight new markets during the quarter, including its hometown, Kansas City. Sprint 4G is now available in 43 markets serving approximately 51 million people. As previously announced by Clearwire Corp. (NASDAQ: CLWR), coverage is expected to reach up to 120 million people by the end of 2010 including deployments in Boston, New York, San Francisco and Washington, D.C.
 
CONSOLIDATED RESULTS
TABLE NO. 1 Selected Unaudited Financial Data (dollars in millions, except per share data)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
WIRELESS RESULTS
TABLE NO. 2 Selected Unaudited Financial Data (dollars in millions)
 
NMNot Meaningful
Wireless Customers
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Wireless Churn
 
 
 
Wireless Service Revenues
 
 
 
 
Wireless Operating Expenses and Adjusted OIBDA*
 
 
 
 
 
WIRELINE RESULTS
TABLE NO. 3 Selected Unaudited Financial Data (dollars in millions)
 
 
 
 
Forecast
Sprint Nextel expects to deliver positive total net wireless subscriber additions during the remainder of 2010 and fewer net postpaid subscriber losses in the second half of 2010, as compared to the first half of 2010. The company continues to expect full-year capital expenditures in 2010 to be up to $2 billion. In addition, the company expects to continue to generate positive Free Cash Flow* during the remainder of 2010.
*FINANCIAL MEASURES
Sprint Nextel provides financial measures determined in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP) and adjusted GAAP (non-GAAP). The non-GAAP financial measures reflect industry conventions, or standard measures of liquidity, profitability or performance commonly used by the investment community for comparability purposes. These measurements should be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for, financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. We have defined below each of the non-GAAP measures we use, but these measures may not be synonymous to similar measurement terms used by other companies.
Sprint Nextel provides reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures in its financial reporting. Because Sprint Nextel does not predict special items that might occur in the future, and our forecasts are developed at a level of detail different than that used to prepare GAAP-based financial measures, Sprint Nextel does not provide reconciliations to GAAP of its forward-looking financial measures.
 
The measures used in this release include the following:
is operating income/(loss) before depreciation, amortization, asset impairments and abandonments. is excluding severance, exit costs, and other special items. represents Adjusted OIBDA divided by non-equipment net operating revenues for Wireless and Adjusted OIBDA divided by net operating revenues for Wireline. We believe that Adjusted OIBDA and Adjusted OIBDA Margin provide useful information to investors because they are an indicator of the strength and performance of our ongoing business operations, including our ability to fund discretionary spending such as capital expenditures, spectrum acquisitions and other investments and our ability to incur and service debt. While depreciation and amortization are considered operating costs under GAAP, these expenses primarily represent non-cash current period costs associated with the use of long-lived tangible and intangible assets. Adjusted OIBDA and Adjusted OIBDA Margin are calculations commonly used as a basis for investors, analysts and credit rating agencies to evaluate and compare the periodic and future operating performance and value of companies within the telecommunications industry.
OIBDA
Adjusted OIBDA
OIBDA
Adjusted OIBDA Margin
is the cash provided by operating activities less the cash used in investing activities other than short-term investments and equity method investments during the period. We believe that Free Cash Flow provides useful information to investors, analysts and our management about the cash generated by our core operations after interest and dividends and our ability to fund scheduled debt maturities and other financing activities, including discretionary refinancing and retirement of debt and purchase or sale of investments.
Free Cash Flow
is consolidated debt, including current maturities, less cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments and restricted cash. We believe that Net Debt provides useful information to investors, analysts and credit rating agencies about the capacity of the company to reduce the debt load and improve its capital structure.
Net Debt
SAFE HARBOR
This news release includes "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the securities laws. The statements in this news release regarding the business outlook, expected performance and forward-looking guidance, as well as other statements that are not historical facts, are forward-looking statements. The words "estimate," "project," "forecast," "intend," "expect," "believe," "target," "providing guidance" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are estimates and projections reflecting management's judgment based on currently available information and involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested by the forward-looking statements. With respect to these forward-looking statements, management has made assumptions regarding, among other things, customer and network usage, customer growth and retention, pricing, operating costs, the timing of various events and the economic and regulatory environment.
Future performance cannot be assured. Actual results may differ materially from those in forward-looking statements. Some factors that could cause actual results to differ include:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sprint Nextel believes these forward-looking statements are reasonable; however, you should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which are based on current expectations and speak only as of the date of this release. Sprint Nextel is not obligated to publicly release any revisions to forward-looking statements to reflect events after the date of this release.
ABOUT SPRINT NEXTEL
Sprint Nextel offers a comprehensive range of wireless and wireline communications services bringing the freedom of mobility to consumers, businesses and government users. Sprint Nextel served more than 48 million customers at the end of the second quarter of 2010 and is widely recognized for developing, engineering and deploying innovative technologies, and is the first and only wireless 4G service from a national carrier in the United States; offering industry-leading mobile data services, leading prepaid brands including Virgin Mobile, Boost Mobile, Common Cents Mobile and Assurance Wireless and instant national and international push-to-talk capabilities; and a global Tier 1 Internet backbone. With its customer-focused strategy, you can learn more and visit Sprint at or and .
www.sprint.com
www.facebook.com/sprint
www.twitter.com/sprint
 
TABLE NO. 4
 
TABLE NO. 5
 
 
TABLE NO. 6
 
 
TABLE NO. 7
 
 
TABLE NO. 8
 
TABLE NO. 9
 
 
TABLE NO. 10
 
TABLE NO. 11
 
 
TABLE NO. 12
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


