FILE:S/S-8K-20110419110936.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On April 19, 2011, Sprint Nextel Corporation (Sprint) announced an amendment to its long-term agreement with Clearwire Corporation (Clearwire) that establishes new wholesale pricing terms and provides Clearwire a minimum of $1 billion from Sprint to be paid during 2011 and 2012 for 4G wholesale services comprised of minimum usage commitments of $300 Million in 2011, $550 Million in 2012 and $175 Million in pre-payments for 4G wholesale services to be used in 2011, 2012 and beyond. The press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1.
 
 
 
 
 
 
(d) Exhibits
 
The following exhibit is furnished with this report:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
                                                                                             
                                                                                 
SPRINT NEXTEL CORPORATION
                                                                                       
Date: April 19, 2011                                                                                                                                           
/s/ Timothy O'Grady
                                                                                 By:          Timothy OGrady
                                                                                                 Assistant Secretary
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Clearwire
 
For Release April 19, 2011
6:00 AM Pacific
Companies Amend Long-Term Agreement for Wholesale Pricing for Sprints 4G Smartphones and All Other 4G Services, Including a Minimum Cash Commitment Totaling at Least $1 Billion to be Paid to Clearwire During 2011 and 2012
 (NYSE:S) and (NASDAQ: CLWR) today announced an amendment to their long-term agreement that establishes new wholesale pricing terms and provides Clearwire a minimum of $1 billion from Sprint to be paid during 2011 and 2012 for 4G wholesale services comprised of minimum usage commitments of $300 million in 2011, $550 million in 2012 and $175 million in pre-payments for 4G wholesale services to be used in 2011, 2012 and beyond. The parties expect the agreement to continue to drive the growth and collaboration of both companies strategic 4G initiatives.
Overland Park, Kan. and Kirkland, Wash.  April 19, 2011
Sprint Nextel
Clearwire
"We are pleased to reach this wholesale pricing agreement with Clearwire, said Dan Hesse, Sprint CEO.  We look forward to working with them under this new agreement to provide an expanded offering of 4G capabilities and solutions for Sprint customers.  
Sprint has been our biggest and most important customer and partner since we launched 4G services in the U.S. more than two years ago, said John Stanton, Clearwires interim CEO. Todays agreement further aligns Sprint and Clearwires interests and lays the foundation for a continued, constructive relationship. We are pleased to have the resources and partnerships necessary to maintain our 4G leadership and leverage our significant spectrum and capacity for delivering mobile broadband services.
4G PRICING AND REVENUE COMMITMENTS
In addition to Sprints commitment of $300 million in 2011, $550 million in 2012, and the prepayment of $175 million, the companies reached an agreement regarding wholesale pricing for Sprint devices that operate on both Sprints 3G network and Clearwires 4G network. This includes smartphones such as the awardwinning HTC EVO 4G and Samsung Epic 4G and other dual-mode devices like the newly introduced Novatel Wireless MiFi 3G/4G Mobile Hotspot 4082.
The agreement includes usage based pricing and volume discounts and is aimed at aligning the interests of both companies to enable growth for customers using smartphones and dual-mode devices. The agreement also includes minimum payments per 4G device.
Clearwire and Sprint also plan further collaboration to expand Sprints capability to offer customized solutions using 4G technology. This is expected to allow Sprint to better serve its target enterprise and government customers with mission critical wireless broadband solutions both for mobility and local area network applications and expand its Machine-to-Machine (M2M) solutions for large and small businesses.
The agreement also expands the mutual re-wholesaling rights whereby both companies can resell the others respective 3G and 4G networks to other parties. The agreement is expected to open up new market segments for both Sprint and Clearwire to both jointly and independently pursue.
 
 
1
CLEARWIRE
 
 
HISTORIC PARTNERSHIP
The long-term partnership between Sprint and Clearwire has been one of the most productive in the U.S. wireless market. Together, the two companies deployed the first true 4G network in North America, leading the wireless industrys rapid progression to a mobile broadband future while making 4G a household word. The Clearwire 4G network is backed by some of the leading companies in telecommunications and technology, including Comcast, Time Warner Cable, Intel, Google and Bright House Networks.
With flexible all-IP network architecture and substantial wireless spectrum depth, the Clearwire 4G network is well positioned to continue serving the companys customers and wholesale partners demands for fast, reliable, high-capacity mobile broadband service across the U.S.
 
About Sprint Nextel
 
 
Sprint Nextel offers a comprehensive range of wireless and wireline communications services bringing the freedom of mobility to consumers, businesses and government users. Sprint Nextel served more than 49.9 million customers at the end of 2010 and is widely recognized for developing, engineering and deploying innovative technologies, including the first wireless 4G service from a national carrier in the United States; offering industry-leading mobile data services, leading prepaid brands including Virgin Mobile USA, Boost Mobile, and Assurance Wireless; instant national and international push-to-talk capabilities; and a global Tier 1 Internet backbone. Newsweek ranked Sprint No. 6 in its 2010 Green Rankings, listing it as one of the nations greenest companies, the highest of any telecommunications company. You can learn more and visit Sprint at or and .
SM
www.sprint.com
www.facebook.com/sprint
www.twitter.com/sprint
 
About Clearwire
Clearwire Corporation (NASDAQ: CLWR), through its operating subsidiaries, is a leading provider of wireless broadband services. Clearwire's 4G network is currently available in areas of the U.S. where 120 million people live. Clearwire's open all-IP network, combined with significant spectrum holdings, provides an unprecedented combination of speed and mobility to deliver next generation broadband access. The company markets its 4G service through its own brand called CLEAR as well as through its wholesale relationships with companies such as Sprint, Comcast, Time Warner Cable, and Best Buy. Strategic investors include Intel Capital, Comcast, Sprint, Google, Time Warner Cable, and Bright House Networks. Clearwire is headquartered in Kirkland, Wash. Additional information is available at .
www.clearwire.com
Clearwire, CLEAR, and the CLEAR logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of Clearwire Communications LLC in the United States and/or other countries. All other company or product names are trademarks of their respective owners.
Forward-Looking Statements
This release, and other written and oral statements made by Clearwire from time to time, contains forward-looking statements which are based on management's current expectations and beliefs, as well as on a number of assumptions concerning future events made with information that is currently available. Forward-looking statements may include, without limitation, management's expectations regarding future financial and operating performance and financial condition; proposed transactions; network development and market launch plans; strategic plans and objectives; industry conditions; the strength of the balance sheet; and liquidity and financing needs. The words "will," "would," "may," "should," "estimate," "project," "forecast," "intend," "expect," "believe," "target," "designed," "plan" and similar expressions are intended to identify
 
 
2
 
CLEARWIRE
 
forward-looking statements. Readers are cautioned not to put undue reliance on such forward- looking statements, which are not a guarantee of performance and are subject to a number of uncertainties and other factors, many of which are outside of Clearwire's control, which could cause actual results to differ materially and adversely from such statements. Some factors that could cause actual results to differ are:
For a more detailed description of the factors that could cause such a difference, please refer to Clearwire's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the information under the heading "Risk Factors" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed on February 22, 2011.Clearwire assumes no obligation to update or supplement such forward-looking statements.
Safe Harbor" Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995
This news release includes forward-looking statements  within the meaning of the securities laws. The statements in this news release regarding network performance, coverage and capabilities, business and network efficiencies, including expected financial savings, new technologies, products and services, and environmental sustainability, as well as other statements that are not historical facts, are forward-looking statements. The words estimate, project, forecast, intend, expect, believe, target, and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are estimates and projections
 
 
3
CLEARWIRE
 
 
reflecting managements judgment based on currently available information and involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested by the forward-looking statements. With respect to these forward-looking statements, management has made assumptions regarding, among other things, development and deployment of new technologies; operating costs; efficiencies and cost savings of multimode technologies; customer and network usage; customer growth and retention; pricing; service, coverage and quality; environmental sustainability; availability of devices; the timing of various events and the economic environment. Sprint Nextel believes these forward-looking statements are reasonable; however, you should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which are based on current expectations and speak only as of the date of this release. Sprint Nextel is not obligated to publicly release any revisions to forward-looking statements to reflect events after the date of this release. Sprint Nextel provides a detailed discussion of risk factors in periodic SEC filings, including its annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2010.
Sprint Contacts
Investor Relations
Yijing Brentano, 800-259-3755
investor.relations@sprint.com
Media Relations
Scott Sloat, 240-855-0164
Scott.sloat@sprint.com
 
 
Clearwire Contacts
Investor Relations:
Paul Blalock, 425-636-5828
paul.blalock@clearwire.com
Media Relations:
Susan Johnston, 425-216-7913
susan.johnston@clearwire.com
JLM Partners for Clearwire
Mike DiGioia or Jeremy Pemble, 206-381-3600
or
mike@jlmpartners.com
jeremy@jlmpartners.com
 
4 
 


