FILE:S/S-8K-20110516160656.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
TEXT:
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.07 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.
 
(a)
 
Sprint Nextel Corporations 2011 Annual Meeting of Shareholders was held on May 10, 2011. At the meeting, the following items were submitted to a vote of shareholders.
 
The number of common shares present at the Annual Meeting of Shareholders of Sprint Nextel Corporation was 2,577,001,363 or 86% of the common shares outstanding on March 11, 2011, the record date for the meeting.
 
(b)
 
 
 
 
2.  The proposal to ratify the appointment of KPMG LLP as the Companys independent registered public accounting firm for 2011 was approved based upon the following votes:
 
3. The proposal to approve, on an advisory basis, executive compensation was approved based upon the following votes:
 
 
4.  The proposal on the frequency of future advisory votes on executive compensation received the following votes:
 
 
 
 
5.  The shareholder proposal concerning political contributions was not approved based upon the following votes:
 
 
6.   The shareholder proposal concerning retention of equity awards was not approved based upon the following votes:
 
7.   The shareholder proposal concerning a change to a voting requirement was approved based upon the following:
 
 
(c) Not applicable.                                                                                                                                                                                
        
 
(d) Based upon the results set forth in item (b)(4) above, the Board of Directors determined that the Company currently intends to hold an advisory vote on the compensation of our named executive officers every year until the next required vote on the frequency of advisory votes on executive compensation. The Company is required to hold votes on frequency every six years.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 


