FILE:S/S-8K-20110404172535.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On April 4, 2011, Sprint Nextel Corporation (Sprint) announced that Joseph J. Euteneuer has been appointed as the companys Chief Financial Officer effective April 4, 2011. Mr. Euteneuer will succeed Robert H. Brust, who will resign as Chief Financial Officer on April 4, 2011. Mr. Brust will remain with Sprint through April 30, 2011, in order to transition his responsibilities.
 
 
As previously disclosed in our Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on December 21, 2010, Mr. Euteneuer has been serving since September 12, 2008 as Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer of Qwest, a telecommunications carrier providing local and long distance voice, data and internet wireline services as well as wireless and digital television services through certain partnerships. Previously, Mr. Euteneuer served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of XM Satellite Radio Holdings Inc., a satellite radio provider, from 2002 until September 2008 after it merged with SIRIUS Satellite Radio, Inc. Prior to joining XM, Mr. Euteneuer held various management positions at Comcast Corporation and its subsidiary, Broadnet Europe.
 
 
(d) Exhibits
 
 
The following exhibits are filed with this report:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
SPRINT NEXTEL CORPORATION
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 
 
Date: April 4, 2011 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
/s/ Timothy O'Grady
By: Timothy OGrady
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  Assistant Secretary
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
    
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
News Release
Contacts:
Media Relations
Cristi Allen
913-315-1092
cristi.i.allen@sprint.com
Investor Relations
Yijing Brentano
800-259-3755
investor.relations@sprint.com
Sprint Nextel today announced that Joseph J. Euteneuer, 55, has officially joined Sprint as its chief financial officer, succeeding Bob Brust, who is retiring.
OVERLAND PARK, Kan.  April 4, 2011 
(NYSE: S)
Sprint announced in late 2010 that it had reached an agreement with Euteneuer, who was then serving as executive vice president, chief financial officer for Qwest Communications International Inc., to join the company following the completion of the merger between Qwest and CenturyLink Inc. On April 1, 2011, CenturyLink announced the closure of its merger with Qwest.
 
Before serving as Qwests CFO, Euteneuer served as executive vice president and chief financial officer of XM Satellite Radio Holdings Inc., a satellite radio provider, from 2002 until September 2008 after it merged with SIRIUS Satellite Radio, Inc. Before joining XM, Euteneuer held various management positions at Comcast Corporation and its subsidiary, Broadnet Europe. A native of Chicago, Euteneuer holds a bachelors degree in accounting from Arizona State University, and he is a certified public accountant.
 
 
Euteneuer will be based in Overland Park, Kan., the location of Sprints corporate headquarters.
 
About Sprint Nextel
Sprint Nextel offers a comprehensive range of wireless and wireline communications services bringing the freedom of mobility to consumers, businesses and government users. Sprint Nextel served more than 49.9 million customers at the end of 2010 and is widely recognized for developing, engineering and deploying innovative technologies, including the first wireless 4G service from a national carrier in the United States; offering industry-leading mobile data services, leading prepaid brands including Virgin Mobile USA, Boost Mobile, and Assurance Wireless; instant national and international push-to-talk capabilities; and a global Tier 1 Internet backbone. Newsweek ranked Sprint No. 6 in its 2010 Green Rankings, listing it as one of the nations greenest companies, the highest of any telecommunications company. You can learn more and visit Sprint at or and .
SM
www.sprint.com
www.facebook.com/sprint
www.twitter.com/sprint
 
 
 


