FILE:S/S-8K-20110428070048.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On April 28, 2011, Sprint Nextel Corporation announced its results for the first quarter of 2011. The press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1.
 
(d) Exhibits
The following exhibit is furnished with this report:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Contacts:
Media Relations
Scott Sloat
240-855-0164
scott.sloat@sprint.com
Investor Relations
Yijing Brentano
800-259-3755
investor.relations@sprint.com
 
 
 
 
The company's first quarter 2011 earnings conference call will be held at 8 a.m. EDT today. Participants may dial 800-938-1120 in the U.S. or Canada (706-634-7849 internationally) and provide the following ID: 56729666, or may listen via the Internet at www.sprint.com/investor.
today reported that during the first quarter of 2011, the company achieved its best total company wireless net subscriber additions in five years. The company added more than 1.1 million total wireless net subscribers driven by best ever prepaid net subscriber additions of 846,000 and net postpaid subscriber additions of 310,000 for the Sprint brand. Sprint achieved best ever postpaid churn of 1.81 percent and the lowest prepaid churn of 4.36 percent in over five years.
OVERLAND PARK, Kan.  April 28, 2011  Sprint Nextel Corp. (NYSE: S)
Sprint reported first quarter consolidated net operating revenues of approximately $8.3 billion, which is a 3 percent increase from the same quarter a year ago, and posted operating income of $259 million. The company also reported Adjusted OIBDA* of $1.5 billion, a net loss of $439 million and a diluted loss per share of 15 cents for the quarter. Sprint generated $178 million of Free Cash Flow* in the quarter. As of March 31, 2011, the company had approximately $4.0 billion in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments after repayment of $1.65 billion of debt in the quarter. The company does not have any other debt maturities until March 2012.
 
"With net subscriber additions of 1.1 million, best ever postpaid churn and growing net operating revenues, Sprint maintained the momentum we had exiting 2010," said Dan Hesse, Sprint CEO. "We've added two million wireless subscribers over the past two quarters. In spite of Verizon's iPhone launch and aggressive competitive responses to it, our simple and unlimited plans, 4G leadership, strong customer service, and successful multi-brand strategy drove solid Sprint performance for the quarter."
Third parties continue to praise Sprint's achievements in customer service, wholesale and environmental sustainability. Sprint was named as a Sprint was one of only 40 companies to earn this distinction as a company that delivers service excellence to U.S. customers both within their respective industries and across all industries measured. Additionally, in April, Boost Mobile, one of Sprint's prepaid brands, received the highest rating in the J.D. Power and Associates 2011 Wireless Non-Contract Customer Satisfaction Index (CSI) Study
.
J.D. Power 2011 Customer Service Champion
SM
. Also this month, industry-leading research firm ATLANTIC-ACM awarded Sprint Global Wholesale Excellence awards for No. 1 in Brand and Voice Value, and U.S. Wholesale Excellence Awards for No. 1 in Brand, Provisioning, Network and Customer Service. Finally, Sprint was again the only U.S. wireless carrier to be named among the Environmental Protection Agency's (EPA's) national top 50 Green Power Partners list. Sprint's wind-power purchase helped the company secure its No. 19 ranking on the list.
EPA's Fortune 500 green power partner
Sprint has launched or announced 22 4G devices  the largest 4G portfolio of any wireless carrier in the United States. During the first quarter of 2011, Sprint launched its third 4G phone, the HTC EVO Shift 4G, and the Overdrive Pro 3G/4G Mobile Hotspot by Sierra Wireless. In addition, Sprint announced the upcoming availability of two 4G tablets, the BlackBerry 4G PlayBook and HTC EVO View 4G, as well as two more handsets  the HTC EVO 3D and the Nexus S 4G from Google. Sprint currently offers 4G service in 71 markets in 28 states and customers have benefited from expansion of the 4G network footprint and capacity upgrades in many markets.
Sprint has also announced or launched several other additions to its innovative device line up. The award-winning Kyocera Echo, the nation's first dual-touchscreen Android smartphone was announced in February and launched earlier this month. The first Sprint device with Windows Phone 7, the HTC Arrive, launched during the first quarter as did the LG Optimus V, the latest Android phone carried by Virgin Mobile.
 
CONSOLIDATED RESULTS
 
 
TABLE NO. 1 Selected Unaudited Financial Data (dollars in millions, except per share data)
 
 
 
 
 
 
WIRELESS RESULTS
 
 
TABLE NO. 2 Selected Unaudited Financial Data (dollars in millions)
 
Wireless Customers
 
 
 
 
 
 
Wireless Churn
 
 
 
 
Wireless Service Revenues
 
 
 
 
Wireless Operating Expenses and Adjusted OIBDA*
 
 
 
 
 
 
WIRELINE RESULTS
 
 
TABLE NO. 3 Selected Unaudited Financial Data (dollars in millions)
 
 
 
 
Forecast
Sprint Nextel reconfirms its forecast for 2011. The company expects postpaid subscriber net additions for the full year 2011 and to improve total wireless subscriber net additions in 2011, as compared to 2010. The company expects full year capital expenditures in 2011, excluding capitalized interest, to be approximately $3 billion. In addition, the company expects to continue to generate positive Free Cash Flow* for the remainder of 2011.
 
*FINANCIAL MEASURES
 
 
Sprint Nextel provides financial measures determined in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP) and adjusted GAAP (non-GAAP). The non-GAAP financial measures reflect industry conventions, or standard measures of liquidity, profitability or performance commonly used by the investment community for comparability purposes. These measurements should be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for, financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. We have defined below each of the non-GAAP measures we use, but these measures may not be synonymous to similar measurement terms used by other companies.
Sprint Nextel provides reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures in its financial reporting. Because Sprint Nextel does not predict special items that might occur in the future, and our forecasts are developed at a level of detail different than that used to prepare GAAP-based financial measures, Sprint Nextel does not provide reconciliations to GAAP of its forward-looking financial measures.
The measures used in this release include the following:
is operating income/(loss) before depreciation and amortization. is excluding severance, exit costs, and other special items. represents Adjusted OIBDA divided by non-equipment net operating revenues for Wireless and Adjusted OIBDA divided by net operating revenues for Wireline. We believe that Adjusted OIBDA and Adjusted OIBDA Margin provide useful information to investors because they are an indicator of the strength and performance of our ongoing business operations, including our ability to fund discretionary spending such as capital expenditures, spectrum acquisitions and other investments and our ability to incur and service debt. While depreciation and amortization are considered operating costs under GAAP, these expenses primarily represent non-cash current period costs associated with the use of long-lived tangible and definite-lived intangible assets. Adjusted OIBDA and Adjusted OIBDA Margin are calculations commonly used as a basis for investors, analysts and credit rating agencies to evaluate and compare the periodic and future operating performance and value of companies within the telecommunications industry.
OIBDA
Adjusted OIBDA
OIBDA
Adjusted OIBDA Margin
is the cash provided by operating activities less the cash used in investing activities other than short-term investments and equity method investments during the period. We believe that Free Cash Flow provides useful information to investors, analysts and our management about the cash generated by our core operations after interest and dividends and our ability to fund scheduled debt maturities and other financing activities, including discretionary refinancing and retirement of debt and purchase or sale of investments.
Free Cash Flow
is consolidated debt, including current maturities, less cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments and restricted cash. We believe that Net Debt provides useful information to investors, analysts and credit rating agencies about the capacity of the company to reduce the debt load and improve its capital structure.
Net Debt
 
SAFE HARBOR
 
 
This news release includes "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the securities laws. The statements in this news release regarding the business outlook, expected performance and forward-looking guidance, as well as other statements that are not historical facts, are forward-looking statements. The words "estimate," "project," "forecast," "intend," "expect," "believe," "target," "providing guidance" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements are estimates and projections reflecting management's judgment based on currently available information and involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested by the forward-looking statements. With respect to these forward-looking statements, management has made assumptions regarding, among other things, customer and network usage, customer growth and retention, pricing, operating costs, the timing of various events and the economic and regulatory environment.
Future performance cannot be assured. Actual results may differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. Some factors that could cause actual results to differ include:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sprint Nextel believes these forward-looking statements are reasonable; however, you should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which are based on current expectations and speak only as of the date of this release. Sprint Nextel is not obligated to publicly release any revisions to forward-looking statements to reflect events after the date of this release. The reader should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this release.
Clearwire's first quarter 2011 results from operations have not yet been finalized. As a result, the amount reflected for Sprint's share of Clearwire's results of operations for the quarter ended March 31, 2011, is an estimate and, based upon the finalization of Clearwire's results, may need to be revised if our estimate materially differs from Clearwire's actual results. Changes in our estimate, if any, would affect the carrying value of our investment in Clearwire, net loss and basic and diluted loss per common share but would have no effect on Sprint's operating income, OIBDA*, Adjusted OIBDA* or consolidated statement of cash flows.
About Sprint Nextel
Sprint Nextel offers a comprehensive range of wireless and wireline communications services bringing the freedom of mobility to consumers, businesses and government users. Sprint Nextel served more than 51 million customers at the end of first quarter 2011 and is widely recognized for developing, engineering and deploying innovative technologies, including the first wireless 4G service from a national carrier in the United States; offering industry-leading mobile data services, leading prepaid brands including Virgin Mobile USA, Boost Mobile, and Assurance Wireless
SM
; instant national and international push-to-talk capabilities; and a global Tier 1 Internet backbone. ranked Sprint No. 6 in its 2010 Green Rankings, listing it as one of the nation's greenest companies, the highest of any telecommunications company. You can learn more and visit Sprint at or and .
Newsweek
www.sprint.com
www.facebook.com/sprint
www.twitter.com/sprint
 
TABLE NO. 4
 
 
TABLE NO. 6
 
 
TABLE NO. 7
 
 
TABLE NO. 8
 
 
TABLE NO. 10
 
 
TABLE NO. 12
 
 
TABLE NO. 13
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


