FILE:S/S-8K-20110210072747.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On February 10, 2011, Sprint Nextel Corporation announced its results for the fourth quarter of 2010 and the year ended December 31, 2010. The press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1.
 
(d) Exhibits
The following exhibit is furnished with this report:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
News Release
Contacts:
Media Relations
Cristi Allen
913-315-1092
cristi.i.allen@sprint.com
Investor Relations
Yijing Brentano
800-259-3755
investor.relations@sprint.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
The company's fourth quarter and full year 2010 earnings conference call will be held at 8 a.m. EST today. Participants may dial 800-938-1120 in the U.S. or Canada (706-634-7849 internationally) and provide the following ID: 38599868, or may listen via the Internet at www.sprint.com/investor.
today reported that during the fourth quarter of 2010, the company achieved its best total company wireless subscriber additions and net postpaid additions since the first and second quarters of 2006, respectively. The company added nearly 1.1 million total wireless subscribers driven by net postpaid subscriber additions of 58,000, which include net subscriber additions of 519,000 for the Sprint brand - and the company's best ever fourth quarter prepaid net subscriber additions of 646,000. The company delivered postpaid churn of 1.86 percent - the best postpaid churn result Sprint has reported in the fourth quarter of any year. Sprint achieved its best ever annual postpaid churn of 1.95 percent in 2010.
OVERLAND PARK, Kan.  Feb. 10, 2011  Sprint Nextel Corp. (NYSE: S)
Sprint generated $913 million of Free Cash Flow* in the quarter, and $2.5 billion for full year 2010. As of December 31, 2010, the company had nearly $5.5 billion in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. Sprint reported fourth quarter consolidated net operating revenues of approximately $8.3 billion, which is a 6 percent increase from the same quarter a year ago, and an operating loss of $139 million, a 74 percent improvement from the year ago period. The company also reported a net loss of $929 million and a diluted loss per share of 31 cents for the quarter. Full year 2010 results included consolidated net operating revenues of $32.6 billion, an operating loss of $595 million, which is a 57 percent improvement compared to 2009, and a diluted loss per share of $1.16.
 
"I am pleased with the progress Sprint made in 2010 in each of our three focus areas. Sprint's customer experience and brand continued to strengthen during the year, and we generated excellent cash flow," said Dan Hesse, Sprint CEO. "It had been almost five years since we added over a million customers in a quarter, and the annual improvement in postpaid subscriber results of 2.7 million vs. the previous year is unprecedented in the history of the U.S. wireless industry."
Sprint continues to receive recognition for customer service leadership from prominent and well-read consumer publications and organizations including recent recognition by . (), which found that in 2010 Sprint moved to first place among its peers in call satisfaction and first call resolution, among surveyed customers. Frost & Sullivan also praised Sprint with awards for and . The HTC EVO
Vocal Laboratories Inc
Vocalabs
Value Enhancement in Mobile Advertising
Green Excellence in Mobile & Wireless
TM
4G's award-winning streak continued when it was selected for Very Innovative Products Award, which recognizes products that are ingenious breakthroughs.
Good Housekeeping's
Sprint's multi-brand prepaid strategy again made significant contributions to the company's subscriber growth. Focusing on value and simplicity, Sprint prepaid brands like Assurance Wireless
SM
and Virgin Mobile offer consumers affordable choices and alternatives to long-term wireless contracts. Innovative offers like Boost Mobile's Monthly Unlimited with Shrinkage, a loyalty program that allows customers to reduce their bills after six on-time payments, have helped Sprint's prepaid brands differentiate themselves in a rapidly growing market. In 2010, Sprint added more than 1.6 million prepaid subscribers to its networks and now serves 12.3 million prepaid subscribers.
"We have momentum entering 2011, and in addition to offering our customers simplicity and value with our unlimited data plans, we will continue to focus on device leadership, especially in 4G, as our 18 4G devices leads the industry by a wide margin," Hesse said.
Sprint offers more 4G products than any other wireless carrier in the United States, including three handsets. During fourth quarter 2010, Sprint officially launched the embedded 3G/4G netbook and notebook, Dell
TM
Inspiron
TM
Mini 10 (1012) and Dell
TM
Inspiron
TM
11z. Last month, Sprint also announced the availability of the MiFi 3G/4G Mobile Hotspot by Novatel Wireless and the HTC EVO
TM
Shift 4G. Sprint launched 4G service in 16 new markets during the quarter, including New York, San Francisco, Miami and Los Angeles. Sprint 4G is now available in 71 markets, reaching more than 110 million people.
Sprint also launched three exciting Android devices featuring integrated Sprint ID: LG Optimus S
TM
, Sanyo Zio
TM
by Kyocera, and Samsung Transform
TM
. Sprint ID, introduced in October, is a user-friendly way for customers to personalize their Android
TM
experience, conveniently downloading ID packs that feature applications, screensavers and more. Sprint has collaborated on the development of Sprint ID packs with ESPN, HSN and MTV and previously announced its collaboration with BodyMedia, Inc., among others.
 
CONSOLIDATED RESULTS
 
 
TABLE NO. 1 Selected Unaudited Financial Data (dollars in millions, except per share data)
 
 
 
 
 
 
WIRELESS RESULTS
 
 
TABLE NO. 2 Selected Unaudited Financial Data (dollars in millions)
 
Wireless Customers
 
 
 
 
 
 
Wireless Churn
 
 
 
 
Wireless Service Revenues
 
 
 
 
Wireless Operating Expenses and Adjusted OIBDA*
 
 
 
 
 
WIRELINE RESULTS
 
 
TABLE NO. 3 Selected Unaudited Financial Data (dollars in millions)
 
 
 
 
Forecast
Sprint Nextel expects postpaid subscriber net additions for the full year 2011 and to improve total wireless subscriber net additions in 2011, as compared to 2010. The company expects full year capital expenditures in 2011 to be approximately $3 billion. In addition, the company expects to continue to generate positive Free Cash Flow* during 2011.
 
*FINANCIAL MEASURES
 
 
Sprint Nextel provides financial measures determined in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP) and adjusted GAAP (non-GAAP). The non-GAAP financial measures reflect industry conventions, or standard measures of liquidity, profitability or performance commonly used by the investment community for comparability purposes. These measurements should be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for, financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. We have defined below each of the non-GAAP measures we use, but these measures may not be synonymous to similar measurement terms used by other companies.
Sprint Nextel provides reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures in its financial reporting. Because Sprint Nextel does not predict special items that might occur in the future, and our forecasts are developed at a level of detail different than that used to prepare GAAP-based financial measures, Sprint Nextel does not provide reconciliations to GAAP of its forward-looking financial measures.
The measures used in this release include the following:
is operating income/(loss) before depreciation and amortization. is excluding severance, exit costs, and other special items. represents Adjusted OIBDA divided by non-equipment net operating revenues for Wireless and Adjusted OIBDA divided by net operating revenues for Wireline. We believe that Adjusted OIBDA and Adjusted OIBDA Margin provide useful information to investors because they are an indicator of the strength and performance of our ongoing business operations, including our ability to fund discretionary spending such as capital expenditures, spectrum acquisitions and other investments and our ability to incur and service debt. While depreciation and amortization are considered operating costs under GAAP, these expenses primarily represent non-cash current period costs associated with the use of long-lived tangible and definite-lived intangible assets. Adjusted OIBDA and Adjusted OIBDA Margin are calculations commonly used as a basis for investors, analysts and credit rating agencies to evaluate and compare the periodic and future operating performance and value of companies within the telecommunications industry.
OIBDA
Adjusted OIBDA
OIBDA
Adjusted OIBDA Margin
is the cash provided by operating activities less the cash used in investing activities other than short-term investments and equity method investments during the period. We believe that Free Cash Flow provides useful information to investors, analysts and our management about the cash generated by our core operations after interest and dividends and our ability to fund scheduled debt maturities and other financing activities, including discretionary refinancing and retirement of debt and purchase or sale of investments.
Free Cash Flow
is consolidated debt, including current maturities, less cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments and restricted cash. We believe that Net Debt provides useful information to investors, analysts and credit rating agencies about the capacity of the company to reduce the debt load and improve its capital structure.
Net Debt
 
SAFE HARBOR
 
 
This news release includes "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the securities laws. The statements in this news release regarding the business outlook, expected performance and forward-looking guidance, as well as other statements that are not historical facts, are forward-looking statements. The words "estimate," "project," "forecast," "intend," "expect," "believe," "target," "providing guidance" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements are estimates and projections reflecting management's judgment based on currently available information and involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested by the forward-looking statements. With respect to these forward-looking statements, management has made assumptions regarding, among other things, customer and network usage, customer growth and retention, pricing, operating costs, the timing of various events and the economic and regulatory environment.
Future performance cannot be assured. Actual results may differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. Some factors that could cause actual results to differ include:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sprint Nextel believes these forward-looking statements are reasonable; however, you should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which are based on current expectations and speak only as of the date of this release. Sprint Nextel is not obligated to publicly release any revisions to forward-looking statements to reflect events after the date of this release. The reader should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this release.
Clearwire's fourth quarter 2010 results from operations have not yet been finalized. As a result, the amount reflected for Sprint's share of Clearwire's results of operations for the quarter ended December 31, 2010, is an estimate and, based upon the finalization of Clearwire's results, may need to be revised if our estimate materially differs from Clearwire's actual results. Changes in our estimate, if any, would affect the carrying value of our investment in Clearwire, net loss and basic and diluted loss per common share but would have no effect on Sprint's operating income, OIBDA*, Adjusted OIBDA* or consolidated statement of cash flows.
About Sprint Nextel
Sprint Nextel offers a comprehensive range of wireless and wireline communications services bringing the freedom of mobility to consumers, businesses and government users. Sprint Nextel served more than 49.9 million customers at the end of 2010 and is widely recognized for developing, engineering and deploying innovative technologies, including the first wireless 4G service from a national carrier in the United States; offering industry-leading mobile data services, leading prepaid brands including Virgin Mobile USA, Boost Mobile, and Assurance Wireless
SM
; instant national and international push-to-talk capabilities; and a global Tier 1 Internet backbone. Newsweek ranked Sprint No. 6 in its 2010 Green Rankings, listing it as one of the nation's greenest companies, the highest of any telecommunications company. You can learn more and visit Sprint at or and .
www.sprint.com
www.facebook.com/sprint
www.twitter.com/sprint
 
TABLE NO. 4
 
TABLE NO. 5
 
 
TABLE NO. 6
 
 
 
 
TABLE NO. 7
 
 
TABLE NO. 8
 
TABLE NO. 9
 
 
TABLE NO. 10
 
TABLE NO. 11
 
 
TABLE NO. 12
 
 
TABLE NO. 13
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


