FILE:S/S-8K-20111109173006.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
On November 9, 2011, Sprint Nextel Corporation (the "Company") issued and sold $1 billion aggregate principal amount of 11.500% notes due 2021 (the "2021 Notes") and $3 billion aggregate principal amount of 9.000% guaranteed notes due 2018 (the "2018 Guaranteed Notes" and, together with the 2021 Notes, the "Notes"). The Company offered and sold the Notes to the initial purchasers in reliance on the exemption from registration provided by Section 4(2) of the Securities Act of 1933 (the "Securities Act"). The initial purchasers then resold the Notes pursuant to exemptions from registration under the Securities Act, including Rule 144A and Regulation S. The Company relied on these exemptions from registration based in part on representations made by the initial purchasers in the purchase agreement relating to the issuance and sale of the Notes.
The Notes are payable semi-annually in arrears on November 15 and May 15 of each year, beginning on May 15, 2012. The Notes are governed by the Indenture dated November 20, 2006. In addition, the 2021 Notes are governed by the First Supplemental Indenture (the "First Supplemental Indenture"), dated November 9, 2011, between the Company and the Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (the "Trustee") and the 2018 Guaranteed Notes are governed by the Second Supplemental Indenture, dated November 9, 2011, among the Company, the subsidiary guarantors and the Trustee (the "Second Supplemental Indenture," and together with the First Supplemental Indenture, the "Supplemental Indentures"). The Supplemental Indentures provide for customary events of default, including nonpayment and failure to comply with covenants or other agreements. If any event of default occurs and is continuing, the trustee or the holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the outstanding Notes of that series may declare all amounts under such Notes to be due and payable immediately.
The Supplemental Indentures contain covenants that limit the Company's ability to sell all or substantially all of its assets or to merge or consolidate with or into other companies and that provide that the Company and certain of its subsidiaries' may not grant liens to other creditors, unless the Notes are secured by liens on an equal and ratable basis to those granted to such other creditors. In addition, if a change of control (as that term is defined in the Supplemental Indentures) occurs prior to the Company being rated "investment grade" by the applicable rating agencies, the holders of Notes will have the right, subject to certain conditions, to require the Company to repurchase their Notes at a purchase price equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of Notes repurchased plus accrued and unpaid interest, as of the date of repurchase. Additionally, the Second Supplemental Indenture provides, for the benefit of the holders of the 2018 Guaranteed Notes, that the Company will be limited in its ability to issue secured debt, and that the Subsidiaries of the Company who guarantee the 2018 Guaranteed Notes will be limited in their ability to issue debt and to guarantee debt of the Company.
The 2021 Notes will mature on November 15, 2021 and the 2018 Guaranteed Notes will mature on November 15, 2018. The Company, at its option, may redeem either issue of the Notes at any time in whole or from time to time in part, at a redemption price equal to the greater of (i) 100% of the principal amount of the Notes being redeemed and (ii) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest on the Notes to be redeemed discounted to the date of redemption on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at a rate equal to the sum of the applicable treasury rate plus 50 basis points. The Company will also pay the accrued and unpaid interest on the principal amount being redeemed to the date of redemption.
2021 Notes
The Company agreed, pursuant to a registration rights agreement with the initial purchasers of the 2021 Notes (the "Registration Rights Agreement"), to file an exchange offer registration statement with respect to an offer to exchange the 2021 Notes for a new issue of identical exchange notes registered under the Securities Act. The Company agreed to use its reasonable best efforts to cause the exchange offer to be completed within 315 days after the closing date of the offering. In certain circumstances, the Company may be required to file a shelf registration statement to cover resales of the 2021 Notes. If the Company does not comply with certain covenants set forth in the Registration Rights Agreement, it must pay additional interest to holders of the 2021 Notes.
2018 Guaranteed Notes
The 2018 Guaranteed Notes are guaranteed by the company's wholly-owned subsidiaries that guarantee its existing credit agreements. A note guarantee by a subsidiary guarantor may be automatically and unconditionally released and discharged in certain situations, including, any sale, exchange or transfer of all the capital stock of such guarantor after which the applicable subsidiary guarantor is no longer a subsidiary of the Company or a sale of all or substantially all of the assets of such subsidiary guarantor.
The descriptions set forth above are qualified in their entirety by the Indenture, the First Supplemental Indenture, the Second Supplemental Indenture and the Registration Rights Agreement filed as exhibits hereto.
ITEM 2.03 Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant.
The information set forth in Item 1.01 above is incorporated by reference into this Item 2.03.
ITEM 8.01. Other Matters
On November 9, 2011, the Company issued a press release announcing the closing of its private placement of the Notes, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and hereby incorporated by reference herein.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
The following exhibits are filed with this report:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 4.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NOTE: This table of contents shall not, for any purpose, be deemed a part of the Indenture.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INDENTURE, dated as of November 20, 2006, between Sprint Nextel Corporation, a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Kansas with its principal place of business located at 2001 Edmund Halley Drive, Reston, Virginia 20191 (the "Company"), and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., a national banking association organized under the laws of the United States, as Trustee (the "Trustee").
WHEREAS, the Company has duly authorized the execution and delivery of this Indenture to provide for the issuance from time to time of its unsecured debentures, notes or other evidences of indebtedness (herein called the "Securities"), to be issued in one or more series as provided in this Indenture.
WHEREAS, all things necessary to make this Indenture a valid agreement of the Company, in accordance with its terms, have been done.
NOW, THEREFORE, for and in consideration of the premises and the purchase of the Securities by the Holders thereof, it is mutually agreed, for the equal and proportionate benefit of all Holders of the Securities or of series thereof, as follows:
Section 101. Definitions.
For all purposes of this Indenture, except as otherwise expressly provided or unless the context otherwise requires:
(a) the terms defined in this Article have the meanings assigned to them in this Article and include the plural as well as the singular;
(b) all other terms used herein which are defined in the Trust Indenture Act, either directly or by reference therein, have the meanings assigned to them therein;
(c) all accounting terms not otherwise defined herein have the meanings assigned to them in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and, except as otherwise herein expressly provided, the term "generally accepted accounting principles" with respect to any computation required or permitted hereunder shall mean such accounting principles as are generally accepted at the date of such computation; in the computation of periods of time from a specified date to a later specified date, the word "from" means "from and including" and the words "to" and "until" each mean "to but excluding;"
(d) unless the context otherwise requires, any reference to an "Article" or a "Section" refers to an Article or a Section, as the case may be, of this Indenture; and
(e) the words "herein," "hereof" and "hereunder" and other words of similar import refer to this Indenture as a whole and not to any particular Article, Section or other subdivision.
"Act," when used with respect to any Holder, has the meaning specified in Section 104.
"Affiliate" of any specified Person means any other Person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with such specified Person. For the purposes of this definition, "control" when used with respect to any specified Person means the power to direct the management and policies of such Person, directly or indirectly, whether through the ownership of Voting Securities, by contract or otherwise; and the terms "controlling" and "controlled" have meanings correlative to the foregoing. No individual shall be deemed to control or to be controlled by or under common control with any specified Person solely by virtue of his or her status as an employee or officer of such specified Person or of any other Person controlled by or under common control with such specified Person.
"Authenticating Agent" means any Person authorized by the Trustee to act on behalf of the Trustee to authenticate Securities of one or more series.
"Authorized Officers" means the Chairman of the Board, Vice Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Operating Officer, General Counsel, President, any Vice President, Treasurer, and any Assistant Treasurer of the Company.
"Board of Directors" means (i) the board of directors of the Company, (ii) any duly authorized committee of the board of directors of the Company, or (iii) any duly authorized subcommittee of any committee of the board of directors of the Company.
"Board Resolution" means a copy of a resolution certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company to have been duly adopted by the Board of Directors and to be in full force and effect on the date of such certification.
"Business Day," when used with respect to any Place of Payment, means each Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday which is not a day on which banking institutions in that Place of Payment are authorized or obligated by law or executive order to close.
"Capital Lease Obligations" means indebtedness represented by obligations under a lease that is required to be capitalized for financial reporting purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. The amount of indebtedness will be the capitalized amount of the obligations determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles consistently applied.
"Commission" means the Securities and Exchange Commission, as from time to time constituted, created under the Exchange Act, or, if at any time after the execution of this Indenture such Commission is not existing and performing the duties now assigned to it under the Trust Indenture Act, then the body performing such duties at such time.
"Company" means the Person named as the "Company" in the first paragraph of this Indenture until a successor Person shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture, and thereafter "Company" shall mean such successor Person.
 
"Company Request" or "Company Order" means a written request or order signed in the name of the Company by any Authorized Officer or the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company, and delivered to the Trustee.
"Consolidated Net Tangible Assets" means the Company's consolidated total assets as reflected in its most recent balance sheet preceding the date of determination prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles consistently applied, less (i) current liabilities, excluding current maturities of long-term debt and Capital Lease Obligations, and (ii) goodwill, tradenames, trademarks, patents, unamortized debt discount and expense and other similar intangible assets, excluding any investments in permits or licenses issued, granted or approved by the Federal Communications Commission.
"Corporate Trust Office" means the office of the Trustee at which at any particular time its corporate trust business and this Indenture shall be administered, which office at the date of the execution of this Indenture is located at 227 West Monroe Street, Suite 2600, Chicago, Illinois 60606, Attention: Corporate Trust Services, and for purposes of Section 1002, is located at 101 Barclay Street7E, New York, New York 10286, Attention: Bond Operations.
"Corporation" means a corporation, association, joint-stock company or business trust.
"Covenant Defeasance" has the meaning specified in Section 1303.
"default" has the meaning specified in Section 602.
"Defaulted Interest" has the meaning specified in Section 307.
"Defeasance" has the meaning specified in Section 1302.
"Depositary" means, with respect to the Securities of any series issuable or issued in whole or in part in the form of one or more Global Securities, a clearing agency registered under the Exchange Act that is designated to act as Depositary for such series by the Company pursuant to Section 301.
"Event of Default" has the meaning specified in Section 501.
"Exchange Act" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and any statute successor thereto, in each case as amended from time to time.
"Expiration Date" has the meaning specified in Section 104.
"Global Security" means a Security in the form prescribed in Section 202 evidencing all or part of a series of Securities, issued to the Depositary for such series or its nominee, and registered in the name of such Depositary or nominee.
"Holder" means a Person in whose name a Security is registered in the Security Register.
"Indenture" means this instrument as originally executed and as it may from time to time be supplemented or amended by one or more indentures supplemental hereto entered into
 
pursuant to the applicable provisions hereof, including, for all purposes of this instrument and any such supplemental indenture, the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act that are deemed to be a part of and govern this instrument and any such supplemental indenture, respectively. The term "Indenture" shall also include the terms of particular series of Securities established as contemplated by Section 301.
"interest," when used with respect to an Original Issue Discount Security which by its terms bears interest only after Maturity, means interest payable after Maturity.
"Interest Payment Date," when used with respect to any Security, means the Stated Maturity of an installment of interest on such Security.
"Lien" means any mortgage or deed of trust, pledge, hypothecation, assignment, deposit arrangement, security interest, lien, charge, priority or other security agreement of any kind or nature whatsoever on or with respect to Property including any Capital Lease Obligation, conditional sale or other title retention agreement having substantially the same economic effect as any of the foregoing.
"mandatory sinking fund payment" has the meaning specified in Section 1201.
"Maturity," when used with respect to any Security, means the date on which the principal of such Security or an installment of principal becomes due and payable as therein or herein provided, whether at the Stated Maturity or by declaration of acceleration, call for redemption or otherwise.
"Notice of Default" means a written notice of the kind specified in Section 501(4).
"Officers' Certificate" means a certificate signed by an Authorized Officer and by any other Authorized Officer or the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company, and delivered to the Trustee. One of the officers signing an Officers' Certificate given pursuant to Section 1004 shall be the principal executive, financial or accounting officer of the Company.
"Opinion of Counsel" means a written opinion of counsel, who may be counsel for the Company, and who shall be acceptable to the Trustee.
"optional sinking fund payment" has the meaning specified in Section 1201.
"Original Issue Discount Security" means any Security which provides for an amount less than the principal amount thereof to be due and payable upon a declaration of acceleration of the Maturity thereof pursuant to Section 502.
"Outstanding," when used with respect to Securities, means, as of the date of determination, all Securities theretofore authenticated and delivered under this Indenture, except:
(1) Securities theretofore cancelled by the Trustee or delivered to the Trustee for cancellation;
 
(2) Securities for whose payment or redemption money in the necessary amount has been theretofore deposited with the Trustee or any Paying Agent (other than the Company) in trust or set aside and segregated in trust by the Company (if the Company shall act as its own Paying Agent) for the Holders of such Securities; provided that, if such Securities are to be redeemed, notice of such redemption has been duly given pursuant to this Indenture or provision therefor satisfactory to the Trustee has been made;
(3) Securities as to which Defeasance has been effected pursuant to Section 1302; and
(4) Securities which have been paid pursuant to Section 306 or in exchange for or in lieu of which other Securities have been authenticated and delivered pursuant to this Indenture, other than any such Securities in respect of which there shall have been presented to the Trustee proof satisfactory to it that such Securities are held by a bona fide purchaser in whose hands such Securities are valid obligations of the Company;
, , that in determining whether the Holders of the requisite principal amount of the Outstanding Securities have given, made or taken any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action hereunder as of any date, (A) the principal amount of an Original Issue Discount Security which shall be deemed to be Outstanding shall be the amount of the principal thereof which would be due and payable as of such date upon acceleration of the Maturity thereof to such date pursuant to Section 502, (B) if, as of such date, the principal amount payable at the Stated Maturity of a Security is not determinable, the principal amount of such Security which shall be deemed to be Outstanding shall be the amount as specified or determined as contemplated by Section 301, (C) the principal amount of a Security denominated in one or more foreign currencies or currency units which shall be deemed to be Outstanding shall be the U.S. dollar equivalent, determined as of such date in the manner provided as contemplated by Section 301, of the principal amount of such Security (or, in the case of a Security described in Clause (A) or (B) above, of the amount determined as provided in such Clause), and (D) Securities owned by the Company or any other obligor upon the Securities or any Affiliate of the Company or of such other obligor shall be disregarded and deemed not to be Outstanding, except that, in determining whether the Trustee shall be protected in relying upon any such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action, only Securities which the Trustee knows are so owned shall be so disregarded. Securities so owned which have been pledged in good faith may be regarded as Outstanding if the pledgee establishes to the satisfaction of the Trustee the pledgee's right so to act with respect to such Securities and that the pledgee is not the Company or any other obligor upon the Securities or any Affiliate of the Company or of such other obligor.
provided
however
"Participants" has the meaning specified in Section 202.
"Paying Agent" means any Person authorized by the Company to pay the principal of or any premium or interest on any Securities on behalf of the Company.
"Permitted Liens" means:
(1) Liens existing on the date that the applicable Securities are issued;
 
(2) Liens on Property existing at the time of acquisition of the Property or to secure the payment of all or any part of the purchase price of the Property or to secure any indebtedness incurred before, at the time of or within 270 days after the acquisition of the Property for the purpose of financing all or any part of the purchase price of the Property;
(3) Liens securing indebtedness owed by any of the Company's Subsidiaries to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries;
(4) Liens on Property of any entity, or on the stock, indebtedness or other obligations of any entity, existing at the time: (i) the entity becomes a Subsidiary of the Company, (ii) the entity is merged into or consolidated with the Company or a Subsidiary of the Company, or (iii) the Company or a Subsidiary of the Company acquires all or substantially all of the assets of the entity, as long as the Liens do not extend to any other Property of the Company or Property of any other Subsidiary of the Company;
(5) Liens on Property to secure any indebtedness incurred to provide funds for all or any part of the cost of development of or improvements to the Property;
(6) Liens on the Company's Property or the Property of any of its Subsidiaries securing (i) contingent obligations on surety and appeal bonds, and (ii) other nondelinquent obligations of a similar nature, in each case, incurred in the ordinary course of business;
(7) Liens on Property securing Capital Lease Obligations, provided that the Liens attach to the Property within 270 days after the acquisition thereof, and the Liens attach solely to the Property acquired in connection with the Capital Lease Obligations;
(8) Liens arising solely by virtue of any statutory or common law provision relating to banker's liens, rights of set-off or similar rights and remedies as to deposit accounts or other funds, as long as the deposit account is not a dedicated cash collateral account and is not subject to restrictions against access in excess of those set forth by regulations promulgated by the Federal Reserve Board and the deposit account is not intended to provide collateral to the depository institution;
(9) Liens on personal Property to secure loans maturing not more than one year from the date of the creation of the loan and on accounts receivable associated with a receivables financing program of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries;
(10) Liens on the Company's Property or the Property of any of its Subsidiaries securing indebtedness or other obligations issued by the United States of America or any State or any department, agency or instrumentality or political subdivision of the United States of America or of any State, or by any other country or any political subdivision of any other country, to finance all or any part of the purchase price of, or, in the case of real property, the cost of construction on or improvement of, any Property or assets subject to the Liens, including Liens incurred in connection with pollution control, industrial revenue or similar financings; and
(11) any renewal, extension or replacement of any Lien permitted pursuant to (1), (2), (4), (5), (7) and (10) above or of any indebtedness secured by any such Lien, as long as the extension, renewal or replacement Lien is limited to all or any part of the same Property that
 
secured the Lien extended, renewed or replaced, plus improvements on the Property, and the principal amount of indebtedness secured by the Lien and not otherwise authorized by clauses (1), (2), (4), (5), (7) and (10) does not exceed the principal amount of indebtedness plus any premium or fee payable in connection with the renewal, extension or replacement so secured at the time of the renewal, extension or replacement.
"Person" means any individual, Corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, limited liability company, unincorporated organization or government or any agency or political subdivision thereof.
"Place of Payment," when used with respect to the Securities of any series, means the place or places where the principal of and any premium and interest on the Securities of that series are payable as specified as contemplated by Section 301.
"Predecessor Security" of any particular Security means every previous Security evidencing all or a portion of the same debt as that evidenced by such particular Security; and, for the purposes of this definition, any Security authenticated and delivered under Section 306 in exchange for or in lieu of a mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security shall be deemed to evidence the same debt as the mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security.
"Property" means any asset or property of a Person, whether now owned or hereafter acquired, or any interest therein or any income or profits therefrom, including capital stock and indebtedness of Subsidiaries.
"Redemption Date," when used with respect to any Security to be redeemed, means the date fixed for such redemption by or pursuant to this Indenture.
"Redemption Price," when used with respect to any Security to be redeemed, means the price at which it is to be redeemed pursuant to this Indenture.
"Regular Record Date," for the interest payable on any Interest Payment Date on the Securities of any series, means the date specified for that purpose as contemplated by Section 301.
"Responsible Officer," when used with respect to the Trustee, means the officer at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee having direct responsibility for administration of this Indenture, or any other officer to whom a matter arising hereunder is referred.
"Securities" has the meaning stated in the first recital of this Indenture and more particularly means any Securities authenticated and delivered under this Indenture.
"Securities Act" means the Securities Act of 1933 and any statute successor thereto, in each case as amended from time to time.
"Security Register" has the meaning specified in Section 305.
"Security Registrar" has the meaning specified in Section 305.
 
"Senior Subordinated Indenture" means one or more indentures entered into by the Company with respect to any unsecured debentures, notes or other evidences of indebtedness issued by the Company that are by their terms expressly subordinated in right of payment to the prior payment in full of all of the Securities.
"Special Record Date" for the payment of any Defaulted Interest means a date fixed by the Trustee pursuant to Section 307.
"Stated Maturity," when used with respect to any Security or any installment of principal thereof or interest thereon, means the date specified in such Security as the fixed date on which the principal of such Security or such installment of principal or interest is due and payable.
"Subsidiary" means a Corporation, partnership, limited liability company or other business organization, whether or not incorporated, a majority of the Voting Securities of which are owned, directly or indirectly, by the Company.
"Trustee" means the Person named as the "Trustee" in the first paragraph of this Indenture until a successor Trustee shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture, and thereafter "Trustee" shall mean or include each Person who is then a Trustee hereunder, and if at any time there is more than one such Person, "Trustee" as used with respect to the Securities of any series shall mean the Trustee with respect to Securities of that series.
"Trust Indenture Act" means the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 as in force at the date as of which this Indenture was executed; , , that in the event the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 is amended after such date, "Trust Indenture Act" means, to the extent required by any such amendment, the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 as so amended.
provided
however
"U.S. Government Obligations" has the meaning specified in Section 1304.
"Vice President," when used with respect to the Company or the Trustee, means any vice president, whether or not designated by a number or a word or words added before or after the title "Vice President."
"Voting Securities" of a Subsidiary means the stock or other ownership or equity interests, of whatever class or classes, the holders of which ordinarily have the power to vote for the election of the members of the board of directors, managers or trustees of such Subsidiary (other than stock or other ownership or equity interests having such power only by reason of the happening of a contingency).
Section 102. Compliance Certificates and Opinions.
Upon any application or request by the Company to the Trustee to take any action under any provision of this Indenture, the Company shall furnish to the Trustee such certificates and opinions as may be required under the Trust Indenture Act. Each such certificate or opinion shall be given in the form of an Officers' Certificate, if to be given by an officer of the Company, or an Opinion of Counsel, if to be given by counsel, and shall comply with the requirements of the Trust Indenture Act and any other requirements set forth in this Indenture.
 
Every certificate or opinion with respect to compliance with a condition or covenant provided for in this Indenture shall include:
(1) a statement that each individual signing such certificate or opinion has read such covenant or condition and the definitions herein relating thereto;
(2) a brief statement as to the nature and scope of the examination or investigation upon which the statements or opinions contained in such certificate or opinion are based;
(3) a statement that, in the opinion of each such individual, he has made such examination or investigation as is necessary to enable him to express an informed opinion as to whether or not such covenant or condition has been complied with; and
(4) a statement as to whether, in the opinion of each such individual, such condition or covenant has been complied with.
Section 103. Form of Documents Delivered to Trustee.
In any case where several matters are required to be certified by, or covered by an opinion of, any specified Person, it is not necessary that all such matters be certified by, or covered by the opinion of, only one such Person, or that they be so certified or covered by only one document, but one such Person may certify or give an opinion with respect to some matters and one or more other such Persons as to other matters, and any such Person may certify or give an opinion as to such matters in one or several documents.
Any certificate or opinion of an officer of the Company may be based, insofar as it relates to legal matters, upon a certificate or opinion of, or representations by, counsel, unless such officer knows, or in the exercise of reasonable care should know, that the certificate or opinion or representations with respect to the matters upon which his certificate or opinion is based are erroneous. Any such certificate or Opinion of Counsel may be based, insofar as it relates to factual matters, upon a certificate or opinion of, or representations by, an officer or officers of the Company stating that the information with respect to such factual matters is in the possession of the Company, unless such counsel knows, or in the exercise of reasonable care should know, that the certificate or opinion or representations with respect to such matters are erroneous.
Where any Person is required to make, give or execute two or more applications, requests, consents, certificates, statements, opinions or other instruments under this Indenture, they may, but need not, be consolidated and form one instrument.
Section 104. Acts of Holders; Record Dates.
Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action provided by this Indenture to be given, made or taken by Holders may be embodied in and evidenced by one or more instruments of substantially similar tenor signed by such Holders in person or by an agent duly appointed in writing; and, except as herein otherwise expressly provided, such action shall become effective when such instrument or instruments are delivered to the Trustee and, where it is herein expressly required, to the Company. Such instrument or
 
instruments (and the action embodied therein and evidenced thereby) are herein sometimes referred to as the "Act" of the Holders signing such instrument or instruments. Proof of execution of any such instrument or of a writing appointing any such agent shall be sufficient for any purpose of this Indenture and (subject to Section 601) conclusive in favor of the Trustee and the Company, if made in the manner provided in this Section.
The fact and date of the execution by any Person of any such instrument or writing may be proved by the affidavit of a witness of such execution or by a certificate of a notary public or other officer authorized by law to take acknowledgments of deeds, certifying that the individual signing such instrument or writing acknowledged to him the execution thereof. Where such execution is by a signer acting in a capacity other than his individual capacity, such certificate or affidavit shall also constitute sufficient proof of his authority. The fact and date of the execution of any such instrument or writing, or the authority of the Person executing the same, may also be proved in any other manner which the Trustee deems sufficient.
The ownership of Securities shall be proved by the Security Register.
Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act of the Holder of any Security shall bind every future Holder of the same Security and the Holder of every Security issued upon the registration of transfer thereof or in exchange therefor or in lieu thereof in respect of anything done, omitted or suffered to be done by the Trustee or the Company in reliance thereon, whether or not notation of such action is made upon such Security.
The Company may set any day as a record date for the purpose of determining the Holders of Outstanding Securities of any series entitled to give, make or take any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action provided or permitted by this Indenture to be given, made or taken by Holders of Securities of such series, provided that the Company may not set a record date for, and the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply with respect to, the giving or making of any Notice of Default, declaration, request or direction referred to in clauses (i) through (iv) of the first sentence the next paragraph. If any record date is set pursuant to this paragraph, the Holders of Outstanding Securities of the relevant series on such record date, and no other Holders, shall be entitled to take the relevant action, whether or not such Holders remain Holders after such record date; provided that no such action shall be effective hereunder unless taken on or prior to the applicable Expiration Date by Holders of the requisite principal amount of Outstanding Securities of such series on such record date. Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to prevent the Company from setting a new record date for any action for which a record date has previously been set pursuant to this paragraph (whereupon the record date previously set shall automatically and with no action by any Person be cancelled and of no effect), and nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to render ineffective any action taken by Holders of the requisite principal amount of Outstanding Securities of the relevant series on the date such action is taken. Promptly after any record date is set pursuant to this paragraph, the Company, at its own expense, shall cause notice of such record date, the proposed action by Holders and the applicable Expiration Date to be given to the Trustee in writing and to each Holder of Securities of the relevant series in the manner set forth in Section 106.
 
The Trustee may set any day as a record date for the purpose of determining the Holders of Outstanding Securities of any series entitled to join in the giving or making of (i) any Notice of Default, (ii) any declaration of acceleration referred to in Section 502, (iii) any request to institute proceedings referred to in Section 507(2) or (iv) any direction referred to in Section 512, in each case with respect to Securities of such series. If any record date is set pursuant to this paragraph, the Holders of Outstanding Securities of such series on such record date, and no other Holders, shall be entitled to join in such Notice of Default, declaration, request or direction, whether or not such Holders remain Holders after such record date; provided that no such action shall be effective hereunder unless taken on or prior to the applicable Expiration Date by Holders of the requisite principal amount of Outstanding Securities of such series on such record date. Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to prevent the Trustee from setting a new record date for any action for which a record date has previously been set pursuant to this paragraph (whereupon the record date previously set shall automatically and with no action by any Person be cancelled and of no effect), and nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to render ineffective any action taken by Holders of the requisite principal amount of Outstanding Securities of the relevant series on the date such action is taken. Promptly after any record date is set pursuant to this paragraph, the Trustee, at the Company's expense, shall cause notice of such record date, the proposed action by Holders and the applicable Expiration Date to be given to the Company in writing and to each Holder of Securities of the relevant series in the manner set forth in Section 106.
With respect to any record date set pursuant to this Section, the party hereto which sets such record dates may designate any day as the "Expiration Date," if applicable, and from time to time may change any applicable Expiration Date to any earlier or later day; provided that no such change shall be effective unless notice of the proposed new Expiration Date is given to the other parties hereto in writing, and to each Holder of Securities of the relevant series in the manner set forth in Section 106, on or prior to 9:00 a.m. (New York, New York time) on the Business Day next following the existing Expiration Date. If an Expiration Date is applicable and is not designated with respect to any record date set pursuant to this Section, the party hereto which set such record date shall be deemed to have initially designated the 180th day after such record date as the Expiration Date with respect thereto, subject to its right to change the Expiration Date as provided in this paragraph.
Without limiting the foregoing, a Holder entitled hereunder to take any action hereunder with regard to any particular Security may do so with regard to all or any part of the principal amount of such Security or by one or more duly appointed agents each of which may do so pursuant to such appointment with regard to all or any part of such principal amount.
Section 105. Notices, Etc., to Trustee and Company.
Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or Act of Holders or other document provided or permitted by this Indenture to be made upon, given or furnished to, or filed with,
(1) the Trustee by any Holder or by the Company shall be sufficient for every purpose hereunder if made, given, furnished or filed in writing to or with the Trustee by
 
first class mail, postage prepaid, at its Corporate Trust Office, Attention: Corporate Trust Services, or
(2) the Company by the Trustee or by any Holder shall be sufficient for every purpose hereunder (unless otherwise herein expressly provided) if in writing and mailed, first-class postage prepaid, to the Company addressed to it at the address of its principal office specified in the first paragraph of this Indenture, Attention: Corporate Secretary, or at any other address previously furnished in writing to the Trustee by the Company.
Section 106. Notice to Holders; Waiver.
Where this Indenture provides for notice to Holders of any event, such notice shall be sufficiently given (unless otherwise herein expressly provided) if in writing and mailed, first-class postage prepaid, to each Holder affected by such event, at his address as it appears in the Security Register, not later than the latest date (if any), and not earlier than the earliest date (if any), prescribed for the giving of such notice. In any case where notice to Holders is given by mail, neither the failure to mail such notice, nor any defect in any notice so mailed, to any particular Holder shall affect the sufficiency of such notice with respect to other Holders. Where this Indenture provides for notice in any manner, such notice may be waived in writing by the Person entitled to receive such notice, either before or after the event, and such waiver shall be the equivalent of such notice. Waivers of notice by Holders shall be filed with the Trustee, but such filing shall not be a condition precedent to the validity of any action taken in reliance upon such waiver.
In case by reason of the suspension of regular mail service or by reason of any other cause it shall be impracticable to give such notice by mail, then such notification as shall be made with the approval of the Trustee shall constitute a sufficient notification for every purpose hereunder.
Section 107. Conflict with Trust Indenture Act.
If any provision hereof limits, qualifies or conflicts with a provision of the Trust Indenture Act that is required under such Act to be a part of and govern this Indenture, the latter provision shall control. If any provision of this Indenture modifies or excludes any provision of the Trust Indenture Act that may be so modified or excluded, the latter provision shall be deemed to apply to this Indenture as so modified or to be excluded, as the case may be.
Section 108. Effect of Headings and Table of Contents.
The Article and Section headings herein and the Table of Contents are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof.
Section 109. Successors and Assigns.
All covenants and agreements in this Indenture by the Company shall bind its successors and assigns, whether so expressed or not.
 
Section 110. Separability Clause.
In case any provision in this Indenture or in the Securities shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
Section 111. Benefits of Indenture.
Nothing in this Indenture or in the Securities, express or implied, shall give to any Person, other than the parties hereto and their successors hereunder and the Holders, any benefit or any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under this Indenture.
Section 112. Governing Law.
This Indenture and the Securities shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
Section 113. Legal Holidays.
In any case where any Interest Payment Date, Redemption Date or Stated Maturity of any Security shall not be a Business Day at any Place of Payment, then (notwithstanding any other provision of this Indenture or of the Securities (other than a provision of any Security which specifically states that such provision shall apply in lieu of this Section)) payment of interest or principal (and premium, if any) need not be made at such Place of Payment on such date, but may be made on the next succeeding Business Day at such Place of Payment with the same force and effect as if made on the Interest Payment Date or Redemption Date, or at the Stated Maturity.
Section 114. Counterparts.
This Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts (including via facsimile), each of which shall be an original, but such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
Section 115. No Recourse Against Others.
No recourse for payment of the principal of, premium, if any, or interest on any of the Securities, or for any claim based thereon or otherwise in respect thereof, and no recourse under or upon any obligation, covenant or agreement of the Company contained in this Indenture, or in any of the Securities, or because of the creation of any indebtedness represented thereby, shall be had against any incorporator or any past, present or future partner, shareholder, other equity holder, officer, director, employee or controlling person, as such, of the Company or of any successor Person, either directly or through the Company or any successor Person, whether by virtue of any constitution, statute or rule of law, or by enforcement of any assessment or penalty or otherwise, it being expressly understood that all such liability, either at common law or in equity or by constitution or statute, is hereby waived and released as a condition of, and as consideration for, the execution of this Indenture and the issuance of the Securities.
 
Section 201. Forms Generally.
The Securities of each series shall be in the form established by or pursuant to a Board Resolution or in one or more indentures supplemental hereto, in each case with such appropriate insertions, omissions, substitutions and other variations as are required or permitted by this Indenture or any indenture supplemental hereto and may have such letters, numbers or other marks of identification and such legends or endorsements placed thereon as may be required to comply with any law or with any rule of any securities exchange or Depositary therefor or as may, consistently herewith, be determined by the officers executing such Securities, as evidenced by their execution of the Securities. If the form of Securities of any series is established by action taken pursuant to a Board Resolution, a copy of an appropriate record of such action shall be certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company and delivered to the Trustee at or prior to the delivery of the Company Order contemplated by Section 303 for the authentication and delivery of such Securities.
The definitive Securities shall be printed, lithographed or engraved on steel engraved borders or may be produced in any other manner, all as determined by the officers executing such Securities, as evidenced by their execution of such Securities.
Section 202. Additional Provisions Required in Global Security.
Unless otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301 for the Securities evidenced thereby, every Global Security authenticated and delivered hereunder shall bear a legend in substantially the following form: "This Security is a Global Security within the meaning of the Indenture hereinafter referred to and is registered in the name of a Depositary or a nominee thereof. This Security may not be exchanged in whole or in part for a Security registered, and no transfer of this Security in whole or in part may be registered, in the name of any Person other than such Depositary or a nominee thereof, except in the limited circumstances described in the Indenture."
The Trustee and the Company may from time to time enter into, and discontinue, an agreement with a Depositary including a "clearing agency" registered under Section 17A of the Exchange Act, which is the owner of the Securities, to establish procedures with respect to the Securities not inconsistent with the provisions of this Indenture. Neither the Company nor the Trustee will have any responsibility or obligation to the Depositary, any direct or indirect participants (the "Participants") in the book entry system of any such Depositary or the Holders of the Securities with respect to (i) the accuracy of any records maintained by the Depositary or any Participant; (ii) the payment by the Depositary or by any Participant of any amount due to any Holder in respect of the principal amount or redemption or purchase price of, or interest on, any Securities; (iii) the delivery of any notice by the Depositary or any Participant; (iv) the selection of the Holders to receive payment in the event of any partial redemption of the Securities; or (v) any consent, waiver or other action taken by the Depositary or any Participant.
 
Section 203. Form of Trustee's Certificate of Authentication.
The Trustee's certificates of authentication shall be in substantially the following form:
This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
 
Section 204. CUSIP Numbers.
The Company in issuing the Securities may use "CUSIP" numbers (if then generally in use), and, if so, the Trustee shall use "CUSIP" numbers in notices of redemption as a convenience to Holders; provided that any such notice may state that no representation is made as to the correctness of such numbers either as printed on the Securities or as contained in any notice of a redemption and that reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers printed on the Securities, and any such redemption shall not be affected by any defect in or omission of such numbers.
Section 301. Amount Unlimited; Issuable in Series.
The aggregate principal amount of Securities which may be authenticated and delivered under this Indenture is unlimited.
The Securities may be issued in one or more series. There shall be established in or pursuant to a Board Resolution and, subject to Section 303, set forth, or determined in the manner provided, in an Officers' Certificate, or established in one or more indentures supplemental hereto, prior to the issuance of Securities of any series,
(1) the title of the Securities of the series (which shall distinguish the Securities of the series from Securities of any other series);
(2) any limit upon the aggregate principal amount of the Securities of the series which may be authenticated and delivered under this Indenture (except for Securities authenticated and delivered upon registration of transfer of, or in exchange for, or in lieu of, other Securities of the series pursuant to Section 304, 305, 306, 906 or 1107 and except for any Securities which, pursuant to Section 303, are deemed never to have been authenticated and delivered hereunder);
(3) the Person to whom interest, if any, on a Security of the series shall be payable, if other than the Person in whose name that Security (or one or more
 
Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest, if any;
(4) the date or dates on which the principal of the Securities of the series is payable, or the method or methods, if any, by which such date or dates will be determined;
(5) the rate or rates at which the Securities of the series shall bear interest, if any, or the method or methods, if any, by which such rate or rates will be determined;
(6) if the amount of principal of or any premium or interest, if any, on any Securities of the series may be determined with reference to an index, a formula or other method, the manner in which such amounts shall be determined;
(7) the date or dates from which such interest, if any, shall accrue, the Interest Payment Dates on which any such interest, if any, shall be payable and the Regular Record Date for any interest, if any, payable on any Interest Payment Date;
(8) the place or places where the principal of and any premium and interest, if any, on Securities of the series shall be payable if other than the Corporate Trust Office;
(9) the period or periods within which, the price or prices at which and the terms and conditions upon which Securities of the series may be redeemed, in whole or in part, at the option of the Company and, if other than by Board Resolution, the manner in which any election by the Company to redeem the Securities shall be evidenced;
(10) the obligation, if any, of the Company to redeem or purchase Securities of the series pursuant to any sinking fund or analogous provisions or at the option of a Holder thereof and the period or periods within which, the price or prices at which and the terms and conditions upon which Securities of the series shall be redeemed or purchased, in whole or in part, pursuant to such obligation;
(11) if other than denominations of $1,000 and any integral multiple thereof, the denominations in which Securities of the series shall be issuable;
(12) if other than the currency of the United Sates of America, the currency, currencies or currency units in which the principal of or any premium and interest, if any, on any Securities of the series shall be payable and the manner of determining the equivalent thereof in the currency of the United States of America for any purpose, including for purposes of the definition of "Outstanding" in Section 101;
(13) if the principal of or any premium or interest, if any, on any Securities of the series is to be payable, at the election of the Company or a Holder thereof, in one or more currencies or currency units other than that or those in which such Securities are stated to be payable, the currency, currencies or currency units in which the principal of or any premium and interest, if any, on such Securities as to which such election is made shall be payable, the periods within which and the terms and conditions upon which such
 
election is to be made and the amount so payable (or the manner in which such amount shall be determined);
(14) if the Securities will be convertible into other securities of the Company and/or exchangeable for securities of the Company or other issuers, the terms and conditions upon which the Securities will be convertible or exchangeable;
(15) if other than the entire principal amount thereof, the portion of the principal amount of any Securities of the series which shall be payable upon declaration of acceleration of the Maturity thereof pursuant to Section 502;
(16) if applicable, that the Securities of the series, in whole or any specified part, shall not be defeasible pursuant to either Section 1302 or Section 1303 or both such sections;
(17) if applicable, that any Securities of the series shall be issuable in whole or in part in the form of one or more Global Securities and, in such case, the respective Depositaries for such Global Securities, the form of any legend or legends which shall be borne by any such Global Security in addition to or in lieu of that set forth in Section 202 and any circumstances in addition to or in lieu of those set forth in Clause (2) of the last paragraph of Section 305 in which any such Global Security may be exchanged in whole or in part for Securities registered, and any transfer of such Global Security in whole or in part may be registered, in the name or names of Persons other than the Depositary for such Global Security or a nominee thereof;
(18) any addition to or change in the Events of Default which applies to any Securities of the series and any change in the right of the Trustee or the requisite Holders of such Securities to declare the principal amount thereof due and payable pursuant to Section 502;
(19) any addition to or change in the covenants set forth in Article Ten which applies to Securities of the series;
(20) any term applicable to Original Issue Discount Securities, if any, including the rate or rates at which such Original Issue Discount Securities, if any, shall accrue, and any necessary or desirable conforming changes to other provisions of the Indenture; and
(21) any other terms of the series (which terms shall not be inconsistent with the provisions of this Indenture, except as permitted by Section 901(10)).
All Securities of any one series shall be substantially identical except as to denomination and except as may otherwise be provided in or pursuant to the Board Resolution referred to above and (subject to Section 303) set forth, or determined in the manner provided, in the Officers' Certificate referred to above or in any such indenture supplemental hereto.
If any of the terms of the series are established by action taken pursuant to a Board Resolution, a copy of an appropriate record of such action shall be certified by the Secretary or
 
an Assistant Secretary of the Company and delivered to the Trustee at or prior to the delivery of the Officers' Certificate setting forth the terms of the series.
Section 302. Denominations.
The Securities of each series shall be issuable in registered form without coupons in such denominations as shall be specified as contemplated by Section 301. In the absence of any such provisions with respect to the Securities of any series, the Securities of such series shall be issuable in denominations of $1,000 and any integral multiple thereof.
Section 303. Execution, Authentication, Delivery and Dating.
The Securities shall be executed on behalf of the Company by an Authorized Officer, under its corporate seal reproduced thereon, attested by any other Authorized Officer or by its Secretary or one of its Assistant Secretaries. The signature of any of these officers on the Securities may be manual or facsimile. The seal of the Company may be in the form of a facsimile thereof and may be impressed, affixed, imprinted on otherwise reproduced on the Securities.
Securities bearing the manual or facsimile signatures of individuals who were at any time the proper officers of the Company shall bind the Company, notwithstanding that such individuals or any of them have ceased to hold such offices prior to the authentication and delivery of such Securities or did not hold such offices at the date of such Securities.
At any time and from time to time after the execution and delivery of this Indenture, the Company may deliver Securities of any series executed by the Company to the Trustee for authentication, together with a Company Order for the authentication and delivery of such Securities, and the Trustee in accordance with the Company Order shall authenticate and deliver such Securities. If the form or terms of the Securities of the series have been established in or pursuant to one or more Board Resolutions as permitted by Sections 201 and 301, in authenticating such Securities, and accepting the additional responsibilities under this Indenture in relation to such Securities, the Trustee shall be entitled to receive, and (subject to Section 601) shall be fully protected in relying upon, an Opinion of Counsel stating,
(a) if the form of such Securities has been established by or pursuant to Board Resolution as permitted by Section 201, that such form has been established in conformity with the provisions of this Indenture;
(b) if the terms of such Securities have been established by or pursuant to Board Resolution as permitted by Section 301, that such terms have been established in conformity with the provisions of this Indenture; and
(c) that such Securities, when authenticated and delivered by the Trustee and issued by the Company in the manner and subject to any conditions specified in such Opinion of Counsel, will constitute valid and legally binding obligations of the Company enforceable in accordance with their terms, subject to bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent transfer, reorganization, moratorium and similar laws of general applicability relating to or affecting creditors' rights and to general equity principles.
 
If such form or terms have been so established, the Trustee shall not be required to authenticate such Securities if the issue of such Securities pursuant to this Indenture will affect the Trustee's own rights, duties or immunities under the Securities and this Indenture or otherwise in a manner which is not reasonably acceptable to the Trustee.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 301 and of the preceding paragraph, if all Securities of a series are not to be originally issued at one time, it shall not be necessary to deliver the Officers' Certificate otherwise required pursuant to Section 301 or the Company Order and Opinion of Counsel otherwise required pursuant to such preceding paragraph at or prior to the time of authentication of each Security of such series if such documents are delivered at or prior to the authentication upon original issuance of the first Security of such series to be issued.
Each Security shall be dated the date of its authentication.
No Security shall be entitled to any benefit under this Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose unless there appears on such Security a certificate of authentication substantially in the form provided for herein executed by the Trustee by manual signature, and such certificate upon any Security shall be conclusive evidence, and the only evidence, that such Security has been duly authenticated and delivered hereunder. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any Security shall have been authenticated and delivered hereunder but never issued and sold by the Company, and the Company shall deliver such Security to the Trustee for cancellation as provided in Section 309, for all purposes of this Indenture such Security shall be deemed never to have been authenticated and delivered hereunder and shall never be entitled to the benefits of this Indenture.
Section 304. Temporary Securities.
Pending the preparation of definitive Securities of any series, the Company may execute, and upon Company Order the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, temporary Securities which are printed, lithographed, typewritten, mimeographed or otherwise produced, in any authorized denomination, substantially of the tenor of the definitive Securities in lieu of which they are issued and with such appropriate insertions, omissions, substitutions and other variations as the officers executing such Securities may determine, as evidenced by their execution of such Securities.
If temporary Securities of any series are issued, the Company will cause definitive Securities of that series to be prepared without unreasonable delay.
After the preparation of definitive Securities of such series, the temporary Securities of such series shall be exchangeable for definitive Securities of such series upon surrender of the temporary Securities of such series at the office or agency of the Company in a Place of Payment for that series, without charge to the Holder. Upon surrender for cancellation of any one or more temporary Securities of any series the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver in exchange therefor one or more definitive Securities of the same series, of any authorized denominations and of a like aggregate principal amount and tenor. Until so
 
exchanged, the temporary Securities of any series shall in all respects be entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture as definitive Securities of such series and tenor.
Section 305. Registration, Registration of Transfer and Exchange.
The Company shall cause to be kept at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee a register (the register maintained in such office and in any other office or agency of the Company in a Place of Payment being herein sometimes collectively referred to as the "Security Register") in which, subject to such reasonable regulations as it may prescribe, the Company shall provide for the registration of Securities and for the transfer of Securities. The Trustee is hereby appointed "Security Registrar" for the purpose of registering Securities and transfers of Securities as herein provided.
Upon surrender for registration of transfer of any Security of any series at the office or agency of the Company in a Place of Payment for that series, the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, in the name of the designated transferee or transferees, one or more new Securities of the same series, of any authorized denominations and of a like aggregate principal amount and tenor.
At the option of the Holder, Securities of any series may be exchanged for other Securities of the same series, of any authorized denominations and of a like aggregate principal amount and tenor, upon surrender of the Securities to be exchanged at such office or agency. Whenever any Securities are so surrendered for exchange, the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, the Securities which the Holder making the exchange is entitled to receive.
All Securities issued upon any registration of transfer or exchange of Securities shall be the valid obligations of the Company, evidencing the same debt, and entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture, as the Securities surrendered upon such registration of transfer or exchange.
Every Security presented or surrendered for registration of transfer or for exchange shall (if so required by the Company or the Trustee) be duly endorsed, or be accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Security Registrar duly executed, by the Holder thereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing.
No service charge shall be made for any registration of transfer or exchange of Securities, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in connection with any registration of transfer or exchange of Securities, other than exchanges pursuant to Section 304, 906 or 1107 not involving any transfer.
If the Securities of any series (or of any series and specified tenor) are to be redeemed in part, the Company shall not be required (i) to issue, register the transfer of or exchange Securities of any series (or of that series and specified tenor, as the case may be) during a period beginning at the opening of business 15 days before the day of the mailing of a notice of redemption of any such Securities selected for redemption under Section 1103 and ending at the close of business on the day of such mailing, or (ii) to register the transfer of or exchange any Security so selected
 
for redemption in whole or in part, except the unredeemed portion of any Security being redeemed in part.
The provisions of Clauses (1), (2), (3) and (4) below shall apply only to Global Securities:
(1) Each Global Security authenticated under this Indenture shall be registered in the name of the Depositary designated for such Global Security or a nominee thereof and delivered to such Depositary or a nominee thereof or custodian therefor, and each such Global Security shall constitute a single Security for all purposes of this Indenture.
(2) Notwithstanding any other provision in this Indenture, no Global Security may be exchanged in whole or in part for Securities registered, and no transfer of a Global Security in whole or in part may be registered, in the name of any Person other than the Depositary for such Global Security or a nominee thereof unless (A) such Depositary (i) has notified the Company that it is unwilling or unable to continue as Depositary for such Global Security or (ii) has ceased to be a clearing agency registered under the Exchange Act, (B) there shall have occurred and be continuing an Event of Default with respect to such Global Security or (C) there shall exist such circumstances, if any, in addition to or in lieu of the foregoing as have been specified for this purpose as contemplated by Section 301.
(3) Subject to Clause (2) above, any exchange of a Global Security for other Securities may be made in whole or in part, and all Securities issued in exchange for a Global Security or any portion thereof shall be registered in such names as the Depositary for such Global Security shall direct.
(4) Every Security authenticated and delivered upon registration of transfer of, or in exchange for or in lieu of, a Global Security or any portion thereof, whether pursuant to this Section, Section 304, 306, 906 or 1107 or otherwise, shall be authenticated and delivered in the form of, and shall be, a Global Security, unless such Security is registered in the name of a Person other than the Depositary for such Global Security or a nominee thereof.
Section 306. Mutilated, Destroyed, Lost and Stolen Securities.
If any mutilated Security is surrendered to the Trustee, the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver in exchange therefor a new Security of the same series and of like tenor and principal amount and bearing a number not contemporaneously outstanding.
If there shall be delivered to the Company and the Trustee (i) evidence to their satisfaction of the destruction, loss or theft of any Security and (ii) such security or indemnity as may be required by them to save each of them and any agent of either of them harmless, then, in the absence of notice to the Company or the Trustee that such Security has been acquired by a bona fide purchaser, the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, in lieu of any such destroyed, lost or stolen Security, a new Security of the same series and of like tenor and principal amount and bearing a number not contemporaneously outstanding.
 
In case any such mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security has become or is about to become due and payable, the Company in its discretion may, instead of issuing a new Security, pay such Security.
Upon the issuance of any new Security under this Section, the Company may require the payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in relation thereto and any other expenses (including the fees and expenses of the Trustee) connected therewith.
Every new Security of any series issued pursuant to this Section in lieu of any destroyed, lost or stolen Security shall constitute an original additional contractual obligation of the Company, whether or not the destroyed, lost or stolen Security shall be at any time enforceable by anyone, and shall be entitled to all the benefits of this Indenture equally and proportionately with any and all other Securities of that series duly issued hereunder.
The provisions of this Section are exclusive and shall preclude (to the extent lawful) all other rights and remedies with respect to the replacement or payment of mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Securities.
Section 307. Payment of Interest; Interest Rights Preserved.
Except as otherwise provided as contemplated by Section 301 with respect to any series of Securities, interest on any Security which is payable, and is punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date shall be paid to the Person in whose name that Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest.
Any interest on any Security of any series which is payable, but is not punctually paid or duly Provided for, on any Interest Payment Date (herein called "Defaulted Interest") shall forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on the relevant Regular Record Date by virtue of having been such Holder, and such Defaulted Interest may be paid by the Company, at its election in each case, as provided in Clause (1) or (2) below:
(1) The Company may elect to make payment of any Defaulted Interest to the Persons in whose names the Securities of such series (or their respective Predecessor Securities) are registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest, which shall be fixed in the following manner. The Company shall notify the Trustee in writing of the amount of Defaulted Interest proposed to be paid on each Security of such series and the date of the proposed payment, and at the same time the Company shall deposit with the Trustee an amount of money equal to the aggregate amount proposed to be paid in respect of such Defaulted Interest or shall make arrangements satisfactory to the Trustee for such deposit prior to the date of the proposed payment, such money when deposited to be held in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled to such Defaulted Interest as in this Clause provided. Thereupon the Trustee shall fix a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest which shall be not more than 15 days and not less than 10 days prior to the date of the proposed payment and not less than 10 days after the receipt by the Trustee of the notice of the
 
proposed payment. The Trustee shall promptly notify the Company of such Special Record Date and, in the name and at the expense of the Company, shall cause notice of the proposed payment of such Defaulted Interest and the Special Record Date therefor to be given to each Holder of Securities of such series in the manner set forth in Section 105, not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date.
Notice of the proposed payment of such Defaulted Interest and the Special Record Date therefor having been so mailed, such Defaulted Interest shall be paid to the Persons in whose names the Securities of such series (or their respective Predecessor Securities) are registered at the close of business on such Special Record Date and shall no longer be payable pursuant to the following Clause (2).
(2) The Company may make payment of any Defaulted Interest on the Securities of any series in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which such Securities may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, if, after notice given by the Company to the Trustee of the proposed payment pursuant to this Clause, such manner of payment shall be deemed practicable by the Trustee.
Subject to the foregoing provisions of this Section, each Security delivered under this Indenture upon registration of transfer of or in exchange for or in lieu of any other Security shall carry the rights to interest accrued and unpaid, and to accrue, which were carried by such other Security.
Section 308. Persons Deemed Owners.
Prior to due presentment of a Security for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name such Security is registered as the owner of such Security for the purpose of receiving payment of principal of and any premium and (subject to Section 307) any interest on such Security and for all other purposes whatsoever, whether or not such Security be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any agent of the Company or the Trustee shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
Section 309. Cancellation.
All Securities surrendered for payment, redemption, registration of transfer or exchange or for credit against any sinking fund payment shall, if surrendered to any Person other than the Trustee, be delivered to the Trustee and shall be promptly cancelled by it. The Company may at any time deliver to the Trustee for cancellation any Securities previously authenticated and delivered hereunder which the Company may have acquired in any manner whatsoever, and may deliver to the Trustee (or to any other Person for delivery to the Trustee) for cancellation any Securities previously authenticated hereunder which the Company has not issued and sold, and all Securities so delivered shall be promptly cancelled by the Trustee. No Securities shall be authenticated in lieu of or in exchange for any Securities cancelled as provided in this Section, except as expressly permitted by this Indenture. All cancelled Securities held by the Trustee
 
shall be disposed of as directed by a Company Order, , , that the Trustee shall not be required to destroy such cancelled Securities.
provided
however
Section 310. Computation of Interest.
Except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301 for Securities of any series, interest on the Securities of each series shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.
Section 401. Satisfaction and Discharge of Indenture.
This Indenture shall upon Company Request cease to be of further effect (except as to any surviving rights of registration of transfer or exchange of Securities herein expressly provided for), and the Trustee, at the expense of the Company, shall execute proper instruments acknowledging satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture, when
(1) either
(A) all Securities theretofore authenticated and delivered have been delivered to the Trustee for cancellation, other than
(i) Securities that have been destroyed, lost or stolen and which have been replaced or paid as provided in Section 306, and
(ii) Securities for whose payment money has theretofore been deposited in trust or segregated and held in trust by the Company and thereafter repaid to the Company or discharged from such trust, as provided in Section 1003; or
(B) all such Securities not theretofore delivered to the Trustee for cancellation
(i) have become due and payable, or
(ii) will become due and payable at their Stated Maturity within one year, or
(iii) are to be called for redemption within one year under arrangements satisfactory to the Trustee for the giving of notice of redemption by the Trustee in the name, and at the expense, of the Company,
and the Company, in the case of (i), (ii) or (iii) above, has deposited or caused to be deposited with the Trustee as trust funds in trust for the purpose an amount sufficient to pay and discharge the entire indebtedness
 
on such Securities not theretofore delivered to the Trustee for cancellation, for principal and any premium and interest to the date of such deposit (in the case of Securities which have become due and payable) or to the Stated Maturity or Redemption Date, as the case may be;
(2) the Company has paid or caused to be paid all other sums payable hereunder by the Company in respect of the Securities; and
(3) the Company has delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each stating that all conditions precedent herein provided for relating to the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture have been complied with.
Notwithstanding the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture, the obligations of the Company to the Trustee under Section 607 and, if money shall have been deposited with the Trustee pursuant to subclause (B) of Clause (1) of this Section, the obligations of the Trustee under Section 402 and the last paragraph of Section 1003 shall survive.
Section 402. Application of Trust Money.
Subject to the provisions of the last paragraph of Section 1003, all money deposited with the Trustee pursuant to Section 401 shall be held in trust and applied by it, in accordance with the provisions of the Securities and this Indenture, to the payment, either directly or through any Paying Agent (including the Company acting as its own Paying Agent) as the Trustee may determine, to the Persons entitled thereto, of the principal and any premium and interest for whose payment such money has been deposited with the Trustee.
Section 501. Events of Default.
"Event of Default," wherever used herein with respect to Securities of any series, means any one of the following events (whatever the reason for such Event of Default and whether it shall be voluntary or involuntary or be effected by operation of law or pursuant to any judgment, decree or order of any court or any order, rule or regulation of any administrative or governmental body):
(1) failure to pay principal of (or premium, if any, on) any Security of that series at its Maturity; or
(2) failure to pay any interest upon any Security of that series within 30 days after it becomes due and payable; or
(3) failure to deposit any mandatory sinking fund payment, when due, in respect of any Security of that series; or
(4) failure to perform, or breach of, any covenant or warranty of the Company in this Indenture (other than a covenant or warranty a default in whose performance or
 
whose breach is elsewhere in this Section specifically dealt with or which has expressly been included in this Indenture solely for the benefit of series of Securities other than that series), and continuance of such default or breach for a period of 60 days after there has been given, by registered or certified mail, to the Company by the Trustee or to the Company and the Trustee by the Holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of that series a written notice specifying such default or breach and requiring it to be remedied and stating that such notice is a "Notice of Default" hereunder; or
(5) the entry by a court having jurisdiction in the premises of (A) a decree or order for relief in respect of the Company in an involuntary case or proceeding under any applicable Federal or State bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other similar law or (B) a decree or order adjudging the Company bankrupt or insolvent, or approving as properly filed a petition seeking reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition of or in respect of the Company under any applicable Federal or State law, or appointing a custodian, receiver, liquidator, assignee, trustee, sequestrator or other similar official of the Company or of any substantial part of its Property, or ordering the winding up or liquidation of its affairs, and the continuance of any such decree or order for relief or any such other decree or order unstayed and in effect for a period of 60 consecutive days; or
(6) the commencement by the Company of a voluntary case or proceeding under any applicable Federal or State bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other similar law or of any other case or proceeding to be adjudicated a bankrupt or insolvent, or the consent by it to the entry of a decree or order for relief in respect of the Company in an involuntary case or proceeding under any applicable Federal or State bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other similar law or to the commencement of any bankruptcy or insolvency case or proceeding against it, or the filing by it of a petition or answer or consent seeking reorganization or relief under any applicable Federal or State law, or the consent by it to the filing of such petition or to the appointment of or taking possession by a custodian, receiver, liquidator, assignee, trustee, sequestrator or other similar official of the Company or of any substantial part of its Property, or the making by it of an assignment for the benefit of creditors, or the admission by it in writing of its inability to pay its debts generally as they become due, or the taking of corporate action by the Company in furtherance of any such action; or
(7) any other Event of Default provided with respect to Securities of that series.
Section 502. Acceleration of Maturity; Rescission and Annulment.
If an Event of Default with respect to Securities of any series at the time Outstanding occurs and is continuing, either the Trustee or the Holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of that series may declare the principal amount (or, if any of the Securities of that series are Original Issue Discount Securities, such portion of the principal amount of such Securities as may be specified in the terms of that series) of all of the Securities of that series to be due and payable immediately by written notice to the Company (and to the Trustee if given by Holders). Notwithstanding the foregoing, if an Event of Default specified in
 
Section 501(5) or 501(6) with respect to Securities of any series at the time Outstanding occurs and is continuing, then all of the Securities of that series (or, if any Securities of that series are Original Issue Discount Securities, such portion of the principal amount of such Securities as may be specified by the terms thereof) shall automatically become immediately due and payable without further act by the Company, any Holder or the Trustee.
At any time after such a declaration of acceleration with respect to Securities of any series has been made and before a judgment or decree for payment of the money due has been obtained by the Trustee as hereinafter in this Article provided, the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of that series, by written notice to the Company and the Trustee, may rescind and annul such declaration and its consequences if:
(1) the Company has paid or deposited with the Trustee a sum sufficient to pay all overdue interest and all overdue principal on all Securities of that series other than the accelerated interest and principal; and
(2) the Company has cured or the Holders have waived all Events of Default with respect to Securities of that series, other than the non-payment of accelerated principal and interest with respect to the Securities of that series, as provided in Section 513.
No such rescission shall affect any subsequent default or impair any right consequent thereon.
Section 503. Collection of Indebtedness and Suits for Enforcement by Trustee.
The Company covenants that if:
(1) default is made in the payment of any interest on any Security when such interest becomes due and payable and such default continues for a period of 30 days, or
(2) default is made in the payment of the principal of (or premium, if any, on) any Security at the Maturity thereof,
the Company will, upon demand of the Trustee, pay to it, for the benefit of the Holders of such Securities, the whole amount then due and payable on such Securities for principal and any premium and interest and, to the extent that payment of such interest shall be legally enforceable, interest on any overdue principal and premium and on any overdue interest, at the rate or rates prescribed therefor in such Securities, and, in addition thereto, such further amount as shall be sufficient to cover the costs and expenses of collection, including the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel (without duplication of payments provided for under Section 607).
If an Event of Default with respect to Securities of any series occurs and is continuing, the Trustee may in its discretion proceed to protect and enforce its rights and the rights of the Holders of Securities of such series by such appropriate judicial proceedings as the Trustee shall deem most effectual to protect and enforce any such rights, whether for the specific enforcement
 
of any covenant or agreement in this Indenture or in aid of the exercise of any power granted herein, or to enforce any other proper remedy.
Section 504. Trustee May File Proofs of Claim.
In case of any judicial proceeding relative to the Company (or any other obligor upon the Securities), its Property or its creditors, the Trustee shall be entitled and empowered, by intervention in such proceeding or otherwise, to take any and all actions authorized under the Trust Indenture Act in order to have claims of the Holders and the Trustee allowed in any such proceeding. In particular, the Trustee shall be authorized to collect and receive any moneys or other Property payable or deliverable on any such claims and to distribute the same; and any custodian, receiver, assignee, trustee, liquidator, sequestrator or other similar official in any such judicial proceeding is hereby authorized by each Holder to make such payments to the Trustee and, in the event that the Trustee shall consent to the making of such payments directly to the Holders, to pay to the Trustee any amount due it for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel, and any other amounts due the Trustee under Section 607.
No provision of this Indenture shall be deemed to authorize the Trustee to authorize or consent to or accept or adopt on behalf of any Holder any plan of reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition affecting the Securities or the rights of any Holder thereof or to authorize the Trustee to vote in respect of the claim of any Holder in any such proceeding, , , that the Trustee may, on behalf of the Holders, vote for the election of a trustee in bankruptcy or similar official and be a member of a creditors' or other similar committee.
provided
however
Section 505. Trustee May Enforce Claims Without Possession of Securities.
All rights of action and claims under this Indenture or the Securities may be prosecuted and enforced by the Trustee without the possession of any of the Securities or the production thereof in any proceeding relating thereto, and any such proceeding instituted by the Trustee shall be brought in its own name as trustee of an express trust, and any recovery of judgment shall, after provision for the payment of the amounts due the Trustee under Section 607, be for the ratable benefit of the Holders of the Securities in respect of which such judgment has been recovered.
Section 506. Application of Money Collected.
Any money collected by the Trustee pursuant to this Article shall be applied in the following order, at the record and payment date or dates fixed by the Trustee and, in case of the distribution of such money on account of principal or any premium or interest, upon presentation of the Securities and the notation thereon of the payment if only partially paid and upon surrender thereof if fully paid:
FIRST: To the payment of all amounts due the Trustee and any predecessor Trustee under Section 607;
 
SECOND: To the payment of the amounts then due and unpaid for principal of and any premium and interest on the Securities in respect of which or for the benefit of which such money has been collected, ratably, without preference or priority of any kind, according to the amounts due and payable on such Securities for principal and any premium and interest, respectively;
THIRD: To the Company.
Section 507. Limitation on Suits.
No Holder of any Security of any series shall have any right to institute any proceeding, judicial or otherwise, with respect to this Indenture, or for the appointment of a receiver or trustee, or for any other remedy hereunder, unless
(1) such Holder has previously given written notice to the Trustee of a continuing Event of Default with respect to the Securities of that series;
(2) the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of that series shall have made written request to the Trustee to institute proceedings in respect of such Event of Default in its own name as Trustee hereunder;
(3) such Holder or Holders have offered to the Trustee reasonable indemnity against the costs, expenses and liabilities to be incurred in compliance with such request;
(4) the Trustee for 60 days after its receipt of such notice, request and offer of indemnity has failed to institute any such proceeding; and
(5) no direction inconsistent with such written request has been given to the Trustee during such 60-day period by the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of that series;
it being understood and intended that no one or more of such Holders shall have any right in any manner whatever by virtue of, or by availing of, any provision of this Indenture to affect, disturb or prejudice the rights of any other of such Holders, or to obtain or to seek to obtain priority or preference over any other of such Holders or to enforce any right under this Indenture, except in the manner herein provided and for the equal and ratable benefit of all of such Holders.
Section 508. Unconditional Right of Holders to Receive Principal, Premium and Interest.
Notwithstanding any other provision in this Indenture, the Holder of any Security shall have the right, which is absolute and unconditional, to receive payment of the principal of and any premium and (subject to Section 307) any interest on such Security on the respective Stated Maturities expressed in such Security (or, in the case of redemption, on the Redemption Date) and to institute suit for the enforcement of any such payment, and such rights shall not be impaired without the consent of such Holder.
 
Section 509. Restoration of Rights and Remedies.
If the Trustee or any Holder has instituted any proceeding to enforce any right or remedy under this Indenture and such proceeding has been discontinued or abandoned for any reason, or has been determined adversely to the Trustee or to such Holder, then and in every such case, subject to any determination in such proceeding, the Company, the Trustee and the Holders shall be restored severally and respectively to their former positions hereunder and thereafter all rights and remedies of the Trustee and the Holders shall continue as though no such proceeding had been instituted.
Section 510. Rights and Remedies Cumulative.
Except as otherwise provided with respect to the replacement or payment of mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Securities in the last paragraph of Section 306, no right or remedy herein conferred upon or reserved to the Trustee or to the Holders is intended to be exclusive of any other right or remedy, and every right and remedy shall, to the extent permitted by law, be cumulative and in addition to every other right and remedy given hereunder or now or hereafter existing at law or in equity or otherwise. The assertion or employment of any right or remedy hereunder, or otherwise, shall not prevent the concurrent assertion or employment of any other appropriate right or remedy.
Section 511. Delay or Omission Not Waiver.
No delay or omission of the Trustee or of any Holder of any Securities to exercise any right or remedy accruing upon any Event of Default shall impair any such right or remedy or constitute a waiver of any such Event of Default or an acquiescence therein. Every right and remedy given by this Article or by law to the Trustee or to the Holders may be exercised from time to time, and as often as may be deemed expedient, by the Trustee or by the Holders, as the case may be.
Section 512. Control by Holders.
Subject to Section 601, the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series shall have the right, in accordance with applicable law, to direct the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee, or exercising any trust or power conferred on the Trustee, with respect to the Securities of such series.
Section 513. Waiver of Past Defaults.
The Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series may on behalf of the Holders of all Securities of that series waive any past default under this Indenture with respect to that series, except a default in the payment of the principal of or any premium or interest on any Security of that series or in respect of a covenant or provision which under the Indenture cannot be modified or amended without the consent of the Holder of each Outstanding Security of that series affected.
 
With respect to any series of Securities issued under this Indenture, in addition to obtaining waivers from the Holders of a majority in principal amount of Outstanding Securities of that series as provided under the preceding paragraph, a waiver of past defaults under this Indenture can also be obtained from the Holders of a majority in principal amount of debt securities of that series and all other series affected by the waiver, whether issued under this Indenture or the Senior Subordinated Indenture or any other indenture of the Company providing for such aggregated voting, all voting as a single class.
Upon any such waiver, such default shall cease to exist, and any Event of Default arising therefrom shall be deemed to have been cured, for every purpose of this Indenture; but no such waiver shall extend to any subsequent or other default or impair any right consequent thereon.
Section 514. Undertaking for Costs.
In any suit for the enforcement of any right or remedy under this Indenture, or in any suit against the Trustee for any action taken, suffered or omitted by it as Trustee, a court may require any party litigant in such suit to file an undertaking to pay the costs of such suit, and may assess costs against any such party litigant, in the manner and to the extent provided in the Trust Indenture Act; provided that neither this Section nor the Trust Indenture Act shall be deemed to authorize any court to require such an undertaking or to make such an assessment in any suit instituted by the Company.
Section 515. Waiver of Stay or Extension Laws.
The Company covenants (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) that it will not at any time insist upon, or plead, or in any manner whatsoever claim or take the benefit or advantage of, any stay or extension law wherever enacted, now or at any time hereafter in force, which may affect the covenants or the performance of this Indenture; and the Company (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) hereby expressly waives all benefit or advantage of any such law and covenants that it will not hinder, delay or impede the execution of any power herein granted to the Trustee, but will suffer and permit the execution of every such power as though no such law had been enacted.
Section 601. Certain Duties and Responsibilities.
The duties and responsibilities of the Trustee shall be as provided by the Trust Indenture Act. No duties that are not set forth in this Indenture or required by the Trust Indenture Act shall be implied against the Trustee. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no provision of this Indenture shall require the Trustee to expend or risk its own funds or otherwise incur any financial liability in the performance of any of its duties hereunder, or in the exercise of any of its rights or powers, if it shall have reasonable grounds for believing that repayment of such funds or adequate indemnity against such risk or liability is not reasonably assured to it. Whether or not therein expressly so provided, every provision of this Indenture relating to the conduct or affecting the liability of or affording protection to the Trustee shall be subject to the provisions of this Section.
 
Section 602. Notice of Defaults.
If a default occurs hereunder with respect to Securities of any series, and if a Responsible Officer of the Trustee has actual knowledge of such default, the Trustee shall give the Holders of Securities of such series notice of such default, or may withhold notice of such default, as and to the extent provided by the Trust Indenture Act; , , that in the case of any default of the character specified in Section 501(4) with respect to Securities of such series, no such notice to Holders shall be given until at least 60 days after the occurrence thereof. The term "default" means any event which is, or after notice or lapse of time or both would become, an Event of Default with respect to Securities of such series.
provided
however
Section 603. Certain Rights of Trustee.
Subject to the provisions of Section 601:
(a) the Trustee may rely and shall be protected in acting or refraining from acting upon any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, direction, consent, order, bond, debenture, note, other evidence of indebtedness or other paper or document believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or presented by the proper party or parties;
(b) any request or direction of the Company mentioned herein shall be sufficiently evidenced by a Company Request or Company Order or as otherwise provided in Section 303 and any resolution of the Board of Directors shall be sufficiently evidenced by a Board Resolution;
(c) whenever in the administration of this Indenture the Trustee shall deem it desirable that a matter be proved or established prior to taking, suffering or omitting any action hereunder, the Trustee (unless other evidence be herein specifically prescribed) may, in the absence of bad faith on its part, rely upon an Officers' Certificate;
(d) the Trustee may consult with counsel and the written advice of such counsel or any Opinion of Counsel shall be full and complete authorization and protection in respect of any action taken, suffered or omitted by it hereunder in good faith and in reliance thereon;
(e) the Trustee shall be under no obligation to exercise any of the rights or powers vested in it by this Indenture at the request or direction of any of the Holders pursuant to this Indenture, unless such Holders shall have offered to the Trustee reasonable security or indemnity against the costs, expenses and liabilities which might be incurred by it in compliance with such request or direction;
(f) the Trustee shall not be bound to make any investigation into the facts or matters stated in any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, direction, consent, order, bond, debenture, note, other evidence of indebtedness or other paper or document, but the Trustee, in its discretion, may make such further inquiry or investigation into such facts or matters as it may see fit, and, if the Trustee shall determine to make such further inquiry or investigation, it shall be entitled to examine the books, records and premises of the Company, personally or by agent or attorney;
 
(g) the Trustee may execute any of the trusts or powers hereunder or perform any duties hereunder either directly or by or through agents or attorneys and the Trustee shall not be responsible for any misconduct or negligence on the part of any agent or attorney appointed with due care by it hereunder; and
(h) delivery of reports, information and documents to the Trustee under Section 7.04 shall not, with respect to the Trustee only, constitute notice or constructive notice of any information contained therein or determinable from information contained therein, including the Company's compliance with any of its covenants hereunder (as to which the Trustee is entitled to rely exclusively on Officers' Certificates).
Section 604. Not Responsible for Recitals or Issuance of Securities.
The recitals contained herein and in the Securities, except the Trustee's certificates of authentication, shall be taken as the statements of the Company, and the Trustee assumes no responsibility for their correctness. The Trustee makes no representations as to the validity or sufficiency of this Indenture or of the Securities. The Trustee shall not be accountable for the use or application by the Company of Securities or the proceeds thereof.
Section 605. May Hold Securities.
The Trustee, any Paying Agent, any Security Registrar or any other agent of the Company, in its individual or any other capacity, may become the owner or pledgee of Securities and, subject to Sections 608 and 613, may otherwise deal with the Company and its Affiliates with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee, Paying Agent, Security Registrar or such other agent.
Section 606. Money Held in Trust.
Money held by the Trustee in trust hereunder need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law. The Trustee shall be under no liability for interest on any money received by it hereunder except as otherwise agreed with the Company.
Section 607. Compensation and Reimbursement.
The Company agrees
(1) to pay to the Trustee from time to time reasonable compensation for all services rendered by it hereunder as shall be agreed to in writing between the Company and the Trustee (which compensation shall not be limited by any provision of law in regard to the compensation of a trustee of an express trust);
(2) except as otherwise expressly provided herein, to reimburse the Trustee upon its request for all reasonable expenses, disbursements and advances incurred or made by the Trustee in accordance with any provision of this Indenture (including the reasonable compensation and the expenses and disbursements of its agents and counsel), except any such expense, disbursement or advance as may be attributable to its negligence or bad faith; and
 
(3) to indemnify the Trustee and its directors, officers, employees and agents for, and to hold it harmless against, any loss, liability, damage, claim or expense incurred without negligence or bad faith on its part, arising out of or in connection with the acceptance or administration of the trust or trusts hereunder, including, without limitation, reasonable fees and expenses of its counsel and the costs and expenses of defending itself against any claim or liability in connection with the exercise or performance of any of its powers or duties hereunder.
When the Trustee incurs expenses or renders services in connection with an Event of Default specified in Section 501(5) or Section 501(6), the expenses (including the reasonable charges and expenses of its counsel) are intended to constitute expenses of administration under any applicable Federal or State bankruptcy, insolvency or similar law.
The provisions of this Section 607 shall survive the resignation or removal of the Trustee, the payment, discharge or Defeasance of the Securities, and the termination of this Indenture. The Trustee shall have a lien prior to the Securities as to all Property and funds held by it hereunder for any amount owing it pursuant to this Section 607, except with respect to funds held in trust for the benefit of the Holders of particular Securities.
Section 608. Disqualification; Conflicting Interests.
If the Trustee has or shall acquire a conflicting interest within the meaning of the Trust Indenture Act, the Trustee shall either eliminate such interest or resign, to the extent and in the manner provided by, and subject to the provisions of, the Trust Indenture Act and this Indenture. To the extent permitted by such Act, the Trustee shall not be deemed to have a conflicting interest by virtue of being a trustee under this Indenture with respect to Securities of more than one series, a trustee under another indenture of the Company, or a trustee under a Senior Subordinated Indenture.
Section 609. Corporate Trustee Required; Eligibility.
There shall at all times be a Trustee hereunder with respect to the Securities of each series. Any such Trustee may also be Trustee hereunder for Securities of one or more other series. Each Trustee shall be a Person that is eligible pursuant to the Trust Indenture Act to act as such and has a combined capital and surplus of at least $50,000,000. If any such Person publishes reports of condition at least annually, pursuant to law or to the requirements of its supervising or examining authority, then for the purposes of this Section and to the extent permitted by the Trust Indenture Act, the combined capital and surplus of such Person shall be deemed to be its combined capital and surplus as set forth in its most recent report of condition so published. If at any time the Trustee with respect to the Securities of any series shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of this Section, it shall resign immediately in the manner and with the effect hereinafter specified in this Article.
Section 610. Resignation and Removal; Appointment of Successor.
(a) No resignation or removal of the Trustee and no appointment of a successor Trustee pursuant to this Article shall become effective until the acceptance of appointment by the successor Trustee in accordance with the applicable requirements of Section 611.
 
(b) The Trustee may resign at any time with respect to the Securities of one or more series by giving written notice thereof to the Company. If the instrument of acceptance by a successor Trustee required by Section 611 shall not have been delivered to the Trustee within 30 days after the giving of such notice of resignation, the resigning Trustee may petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of such series.
(c) The Trustee may be removed at any time with respect to the Securities of any series by Act of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series, delivered to the Trustee and to the Company.
(d) If at any time:
(1) the Trustee shall fail to comply with Section 608 after written request therefor by the Company or by any Holder who has been a bona fide Holder of a Security for at least six months, or
(2) the Trustee shall cease to be eligible under Section 609 and shall fail to resign after written request therefor by the Company or by any such Holder, or
(3) the Trustee shall become incapable of acting or shall be adjudged a bankrupt or insolvent or a receiver of the Trustee or of its Property shall be appointed or any public officer shall take charge or control of the Trustee or of its Property or affairs for the purpose of rehabilitation, conservation or liquidation, then, in any such case, (i) the Company by a Board Resolution may remove the Trustee with respect to all Securities, or (ii) subject to Section 514, any Holder who has been a bona fide Holder of a Security for at least six months may, on behalf of himself and all others similarly situated, petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the removal of the Trustee with respect to all Securities and the appointment of a successor Trustee or Trustees.
(e) If the Trustee shall resign, be removed or become incapable of acting, or if a vacancy shall occur in the office of Trustee for any cause, with respect to the Securities of one or more series, the Company shall promptly appoint a successor Trustee or Trustees with respect to the Securities of that or those series (it being understood that any such successor Trustee may be appointed with respect to the Securities of one or more or all of such series and that at any time there shall be only one Trustee with respect to the Securities of any particular series) and shall comply with the applicable requirements of Section 611. If, within one year after such resignation, removal or incapability, or the occurrence of such vacancy, a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of any Series shall be appointed by Act of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series delivered to the Company and the retiring Trustee, the successor Trustee so appointed shall, forthwith upon its acceptance of such appointment in accordance with the applicable requirements of Section 611, become the successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of such series and to that extent supersede the successor Trustee appointed by the Company. If no successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of any Series shall have been so appointed by the Company or the Holders and accepted appointment in the manner required by Section 611, the Trustee or any Holder who has been a bona fide Holder of a Security of such series for at least six months may, on behalf of
 
himself and all others similarly situated, petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of such series.
(f) The Company shall give notice of each resignation and each removal of the Trustee with respect to the Securities of any series and each appointment of a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of any series to all Holders of Securities of such series in the manner provided in Section 105. Each notice shall include the name of the successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of such series and the address of its Corporate Trust Office.
Section 611. Acceptance of Appointment by Successor.
(a) In case of the appointment hereunder of a successor Trustee with respect to all Securities, every such successor Trustee so appointed shall execute, acknowledge and deliver to the Company and to the retiring Trustee an instrument accepting such appointment, and thereupon the resignation or removal of the retiring Trustee shall become effective and such successor Trustee, without any further act, deed or conveyance, shall become vested with all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee; but, on the request of the Company or the successor Trustee, such retiring Trustee shall, upon payment of its charges, execute and deliver an instrument transferring to such successor Trustee all the rights, powers and trusts of the retiring Trustee and shall duly assign, transfer and deliver to such successor Trustee all Property and money held by such retiring Trustee hereunder.
(b) In case of the appointment hereunder of a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of one or more (but not all) series, the Company, the retiring Trustee and each successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of one or more series shall execute and deliver an indenture supplemental hereto wherein each successor Trustee shall accept such appointment and which (1) shall contain such provisions as shall be necessary or desirable to transfer and confirm to, and to vest in, each successor Trustee all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee with respect to the Securities of that or those series to which the appointment of such successor Trustee relates, (2) if the retiring Trustee is not retiring with respect to all Securities, shall contain such provisions as shall be deemed necessary or desirable to confirm that all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee with respect to the Securities of that or those series as to which the retiring Trustee is not retiring shall continue to be vested in the retiring Trustee, and (3) shall add to or change any of the provisions of this Indenture as shall be necessary to provide for or facilitate the administration of the trusts hereunder by more than one Trustee, it being understood that nothing herein or in such supplemental indenture shall constitute such Trustees co-trustees of the same trust and that each such Trustee shall be trustee of a trust or trusts hereunder separate and apart from any trust or trusts hereunder administered by any other such Trustee; and upon the execution and delivery of such supplemental indenture the resignation or removal of the retiring Trustee shall become effective to the extent provided therein and each such successor Trustee, without any further act, deed or conveyance, shall become vested with all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee with respect to the Securities of that or those series to which the appointment of such successor Trustee relates; but, on request of the Company or any successor Trustee, such retiring Trustee shall, upon payment of its charges relating to the Securities of that or those series to which the appointment of such successor Trustee relates, duly assign, transfer and deliver to such successor Trustee all
 
Property and money held by such retiring Trustee hereunder with respect to the Securities of that or those series to which the appointment of such successor Trustee relates.
(c) Upon request of any such successor Trustee, the Company shall execute any and all instruments for more fully and certainly vesting in and confirming to such successor Trustee all such rights, powers and trusts referred to in paragraph (a) and (b) of this Section, as the case may be.
(d) No successor Trustee shall accept its appointment unless at the time of such acceptance such successor Trustee shall be qualified and eligible under this Article.
Section 612. Merger, Conversion, Consolidation or Succession to Business.
Any Corporation into which the Trustee may be merged or converted or with which it may be consolidated, or any Corporation resulting from any merger, conversion or consolidation to which the Trustee shall be a party, or any Corporation succeeding to all or substantially all the corporate trust business of the Trustee, shall be the successor of the Trustee hereunder, provided such Corporation shall be otherwise qualified and eligible under this Article, without the execution or filing of any paper or any further act on the part of any of the parties hereto. In case any Securities shall have been authenticated, but not delivered, by the Trustee then in office, any successor by merger, conversion or consolidation to such authenticating Trustee may adopt such authentication and deliver the Securities so authenticated with the same effect as if such successor Trustee had itself authenticated such Securities.
Section 613. Preferential Collection of Claims Against Company.
If and when the Trustee shall be or become a creditor of the Company (or any other obligor upon the Securities), the Trustee shall be subject to the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act regarding the collection of claims against the Company (or any such other obligor).
Section 701. Company to Furnish Trustee Names and Addresses of Holders.
The Company will furnish or cause to be furnished to the Trustee:
(a) semi-annually, not later than January 1 and July 1 in each year, a list, in such form as the Trustee may reasonably require, of the names and addresses of the Holders as of the preceding December 15 or June 15 , as the case may be, and
(b) at such other times as the Trustee may request in writing, within 30 days after the receipt by the Company of any such request, a list of similar form and content as of a date not more than 15 days prior to the time such list is furnished;
excluding from any such list names and addresses received by the Trustee in its capacity as Security Registrar.
 
Section 702. Preservation of Information; Communications to Holders.
(a) The Trustee shall preserve, in as current a form as is reasonably practicable, the names and addresses of Holders contained in the most recent list furnished to the Trustee as provided in Section 701 and the names and addresses of Holders received by the Trustee in its capacity as Security Registrar. The Trustee may destroy any list furnished to it as provided in Section 701 upon receipt of a new list so furnished.
(b) The rights of the Holders to communicate with other Holders with respect to their rights under this Indenture or under the Securities, and the corresponding rights and privileges of the Trustee, shall be as provided by the Trust Indenture Act.
(c) Every Holder of Securities, by receiving and holding the same, agrees with the Company and the Trustee that neither the Company nor the Trustee nor any agent of either of them shall be held accountable by reason of any disclosure of information as to names and addresses of Holders made pursuant to the Trust Indenture Act.
Section 703. Reports by Trustee.
(a) The Trustee shall transmit to Holders such reports concerning the Trustee and its actions under this Indenture as may be required pursuant to Section 313 of the Trust Indenture Act at the times and in the manner provided pursuant to Section 313 of the Trust Indenture Act.
(b) A copy of each such report shall, at the time of such transmission to Holders, be filed by the Trustee with each stock exchange upon which any Securities are listed, with the Commission and with the Company. The Company will notify the Trustee when any Securities are listed on any stock exchange.
Section 704. Reports by Company.
The Company shall file with the Trustee and the Commission, and transmit to Holders, such information, documents and other reports, and such summaries thereof, as may be required pursuant to Section 314 of the Trust Indenture Act at the times and in the manner provided pursuant to such Act; provided that any such information, documents or reports required to be filed with the Commission pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act shall be filed with the Trustee within 15 days after the Company files the same with the Commission.
Section 801. Company May Consolidate, Etc., Only on Certain Terms.
The Company may consolidate with or merge into any other Person or convey, transfer or lease all or substantially all of its properties and assets to any Person only if:
(a) either (1) the Company is the surviving Person, or (2) the successor Person is a Corporation, partnership, limited liability company or trust organized and existing under the laws of the United States, any State thereof, the District of Columbia or any territory thereof and
 
assumes the Company's obligations under the Securities and this Indenture pursuant to a supplemental indenture reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee, provided that in the case when such Person is not a Corporation a co-obligor of the Securities is a Corporation; and
(b) after giving effect to the transaction no Event of Default, and no event which, after notice or lapse of time or both, would become an Event of Default, has happened and is continuing; and
(c) the Company has delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each stating that such transaction and, if a supplemental indenture is required in connection with such transaction, such supplemental indenture comply with this Article and that all conditions precedent herein provided for relating to such transaction have been complied with.
Section 802. Successor Substituted.
Upon any consolidation of the Company with, or merger of the Company into, any other Person or any conveyance, transfer or lease of the properties and assets of the Company substantially as an entirety in accordance with Section 801, the successor Person formed by such consolidation or into which the Company is merged or to which such conveyance, transfer or lease is made shall succeed to, and be substituted for, and may exercise every right and power of, the Company under this Indenture with the same effect as if such successor Person had been named as the Company herein, and thereafter, except in the case of a lease, the predecessor Person shall be relieved of all obligations and covenants under this Indenture and the Securities.
Section 901. Supplemental Indentures Without Consent of Holders.
At any time and from time to time, the Company, when authorized by or pursuant to a Board Resolution, and the Trustee may, without the consent of any Holders, enter into supplemental indentures for one or more of the following purposes:
(1) to evidence the succession of another Person to the Company, and the assumption by any such successor of the Company's obligations herein and in the Securities; or
(2) to add to the covenants of the Company, or to surrender any of the rights of the Company, or to add any rights for the benefits of the Holders of all or any series of Securities (and if such covenants are to be for the benefit of less than all series of Securities, stating that such covenants are expressly being included solely for the benefit of such series); or
(3) to cure any ambiguity, omission, defect or inconsistency under this Indenture; or
 
(4) to establish the form or terms of any series of Securities as permitted by Sections 201 and 301; or
(5) to provide for the issuance of additional Securities in accordance with this Indenture; or
(6) to comply with the requirements of the Commission in order to maintain the qualification of the Indenture under the Trust Indenture Act; or
(7) to evidence and provide the acceptance of any successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of one or more series or to facilitate the administration of the trusts hereunder by one or more Trustees pursuant to the requirements of Section 61l(b); or
(8) to add any additional Events of Default for the benefit of the Holders of all or any series of Securities (and if such additional Events of Default are to be for the benefit of less than all series of Securities, stating that such additional Events of Default are expressly being included solely for the benefit of such series); or
(9) to add to or change any of the provisions of this Indenture to such extent as shall be necessary to permit or facilitate the issuance of Securities in bearer form, registerable or not registerable as to principal, and with or without interest coupons, or to permit or facilitate the issuance of Securities in uncertificated form; or
(10) to add to, change or eliminate any of the provisions of this Indenture in respect of one or more series of Securities, provided that any such addition, change or elimination made pursuant to this paragraph (i) shall neither (A) apply to any Security of any series created prior to the execution of such supplemental indenture and entitled to the benefit of such provision nor (B) modify the rights of the Holder of any such Security with respect to such provision or (ii) shall become effective only when there is no such Security Outstanding; or
(11) to secure one or more series of Securities; or
(12) to provide for the appointment of an Authenticating Agent or Agents with respect to one or more series of Securities which shall be authorized to act on behalf of the Trustee to authenticate Securities of such series issued upon original issue and upon exchange, registration of transfer or partial redemption of Securities of such series; or
(13) to make any provisions with respect to the optional conversion rights of Holders, including providing for the conversion of the Securities into any other security or securities of the Company, provided that such provisions are not materially adverse to the interests of the Holders of any Security Outstanding; or
(14) to add any guarantee of one or more series of the Securities; or
(15) to amend or supplement any provision contained in this Indenture or in any supplemental indenture, provided that no such amendment or supplement shall, in the
 
opinion of the Board of Directors, as evidenced by the Board Resolution provided above, materially adversely affect the interests of the Holders of any Securities Outstanding.
Section 902. Supplemental Indentures with Consent of Holders.
With the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of all Outstanding Securities affected by such supplemental indenture, by Act of said Holders delivered to the Company and the Trustee, the Company, when authorized by a Board Resolution, and the Trustee may enter into supplemental indentures for the purpose of adding any provisions to or changing in any manner or eliminating any of the provisions of this Indenture or of modifying in any manner the rights of the Holders of Securities of such series under this Indenture; provided that no such supplemental indenture shall, without the consent of the Holder of each Outstanding Security affected thereby,
(1) change the date specified in the Security for the payment of the principal of, or any installment of principal of or mandatory sinking fund or any premium or interest on, the Security; or
(2) reduce the principal amount of, or any premium or rate of interest on, any Security; or
(3) reduce the amount of principal of an Original Issue Discount Security or any other Security payable upon acceleration of the Maturity of that Security; or
(4) change the place or currency of payment of principal of, or any premium or interest on, any Security; or
(5) impair the right to institute suit for the enforcement of any payment on or with respect to any Security; or
(6) modify conversion rights with respect to any Security in a manner adverse to the Holders of Securities; or
(7) reduce the percentage in principal amount of Outstanding Securities, the consent of whose Holders is required to modify or amend this Indenture or to waive compliance with certain provisions of this Indenture or for waiver of certain defaults.
With respect to any series of Securities, the consent of the Holders of Securities required by this Section 902 may be obtained from either the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities of that series, or from the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities of that series and all other series affected by that amendment, voting as a single class.
A supplemental indenture which changes or eliminates any covenant or other provision of this Indenture which has expressly been included solely for the benefit of one or more particular series of Securities, or which modifies the rights of the Holders of Securities of such series with respect to such covenant or other provision, shall be deemed not to affect the rights under this Indenture of the Holders of Securities of any other series.
 
It shall not be necessary for any Act of Holders under this Section to approve the particular form of any proposed supplemental indenture, but it shall be sufficient if such Act shall approve the substance thereof.
Section 903. Execution of Supplemental Indentures.
In executing, or accepting the additional trusts created by, any supplemental indenture permitted by this Article or the modifications thereby of the trusts created by this Indenture, the Trustee shall be entitled to receive, and (subject to Section 601) shall be fully protected in relying upon, an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, complying with Section 102, and stating that the execution of such supplemental indenture is authorized or permitted by this Indenture. The Trustee may, but shall not be obligated to, enter into any such supplemental indenture which affects the Trustee's own rights, duties or immunities under this Indenture or otherwise.
Section 904. Effect of Supplemental Indentures.
Upon the execution of any supplemental indenture under this Article, this Indenture shall be modified in accordance therewith, and such supplemental indenture shall form a part of this Indenture for all purposes; and every Holder of Securities theretofore or thereafter authenticated and delivered hereunder shall be bound thereby.
Section 905. Conformity with Trust Indenture Act.
Every supplemental Indenture executed pursuant to this Article shall conform to the requirements of the Trust Indenture Act.
Section 906. Reference in Securities to Supplemental Indentures.
Securities of any series authenticated and delivered after the execution of any supplemental indenture pursuant to this Article may, and shall if required by the Trustee, bear a notation in form approved by the Trustee as to any matter provided for in such supplemental indenture. If the Company shall so determine, new Securities of any series so modified as to conform, in the opinion of the Trustee and the Company, to any such supplemental indenture may be prepared and executed by the Company and authenticated and delivered by the Trustee in exchange for Outstanding Securities of such series.
Section 1001. Payment of Principal, Premium and Interest.
The Company covenants and agrees for the benefit of each series of Securities that it will duly and punctually pay the principal of and any premium and interest on the Securities of that series in accordance with the terms of the Securities and this Indenture.
 
Section 1002. Maintenance of Office or Agency.
The Company will maintain in each Place of Payment for any series of Securities an office or agency where Securities of that series may be presented or surrendered for payment, where Securities of that series may be surrendered for registration of transfer or exchange and where notices and demands to or upon the Company in respect of the Securities of that series and this Indenture may be served. The Company will give prompt written notice to the Trustee of the location, and any change in the location, of such office or agency. If at any time the Company shall fail to maintain any such required office or agency or shall fail to furnish the Trustee with the address thereof, such presentations, surrenders, notices and demands may be made or served at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee, and the Company hereby appoints the Trustee as its agent to receive all such presentations, surrenders, notices and demands.
The Company may also from time to time designate one or more other offices or agencies where the Securities of one or more series may be presented or surrendered for any or all such purposes and may from time to time rescind such designations; , , that no such designation or rescission shall in any manner relieve the Company of its obligation to maintain an office or agency in each Place of Payment for Securities of any series for such purposes. The Company will give prompt written notice to the Trustee of any such designation or rescission and of any change in the location of any such other office or agency.
provided
however
Section 1003. Money for Securities Payments to Be Held in Trust.
If the Company shall at any time act as its own Paying Agent with respect to any series of Securities, it will, on or before each due date of the principal of or any premium or interest on any of the Securities of that series, segregate and hold in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled thereto a sum sufficient to pay the principal and any premium and interest so becoming due until such sums shall be paid to such Persons or otherwise disposed of as herein provided and will promptly notify the Trustee of its action or failure so to act.
Whenever the Company shall have one or more Paying Agents for any series of Securities, it will, on or prior to each due date of the principal of or any premium or interest on any Securities of that series, deposit with a Paying Agent a sum sufficient to pay such amount, such sum to be held as provided by the Trust Indenture Act, and (unless such Paying Agent is the Trustee) the Company will promptly notify the Trustee of its action or failure so to act.
The Company will cause each Paying Agent for any series of Securities other than the Trustee to execute and deliver to the Trustee an instrument in which such Paying Agent shall agree with the Trustee, subject to the provisions of this Section, that such Paying Agent will (i) comply with the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act applicable to it as a Paying Agent and (ii) during the continuance of any default by the Company (or any other obligor upon the Securities of that series) in the making of any payment in respect of the Securities of that series, and upon the written request of the Trustee, forthwith pay to the Trustee all sums held in trust by such Paying Agent for payment in respect of the Securities of that series.
The Company may at any time, for the purpose of obtaining the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture or for any other purpose, pay, or by Company Order direct any
 
Paying Agent to pay, to the Trustee all sums held in trust by the Company or such Paying Agent, such sums to be held by the Trustee upon the same trusts as those upon which such sums were held by the Company or such Paying Agent; and, upon such payment by any Paying Agent to the Trustee, such Paying Agent shall be released from all further liability with respect to such money.
Any money deposited with the Trustee or any Paying Agent, or then held by the Company, in trust for the payment of the principal of or any premium or interest on any Security of any series and remaining unclaimed for two years after such principal, premium or interest has become due and payable shall be paid to the Company on Company Request, or (if then held by the Company) shall be discharged from such trust; and the Holder of such Security shall thereafter, as an unsecured general creditor, look only to the Company for payment thereof, and all liability of the Trustee or such Paying Agent with respect to such trust money, and all liability of the Company as trustee thereof, shall thereupon cease; , , that the Trustee or such Paying Agent, before being required to make any such repayment, may at the expense of the Company cause to be published once, in a newspaper published in the English language, customarily published on each Business Day and of general circulation in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, notice that such money remains unclaimed and that, after a date specified therein, which shall not be less than 30 days from the date of such publication, any unclaimed balance of such money then remaining will be repaid to the Company.
provided
however
Section 1004. Statement by Officers as to Default.
The Company will deliver to the Trustee, within 90 days after the end of each fiscal year of the Company ending after the date hereof, an Officers' Certificate, stating whether or not to the best knowledge of the signers thereof the Company is in default in the performance and observance of any of the terms, provisions and conditions of this Indenture (without regard to any period of grace or requirement of notice provided hereunder) and, if the Company shall be in default, specifying all such defaults and the nature and status thereof of which they may have knowledge.
Section 1005. Existence.
Subject to Article Eight, the Company will do or cause to be done all things necessary to preserve and keep in full force and effect its existence, rights (charter and statutory) and franchises; , , that the Company shall not be required to preserve any such right or franchise if the Board of Directors shall determine that the preservation thereof is no longer desirable in the conduct of the business of the Company and that the loss thereof is not disadvantageous in any material respect to the Holders.
provided
however
Section 1006. Maintenance of Properties.
The Company will cause all properties used or useful in the conduct of its business or the business of any Subsidiary to be maintained and kept in good condition, repair and working order and supplied with all necessary equipment and will cause to be made all necessary repairs, renewals, replacements, betterments and improvements thereof, all as in the judgment of the Company may be necessary so that the business carried on in connection therewith may be
 
properly and advantageously conducted at all times; , , that nothing in this Section shall prevent the Company from discontinuing the operation or maintenance of any of such properties if such discontinuance is, in the judgment of the Company, desirable in the conduct of its business or the business of any Subsidiary.
provided
however
Section 1007. Payment of Taxes and Other Claims.
The Company will pay or discharge or cause to be paid or discharged, before the same shall become delinquent, (1) all taxes, assessments and governmental charges levied or imposed upon the Company or any Subsidiary or upon the income, profits or Property of the Company or any Subsidiary, and (2) all lawful claims for labor, materials and supplies which, if unpaid, might by law become a Lien upon the Property of the Company or any Subsidiary; , , that the Company shall not be required to pay or discharge or cause to be paid or discharged any such tax, assessment, charge or claim whose amount, applicability or validity is being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings.
provided
however
Section 1008. Limitation Upon Mortgages and Liens of the Company.
The Company will not directly or indirectly create, incur or allow to exist any Lien (a) securing the Company's indebtedness for borrowed money on any Property or assets of the Company or any Property or assets of the Company's Subsidiaries, now owned or acquired at a later time, or (b) securing any indebtedness for borrowed money on any of the Company's Property or assets now owned or acquired at a later time, in either case, unless:
(1) the Company has made or will make effective provision whereby the Outstanding Securities are equally and ratably secured with (or prior to) all other indebtedness for borrowed money secured by such Lien for so long as any such other indebtedness for borrowed money is so secured;
(2) the Lien is a Permitted Lien; or
(3) the aggregate principal amount of indebtedness secured by the Lien and any other such Lien, other than Permitted Liens, does not exceed 15% of the Company's Consolidated Net Tangible Assets.
Section 1009. Waiver of Certain Covenants.
The Company may omit in any particular instance to comply with any term, provision or condition set forth in this Indenture with respect to the Securities of any series that could be changed, modified or eliminated with the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series pursuant to Section 902 if before the time for such compliance the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series issued under this Indenture shall, by Act of such Holders, either waive such compliance in such instance or generally waive compliance with such term, provision or condition, but no such waiver shall extend to or affect such term, provision or condition except to the extent so expressly waived, and, until such waiver shall become effective, the obligations of the Company and the duties of the Trustee in respect of any such term, provision or condition shall remain in full force and effect.
 
With respect to any series of Securities issued under this Indenture, in addition to obtaining waivers from the Holders of a majority in principal amount of Outstanding Securities of that series as provided under the preceding paragraph, a waiver of compliance with this Indenture can also be obtained from the Holders of a majority in principal amount of debt securities of that series and all other series affected by the waiver, whether issued under this Indenture or the Senior Subordinated Indenture or any other indenture of the Company providing for such aggregated voting, all voting as a single class.
Section 1101. Applicability of Article.
Securities of any series which are redeemable before their Stated Maturity shall be redeemable in accordance with their terms and (except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301 for such Securities) in accordance with this Article.
Section 1102. Election to Redeem; Notice to Trustee.
The election of the Company to redeem any Securities shall be evidenced by a Board Resolution or in another manner specified as contemplated by Section 301 for such Securities. In case of any redemption at the election of the Company of less than all the Securities of any series (including any such redemption affecting only a single Security), the Company shall, at least 35 days prior to the Redemption Date fixed by the Company (unless a shorter notice shall be satisfactory to the Trustee), notify the Trustee of such Redemption Date, of the principal amount of Securities of such series to be redeemed and, if applicable, of the tenor of the Securities to be redeemed.
Section 1103. Selection by Trustee of Securities to Be Redeemed.
If less than all the Securities of any series are to be redeemed (unless all of the Securities of such series and of a specified tenor are to be redeemed or unless such redemption affects only a single Security), the particular Securities to be redeemed shall be selected not more than 45 days prior to the Redemption Date by the Trustee, from the Outstanding Securities of such series not previously called for redemption, by such method as the Trustee shall deem fair and appropriate and which may provide for the selection for redemption of a portion of the principal amount of any Security of such series, provided that the unredeemed portion of the principal amount of any Security shall be in an authorized denomination (which shall not be less than the minimum authorized denomination) for such Security. If less than all of the Securities of such series and of a specified tenor are to be redeemed (unless such redemption affects only a single Security), the particular Securities to be redeemed shall be selected not more than 45 days prior to the Redemption Date by the Trustee, from the Outstanding Securities of such series and specified tenor not previously called for redemption in accordance with the preceding sentence.
The Trustee shall promptly notify the Company in writing of the Securities selected for redemption and, in the case of any Securities selected for partial redemption, the principal amount thereof to be redeemed.
 
The provisions of the two preceding paragraphs shall not apply with respect to any redemption affecting only a Global Security or a single Security, whether such Security is to be redeemed in whole or in part. In the case of any such redemption in part, the unredeemed portion of the principal amount of the Security shall be in an authorized denomination (which shall not be less than the minimum authorized denomination) for such Security.
For all purposes of this Indenture, unless the context otherwise requires, all provisions relating to the redemption of Securities shall relate, in the case of any Securities redeemed or to be redeemed only in part, to the portion of the principal amount of such Securities which has been or is to be redeemed.
Section 1104. Notice of Redemption.
Notice of redemption shall be given by first-class mail, postage prepaid, mailed not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the Redemption Date, to each Holder of Securities to be redeemed, at his address appearing in the Security Register.
All notices of redemption shall state:
(1) the Redemption Date,
(2) the Redemption Price,
(3) if less than all the Outstanding Securities of any series consisting of more than a single Security are to be redeemed, the identification (and, in the case of partial redemption of any such Securities, the principal amounts) of the particular Securities to be redeemed and, if less than all the Outstanding Securities of any series consisting of a single Security are to be redeemed, the principal amount of the particular Security to be redeemed,
(4) that on the Redemption Date the Redemption Price will become due and payable upon each such Security to be redeemed and, if applicable, that interest thereon will cease to accrue on and after said date,
(5) the place or places where each such Security is to be surrendered for payment of the Redemption Price,
(6) that the redemption is for a sinking fund, if such is the case, and
(7) the "CUSIP" number, if any, of the Securities.
Notice of redemption of Securities to be redeemed at the election of the Company shall be given by the Company or, at the Company's request, by the Trustee in the name and at the expense of the Company and shall be irrevocable.
 
Section 1105. Deposit of Redemption Price.
On or prior to any Redemption Date, the Company shall deposit with the Trustee or with a Paying Agent (or, if the Company is acting as its own Paying Agent, segregate and hold in trust as provided in Section 1003) an amount of money sufficient to pay the Redemption Price of, and (except if the Redemption Date shall be an Interest Payment Date) accrued interest on, all the Securities which are to be redeemed on that date.
Section 1106. Securities Payable on Redemption Date.
Notice of redemption having been given as aforesaid, the Securities so to be redeemed shall, on the Redemption Date, become due and payable at the Redemption Price therein specified, and from and after such date (unless the Company shall default in the payment of the Redemption Price and accrued interest) such Securities shall cease to bear interest. Upon surrender of any such Security for redemption in accordance with said notice, such Security shall be paid by the Company at the Redemption Price, together with accrued interest to the Redemption Date; , , that, unless otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301, installments of interest whose Stated Maturity is on or prior to the Redemption Date shall be payable to the Holders of such Securities, or one or more Predecessor Securities, registered as such at the close of business on the relevant record dates according to their terms and the provisions of Section 307.
provided
however
If any Security called for redemption shall not be so paid upon surrender thereof for redemption, the principal and any premium shall, until paid, bear interest from the Redemption Date at the rate prescribed therefor in the Security.
Section 1107. Securities Redeemed in Part.
Any Security which is to be redeemed only in part shall be surrendered at a Place of Payment therefor (with, if the Company or the Trustee so requires, due endorsement by, or a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Trustee duly executed by, the Holder thereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing), and the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Holder of such Security without service charge, a new Security or Securities of the same series and of like tenor, of any authorized denomination as requested by such Holder, in aggregate principal amount equal to and in exchange for the unredeemed portion of the principal of the Security so surrendered.
Section 1201. Applicability of Article.
The provisions of this Article shall be applicable to any sinking fund for the retirement of Securities of a series except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301 for Securities of such series.
The minimum amount of any sinking fund payment provided for by the terms of Securities of any series is herein referred to as a "mandatory sinking fund payment," and any
 
payment in excess of such minimum amount provided for by the terms of such Securities is herein referred to as an "optional sinking fund payment." If provided for by the terms of any Securities, the cash amount of any sinking fund payment may be subject to reduction as provided in Section 1202. Each sinking fund payment shall be applied to the redemption of Securities of any series as provided for by the terms of Securities of such series.
Section 1202. Satisfaction of Sinking Fund Payments with Securities.
The Company (1) may deliver Outstanding Securities of a series (other than any previously called for redemption) and (2) may apply as a credit Securities of a series which have been redeemed either at the election of the Company pursuant to the terms of such Securities or through the application of permitted optional sinking fund payments pursuant to the terms of such Securities, in each case in satisfaction of all or any part of any sinking fund payment with respect to the Securities of such series required to be made pursuant to the terms of such Securities as and to the extent provided for by the terms of such Securities; provided that the Securities to be so credited have not been previously so credited. Such Securities shall be received and credited for such purpose by the Trustee at the Redemption Price, as specified in the Securities so to be redeemed, for redemption through operation of the sinking fund and the amount of such sinking fund payment shall be reduced accordingly.
Section 1203. Redemption of Securities for Sinking Fund.
Not less than 45 days prior to each sinking fund payment date for any Securities, the Company will deliver to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate specifying the amount of the next ensuing sinking fund payment for such Securities pursuant to the terms of such Securities, the portion thereof, if any, which is to be satisfied by payment of cash and the portion thereof, if any, which is to be satisfied by delivering and crediting Securities pursuant to Section 1202 and will also deliver to the Trustee any Securities to be so delivered. Not less than 30 days before each such sinking fund payment date the Trustee shall select the Securities to be redeemed upon such sinking fund payment date in the manner specified in Section 1103. The Trustee shall cause notice of the redemption thereof to be given in the name of and at the expense of the Company in the manner provided in Section 1104. Such notice having been duly given, the redemption of such Securities shall be made upon the terms and in the manner stated in Sections 1106 and 1107.
Section 1301. Applicability of Article.
Except as otherwise provided or contemplated by the terms of any series of Securities established pursuant to Section 301, all Securities shall be issued subject to the provisions of this Article Thirteen.
Section 1302. Defeasance and Discharge.
The Company shall be deemed to have been discharged from its obligations with respect to any Securities or any series of Securities as provided in this Section on and after the date the
 
conditions set forth in Section 1304 are satisfied (hereinafter, "Defeasance"). For this purpose, such Defeasance means that the Company shall be deemed to have paid and discharged the entire indebtedness represented by such Securities and to have satisfied all its other obligations under such Securities and this Indenture insofar as such Securities are concerned (and the Trustee, at the expense of the Company, shall execute on Company Order proper instruments acknowledging the same), subject to the following which shall survive until otherwise terminated or discharged hereunder: (A) the rights of Holders of such Securities to receive, solely from the trust fund described in Section 1304 and as more fully set forth in such Section, payments in respect of the principal of and any premium and interest on such Securities when such payments are due, (B) the Company's obligations with respect to such Securities under Sections 304, 305, 306, 1002 and 1003, (C) the rights, powers, trusts, duties and immunities of the Trustee hereunder and (D) this Article Thirteen. Subject to compliance with this Article Thirteen, the Company may exercise its option to have this Section applied to any Securities notwithstanding the prior exercise of its option to have Section 1303 applied to such Securities.
Section 1303. Covenant Defeasance.
The Company shall be released from its obligations under Section 704, Section 801(c), Sections 1006 through 1008 inclusive, and any covenants provided pursuant to Section 301(18) and (19), 901(2) or 901(8) for the benefit of the Holders of Securities and the occurrence of any event specified in Sections 501(4) (with respect to any of Section 704, Section 801(c), Sections 1006 through 1008 inclusive, and any such covenants provided pursuant to Section 301(18) and (19), 901(2) or 901(8)) and 501(7) shall be deemed not to be or result in an Event of Default, in each case, with respect to Securities as provided in this Section on and after the date the conditions set forth in Section 1304 are satisfied (hereinafter called "Covenant Defeasance"). For this purpose, such Covenant Defeasance means that, with respect to any Securities or any series of Securities, the Company may omit to comply with and shall have no liability in respect of any term, condition or limitation set forth in any such specified Section (to the extent so specified in the case of Section 501(4)), whether directly or indirectly by reason of any reference elsewhere herein to any such Section or by reason of any reference in any such Section to any other provision herein or in any other document, but the remainder of this Indenture and such Securities shall be unaffected thereby.
Section 1304. Conditions to Defeasance.
The following shall be the conditions to application of Section 1302 or Section 1303 to any Securities or any series of Securities:
(1) the Company shall irrevocably have deposited or caused to be deposited with the Trustee (or another trustee satisfying the requirements of Section 609 who shall agree to comply with the provisions of this Article Thirteen applicable to it) as trust funds in trust for the purpose of making the following payments, specifically pledged as security for, and dedicated solely to, the benefit of the Holders of such Securities, (A) money in an amount, or (B) U.S. Government Obligations which through the scheduled payment of principal and interest in respect thereof in accordance with their terms will provide, not later than one day before the due date of any payment, money in an amount, or (C) a combination thereof, in each case sufficient, in the opinion of a nationally
 
recognized firm of independent public accountants expressed in a written certification thereof delivered to the Trustee, to pay and discharge, and which shall be applied by the Trustee (or any such other qualifying trustee) to pay and discharge, the principal of and any premium and interest on such Securities on the applicable Stated Maturities or Redemption Dates in accordance with the terms of this Indenture and such Securities. For this purpose, "U.S. Government Obligations" means (x) any security which is (i) a direct obligation of the United States of America for the payment of which its full faith and credit is pledged or (ii) an obligation of a Person controlled or supervised by and acting as an agency or instrumentality of the United States of America the payment of which is unconditionally guaranteed as a full faith and credit obligation by the United States of America, which, in either case (i) or (ii), is not callable or redeemable at the option of the issuer thereof, and (y) any depository receipt issued by a bank (as defined in Section 3(a)(2) of the Securities Act) as custodian with respect to any U.S. Government Obligation which is specified in clause (x) above and held by such bank for the account of the holder of such depositary receipt, or with respect to any specific payment of principal of or interest on any U.S. Government Obligation which is so specified and held, provided that (except as required by law) such custodian is not authorized to make any deduction from the amount payable to the holder of such depository receipt from any amount received by the custodian in respect of the U.S. Government Obligation or the specific payment of principal of or interest evidenced by such depository receipt.
(2) In the event of an election to have Section 1302 apply to any Securities or any series of Securities, the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel stating that (A) the Company has received from, or there has been published by, the Internal Revenue Service a ruling or (B) since the date of this Indenture, there has been a change in the applicable Federal income tax law, in either case (A) or (B) to the effect that, and based thereon such opinion shall confirm that, the Holders of the Securities will not recognize gain or loss for Federal income tax purposes as a result of Defeasance and will be subject to Federal income tax on the same amounts, in the same manner and at the same times as would have been the case if Defeasance had not occurred.
(3) In the event of an election to have Section 1303 apply to any Securities or any series of Securities, the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel to the effect that the Holders of the Securities will not recognize gain or loss for Federal income tax purposes as a result of Covenant Defeasance and will be subject to Federal income tax on the same amounts, in the same manner and at the same times as would have been the case if Covenant Defeasance had not occurred.
(4) No event which is, or after notice or lapse of time or both would become, an Event of Default with respect to such Securities or any other Securities shall have occurred and be continuing at the time of such deposit or, with regard to any such event specified in Sections 501(5) and (6), at any time on or prior to the 90th day after the date of such deposit (it being understood that this condition shall not be deemed satisfied until after such 90th day).
 
(5) The Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each stating that, subject to Section 1304(4), all conditions precedent with respect to such Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance have been complied with.
Section 1305. Deposited Money and U.S. Government Obligations to be Held in Trust; Miscellaneous.
Subject to the provisions of the last paragraph of Section 1003, all money and U.S. Government Obligations (including the proceeds thereof) deposited with the Trustee or other qualifying trustee (solely for purposes of this Section and Section 1306, the Trustee and any such other Trustee are referred to collectively as the "Trustee") pursuant to Section 1304 in respect of any Securities shall be held in trust and applied by the Trustee, in accordance with the provisions of such Securities and this Indenture, to the payment, either directly or through any Paying Agent (including the Company acting as its own Paying Agent) as the Trustee may determine, to the Holders of such Securities, of all sums due and to become due thereon in respect of principal and any premium and interest, but money so held in trust need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law.
The Company shall pay and indemnify the Trustee against any tax, fee or other charge imposed on or assessed against the U.S. Government Obligations deposited pursuant to Section 1304 or the principal and interest received in respect thereof other than any such tax, fee or other charge which by law is for the account of the Holders of Outstanding Securities.
Anything in this Article Thirteen to the contrary notwithstanding, the Trustee shall deliver or pay to the Company from time to time upon Company Request any money or U.S. Government Obligations held by it as provided in Section 1304 with respect to any Securities which, in the opinion of a nationally recognized firm of independent public accountants expressed in a written certification thereof delivered to the Trustee, are in excess of the amount thereof which would then be required to be deposited to effect the Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance, as the case may be, with respect to such Securities.
Section 1306. Reinstatement.
If the Trustee or the Paying Agent is unable to apply any money in accordance with this Article Thirteen with respect to any Securities by reason of any order or judgment of any court or governmental authority enjoining, restraining or otherwise prohibiting such application, then the obligations under this Indenture and such Securities from which the Company has been discharged or released pursuant to Section 1302 or 1303 shall be revived and reinstated as though no deposit had occurred pursuant to this Article Thirteen with respect to such Securities, until such time as the Trustee or Paying Agent is permitted to apply all money held in trust pursuant to Section 1305 with respect to such Securities in accordance with this Article Thirteen; , , that if the Company makes any payment of principal of or any premium or interest on any such Security following such reinstatement of its obligations, the Company shall be subrogated to the rights (if any) of the Holders of such Securities to receive such payment from the money so held in trust.
provided
however
 
Section 1401. Purposes for Which Meetings May be Called.
A meeting of Holders of any series of Outstanding Securities may be called at any time and from time to time pursuant to the provisions of this Article Fourteen for any of the following purposes:
(1) to give any notice to the Company or to the Trustee, or to give any direction to the Trustee, or to waive or consent to the waiving of any Event of Default hereunder and its consequences, or to take any other action authorized to be taken by Holders pursuant to any of the provisions of Article Five;
(2) to remove the Trustee or appoint a successor trustee, pursuant to the provisions of Article Six;
(3) to consent to the execution of an indenture or indentures supplemental hereto pursuant to the provisions of Section 902; or
(4) to take any other action authorized to be taken by or on behalf of the Holders of any specified aggregate principal amount of the Securities under any other provision of this Indenture or under applicable law.
Section 1402. Manner of Calling Meetings.
The Trustee may at any time call a meeting of Holders to take any action specified in Section 1401. Notice of every meeting of such Holders, setting forth the time and the place of such meeting and in general terms the action proposed to be taken at such meeting, shall be mailed by the Trustee to the Company and to such Holders not less than 20 nor more than 60 days prior to the date fixed for the meeting. Any meeting shall be valid without notice if all of the Holders of such series of Outstanding Securities are present in person or by proxy, or if notice is waived before or after the meeting by such Holders of such series of Outstanding Securities, and if the Company and the Trustee are either present or have, before or after the meeting, waived notice.
Section 1403. Call of Meetings by Company or Holders.
In case at any time the Company, pursuant to a resolution of its Board of Directors, or the Holders of not less than 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of the applicable series or, in the event the meeting relates to the Holders of more than one series of Outstanding Securities, the Holders of not less than 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of those series, shall have requested the Trustee to call a meeting of Holders to take any action authorized in Section 1401 by written request setting forth in reasonable detail the action proposed to be taken at the meeting, and the Trustee shall not have mailed notice of such meeting within 20 days after receipt of such request, then the Company or such Holders in the amount above specified may determine the time and the place in Overland
 
Park, Kansas for such meeting and may call such meeting to take any action authorized in Section 1401, by mailing notice thereof as provided in Section 1402.
Section 1404. Who May Attend and Vote at Meeting.
To be entitled to vote at any meeting of Holders a person shall (a) be a Holder, or an authorized representative of a Holder, of one or more Securities with respect to which the meeting is being held, as of the record date for such meeting (or, if no record date is set, as of the date of such meeting), or (b) be a person appointed by an instrument in writing as proxy by such Holder of one or more Securities. The only persons who shall be entitled to be present or to speak at any meeting of Holders shall be the persons entitled to vote at such meeting and their counsel and any representatives of the Trustee and its counsel and any representatives of the Company and its counsel.
At any meeting each Holder or proxy shall be entitled to one vote for each $1,000 principal amount of Outstanding Securities held or represented by him.
Section 1405. Regulations May be Made by Trustee.
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Indenture, the Trustee may make such reasonable regulations as it may deem advisable for any meeting of Holders, in regard to proof of the holding of Securities and of the appointment of proxies, and in regard to the appointment and duties of inspectors of votes, the submission and examination of proxies, certificates and other evidence of the right to vote, and such other matters concerning the conduct of the meeting as it shall deem appropriate.
Section 1406. Evidence of Actions by Holders.
Whenever the Holders of a specified percentage in aggregate principal amount of the Securities may take any action, the fact that the Holders of such percentage have acted may be evidenced by (a) instruments of similar tenor executed by Holders in person or by attorney or written proxy, or (b) the Holders voting in favor thereof at any meeting of Holders called and held in accordance with the provisions of the rules for meetings of Holders, or (c) by a combination thereof. The Trustee may require proof of any matter concerning the execution of any instrument by a Holder or his attorney or proxy as it shall deem necessary.
Section 1407. Exercise of Rights of Trustee and Holders Not to be Hindered or Delayed.
Nothing in this Article Fourteen contained shall be deemed or construed to authorize or permit, by reason of any call of a meeting of Holders or any rights expressly or impliedly conferred hereunder to make such call, any hindrance or delay in the exercise of any right or rights conferred upon or reserved to the Trustee or to the Holders under any of the provisions of this Indenture or of the Securities.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Indenture to be duly executed, and their respective corporate seals to be hereunto affixed, all as of the day and year first above written.
 
 

Exhibit 4.2
EXECUTION VERSION
 
 
 
 
FIRST SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE ("this "), dated as of November 9, 2011, among SPRINT NEXTEL CORPORATION, a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Kansas (the ""), and THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON TRUST COMPANY, N.A., as trustee (the "").
Supplemental Indenture
Company
Trustee
, the Company and the Trustee have duly executed and delivered that certain Senior Notes Indenture, dated as of November 20, 2006 (the ""), providing for the issuance from time to time of unsecured debentures, notes or other evidences of indebtedness, to be issued in one or more series (the "");
WHEREAS
Indenture
Securities
, Sections 201, 301 and 901 of the Indenture provide that the Company and the Trustee may from time to time enter into one or more indentures supplemental thereto to establish the form or terms of Securities of a new series issues pursuant to the Indenture;
WHEREAS
, pursuant to the terms of the Indenture, the Company desires to provide for the establishment of a new series of Securities designated as its 11.500% Notes due 2021 (the "") to be issued under the Indenture, as supplemented by this Supplemental Indenture, initially in an aggregate principal amount of $1,000,000,000, to be authenticated and delivered as provided in the Indenture;
WHEREAS
2021 Notes
, the Company desires to supplement the provisions of the Indenture to provide for the issuance of the 2021 Notes under the terms of the Indenture as supplemented hereby;
WHEREAS
, for the purposes hereinabove recited, and pursuant to due corporate action, the Company has duly determined to execute and deliver to the Trustee this Supplemental Indenture; and
WHEREAS
, all conditions and requirements necessary to make this Supplemental Indenture a valid and binding instrument in accordance with its terms have been done and performed, and the execution and delivery hereof have been in all respects duly authorized.
WHEREAS
, in consideration of the premises, the covenants and other agreements contained herein and other good and valuable consideration, the sufficiency of which is hereby confirmed, the Company and the Trustee mutually covenant and agree as follows:
NOW, THEREFORE
Section 1.01 . All terms contained in this Supplemental Indenture shall, except as specifically provided herein or except as the context may otherwise require, have the meanings defined in the Indenture. In the event of any inconsistency between the Indenture and this Supplemental Indenture, this Supplemental Indenture shall
Relationship with Indenture
govern. The words "herein," "hereof," "hereunder," and words of similar import shall refer to this Supplemental Indenture.
Section 1.02 . Solely with respect to the 2021 Notes, the following definitions shall be added to Section 101 of the Indenture and replace any existing definitions (as applicable) in the Indenture, each in appropriate alphabetical order, unless the context requires otherwise.
Additional Definitions
"" means a global note substantially in the form of bearing the Global Note Legend and the Private Placement Legend and deposited with or on behalf of, and registered in the name of, the Depositary or its nominee, that shall be initially issued in aggregate denominations equal to the outstanding principal amount of the 2021 Notes sold in reliance on Rule 144A.
144A Global Note
Exhibit A
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the recitals to the First Supplemental Indenture dated as of November 9, 2011.
2021 Notes
"" means all additional interest owing on the 2021 Notes pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement.
Additional Interest
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Rule 13d-3 and Rule 13d-5 under the Exchange Act. The terms "" and "" shall have a corresponding meaning.
Beneficial Owner
Beneficially Owns
Beneficially Owned
"" means any day, other than a Saturday or Sunday, or legal holidays on which the banks in The City of New York are not required or authorized by law or executive order to be closed.
Business Day
"" means the occurrence of any of the following:
Change of Control
(a) the direct or indirect sale, transfer, conveyance or other disposition (other than by way of merger or consolidation), in one or a series of related transactions, of all or substantially all of the Company and its Subsidiaries' properties or assets, taken as a whole, to any "person" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act);
(b) the adoption of a plan relating to the Company's liquidation or dissolution; or
(c) any "person" or "group" (as such terms are used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Exchange Act) becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the voting power of the Company's Voting Securities; that a transaction in which the Company becomes a Subsidiary of another person shall not constitute a Change of Control if (a) the Company's stockholders immediately prior to such transaction Beneficially Own, directly or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, 50% or more of the voting power of the outstanding Voting Securities of such other Person of whom the Company is a Subsidiary immediately following such transaction and (b) immediately following such transaction no person (as defined above)
provided
 
other than such other person, Beneficially Owns, directly or indirectly, more than 50% of the voting power of the Company's Voting Securities.
"" means the occurrence of both a Change of Control and a Ratings Decline.
Change of Control Triggering Event
"" means collectively, Clearwire Corporation, a Delaware corporation, and its operating Subsidiary, Clearwire Communications LLC, a Delaware limited liability company.
Clearwire
"" means the United States Treasury security selected by the Independent Investment Banker as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term of the 2021 Notes that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of the 2021 Notes.
Comparable Treasury Issue
"" means, with respect to any Redemption Date: (1) the average of four Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such Redemption Date, after excluding the highest and lowest of such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations; or (2) if the Trustee is provided fewer than four Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all quotations provided to the Trustee.
Comparable Treasury Price
"" means a certificated 2021 Note registered in the name of the Holder thereof and issued in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, substantially in the form of , except that such 2021 Note shall not bear the Global Note Legend and shall not have the "Schedule of Exchanges of Interests in the Global Note" attached thereto.
Definitive Note
Exhibit A
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the Registration Rights Agreement.
Exchange Offer
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the Registration Rights Agreement.
Exchange Offer Registration Statement
"" means the legend set forth in Section 3.03(f)(ii) of the First Supplemental Indenture dated as of November 9, 2011, which is required to be placed on all Global Notes issued under this Indenture.
Global Note Legend
"" means, individually and collectively, each of the Restricted Global Notes and the Unrestricted Global Notes, substantially in the form of .
Global Notes
Exhibit A
"" means one of the Reference Treasury Dealers appointed by the Company.
Independent Investment Banker
"" means a Person who holds a beneficial interest in a Global Note through a Participant.
Indirect Participant
 
"" means an institution that is an "accredited investor" as defined in Rule 501(a)(1), (2), (3) or (7) under the Securities Act, which is not also a QIB.
Institutional Accredited Investor
"" means a rating equal to or greater than Baa3 by Moody's and BBB- by S&P or the equivalent thereof under any new ratings system if the ratings systems of either such Rating Agency shall be modified after the issue date of the 2021 Notes, or the equivalent rating of any other Ratings Agency the Company selects as provided in the definition of Ratings Agencies.
Investment Grade Rating
"" means a Global Note in the form of bearing the Global Note Legend and the Private Placement Legend and deposited with or on behalf of and registered in the name of the Depositary or its nominee, issued in a denomination equal to the outstanding principal amount at maturity of the 2021 Notes initially sold in reliance on Rule 903 of Regulation S.
Legended Regulation S Global Note
Exhibit A
"" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc. or any successor to the rating agency business thereof.
Moody's
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the Registration Rights Agreement.
Participating Broker-Dealer
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the definition of Reference Treasury Dealer.
Primary Treasury Dealer
"" means the legend set forth in Section 3.03(f)(i) of the First Supplemental Indenture dated as of November 9, 2011 to be placed on all 2021 Notes issued under this Indenture except as otherwise permitted by the provisions of this Indenture.
Private Placement Legend
"" means a "qualified institutional buyer" as defined in Rule 144A.
QIB
"" means (1) Moody's and S&P; and (2) if either Moody's or S&P ceases to rate the 2021 Notes or ceases to make a rating on the 2021 Notes publicly available, an entity registered as a "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" (registered as such pursuant to Rule l7g-1 of the Exchange Act) then making a rating on the 2021 Notes publicly available selected by the Company (as certified by an officer's certificate), which shall be substituted for Moody's or S&P, as the case may be.
Ratings Agencies
"" means the occurrence, during the period commencing on the date of the first public announcement of the Change of Control or the intention to effect a Change of Control and ending 90 days after the occurrence of the Change of Control, of a downgrade of the rating of the 2021 Notes by both Rating Agencies by one or more gradations (including gradations within ratings categories as well as between rating categories).
Ratings Decline
"" means J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated and Citigroup Global Markets Inc., and their successors, and one other firm that is a primary U.S. Government securities dealer (each a "") which the Company shall specify from time to time;
Reference Treasury Dealer
Primary Treasury Dealer
provided,
 
that if any of them ceases to be a Primary Treasury Dealer, the Company will substitute therefor another Primary Treasury Dealer.
"" means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any Redemption Date, the average of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue, expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount, quoted in writing to the Trustee by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the third Business Day preceding such Redemption Date.
Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations
"" means (a) with respect to the 2021 Notes issued on the date hereof, the Registration Rights Agreement, dated the date hereof, among the Company and J.P. Morgan Securities LLC for itself and for each of the other initial purchasers named on Schedule A thereto and (b) with respect to any additional 2021 Notes issued, any registration rights agreement between the Company and the other parties thereto relating to the registration by the Company of such additional 2021 Notes.
Registration Rights Agreement
"" means Regulation S promulgated under the Securities Act.
Regulation S
"" means a Legended Regulation S Global Note or an Unlegended Regulation S Global Note, as appropriate.
Regulation S Global Note
"" means with respect to each 2021 Note to be redeemed, the remaining scheduled payments of the principal thereof and interest thereon, that would be due after the related Redemption Date but for such redemption; that, if such Redemption Date is not an Interest Payment Date with respect to such 2021 Note, the amount of the next succeeding scheduled interest payment thereon will be deemed reduced by the amount of interest accrued thereon to such Redemption Date.
Remaining Scheduled Payments
provided,
"" means a Definitive Note bearing the Private Placement Legend.
Restricted Definitive Note
"" means a Global Note bearing the Private Placement Legend.
Restricted Global Note
"" means Rule 144A promulgated under the Securities Act.
Rule 144A
"" means Standard & Poor's Rating Services, a division of the McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc., or any successor to the rating agency business thereof.
S&P
"" means the Shelf Registration Statement as defined in the Registration Rights Agreement.
Shelf Registration Statement
"" means, with respect to any Person, a Corporation, partnership, limited liability company or other business organization, whether or not incorporated, a majority of the Voting Securities of which is owned, directly or indirectly, by such Person; that, with respect to the Company and its Subsidiaries, Clearwire and its subsidiaries shall be deemed to not be Subsidiaries.
Subsidiary
provided
 
"" means, with respect to an applicable Redemption Date for the 2021 Notes: (1) the yield, under the heading which represents the average for the immediately preceding week, appearing in the most recently published statistical release designated "H.15(519)" or any successor publication that is published weekly by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and that establishes yields on actively traded United States Treasury Notes adjusted to constant maturity under the caption "Treasury Constant Maturities," for the maturity corresponding to the Comparable Treasury Issue; that if no maturity is within three months before or after the Stated Maturity of the 2021 Notes, yields for the two published maturities most closely corresponding to the Comparable Treasury Issue will be determined and the Treasury Rate will be interpolated or extrapolated from those yields on a straight line basis, rounding to the nearest month; or (2) if that release, or any successor release, is not published during the week preceding the calculation date or does not contain such yields, the rate per annum equal to the semiannual equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, calculated using a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for the Redemption Date. The Treasury Rate will be calculated on the third Business Day preceding the Redemption Date.
Treasury Rate
provided
"" means a U.S. person as defined in Rule 902(o) under the Securities Act.
U.S. Person
"" means a Global Note in the form of bearing the Global Note Legend, deposited with or on behalf of and registered in the name of the Depositary or its nominee.
Unlegended Regulation S Global Note
Exhibit A
"" means one or more Definitive Notes that do not bear and are not required to bear the Private Placement Legend.
Unrestricted Definitive Note
"" means a Global Note substantially in the form of that bears the Global Note Legend, that has the "Schedule of Exchanges of Interests in the Global Note" attached thereto, that is deposited with or on behalf of and registered in the name of the Depositary, representing a series of 2021 Notes, and that does not bear the Private Placement Legend.
Unrestricted Global Note
Exhibit A
"" of any Person means the stock or other ownership or equity interests, of whatever class or classes, the holders of which ordinarily have the power to vote for the election of the members of the board of directors, managers, trustees or other voting members of the governing body of such Person (other than stock or other ownership or equity interests having such power only by reason of the happening of a contingency).
Voting Securities
Section 1.03 . Unless the context requires otherwise, "interest" shall include Additional Interest, even if not expressly mentioned, for purpose of the 2021 Notes only and not any other series of Securities issued under the Indenture (as modified by this Supplemental Indenture).
Interest
Section 1.04 . The provisions contained in this Supplemental Indenture shall apply only to the 2021 Notes and not to any other series of Securities issued under the Indenture and any covenants provided herein are solely for the benefit of the holders of
Applicability
 
the 2021 Notes and not for the benefit of the holders of any other series of Securities issued under the Indenture.
Section 2.01 . Pursuant to Section 3.01 of the Indenture, the terms of the 2021 Notes shall be as follows:
Terms
(a) The title of the 2021 Notes is "11.500% Notes due 2021."
(b) The 2021 Notes are the general unsecured senior obligations of the Company and shall rank equally with all other unsecured senior obligations of the Company.
(c) The 2021 Notes will mature, and the principal of the 2021 Notes and all accrued and unpaid amounts, including interest and Additional Interest (if any), thereon will be due and payable on November 15, 2021, or such earlier date as any of the 2021 Notes may become due and payable in accordance with the provisions of the Indenture and this Supplemental Indenture.
(d) The 2021 Notes will initially be issued in an aggregate principal amount of $1,000,000,000. The Company may issue additional 2021 Notes from time to time without the consent of any Holders of the 2021 Notes. Any such additional 2021 Notes along with the 2021 Notes issued on the date hereof will be treated as a single class for all purposes under the Indenture, including, without limitation, waivers, amendments and redemptions; that, in the case of Notes represented by Global Notes, for so long as may be required by the Securities Act or the procedures of DTC, Euroclear or Clearstream (or a successor clearing system), such additional Notes shall be represented by one or more separate Global Notes in accordance with the terms hereof and subject to applicable transfer or other restrictions.
provided
(e) The 2021 Notes will be issued in minimum denominations of $2,000 and thereafter in integral multiples of $1,000.
(f) Interest and Additional Interest (if any) on the 2021 Notes will accrue from November 9, 2011 or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, semi-annually on May 15 and November 15 in each year, commencing May 15, 2012 (each such date, an "" as defined in the Indenture), at the rate of 11.500% per annum to the Persons in whose name the 2021 Notes are registered in the Security Register on the preceding May 1 or November 1 (each such date, a "" as defined in the Indenture) until the principal thereof is paid or made available for payment; that any principal and premium, and any such installment of interest and Additional Interest (if any), which is overdue will bear interest at the rate of 11.500% per annum (to the extent that the payment of such interest is legally enforceable), from the dates such amounts are due until they are paid or made available payment, and such interest will be payable on demand.
Interest Payment Date
Regular Record Date
provided
(g) The 2021 Notes are not entitled to any sinking fund.
 
(h) Clearwire and its Subsidiaries will be deemed to not be Subsidiaries of the Company and will be excluded from all restrictive covenants provided for in the Indenture or this Supplemental Indenture.
Section 2.02 . The terms and provisions contained in the form of 2021 Notes attached as , shall constitute, and are hereby expressly made, a part of the this Supplemental Indenture and, to the extent applicable, the Company and the Trustee, by their execution and delivery of this Supplemental Indenture, expressly agree to such terms and provisions and to be bound thereby. However, to the extent any provision of any 2021 Note conflicts with the terms of this Supplemental Indenture, this Supplemental Indenture shall govern.
Terms of Notes Incorporated
Exhibit A
Section 3.01 . The 2021 Notes shall be in substantially the form of .
Form
Exhibit A
Section 3.02 . The 2021 Notes initially will be represented by one or more Global Notes in registered, global form without interest coupons (including the Global Note Legend thereon). The Global Notes will be deposited upon issuance with the Trustee as custodian for the Depositary Trust Company (""), and registered in the name of DTC or its nominee, in each case for credit to an account of a direct or indirect participant in DTC. Through and including 40 days after the later of the issuance of the 2021 Notes (such period through and including 40 days, the ""), beneficial interests in Regulation S Global Notes may be held only through Euroclear Bank, S.A./N.V., as operator of the Euroclear System ("") and Clearstream Banking, S.A. ("") (as indirect participants in DTC), unless transferred to a Person that takes delivery through a 144A Global Note in accordance with the certification requirements described in this Article Three.
Global Notes
DTC
Restricted Period
Euroclear
Clearstream
Section 3.03 .
Transfer and Exchange
(a) . A Global Note may not be transferred as a whole except by the Depositary (who shall initially be DTC) to a nominee of the Depositary, by a nominee of the Depositary to the Depositary or to another nominee of the Depositary, or by the Depositary or any such nominee to a successor Depositary or a nominee of such successor Depositary. All Global Notes shall be exchanged by the Company for Definitive Notes if (i) the Depositary (A) notifies the Company that it is unwilling or unable to continue as Depositary for the Global Notes and the Company fails to appoint a successor Depositary within 90 days after receiving such notice or (B) has ceased to be a clearing agency registered under the Exchange Act, and in each case the Company fails to appoint a successor Depositary within 90 days after becoming aware of such condition; (ii) the Company, at its option, notifies the Trustee in writing that it elects to cause the issuance of Definitive Notes in exchange for Global Notes (in whole but not in part); that in no event shall the Legended Regulation S Global Note be exchanged by the Company for Definitive Notes other than in accordance with Section 3.03(c)(ii); or (iii) there shall have occurred and be continuing a Default or Event of
Transfer and Exchange of Global Notes
provided
 
Default with respect to the 2021 Notes and DTC requests such exchange. Upon the occurrence of any of the preceding events in (i), (ii) or (iii) above, Definitive Notes shall be issued in such names as the Depositary shall instruct the Trustee. Global Notes also may be exchanged or replaced, in whole or in part, as provided in Sections 304 and 306 of the Indenture. A Global Note may not be exchanged for another 2021 Note other than as provided in this Section 3.03(a); however, beneficial interests in a Global Note may be transferred and exchanged as provided in Section 3.03(b), (c) or (h) hereof.
(b) . The transfer and exchange of beneficial interests in the Global Notes shall be effected through the Depositary, in accordance with the provisions of this Indenture and the applicable procedures of the Depositary, Euroclear and Clearstream. Beneficial interests in the Restricted Global Notes shall be subject to restrictions on transfer comparable to those set forth herein to the extent required by the Securities Act. Transfers of beneficial interests in the Global Notes also shall require compliance with either subparagraph (i) or (ii) below, as applicable, as well as one or more of the other following subparagraphs, as applicable:
Transfer and Exchange of Beneficial Interests in the Global Notes
(i) . Beneficial interests in any Restricted Global Note may be transferred to Persons who take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in the same Restricted Global Note in accordance with the transfer restrictions set forth in the Private Placement Legend; , , that prior to the expiration of the Restricted Period, transfers of beneficial interests in the Legended Regulation S Global Note may not be made to a U.S. Person or for the account or benefit of a U.S. Person (other than an initial purchaser of the 2021 Notes). Beneficial interests in any Unrestricted Global Note may be transferred to Persons who take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note. No written orders or instructions shall be required to be delivered to the Trustee to effect the transfers described in this Section 3.03(b)(i).
Transfer of Beneficial Interests in the Same Global Note
provided
however
(ii) . In connection with all transfers and exchanges of beneficial interests that are not subject to Section 3.03(b)(i) above, the transferor of such beneficial interest must deliver to the Trustee either (A) (1) a written order from a Participant or an Indirect Participant given to the Depositary directing the Depositary to credit or cause to be credited a beneficial interest in another Global Note in an amount equal to the beneficial interest to be transferred or exchanged and (2) instructions containing information regarding the Participant account to be credited with such increase or (B) (1) a written order from a Participant or an Indirect Participant given to the Depositary directing the Depositary to cause to be issued a Definitive Note in an amount equal to the beneficial interest to be transferred or exchanged and (2) instructions given by the Depositary to the Trustee containing information regarding the Person in whose name such Definitive Note shall be registered to effect the transfer or exchange referred to in (1) above; that in no event shall Definitive Notes be issued upon the transfer or exchange of beneficial interests in the Legended Regulation S Global Note other than in accordance with Section 3.03(c)(ii). Upon satisfaction of all of the requirements for transfer or exchange of beneficial interests in Global Notes contained in this Supplemental Indenture and the
All Other Transfers and Exchanges of Beneficial Interests in Global Notes
provided
 
2021 Notes or otherwise applicable under the Securities Act, the Trustee shall adjust the principal amount at maturity of the relevant Global Notes pursuant to Section 3.03(g).
(iii) . A beneficial interest in any Restricted Global Note may be transferred to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in another Restricted Global Note if the transfer complies with the requirements of Section 3.03(b)(ii) above and the Trustee receives the following:
Transfer of Beneficial Interests to Another Restricted Global Note
(A) if the transferee shall take delivery in the form of a beneficial interest in the 144A Global Note, then the transferor must deliver a certificate in the form of , including the certifications in item (1) thereof; and
Exhibit B
(B) if the transferee shall take delivery in the form of a beneficial interest in a Legended Regulation S Global Note, then the transferor must deliver a certificate in the form of , including the certifications in item (2) thereof.
Exhibit B
(iv) . A beneficial interest in any Restricted Global Note may be exchanged by any Holder thereof for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note or transferred to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note if the exchange or transfer complies with the requirements of Section 3.03(b)(ii) above and:
Transfer and Exchange of Beneficial Interests in a Restricted Global Note for Beneficial Interests in an Unrestricted Global Note
(A) such exchange or transfer is effected pursuant to the Exchange Offer in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement and the Holder of the beneficial interest to be transferred, in the case of an exchange, or the transferee, in the case of a transfer, certifies in the applicable letter of transmittal (1) it is not an affiliate (as defined in Rule 144) of the Company, (2) it is not engaged in, and does not intend to engage in, and has no arrangement or understanding with any Person to participate in, a distribution of the Exchange Notes to be issued in the Exchange Offer and (3) it is acquiring the Exchange Notes in its ordinary course of business;
(B) such transfer is effected pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement;
(C) such transfer is effected by a Participating Broker Dealer pursuant to the Exchange Offer Registration Statement in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement; or
(D) the Trustee receives the following:
(1) if the holder of such beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note proposes to exchange such beneficial interest for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note, a certificate from such holder in the form of , including the certifications in item (1)(a) thereof; or
Exhibit C
 
(2) if the holder of such beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note proposes to transfer such beneficial interest to a Person who shall take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note, a certificate from such holder in the form of , including the certifications in item (4) thereof;
Exhibit B
and, in each such case set forth in subparagraph (D), if the Trustee or the Company so requests, an opinion of counsel in form reasonably acceptable to the Trustee and the Company to the effect that such exchange or transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act and that the restrictions on transfer contained herein and in the Private Placement Legend are no longer required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act.
If any such transfer is effectuated pursuant to subparagraphs (B) or (D) at a time when an Unrestricted Global Note has not yet been issued, the Company shall issue and, upon receipt of an authentication order in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the Trustee shall authenticate one or more Unrestricted Global Notes in an aggregate principal amount equal to the aggregate principal amount of beneficial interests transferred pursuant to subparagraphs (B) or (D).
Beneficial interests in an Unrestricted Global Note cannot be exchanged for, or transferred to Persons who take delivery thereof in the form of, a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note.
(c) .
Transfer or Exchange of Beneficial Interests for Definitive Notes
(i) . If any holder of a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note proposes to exchange such beneficial interest for a Restricted Definitive Note or to transfer such beneficial interest to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a Restricted Definitive Note, then, upon receipt by the Trustee of the following documentation:
Beneficial Interests in Restricted Global Notes to Restricted Definitive Notes
(A) if the holder of such beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note proposes to exchange such beneficial interest for a Restricted Definitive Note, a certificate from such holder in the form of , including the certifications in item (2)(a) thereof;
Exhibit C
(B) if such beneficial interest is being transferred to a QIB in accordance with Rule 144A, a certificate to the effect set forth in , including the certifications in item (1) thereof;
Exhibit B
(C) if such beneficial interest is being transferred to an Institutional Accredited Investor in reliance on an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act other than that listed in subparagraph (B) above, a certificate to the effect set forth in hereto, including the certifications, certificates and Opinion of Counsel required by item (3) thereof, if applicable; or
Exhibit B
 
(D) if such beneficial interest is being transferred to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, a certificate to the effect set forth in , including the certifications in item (3)(a) thereof,
Exhibit B
the Trustee shall cause the aggregate principal amount of the applicable Global Note to be reduced accordingly pursuant to Section 3.03(g) hereof, and the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Person designated in the instructions a Definitive Note in the appropriate principal amount. Any Definitive Note issued in exchange for a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note pursuant to this Section 3.03(c) shall be registered in such name or names and in such authorized denomination or denominations as the holder of such beneficial interest shall instruct the Trustee through instructions from the Depositary and the Participant or Indirect Participant. The Trustee shall deliver such Definitive Notes to the Persons in whose names such 2021 Notes are so registered. Any Definitive Note issued in exchange for a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note pursuant to this Section 3.03(c)(i) shall bear the Private Placement Legend and shall be subject to all restrictions on transfer contained therein.
(ii) . A beneficial interest in the Legended Regulation S Global Note may not be exchanged for a Definitive Note or transferred to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a Definitive Note prior to the expiration of the Restricted Period, except in the case of a transfer pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act other than Rule 903 or Rule 904.
Beneficial Interests in Legended Regulation S Global Note to Definitive Notes
(iii) . A holder of a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note may exchange such beneficial interest for an Unrestricted Definitive Note or may transfer such beneficial interest to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of an Unrestricted Definitive Note only if:
Beneficial Interests in Restricted Global Notes to Unrestricted Definitive Notes
(A) such exchange or transfer is effected pursuant to the Exchange Offer in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement and the holder of such beneficial interest, in the case of an exchange, or the transferee, in the case of a transfer, certifies in the applicable letter of transmittal that (1) it is not an affiliate (as defined in Rule 144) of the Company, (2) it is not engaged in, and does not intend to engage in, and has no arrangement or understanding with any Person to participate in, a distribution of the Exchange Notes to be issued in the Exchange Offer and (3) it is acquiring the Exchange Notes in its ordinary course of business;
(B) such transfer is effected pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement;
(C) such transfer is effected by a Participating Broker Dealer pursuant to the Exchange Offer Registration Statement in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement; or
 
(D) the Trustee receives the following:
(1) if the Holder of such beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note proposes to exchange such beneficial interest for a Definitive Note that does not bear the Private Placement Legend, a certificate from such Holder in the form of , including the certifications in item (1)(b) thereof; or
Exhibit C
(2) if the Holder of such beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note proposes to transfer such beneficial interest to a Person who shall take delivery thereof in the form of a Definitive Note that does not bear the Private Placement Legend, a certificate from such Holder in the form of , including the certifications in item (4) thereof;
Exhibit B
and, in each such case set forth in subparagraph (D), if the Trustee or the Company so requests , an opinion of counsel in form reasonably acceptable to the Trustee and the Company to the effect that such exchange or transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act and that the restrictions on transfer contained herein and in the Private Placement Legend are no longer required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act.
(iv) . If any holder of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note proposes to exchange such beneficial interest for a Definitive Note or to transfer such beneficial interest to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a Definitive Note, then, upon satisfaction of the conditions set forth in Section 3.03(b)(ii), the Trustee shall cause the aggregate principal amount of the applicable Global Note to be reduced accordingly pursuant to Section 3.03(h), and the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Person designated in the instructions a Definitive Note in the appropriate principal amount. Any Definitive Note issued in exchange for a beneficial interest pursuant to this Section 3.03(c)(iv) shall be registered in such name or names and in such authorized denomination or denominations as the holder of such beneficial interest shall instruct the Trustee through instructions from the Depositary and the Participant or Indirect Participant. The Trustee shall deliver such Definitive Notes to the Persons in whose names such 2021 Notes are so registered. Any Definitive Note issued in exchange for a beneficial interest pursuant to this Section 3.03(c)(iv) shall not bear the Private Placement Legend.
Beneficial Interests in Unrestricted Global Notes to Unrestricted Definitive Notes
(d) .
Transfer and Exchange of Definitive Notes for Beneficial Interests
(i) . If any Holder of a Restricted Definitive Note proposes to exchange such 2021 Note for a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note or to transfer such Restricted Definitive Notes to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note, then, upon receipt by the Trustee of the following documentation:
Restricted Definitive Notes to Beneficial Interests in Restricted Global Notes
 
(A) if the Holder of such Restricted Definitive Note proposes to exchange such 2021 Note for a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note, a certificate from such Holder in the form of , including the certifications in item (2)(b) thereof;
Exhibit C
(B) if such Restricted Definitive Note is being transferred to a QIB in accordance with Rule 144A, a certificate to the effect set forth in , including the certifications in item (1) thereof;
Exhibit B
(C) if such Restricted Definitive Note is being transferred to a Person that is not a U.S. Person in an "" in accordance with Rule 903 or Rule 904, a certificate to the effect set forth in , including the certifications in item (2) thereof; or
offshore transaction
Exhibit B
(D) if such Restricted Definitive Note is being transferred to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, a certificate to the effect set forth in , including the certifications in item (3)(a) thereof,
Exhibit B
the Trustee shall cancel the Restricted Definitive Note, and increase or cause to be increased the aggregate principal amount of, in the case of clause (A) above, the appropriate Restricted Global Note, in the case of clause (B) above, the 144A Global Note, and in the case of clause (C) above, the Regulation S Global Note.
(ii) . A Holder of a Restricted Definitive Note may exchange such 2021 Note for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note or transfer such Restricted Definitive Note to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note only if:
Restricted Definitive Notes to Beneficial Interests in Unrestricted Global Notes
(A) such exchange or transfer is effected pursuant to the Exchange Offer in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement and the Holder, in the case of an exchange, or the transferee, in the case of a transfer, certifies in the applicable letter of transmittal (1) it is not an affiliate (as defined in Rule 144) of the Company, (2) it is not engaged in, and does not intend to engage in, and has no arrangement or understanding with any Person to participate in, a distribution of the Exchange Notes to be issued in the Exchange Offer and (3) it is acquiring the Exchange Notes in its ordinary course of business;
(B) such transfer is effected pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement;
(C) such transfer is effected by a Participating Broker Dealer pursuant to the Exchange Offer Registration Statement in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement; or
(D) the Trustee receives the following:
 
(1) if the Holder of such Restricted Definitive Note proposes to exchange such 2021 Note for a beneficial interest in the Unrestricted Global Note, a certificate from such Holder in the form of , including the certifications in item (1)(c) thereof; or
Exhibit C
(2) if the Holder of such Restricted Definitive Note proposes to transfer such 2021 Note to a Person who shall take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in the Unrestricted Global Note, a certificate from such Holder in the form of , including the certifications in item (4) thereof;
Exhibit B
and, in each such case as set forth in subparagraph (D), if the Trustee or the Company so request, an opinion of counsel in form reasonably acceptable to the Trustee and the Company to the effect that such exchange or transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act and that the restrictions on transfer contained herein and in the Private Placement Legend are no longer required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act.
Upon satisfaction of the conditions of any of the subparagraphs in this Section 3.03(d)(ii), the Trustee shall cancel the Definitive Notes and increase or cause to be increased the aggregate principal amount of the Unrestricted Global Note.
(iii) . A Holder of an Unrestricted Definitive Note may exchange such 2021 Note for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note or transfer such Unrestricted Definitive Note to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note at any time. Upon receipt of a request for such an exchange or transfer, the Trustee shall cancel the applicable Unrestricted Definitive Note and increase or cause to be increased the aggregate principal amount of one of the Unrestricted Global Notes.
Unrestricted Definitive Notes to Beneficial Interests in Unrestricted Global Notes
If any such exchange or transfer from a Definitive Note to a beneficial interest is effected pursuant to subparagraphs (ii)(B), (ii)(D) or (iii) above at a time when an Unrestricted Global Note has not yet been issued, the Company shall issue and, upon receipt of an authentication order in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the Trustee shall authenticate one or more Unrestricted Global Notes in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of Definitive Notes so transferred.
(e) . Upon request by a Holder of Definitive Notes and such Holder's compliance with the provisions of this Section 3.03(e), the Trustee shall register the transfer or exchange of Definitive Notes. Prior to such registration of transfer or exchange, the requesting Holder shall present or surrender to the Trustee the Definitive Notes duly endorsed or accompanied by a written instruction of transfer in form satisfactory to the Trustee duly executed by such Holder or by its attorney, duly authorized in writing. In addition, the requesting Holder shall provide any additional certifications, documents and information, as applicable, required pursuant to the following provisions of this Section 3.03(e).
Transfer and Exchange of Definitive Notes for Definitive Notes
 
(i) . Any Restricted Definitive Note may be transferred to and registered in the name of Persons who take delivery thereof in the form of a Restricted Definitive Note if the Trustee receives the following:
Restricted Definitive Notes to Restricted Definitive Notes
(A) if the transfer shall be made pursuant to Rule 144A under the Securities Act, then the transferor must deliver a certificate in the form of , including the certifications in item (1) thereof; and
Exhibit B
(B) if the transfer shall be made pursuant to any other exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act, then the transferor must deliver a certificate in the form of , including the certifications, certificates and Opinion of Counsel required by item (3) thereof, if applicable.
Exhibit B
(ii) . Any Restricted Definitive Note may be exchanged by the Holder thereof for an Unrestricted Definitive Note or transferred to a Person or Persons who take delivery thereof in the form of an Unrestricted Definitive Note if:
Restricted Definitive Notes to Unrestricted Definitive Notes
(A) such exchange or transfer is effected pursuant to the Exchange Offer in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement and the Holder, in the case of an exchange, or the transferee, in the case of a transfer, certifies in the applicable letter of transmittal that (1) it is not an affiliate (as defined in Rule 144) of the Company, (2) it is not engaged in, and does not intend to engage in, and has no arrangement or understanding with any Person to participate in, a distribution of the Exchange Notes to be issued in the Exchange Offer and (3) it is acquiring the Exchange Notes in its ordinary course of business;
(B) any such transfer is effected pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement;
(C) any such transfer is effected by a Participating Broker Dealer pursuant to the Exchange Offer Registration Statement in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement; or
(D) the Trustee receives the following:
(1) if the Holder of such Restricted Definitive Note proposes to exchange such 2021 Note for an Unrestricted Definitive Note, a certificate from such Holder in the form of , including the certifications in item (1)(d) thereof; or
Exhibit C
(2) if the Holder of such Restricted Definitive Note proposes to transfer such 2021 Note to a Person who shall take delivery thereof in the form of an Unrestricted Definitive Note, a certificate from such Holder in the form of , including the certifications in item (4) thereof;
Exhibit B
 
and, in each such case set forth in subparagraph (D), if the Trustee so requests, an opinion of counsel in form reasonably acceptable to the Company to the effect that such exchange or transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act and that the restrictions on transfer contained herein and in the Private Placement Legend are no longer required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act.
(iii) . A Holder of Unrestricted Definitive Notes may transfer such 2021 Notes to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of an Unrestricted Definitive Note. Upon receipt of a request to register such a transfer, the Trustee shall register the Unrestricted Definitive Notes pursuant to the instructions from the Holder thereof.
Unrestricted Definitive Notes to Unrestricted Definitive Notes
(f) . The following legends shall appear on the face of all Global Notes and Definitive Notes issued under this Indenture unless specifically stated otherwise in the applicable provisions of this Indenture.
Legends
(i) . Except as permitted below, each Global Note and each Definitive Note (and all 2021 Notes issued in exchange therefor or substitution thereof) shall bear the legend in substantially the following form:
Private Placement Legend
THIS SECURITY HAS NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933 (THE "SECURITIES ACT"), OR THE SECURITIES LAWS OF ANY STATE OR OTHER JURISDICTION. NEITHER THIS SECURITY NOR ANY INTEREST OR PARTICIPATION HEREIN MAY BE REOFFERED, SOLD, ASSIGNED, TRANSFERRED, PLEDGED, ENCUMBERED OR OTHERWISE DISPOSED OF IN THE ABSENCE OF SUCH REGISTRATION OR UNLESS SUCH TRANSACTION IS EXEMPT FROM, OR NOT SUBJECT TO, SUCH REGISTRATION. THE HOLDER OF THIS SECURITY, BY ITS ACCEPTANCE HEREOF, AGREES ON ITS OWN BEHALF AND ON BEHALF OF ANY INVESTOR ACCOUNT FOR WHICH IT HAS PURCHASED SECURITIES, TO OFFER, SELL OR OTHERWISE TRANSFER SUCH SECURITY, PRIOR TO THE DATE (THE "RESALE RESTRICTION TERMINATION DATE") THAT IS [IN THE CASE OF RULE 144A NOTES: ONE YEAR AFTER THE LATER OF THE ORIGINAL ISSUE DATE HEREOF, THE ORIGINAL ISSUE DATE OF THE ISSUANCE OF ANY ADDITIONAL NOTES AND THE LAST DATE ON WHICH THE ISSUER OR ANY AFFILIATE OF THE ISSUER WAS THE OWNER OF THIS SECURITY (OR ANY PREDECESSOR OF SUCH SECURITY),] [IN THE CASE OF REGULATION S NOTES: 40 DAYS AFTER THE LATER OF THE ORIGINAL ISSUE DATE HEREOF AND THE DATE ON WHICH THIS SECURITY (OR ANY PREDECESSOR OF SUCH
 
SECURITY) WAS FIRST OFFERED TO PERSONS OTHER THAN DISTRIBUTORS (AS DEFINED IN RULE 902 OF REGULATION S) IN RELIANCE ON REGULATION S], ONLY (A) TO THE COMPANY OR ANY SUBSIDIARY THEREOF, (B) PURSUANT TO A REGISTRATION STATEMENT THAT HAS BEEN DECLARED EFFECTIVE UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, (C) FOR SO LONG AS THE SECURITIES ARE ELIGIBLE FOR RESALE PURSUANT TO RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT ("RULE 144A"), TO A PERSON IT REASONABLY BELIEVES IS A "QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER" AS DEFINED IN RULE 144A THAT PURCHASES FOR ITS OWN ACCOUNT OR FOR THE ACCOUNT OF A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER TO WHOM NOTICE IS GIVEN THAT THE TRANSFER IS BEING MADE IN RELIANCE ON RULE 144A, (D) PURSUANT TO OFFERS AND SALES TO NON-U.S. PERSONS THAT OCCUR OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES WITHIN THE MEANING OF REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, (E) TO AN INSTITUTIONAL "ACCREDITED INVESTOR" WITHIN THE MEANING OF RULE 501(a)(1), (2), (3) OR (7) UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT THAT IS NOT A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER AND THAT IS PURCHASING FOR ITS OWN ACCOUNT OR FOR THE ACCOUNT OF ANOTHER INSTITUTIONAL ACCREDITED INVESTOR, IN EACH CASE IN A MINIMUM PRINCIPAL AMOUNT OF SECURITIES OR (F) PURSUANT TO ANOTHER AVAILABLE EXEMPTION FROM THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT, SUBJECT TO THE COMPANY'S AND THE TRUSTEE'S RIGHT PRIOR TO ANY SUCH OFFER, SALE OR TRANSFER PURSUANT TO CLAUSES (D), (E) OR (F) TO REQUIRE THE DELIVERY OF AN OPINION OF COUNSEL, CERTIFICATION AND/ OR OTHER INFORMATION SATISFACTORY TO EACH OF THEM. THIS LEGEND WILL BE REMOVED UPON THE REQUEST OF THE HOLDER AFTER THE RESALE RESTRICTION TERMINATION DATE. [IN THE CASE OF REGULATION S NOTES: BY ITS ACQUISITION HEREOF, THE HOLDER HEREOF REPRESENTS THAT IT IS NOT A U.S. PERSON NOR IS IT PURCHASING FOR THE ACCOUNT OF A U.S. PERSON AND IS ACQUIRING THIS SECURITY IN AN OFFSHORE TRANSACTION IN ACCORDANCE WITH REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT.]
 
BY ITS ACQUISITION OF THIS SECURITY, THE HOLDER THEREOF WILL BE DEEMED TO HAVE REPRESENTED AND WARRANTED THAT EITHER (1) NO PORTION OF THE ASSETS USED BY SUCH HOLDER TO ACQUIRE OR HOLD THIS SECURITY CONSTITUTES THE ASSETS OF AN EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLAN THAT IS SUBJECT TO TITLE I OF THE U.S. EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT INCOME SECURITY ACT OF 1974, AS AMENDED ("ERISA"), ANY PLAN, ACCOUNT OR OTHER ARRANGEMENT THAT IS SUBJECT TO SECTION 4975 OF THE U.S. INTERNAL REVENUE CODE OF 1986, AS AMENDED (THE "CODE") OR PROVISIONS UNDER ANY OTHER FEDERAL, STATE, LOCAL, NON-U.S. OR OTHER LAWS OR REGULATIONS THAT ARE SIMILAR TO SUCH PROVISIONS OF ERISA OR THE CODE ("SIMILAR LAWS"), OR AN ENTITY WHOSE UNDERLYING ASSETS ARE CONSIDERED TO INCLUDE "PLAN ASSETS" OF ANY SUCH PLAN, ACCOUNT OR ARRANGEMENT, OR (2) THE ACQUISITION AND HOLDING OF THIS SECURITY WILL NOT CONSTITUTE A NON-EXEMPT PROHIBITED TRANSACTION UNDER SECTION 406 OF ERISA OR SECTION 4975 OF THE CODE OR A SIMILAR VIOLATION UNDER ANY APPLICABLE SIMILAR LAW.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, any Global Note or Definitive Note issued pursuant to subparagraph (b)(iv), (c)(iii), (c)(iv), (d)(ii), (d)(iii), (e)(ii), (e)(iii) or (h) to this Section 3.03 (and all 2021 Notes issued in exchange therefor or substitution thereof) shall not bear the Private Placement Legend.
(ii) . Each Global Note shall bear a legend in substantially the following form:
Global Note Legend
THIS GLOBAL NOTE IS HELD BY THE DEPOSITARY (AS DEFINED IN THE INDENTURE GOVERNING THIS NOTE) OR ITS NOMINEE IN CUSTODY FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE BENEFICIAL OWNERS HEREOF, AND IS NOT TRANSFERABLE TO ANY PERSON UNDER ANY CIRCUMSTANCES EXCEPT THAT (I) THE TRUSTEE MAY MAKE SUCH NOTATIONS HEREON AS MAY BE REQUIRED PURSUANT TO SECTION 3.03 OF THE FIRST SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE TO THE INDENTURE, (II) THIS GLOBAL NOTE MAY BE EXCHANGED IN WHOLE BUT NOT IN PART PURSUANT TO SECTION 3.03(a) OF THE FIRST SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE TO THE INDENTURE, (III) THIS GLOBAL NOTE MAY BE DELIVERED TO THE TRUSTEE FOR
 
CANCELLATION PURSUANT TO THE INDENTURE AND (IV) THIS GLOBAL NOTE MAY BE TRANSFERRED TO A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY WITH THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF THE COMPANY.
(ii) . The Regulation S Global Note shall bear a legend in substantially the following form:
Regulation S Global Note Legend
THE RIGHTS ATTACHING TO THIS REGULATION S GLOBAL NOTE, AND THE CONDITIONS AND PROCEDURES GOVERNING ITS EXCHANGE FOR CERTIFICATED NOTES, ARE AS SPECIFIED IN THE INDENTURE (AS DEFINED HEREIN).
(g) . At such time as all beneficial interests in a particular Global Note have been exchanged for Definitive Notes or a particular Global Note has been redeemed, repurchased or canceled in whole and not in part, each such Global Note shall be returned to or retained and canceled by the Trustee in accordance with the Indenture. At any time prior to such cancellation, if any beneficial interest in a Global Note is exchanged for or transferred to a Person who shall take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in another Global Note or for Definitive Notes, the principal amount of 2021 Notes represented by such Global Note shall be reduced accordingly and an endorsement shall be made on the Schedule of Exchanges of Interests in such Global Note by the Trustee or by the Depositary at the direction of the Trustee to reflect such reduction; and if the beneficial interest is being exchanged for or transferred to a Person who shall take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in another Global Note, such other Global Note shall be increased accordingly and an endorsement shall be made on such Global Note by the Trustee or by the Depositary at the direction of the Trustee to reflect such increase.
Cancellation and/or Adjustment of Global Notes
(h) . Upon the occurrence of the Exchange Offer in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement, the Company shall issue and, upon receipt of an authentication order, the Trustee shall authenticate (i) one or more Unrestricted Global Notes in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of the beneficial interests in the Restricted Global Notes tendered for acceptance by Persons that certify in the applicable letters of transmittal that (x) they are not affiliates (as defined in Rule 144) of the Company, (y) they are not engaged in, and do not intend to engage in, and have no arrangement or understanding with any Person to participate in, a distribution of the exchange notes to be issued in the Exchange Offer and (z) they are acquiring the exchange notes in their ordinary course of business and (ii) Unrestricted Definitive Notes in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of the Restricted Definitive Notes accepted for exchange in the Exchange Offer. Concurrently with the issuance of such Notes, the Trustee shall cause the aggregate principal amount of the applicable Restricted Global Notes to be reduced accordingly, and the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Persons designated by the Holders of Restricted Global Notes so accepted Unrestricted Global Notes in the appropriate principal amount.
Exchange Offer
(i) .
General Provisions Relating to Transfers and Exchanges
 
(i) To permit registrations of transfers and exchanges permitted hereunder, the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate Global Notes and Definitive Notes upon the Company's order or at the Trustee's request in accordance with the Indenture.
(ii) No service charge shall be made to a Holder of a beneficial interest in a Global Note or to a Holder of a Definitive Note for any registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any transfer tax or similar governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
(iii) The Trustee shall not be required to register the transfer of or exchange any 2021 Note selected for redemption in whole or in part, except the unredeemed portion of any 2021 Note being redeemed in part.
(iv) All Global Notes and Definitive Notes issued upon any registration of transfer or exchange of Global Notes or Definitive Notes shall be the valid and legally binding obligations of the Company, evidencing the same debt, and entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture, as the Global Notes or Definitive Notes surrendered upon such registration of transfer or exchange.
(v) The Company shall not be required (A) to issue, to register the transfer of or to exchange any 2021 Notes during a period beginning at the opening of business 15 days before the day of any selection of 2021 Notes for redemption and ending at the close of business on the day of selection, (B) to register the transfer of or to exchange any 2021 Note so selected for redemption in whole or in part, except the unredeemed portion of any 2021 Note being redeemed in part, (C) to register the transfer of or to exchange a 2021 Note between a record date and the next succeeding interest payment date or (D) to register the transfer of or to exchange a 2021 Note tendered and not withdrawn in connection with a Change of Control Offer.
(vi) Prior to due presentment for the registration of a transfer of any 2021 Note, the Trustee, the Paying Agent and the Company may deem and treat the Person in whose name any 2021 Note is registered as the absolute owner of such 2021 Note for the purpose of receiving payment of principal of and interest on such 2021 Notes and for all other purposes, and none of the Trustee, the Paying Agent or the Company shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
(vii) Neither the Trustee nor the registrar shall have any duty to monitor the Company's compliance with or have any responsibility with respect to the Company's compliance with any federal or state securities laws in connection with registrations of transfers and exchanges of the 2021 Notes. The Trustee shall have no obligation or duty to monitor, determine or inquire as to compliance with any restrictions on transfer imposed under this Indenture or under applicable law with respect to any transfer of any interest in any 2021 Notes (including any transfers between or among the Depository's participants or beneficial owners of interests in any Global Note) other than to require delivery of such certificates and other documentation, as is expressly required by, and to do so if and when expressly required by, the terms of this Indenture and to examine the
 
same to determine substantial compliance as to form with the express requirements hereof.
The following amendment to the Indenture shall apply only to the 2021 Notes and not to any other series of Securities issued under the Indenture and shall be effective for so long as any 2021 Notes remain Outstanding. The Indenture is amended by this Supplemental Indenture solely with respect to the 2021 Notes, as follows:
Section 5.01 . Solely with respect to the 2021 Notes, Section 113 of the Indenture shall be amended and restated in its entirety by inserting the following in lieu thereof:
Amendments to Article I
"
Section 113. Legal Holidays.
If any Interest Payment Date or the Stated Maturity of the 2021 Notes falls on a day that is not a Business Day, the required payment will be made on the next Business Day as if it were made on the date the payment was due and no interest will accrue on the amount so payable for the period from and after the Interest Payment Date or the Stated Maturity, as the case may be, until the next Business Day."
Section 6.01 . The 2021 Notes will be redeemable in accordance with terms of the Indenture (as modified by this Supplemental Indenture), in each case from time to time, as a whole or in part, at the Company's option, on at least 30 days, but not more than 60 days, prior notice mailed to the registered address of each holder of the 2021 Notes to be redeemed, at a Redemption Price equal to (1) the greater of: (A) 100% of the principal amount of the 2021 Notes to be redeemed, and (B) the sum of the present values of the Remaining Scheduled Payments, discounted to the Redemption Date, on a semi-annual basis, assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months, at the Treasury Rate, plus 50 basis points; (2) in each case, accrued interest and Additional Interest (if any) to the applicable Redemption Date, in each case, that has not been paid.
Optional Redemption
plus
Section 6.02 . On and after the Redemption Date, interest and Additional Interest will cease to accrue on the
Interest on 2021 Notes Redeemed; Deposit of Redemption Price
 
2021 Notes or any portion thereof called for redemption, unless the Company defaults in the payment of the Redemption Price. On or before the Redemption Date, the Company will deposit with the Paying Agent, or the Trustee, money sufficient to pay the Redemption Price of the 2021 Notes to be redeemed on such date.
Section 7.01 . If a Change of Control Triggering Event occurs with respect to the 2021 Notes, each Holder of 2021 Notes will have the right to require the Company to repurchase all or any part, equal to $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 thereafter, of that Holder's 2021 Notes pursuant to an offer (a "") on the terms set forth in this Article Seven.
Repurchase Offers
Change of Control Offer
Section 7.02 . The Company, in each Change of Control Offer, will offer a cash payment (a "") equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of 2021 Notes repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest and Additional Interest (if any) on the 2021 Notes, in each case, up to but excluding the date of repurchase. Within 30 days following any Change of Control Triggering Event, if the Company had not, prior to the Change of Control Triggering Event, sent a redemption notice for all the 2021 Notes in connection with an optional redemption permitted by Section 7.01 of this Supplemental Indenture and Article XI of the Indenture, the Company will mail or cause to be mailed a notice to each registered Holder briefly describing the event or events that constitute a Change of Control Triggering Event and offering to repurchase 2021 Notes on the date specified in such notice (the ""), which date will be no earlier than 30 days and no later than 60 days from the date the notice is mailed, pursuant to the procedures required by the Indenture (as modified by this Supplemental Indenture) and described in such notice.
Terms of Change of Control Offer
Change of Control Payment
Change of Control Payment Date
Section 7.03 . The Company will comply with the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the Exchange Act and any other securities laws and regulations thereunder to the extent such laws and regulations are applicable to any Change of Control Offer. To the extent the provisions of any securities laws or regulations conflict with the provisions of this Article Seven, the Company will comply with the applicable securities laws and regulations and will not be deemed to have breached its obligations hereunder by virtue of such conflict.
Compliance with Securities Laws
Section 7.04 . On the Change of Control Payment Date, the Company will, to the extent lawful:
Acceptance of and Payment for 2021 Notes
(a) accept for payment all 2021 Notes or portions thereof properly tendered pursuant to the Change of Control Offer;
(b) deposit with the Paying Agent an amount equal to the Change of Control Payment in respect of all 2021 Notes or portions thereof properly tendered; and
 
(c) deliver or cause to be delivered to the Trustee the 2021 Notes so accepted together with an Officers' Certificate stating the aggregate principal amount of 2021 Notes or portions thereof being purchased.
Section 7.05 . The Company will determine whether the 2021 Notes are properly tendered, and the Trustee will have no responsibility for, and may conclusively rely upon, the Company's determination with respect thereto. Subject to receipt of sufficient funds from the Company, the Paying Agent will promptly deliver to each registered Holder of 2021 Notes properly tendered, the Change of Control Payment for such 2021 Notes, and the Trustee will promptly authenticate and mail, or cause to be transferred by book entry, to each Holder a new 2021 Note equal in principal amount to any unpurchased portion of the 2021 Notes surrendered, if any; that each such new 2021 Note will be in a principal amount of $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 thereafter. Any 2021 Note so accepted for payment will cease to accrue interest on and after the Change of Control Payment Date.
Determination of Tender; Responsibilities of Paying Agent and Trustee
provided
Section 7.06 . The Company will not be required to make a Change of Control Offer upon a Change of Control Triggering Event if a third party makes the Change of Control Offer in the manner, at the times and otherwise in compliance with the requirements applicable to a Change of Control Offer made by the Company and purchases all 2021 Notes properly tendered and not withdrawn under the Change of Control Offer.
Third Party Change of Control Offers
Section 7.07 . The Company may make a Change of Control Offer in advance of a Change of Control Triggering Event, and condition that Change of Control Offer upon the occurrence of such Change of Control Triggering Event, if a definitive agreement is in place for the Change of Control Triggering Event at the time of making the Change of Control Offer.
Conditional Change of Control Offers
Section 7.08 . Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Article Seven, if the 2021 Notes receive an Investment Grade Rating by both of the Rating Agencies, and notwithstanding that the 2021 Notes may later cease to have an Investment Grade Rating by either of the Rating Agencies, the Company will be released from its obligation to make a Change of Control Offer upon a Change of Control Triggering Event.
Investment Grade Rating
Section 8.01 . This Supplemental Indenture is executed by the Company and by the Trustee upon the Company's request, pursuant to the provisions of the Indenture, and the terms and conditions hereof shall be deemed to be part of the Indenture for all purposes. The Indenture, as supplemented and amended by this Supplemental Indenture, is in all respects hereby adopted, ratified and confirmed. Notwithstanding the foregoing, to the extent that any of the terms of this Supplemental Indenture are inconsistent with, or conflict with, the terms of the Indenture, the terms of this Supplemental Indenture shall govern.
Effect of Supplemental Indenture; Conflicts with Indenture
 
Section 8.02 . This Supplemental Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be an original, but such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
Counterparts
Section 8.03 . The Trustee assumes no responsibility for the correctness of the recitals herein contained, which shall be taken as the statements of the Company. The Trustee makes no representations and shall have no responsibility as to the validity or sufficiency of this Supplemental Indenture or the due authorization and execution hereof by the Company.
Trustee
Section 8.04 . The Article and Section headings contained herein are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction of this Supplemental Indenture.
Headings
Section 8.05 . This Supplemental Indenture and the 2021 Notes shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
Governing Law
 
, the parties hereto have caused this Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized as of the day and year first above written.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
 
 
 
 
 
, a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of Kansas (herein called the "," which term includes any successor Person under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to , or registered assigns, the principal sum of [    ] on November 15, 2021, and to pay interest and Additional Interest (if any) thereon from November 9, 2011, or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, semi-annually on May 15 and November 15 in each year, commencing May 15, 2012, at the rate of 11.500% per annum, until the principal hereof is paid or made available for payment, that any principal and premium, and any such installment of interest and Additional Interest (if any), which is overdue shall bear interest at the rate of 11.500% per annum (to the extent that the payment of such interest shall be legally enforceable), from the dates such amounts are due until they are paid or made available for payment, and such interest shall be payable on demand. If any Interest Payment Date or the Stated Maturity of this 2021 Note falls on a day that is not a Business Day, the required payment shall be made on the next Business Day as if it were made on the date the payment was due and no interest shall accrue on the amount so payable for the period from and after the Interest Payment Date or the Stated Maturity of this 2021 Note, as the case may be, until the next Business Day. The interest and Additional Interest (if any) so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date (or the next Business Day, as applicable) will, as provided in such Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this 2021 Note (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest and Additional Interest (if any), which shall be the May 1 or November 1 (whether or not a Business Day), as the case may be, next preceding such Interest Payment Date. Any such interest and Additional Interest (if any) not so punctually paid or duly provided for will forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on such Regular Record Date and may either be paid to the Person in whose name this 2021 Note (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be fixed by the Trustee, notice whereof shall be given to Holders of 2021 Notes of this series not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date, or be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the 2021 Notes of this series may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in said Indenture.
SPRINT NEXTEL CORPORATION
Company
CEDE & Co.
MILLION DOLLARS
provided
Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this 2021 Note set forth on the reverse hereof, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
 
Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the Trustee referred to on the reverse hereof by manual signature, this 2021 Note shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this 2021 Note to be signed manually or by facsimile by its duly authorized officer.
 
 
[SEAL]
 
This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture
 
 
This 2021 Note is one of a duly authorized issue of securities of the Company (herein called the ""), issued and to be issued in one or more series under an Indenture, dated as of November 20, 2006 (herein called the "" which term shall have the meaning assigned to it in such instrument), between the Company and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee (herein called the "," which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), as supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of November 9, 2011 (the ""). Reference is hereby made to the Indenture for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the 2021 Notes and of the terms upon which the 2021 Notes are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered.
2021 Notes
Indenture
Trustee
Supplemental Indenture
Any payments of interest on this 2021 Note shall include Additional Interest, if any, to the extent applicable under the Registration Rights Agreement.
"" means the Registration Rights Agreement, dated November 9, 2011, among the Company and J.P. Morgan Securities LLC for itself and for each of the other initial purchasers named on Schedule A thereto.
Registration Rights Agreement
The Company may redeem the 2021 Notes at any time and from time to time, as a whole or in part, at the Company's option, on at least 30 days, but not more than 60 days, prior notice mailed to the registered address of each Holder of the 2021 Notes to be redeemed, at a redemption price equal to the greater of:
(1) 100% of the principal amount of the 2021 Notes to be redeemed; and
(2) the sum of the present values of the Remaining Scheduled Payments, discounted to the Redemption Date, on a semi-annual basis, assuming a 360 day year consisting of twelve 30 day months, at the Treasury Rate, plus 50 basis points;
, in each case, accrued interest to the Redemption Date that has not been paid (such redemption price, the "").
plus
Redemption Price
"" means the United States Treasury security selected by the Independent Investment Banker as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term of the 2021 Notes that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of the 2021 Notes.
Comparable Treasury Issue
"" means, with respect to any Redemption Date: (1) the average of four Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such Redemption Date, after excluding the highest and lowest of such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations; or (2) if the
Comparable Treasury Price
 
Trustee is provided fewer than four Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all quotations provided to the Trustee.
"" means one of the Reference Treasury Dealers appointed by the Company.
Independent Investment Banker
"" means J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated and Citigroup Global Markets Inc., and their successors, and one other firm that is a primary U.S. Government securities dealer (each a "") which the Company shall specify from time to time; that if any of them ceases to be a Primary Treasury Dealer, the Company will substitute therefor another Primary Treasury Dealer.
Reference Treasury Dealer
Primary Treasury Dealer
provided,
"" means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any Redemption Date, the average of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue, expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount, quoted in writing to the Trustee by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the third Business Day preceding such Redemption Date.
Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations
"" means with respect to each 2021 Note to be redeemed, the remaining scheduled payments of the principal thereof and interest and Additional Interest (if any) thereon, that would be due after the related Redemption Date but for such redemption; that, if such Redemption Date is not an interest payment date with respect to such 2021 Note, the amount of the next succeeding scheduled interest payment thereon will be deemed reduced by the amount of interest accrued thereon to such Redemption Date.
Remaining Scheduled Payments
provided,
"" means, with respect to an applicable Redemption Date for the 2021 Notes: (1) the yield, under the heading which represents the average for the immediately preceding week, appearing in the most recently published statistical release designated "H.15(519)" or any successor publication that is published weekly by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and that establishes yields on actively traded United States Treasury Notes adjusted to constant maturity under the caption "Treasury Constant Maturities," for the maturity corresponding to the Comparable Treasury Issue; that if no maturity is within three months before or after the Stated Maturity of the 2021 Notes, yields for the two published maturities most closely corresponding to the Comparable Treasury Issue will be determined and the Treasury Rate will be interpolated or extrapolated from those yields on a straight line basis, rounding to the nearest month; or (2) if that release, or any successor release, is not published during the week preceding the calculation date or does not contain such yields, the rate per annum equal to the semiannual equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, calculated using a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for the Redemption Date. The Treasury Rate will be calculated on the third Business Day preceding the Redemption Date.
Treasury Rate
provided
On and after the Redemption Date, interest and Additional Interest (if any) will cease to accrue on the 2021 Notes or any portion thereof called for redemption, unless the Company defaults in the payment of the Redemption Price.
 
In the event of redemption of this 2021 Note in part only, a new 2021 Note or 2021 Notes of this series and of like tenor for the unredeemed portion hereof will be issued in the name of the Holder hereof upon the cancellation hereof.
Section 8.01 If a Change of Control Triggering Event occurs, each Holder of a 2021 Note will have the right to require the Company to repurchase all or any part, equal to $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 thereafter, of that Holder's 2021 Notes pursuant to an offer (a "") on the terms set forth in the Indenture.
Change of Control Offer
Section 8.02 The Company, in each Change of Control Offer, will offer a cash payment (a "") equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of 2021 Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest and Additional Interest (if any) on the 2021 Notes up to but excluding the date of repurchase. Within 30 days following any Change of Control Triggering Event, if the Company had not, prior to the Change of Control Triggering Event, sent a redemption notice for all the 2021 Notes in connection with an optional redemption permitted by the Indenture, the Company will mail or cause to be mailed a notice to each registered Holder briefly describing the event or events that constitute a Change of Control Triggering Event and offering to repurchase 2021 Notes on the date specified in such notice (the ""), which date will be no earlier than 30 days and no later than 60 days from the date the notice is mailed, pursuant to the procedures required by the Indenture (as modified by this Supplemental Indenture) and described in such notice.
Change of Control Payment
Change of Control Payment Date
Notwithstanding the preceding two paragraphs, if the 2021 Notes receive an Investment Grade Rating by both of the Rating Agencies, and notwithstanding that the 2021 Notes may later cease to have an Investment Grade Rating by either of the Rating Agencies, the Company will be released from its obligation to make a Change of Control Offer upon a Change of Control Triggering Event.
"" means the occurrence of any of the following:
Change of Control
(a) the direct or indirect sale, transfer, conveyance or other disposition (other than by way of merger or consolidation), in one or a series of related transactions, of all or substantially all of the Company and its Subsidiaries' properties or assets, taken as a whole, to any "person" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act);
(b) the adoption of a plan relating to the Company's liquidation or dissolution; or
(c) any "person" or "group" (as such terms are used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Exchange Act) becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the voting power of the Company's Voting Securities; that a transaction in which the Company becomes a Subsidiary of another person shall not constitute a Change of Control if (a) the Company's stockholders immediately prior to such transaction Beneficially Own, directly or indirectly through one or more
provided
 
intermediaries, 50% or more of the voting power of the outstanding Voting Securities of such other Person of whom the Company is a Subsidiary immediately following such transaction and (b) immediately following such transaction no person (as defined above) other than such other person, Beneficially Owns, directly or indirectly, more than 50% of the voting power of the Company's Voting Securities.
"" means the occurrence of both a Change of Control and a Ratings Decline.
Change of Control Triggering Event
"" means a rating equal to or greater than Baa3 by Moody's and BBB- by S&P or the equivalent thereof under any new ratings system if the ratings systems of either such Rating Agency shall be modified after the issue date of the 2021 Notes, or the equivalent rating of any other Ratings Agency the Company selects as provided in the definition of Ratings Agencies.
Investment Grade Rating
"" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc. or any successor to the rating agency business thereof.
Moody's
"" means (1) Moody's and S&P; and (2) if either Moody's or S&P ceases to rate the 2021 Notes or ceases to make a rating on the 2021 Notes publicly available, an entity registered as a "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" (registered as such pursuant to Rule l7g-1 of the Exchange Act) then making a rating on the 2021 Notes publicly available selected by the Company (as certified by an officer's certificate), which shall be substituted for Moody's or S&P, as the case may be.
Ratings Agencies
"" means the occurrence, during the period commencing on the date of the first public announcement of the Change of Control or the intention to effect a Change of Control and ending 90 days after the occurrence of the Change of Control, of a downgrade of the rating of the 2021 Notes by both Rating Agencies by one or more gradations (including gradations within ratings categories as well as between rating categories).
Ratings Decline
"" means Standard & Poor's Rating Services, a division of the McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc., or any successor to the rating agency business thereof.
S&P
The Indenture contains provisions for defeasance at any time of the entire indebtedness of this 2021 Note or certain restrictive covenants and Events of Default with respect to this 2021 Note, in each case upon compliance with certain conditions set forth in the Indenture.
If an Event of Default with respect to the 2021 Notes shall occur and be continuing, the principal of the 2021 Notes may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.
The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders of the Securities of each series to be affected under the Indenture at any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of all Outstanding Securities affected. With respect to any series of Securities, the
 
consent of the Holders of that series of Securities required by the Indenture may be obtained from either the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities of that series, or from the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities of that series and all other series affected by that consent, voting as a single class. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of specified percentages in principal amount of the Securities of each series at the time Outstanding, on behalf of the Holders of all Securities of such series, to waive compliance by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences. With respect to any series of Securities issued under the Indenture, in addition to obtaining waivers from the Holders of a majority in principal amount of Outstanding Securities of that series, a waiver of compliance with the Indenture and a waiver of past defaults under the Indenture can also be obtained from the Holders of a majority in principal amount of debt securities of that series and all other series affected by the waiver, whether issued under the Indenture or any other indenture of the Company providing for such aggregated voting, all as a single class. Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of this 2021 Note shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of this 2021 Note and of any 2021 Note issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange therefor or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this 2021 Note.
As provided in and subject to the provisions of the Indenture, the Holder of this 2021 Note shall not have the right to institute any proceeding with respect to the Indenture or for the appointment of a receiver or trustee or for any other remedy thereunder, unless such Holder shall have previously given the Trustee written notice of a continuing Event of Default with respect to the 2021 Notes, the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the 2021 Notes at the time Outstanding shall have made written request to the Trustee to institute proceedings in respect of such Event of Default as Trustee and offered the Trustee reasonable indemnity, and the Trustee shall not have received from the Holders of a majority in principal amount of 2021 Notes at the time Outstanding a direction inconsistent with such request, and shall have failed to institute any such proceeding, for 60 days after receipt of such notice, request and offer of indemnity. The foregoing shall not apply to any suit instituted by the Holder of this 2021 Note for the enforcement of any payment of principal hereof or any premium or interest hereon on or after the respective due dates expressed herein.
No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this 2021 Note or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of and any premium and interest on this 2021 Note at the times, place and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed.
As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the transfer of this 2021 Note is registerable in the Security Register, upon surrender of this 2021 Note for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the Company in any place where the principal of and any premium and interest on this 2021 Note are payable, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Security Registrar duly executed by, the Holder hereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new 2021 Notes of this series and of like tenor, of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees.
 
The 2021 Notes of this series are issuable only in registered form, without coupons, in minimum denominations of $2,000 and thereafter any integral multiple of $1,000. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, 2021 Notes of this series are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of 2021 Notes of this series and of like tenor of a different authorized denomination, as requested by the Holder surrendering the same.
No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
Prior to due presentment of this 2021 Note for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this 2021 Note is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this 2021 Note be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
No recourse for payment of the principal of, premium, if any, or interest on this 2021 Note, or for any claim based thereon or otherwise in respect thereof, and no recourse under or upon any obligation, covenant or agreement of the Company contained in the Indenture, or in any 2021 Note, or because of the creation of any indebtedness represented thereby, shall be had against any incorporator or any past, present or future partner, shareholder, other equity holder, officer, director, employee or controlling person, as such, of the Company or of any successor Person, either directly or through the Company or any successor Person, whether by virtue of any constitution, statute or rule of law, or by enforcement of any assessment or penalty or otherwise, it being expressly understood that all such liability, either at common law or in equity or by constitution or statute, is hereby waived and released as a condition of, and as consideration for, the execution of the Indenture and the issuance of this 2021 Note.
THIS 2021 NOTE SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
All terms used in this 2021 Note which are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture (as modified by the Supplemental Indenture).
 
The following exchanges of a part of this Global Note for an interest in another Global Note or for a Definitive Note, or exchanges of a part of another Global Note or Definitive Note for an interest in this Global Note, have been made:
 
The following exchanges of a part of this Regulation S Global Note for an interest in another Global Note or of other Restricted Global Notes for an interest in this Regulation S Global Note, have been made:
 
 
Sprint Nextel Corporation
6200 Sprint Parkway
Overland Park, KS 66251
Facsimile: (913) 523-9802
Attention: General Counsel
The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A.
2 N. LaSalle Street, Suite 1020
Chicago, IL 60602
Facsimile:  312-827-8542
Attention: Corporate Trust Administration
Re: 11.500% Notes due 2021
Reference is hereby made to the Indenture, dated as of November 20, 2006 (the ""), among Sprint Nextel Corporation, a Kansas corporation (the "") and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A. (n/k/a The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A.) (the ""), as supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of November 9, 2011 among the Company and the Trustee. Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Indenture.
Indenture
Company
Trustee
                     (the "") owns and proposes to transfer the 2021 Note[s] or interest in such 2021 Note[s] specified in Annex A hereto, in the principal amount at maturity of $         in such 2021 Note[s] or interests (the ""), to                      (the ""), as further specified in Annex A hereto. In connection with the Transfer, the Transferor hereby certifies that:
Transferor
Transfer
Transferee
        1. . The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ""), and, accordingly, the Transferor hereby further certifies that the beneficial interest or Definitive Note is being transferred to a Person that the Transferor reasonably believed and believes is purchasing the beneficial interest or Definitive Note for its own account, or for one or more accounts with respect to which such Person exercises sole investment discretion, and such Person and each such account is a "qualified institutional buyer" within the meaning of Rule 144A in a transaction meeting the requirements of Rule 144A and such Transfer is in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States. Upon consummation of the proposed Transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Definitive Note will be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the 144A Global Note and/or the Definitive Note and in the Indenture and the Securities Act.
Check if Transferee will take delivery of a beneficial interest in the 144A Global Note or a Definitive Note Pursuant to Rule 144A
Securities Act
        2.
Check if Transferee will take delivery of a beneficial interest in a Legended Regulation S Global Note, or a Definitive Note pursuant to
 
. The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 903 or Rule 904 under the Securities Act and, accordingly, the Transferor hereby further certifies that (i) the Transfer is not being made to a person in the United States and (x) at the time the buy order was originated, the Transferee was outside the United States or such Transferor and any Person acting on its behalf reasonably believed and believes that the Transferee was outside the United States or (y) the transaction was executed in, on or through the facilities of a designated offshore securities market and neither such Transferor nor any Person acting on its behalf knows that the transaction was prearranged with a buyer in the United States, (ii) no directed selling efforts have been made in contravention of the requirements of Rule 903(b) or Rule 904(b) of Regulation S under the Securities Act, (iii) the transaction is not part of a plan or scheme to evade the registration requirements of the Securities Act and (iv) the transfer is not being made to a U.S. Person or for the account or benefit of a U.S. Person (other than an initial purchaser of the 2021 Notes). Upon consummation of the proposed transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Definitive Note will be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the Legended Regulation S Global Note and/or the Definitive Note and in the Indenture and the Securities Act.
Regulation S
        3. . The Transfer is being effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to beneficial interests in Restricted Global Notes and Restricted Definitive Notes and pursuant to and in accordance with the Securities Act and any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States, and accordingly the Transferor hereby further certifies that (check one):
Check and complete if Transferee will take delivery of a Restricted Definitive Note pursuant to any provision of the Securities Act other than Rule 144, Rule 144A or Regulation S
        (a) such Transfer is being effected to the Company or a subsidiary thereof; or
        (b) such Transfer is being effected to an Institutional Accredited Investor and pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act other than Rule 144A, Rule 144 or Rule 904, and the Transferor hereby further certifies that it has not engaged in any general solicitation within the meaning of Regulation D under the Securities Act and the Transfer complies with the transfer restrictions applicable to Restricted Definitive Notes and the requirements of the exemption claimed, which certification is supported by (1) a certificate executed by the Transferee in the form of to the First Supplemental Indenture dated as of November 9, 2011 and (2) an Opinion of Counsel provided by the Transferor or the Transferee (a copy of which the Transferor has attached to this certification), to the effect that such Transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act. Upon consummation of the proposed transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred Definitive Note will be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the Definitive Notes and in the Indenture and the Securities Act.
Exhibit D
        4. .
Check if Transferee will take delivery of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note or of an Unrestricted Definitive Note
 
        (a) Check if Transfer is Pursuant to Rule 144. (i) The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 144 under the Securities Act and in compliance with the transfer restrictions contained in the Indenture and any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States and (ii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act. Upon consummation of the proposed Transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Definitive Note will no longer be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the Restricted Global Notes, on Restricted Definitive Notes and in the Indenture.
        (b) Check if Transfer is Pursuant to Regulation S. (i) The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 903 or Rule 904 under the Securities Act and in compliance with the transfer restrictions contained in the Indenture and any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States and, in the case of a transfer from a Restricted Global Note or a Restricted Definitive Note, the Transferor hereby further certifies that (a) the Transfer is not being made to a person in the United States and (x) at the time the buy order was originated, the Transferee was outside the United States or such Transferor and any Person acting on its behalf reasonably believed and believes that the Transferee was outside the United States or (y) the transaction was executed in, on or through the facilities of a designated offshore securities market and neither such Transferor nor any Person acting on its behalf knows that the transaction was prearranged with a buyer in the United States, (b) no directed selling efforts have been made in contravention of the requirements of Rule 903(b) or Rule 904(b) of Regulation S under the Securities Act, (c) the transaction is not part of a plan or scheme to evade the registration requirements of the Securities Act and (d) the transfer is not being made to a U.S. Person or for the account or benefit of a U.S. Person, and (ii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act. Upon consummation of the proposed Transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Definitive Note will no longer be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the Restricted Global Notes, on Restricted Definitive Notes and in the Indenture.
        (c) Check if Transfer is Pursuant to Other Exemption. (i) The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in compliance with an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act other than Rule 144, Rule 903 or Rule 904 and in compliance with the transfer restrictions contained in the Indenture and any applicable blue sky securities laws of any State of the United States and (ii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act. Upon consummation of the proposed Transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Definitive Note will not be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the Restricted Global Notes or Restricted Definitive Notes and in the Indenture.
 
This certificate and the statements contained herein are made for your benefit and the benefit of the Company.
 
 
 
 
 
 
in accordance with the terms of the Indenture.
 
Sprint Nextel Corporation
6200 Sprint Parkway
Overland Park, KS 66251
Facsimile: (913) 523-9802
Attention: General Counsel
The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A.
2 N. LaSalle Street, Suite 1020
Chicago, IL 60602
Facsimile: 312-827-8542
Attention: Corporate Trust Administration
Re: 11.500% Notes due 2021
Reference is hereby made to the Indenture, dated as of November 20, 2006 (the ""), among Sprint Nextel Corporation, a Kansas corporation (the "") and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A. (n/k/a The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A.) (the ""), as supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of November 9, 2011 among the Company and the Trustee. Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Indenture.
Indenture
Company
Trustee
                     (the "") owns and proposes to exchange the 2021 Note[s] or interest in such 2021 Note[s] specified herein, in the principal amount at maturity of $         in such 2021 Note[s] or interests (the ""). In connection with the Exchange, the Owner hereby certifies that:
Owner
Exchange
1. Exchange of Restricted Definitive Notes or Beneficial Interests in a Restricted Global Note for Unrestricted Definitive Notes or Beneficial Interests in an Unrestricted Global Note
        (a) . In connection with the Exchange of the Owner's beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note in an equal principal amount at maturity, the Owner hereby certifies (i) the beneficial interest is being acquired for the Owner's own account without transfer, (ii) such Exchange has been effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to the Global Notes and pursuant to and in accordance with the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ""), (iii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act and (iv) the beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note is being acquired in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States.
Check if Exchange is from beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note to beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note
Securities Act
        (b) . In connection with the Exchange of the Owner's beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note for an Unrestricted
Check if Exchange is from beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note to Unrestricted Definitive Note
 
Definitive Note, the Owner hereby certifies (i) the Definitive Note is being acquired for the Owner's own account without transfer, (ii) such Exchange has been effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to the Restricted Global Notes and pursuant to and in accordance with the Securities Act, (iii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act and (iv) the Definitive Note is being acquired in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States.
        (c) . In connection with the Owner's Exchange of a Restricted Definitive Note for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note, the Owner hereby certifies (i) the beneficial interest is being acquired for the Owner's own account without transfer, (ii) such Exchange has been effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to Restricted Definitive Notes and pursuant to and in accordance with the Securities Act, (iii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act and (iv) the beneficial interest is being acquired in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States.
Check if Exchange is from Restricted Definitive Note to beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note
        (d) . In connection with the Owner's Exchange of a Restricted Definitive Note for an Unrestricted Definitive Note, the Owner hereby certifies (i) the Unrestricted Definitive Note is being acquired for the Owner's own account without transfer, (ii) such Exchange has been effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to Restricted Definitive Notes and pursuant to and in accordance with the Securities Act, (iii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act and (iv) the Unrestricted Definitive Note is being acquired in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States.
Check if Exchange is from Restricted Definitive Note to Unrestricted Definitive Note
2. Exchange of Restricted Definitive Notes or Beneficial Interests in Restricted Global Notes for Restricted Definitive Notes or Beneficial Interests in Restricted Global Notes
        (a) . In connection with the Exchange of the Owner's beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note for a Restricted Definitive Note with an equal principal amount at maturity, the Owner hereby certifies that the Restricted Definitive Note is being acquired for the Owner's own account without transfer. Upon consummation of the proposed Exchange in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the Restricted Definitive Note issued will continue to be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the Restricted Definitive Note and in the Indenture and the Securities Act.
Check if Exchange is from beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note to Restricted Definitive Note
 
        (b) . In connection with the Exchange of the Owner's Restricted Definitive Note for a beneficial interest in the [CHECK ONE] :
Check if Exchange is from Restricted Definitive Note to beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note
 
 
with an equal principal amount at maturity, the Owner hereby certifies (i) the beneficial interest is being acquired for the Owner's own account without transfer and (ii) such Exchange has been effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to the Restricted Global Notes and pursuant to and in accordance with the Securities Act, and in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States. Upon consummation of the proposed Exchange in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the beneficial interest issued will be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the relevant Restricted Global Note and in the Indenture and the Securities Act.
This certificate and the statements contained herein are made for your benefit and the benefit of the Company.
 
 
Sprint Nextel Corporation
6200 Sprint Parkway
Overland Park, KS 66251
Facsimile: (913) 523-9802
Attention: General Counsel
The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A.
2 N. LaSalle Street, Suite 1020
Chicago, IL 60602
Facsimile:  312-827-8542
Attention: Corporate Trust Administration
Re: 11.5000% Notes due 2021
Reference is hereby made to the Indenture, dated as of November 20, 2006 (the ""), among Sprint Nextel Corporation, a Kansas corporation (the "") and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A. (n/k/a The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A.) (the ""), as supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of November 9, 2011 among the Company and the Trustee. Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Indenture.
Indenture
Company
Trustee
In connection with our proposed purchase of $         aggregate principal amount of:
 
we confirm that:
1. We understand that any subsequent transfer of the 2021 Notes or any interest therein is subject to certain restrictions and conditions set forth in the Indenture and the undersigned agrees to be bound by, and not to resell, pledge or otherwise transfer the Notes or any interest therein except in compliance with, such restrictions and conditions and the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "").
Securities Act
2. We understand that the offer and sale of the 2021 Notes have not been registered under the Securities Act, and that the 2021 Notes and any interest therein may not be offered or sold except as permitted in the following sentence. We agree, on our own behalf and on behalf of any accounts for which we are acting as hereinafter stated, that if we should sell the Notes or any interest therein, we shall do so only (A) to the Company or any subsidiary thereof, (B) in accordance with Rule 144A under the Securities Act to a "qualified institutional buyer" (as defined therein), (C) to an institutional "accredited investor" (as defined below) that, prior to such transfer, furnishes (or has furnished on its behalf by a U.S. broker-dealer) to the Trustee and to the Company a signed letter substantially in the form of this letter and an Opinion of Counsel in form reasonably acceptable to the Company to the effect that such transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act, (D) outside the United States in accordance with Rule 904 of Regulation S under the Securities Act, (E) pursuant to the provisions of Rule 144(k) under the
 
Securities Act or (F) pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act, and we further agree to provide to any person purchasing the Definitive Note or beneficial interest in a Global Note from us in a transaction meeting the requirements of clauses (A) through (E) of this paragraph a notice advising such purchaser that resales thereof are restricted as stated herein.
3. We understand that, on any proposed resale of the 2021 Notes or beneficial interest therein, we will be required to furnish to the Trustee and the Company such certifications, legal opinions and other information as you and the Company may reasonably require to confirm that the proposed sale complies with the foregoing restrictions. We further understand that the Notes purchased by us will bear a legend to the foregoing effect.
4. We are an institutional "accredited investor" (as defined in Rule 501(a)(1), (2), (3) or (7) of Regulation D under the Securities Act) and have such knowledge and experience in financial and business matters as to be capable of evaluating the merits and risks of our investment in the Notes, and we and any accounts for which we are acting are each able to bear the economic risk of our or its investment.
5. We are acquiring the Notes or beneficial interest therein purchased by us for our own account or for one or more accounts (each of which is an institutional "accredited investor") as to each of which we exercise sole investment discretion.
The Trustee and the Company are entitled to rely upon this letter and are irrevocably authorized to produce this letter or a copy hereof to any interested party in any administrative or legal proceedings or official inquiry with respect to the matters covered hereby.
 
 

Exhibit 4.3
EXECUTION VERSION
 
 
 
 
SECOND SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE ("this "), dated as of November 9, 2011, among SPRINT NEXTEL CORPORATION, a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Kansas (the ""), the Subsidiary Guarantors appearing on the signature pages hereto and THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON TRUST COMPANY, N.A., as trustee (the "").
Supplemental Indenture
Company
Trustee
, the Company and the Trustee have duly executed and delivered that certain Senior Notes Indenture, dated as of November 20, 2006 (the ""), providing for the issuance from time to time of unsecured debentures, notes or other evidences of indebtedness, to be issued in one or more series (the "");
WHEREAS
Indenture
Securities
, Sections 201, 301 and 901 of the Indenture provide that the Company and the Trustee may from time to time enter into one or more indentures supplemental thereto to establish the form or terms of Securities of a new series issues pursuant to the Indenture;
WHEREAS
, pursuant to the terms of the Indenture, the Company desires to provide for the establishment of a new series of Securities designated as its 9.000% Guaranteed Notes due 2018 (the "") to be issued under the Indenture, as supplemented by this Supplemental Indenture, initially in an aggregate principal amount of $3,000,000,000, to be authenticated and delivered as provided in the Indenture;
WHEREAS
2018 Guaranteed Notes
, the Company desires to supplement the provisions of the Indenture to provide for the issuance of the 2018 Guaranteed Notes under the terms of the Indenture as supplemented hereby;
WHEREAS
, each Subsidiary Guarantor acknowledges that the issuance of the 2018 Guaranteed Notes constitutes a direct benefit to it and in consideration therefor is willing to guarantee the 2018 Guaranteed Notes on the terms set forth herein;
WHEREAS
, for the purposes hereinabove recited, and pursuant to due corporate action, the Company has duly determined to execute and deliver to the Trustee this Supplemental Indenture; and
WHEREAS
, all conditions and requirements necessary to make this Supplemental Indenture a valid and binding instrument in accordance with its terms have been done and performed, and the execution and delivery hereof have been in all respects duly authorized.
WHEREAS
, in consideration of the premises, the covenants and other agreements contained herein and other good and valuable consideration, the sufficiency of which is hereby confirmed, the Company, the Subsidiary Guarantors and the Trustee mutually covenant and agree as follows:
NOW, THEREFORE
Section 1.01 . All terms contained in this Supplemental Indenture shall, except as specifically provided herein or except as the context may otherwise require, have the meanings defined in the Indenture. In the event of any inconsistency between the Indenture and this Supplemental Indenture, this Supplemental Indenture shall govern. The words "herein," "hereof," "hereunder," and words of similar import shall refer to this Supplemental Indenture.
Relationship with Indenture
Section 1.02 . Solely with respect to the 2018 Guaranteed Notes, the following definitions shall be added to Section 101 of the Indenture and replace any existing definitions (as applicable) in the Indenture, each in appropriate alphabetical order, unless the context requires otherwise.
Additional Definitions
"" means a global note substantially in the form of bearing the Global Note Legend and the Private Placement Legend and deposited with or on behalf of, and registered in the name of, the Depositary or its nominee, that shall be initially issued in aggregate denominations equal to the outstanding principal amount of the 2018 Guaranteed Notes sold in reliance on Rule 144A.
144A Global Note
Exhibit A
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the recitals to the Second Supplemental Indenture dated as of November 9, 2011.
2018 Guaranteed Notes
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Rule 13d-3 and Rule 13d-5 under the Exchange Act. The terms "" and "" shall have a corresponding meaning.
Beneficial Owner
Beneficially Owns
Beneficially Owned
"" means any day, other than a Saturday or Sunday, or legal holidays on which the banks in The City of New York are not required or authorized by law or executive order to be closed.
Business Day
"" means (a) marketable obligations issued or unconditionally guaranteed by the U.S. or issued by any of its agencies and backed by the full faith and credit of the U.S., in each case maturing within one year from the date of acquisition; (b) short-term investment grade domestic and eurodollar certificates of deposit or time deposits that are fully insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or are issued by commercial banks organized under the laws of the U.S. or any of its states having combined capital, surplus and undivided profits of not less than S100,000,000 (as shown on its most recently published statement of condition); (c) commercial paper and similar obligations rated "P-1" by Moody's or "A-1" by S&P; (d) readily marketable tax-free municipal bonds of domestic issuers rated "A-2" or better by Moody's or "A" or better by S&P, and maturing within one year from the date of issuance; and (e) mutual funds or money market accounts investing primarily in items described in clauses (a) through (d) above.
Cash Equivalents
"" means the occurrence of any of the following:
Change of Control
 
(a) the direct or indirect sale, transfer, conveyance or other disposition (other than by way of merger or consolidation), in one or a series of related transactions, of all or substantially all of the Company and its Subsidiaries' properties or assets, taken as a whole, to any "person" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act);
(b) the adoption of a plan relating to the Company's liquidation or dissolution; or
(c) any "person" or "group" (as such terms are used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Exchange Act) becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the voting power of the Company's Voting Securities; that a transaction in which the Company becomes a Subsidiary of another person shall not constitute a Change of Control if (a) the Company's stockholders immediately prior to such transaction Beneficially Own, directly or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, 50% or more of the voting power of the outstanding Voting Securities of such other Person of whom the Company is a Subsidiary immediately following such transaction and (b) immediately following such transaction no person (as defined above) other than such other person, Beneficially Owns, directly or indirectly, more than 50% of the voting power of the Company's Voting Securities.
provided
"" means the occurrence of both a Change of Control and a Ratings Decline.
Change of Control Triggering Event
"" means collectively, Clearwire Corporation, a Delaware corporation, and its operating Subsidiary, Clearwire Communications LLC, a Delaware limited liability company.
Clearwire
"" means the United States Treasury security selected by the Independent Investment Banker as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term of the 2018 Guaranteed Notes that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of the 2018 Guaranteed Notes.
Comparable Treasury Issue
"" means, with respect to any Redemption Date: (1) the average of four Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such Redemption Date, after excluding the highest and lowest of such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations; or (2) if the Trustee is provided fewer than four Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all quotations provided to the Trustee.
Comparable Treasury Price
"" means the Credit Agreement, dated May 21, 2010 among the Company, as borrower, the Subsidiary Guarantors parties thereto, the lenders party thereto and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administration agent, and the other loan documents related thereto (all as amended, extended, renewed, increased, modified, restated, supplemented or refinanced from time to time), and the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, dated May 21, 2010 between the Company and Export Development Canada, and the other loan documents related thereto (all as amended, extended, renewed, increased, modified, restated, supplemented or refinanced from time to time).
Credit Agreements
 
"" means a certificated 2018 Guaranteed Note registered in the name of the Holder thereof and issued in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, substantially in the form of , except that such 2018 Guaranteed Note shall not bear the Global Note Legend and shall not have the "Schedule of Exchanges of Interests in the Global Note" attached thereto.
Definitive Note
Exhibit A
"" means (i) any indebtedness of the Company outstanding under the Credit Agreements and (ii) any other indebtedness the principal amount of which is $25 million or more and that is or will upon issuance be guaranteed by a Subsidiary Guarantor and has been designated by the Company as "Designated Senior Debt".
Designated Senior Debt
"" means the legend set forth in Section 3.03(f)(ii) of the Second Supplemental Indenture dated as of November 9, 2011, which is required to be placed on all Global Notes issued under this Indenture.
Global Note Legend
"" means, individually and collectively, each of the Restricted Global Notes and the Unrestricted Global Notes, substantially in the form of .
Global Notes
Exhibit A
"" means a guarantee, direct or indirect, in any manner, of all or any part of any indebtedness for borrowed money.
guarantee
"" means indebtedness for borrowed money (or guarantee of borrowed money) of the Company that is guaranteed by one or more Subsidiary Guarantors.
Guaranteed Indebtedness
"" means one of the Reference Treasury Dealers appointed by the Company.
Independent Investment Banker
"" means a Person who holds a beneficial interest in a Global Note through a Participant.
Indirect Participant
"" means an institution that is an "accredited investor" as defined in Rule 501(a)(1), (2), (3) or (7) under the Securities Act, which is not also a QIB.
Institutional Accredited Investor
"" means indebtedness of the Company owing to any of its Subsidiaries and of any Subsidiary owing to the Company or any other Subsidiary.
Intercompany Indebtedness
"" means a rating equal to or greater than Baa3 by Moody's and BBB- by S&P or the equivalent thereof under any new ratings system if the ratings systems of either such Rating Agency shall be modified after the issue date of the 2018 Guaranteed Notes, or the equivalent rating of any other Ratings Agency the Company selects as provided in the definition of Ratings Agencies.
Investment Grade Rating
"" means a Global Note in the form of bearing the Global Note Legend and the Private Placement Legend and deposited with or on behalf of and registered in the name of the Depositary or its nominee, issued in a
Legended Regulation S Global Note
Exhibit A
 
denomination equal to the outstanding principal amount at maturity of the 2018 Guaranteed Notes initially sold in reliance on Rule 903 of Regulation S.
"" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc. or any successor to the rating agency business thereof.
Moody's
"" shall have the meaning set forth Section 4.01 of the Second Supplemental Indenture dated as of November 9, 2011.
Note Guarantee
"" means, with respect to a Subsidiary Guarantor, (a) Capital Stock in such Subsidiary Guarantor; or (b) debt securities of the Subsidiary Guarantor that are subordinated to all Designated Senior Debt and any debt securities issued in exchange for Designated Senior Debt to substantially the same extent as, or to a greater extent than, the Note Guarantees are subordinated to the guarantees of Designated Senior Debt.
Permitted Junior Securities
"" means any transaction or series of transactions that may be entered into by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries pursuant to which such Person may sell or convey accounts (as such term is defined in Article 9 of the Uniform Commercial Code as in effect from time to time in the State of New York) to any Receivables Entity, provided that there shall be no recourse under any such securitization to the Company or any of its subsidiaries other than pursuant to Standard Securitization Undertakings.
Permitted Securitization
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the definition of Reference Treasury Dealer.
Primary Treasury Dealer
"" means the legend set forth in Section 3.03(f)(i) of the Second Supplemental Indenture dated as of November 9, 2011 to be placed on all 2018 Guaranteed Notes issued under this Indenture except as otherwise permitted by the provisions of this Indenture.
Private Placement Legend
"" means a "qualified institutional buyer" as defined in Rule 144A.
QIB
"" means (1) Moody's and S&P; and (2) if either Moody's or S&P ceases to rate the 2018 Guaranteed Notes or ceases to make a rating on the 2018 Guaranteed Notes publicly available, an entity registered as a "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" (registered as such pursuant to Rule l7g-1 of the Exchange Act) then making a rating on the 2018 Guaranteed Notes publicly available selected by the Company (as certified by an officer's certificate), which shall be substituted for Moody's or S&P, as the case may be.
Ratings Agencies
"" means the occurrence, during the period commencing on the date of the first public announcement of the Change of Control or the intention to effect a Change of Control and ending 90 days after the occurrence of the Change of Control, of a downgrade of the rating of the 2018 Guaranteed Notes by both Rating Agencies by one or more gradations (including gradations within ratings categories as well as between rating categories).
Ratings Decline
"" means a special purpose Person that engages in no activities other than in connection with the financing of accounts pursuant to a Permitted Securitization.
Receivables Entity
 
"" means J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated and Citigroup Global Markets Inc., and their successors, and one other firm that is a primary U.S. Government securities dealer (each a "") which the Company shall specify from time to time; that if any of them ceases to be a Primary Treasury Dealer, the Company will substitute therefor another Primary Treasury Dealer.
Reference Treasury Dealer
Primary Treasury Dealer
provided,
"" means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any Redemption Date, the average of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue, expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount, quoted in writing to the Trustee by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the third Business Day preceding such Redemption Date.
Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations
"" means Regulation S promulgated under the Securities Act.
Regulation S
"" means a Legended Regulation S Global Note or an Unlegended Regulation S Global Note, as appropriate.
Regulation S Global Note
"" means with respect to each 2018 Guaranteed Note to be redeemed, the remaining scheduled payments of the principal thereof and interest thereon, that would be due after the related Redemption Date but for such redemption; that, if such Redemption Date is not an Interest Payment Date with respect to such 2018 Guaranteed Note, the amount of the next succeeding scheduled interest payment thereon will be deemed reduced by the amount of interest accrued thereon to such Redemption Date.
Remaining Scheduled Payments
provided,
"" means a Definitive Note bearing the Private Placement Legend.
Restricted Definitive Note
"" means a Global Note bearing the Private Placement Legend.
Restricted Global Note
"" means Rule 144A promulgated under the Securities Act.
Rule 144A
"" means Standard & Poor's Rating Services, a division of the McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc., or any successor to the rating agency business thereof.
S&P
"" means any Subsidiary of the Company that would constitute a "significant subsidiary" of the Company within the meaning of Rule 1-02(w)(1), (2) or (3) of Regulation S-X under the Securities Act.
Significant Subsidiary
"" means representations, warranties, covenants and indemnities entered into by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries in connection with any Permitted Securitization that are customary in non-recourse securitization transactions of comparable receivables.
Standard Securitization Undertakings
"" means, with respect to any Person, a Corporation, partnership, limited liability company or other business organization, whether or not incorporated, a majority of the Voting Securities of which is owned, directly or indirectly, by such Person; that,
Subsidiary
provided
 
with respect to the Company and its Subsidiaries, Clearwire and its subsidiaries shall be deemed to not be Subsidiaries, unless (1) Clearwire or its subsidiaries guarantee Designated Senior Debt and (2) the Company directly or indirectly acquires 100% of the Voting Securities of Clearwire.
"" means a Subsidiary of the Company that guarantees either Credit Agreement or any other Designated Senior Debt, including any Subsidiary that guarantees either Credit Agreement or any other Designated Senior Debt after the date of issuance of the 2018 Guaranteed Notes; that a Subsidiary acquired or created after the date of issuance of the Notes will not be required to become and will not become a Subsidiary Guarantor if it is prohibited from doing so pursuant to the terms of any agreement to which such Subsidiary is a party prior to becoming a guarantor of either Credit Agreement; that any Subsidiary of the Company that becomes a Subsidiary Guarantor after the date hereof shall execute an indenture supplemental hereto evidencing its agreement to provide a Note Guarantee; that any Subsidiary whose Note Guarantee is released in accordance with the terms of the Indenture will no longer be a Subsidiary Guarantor.
Subsidiary Guarantor
provided
provided further
provided further
"" means indebtedness for borrowed money of one or more Subsidiary Guarantors or guarantees of indebtedness for borrowed money by one or more Subsidiary Guarantors (in either case, not otherwise defined as Guaranteed Indebtedness), provided that the following shall be deemed not to be Subsidiary Guarantor Indebtedness:
Subsidiary Guarantor Indebtedness
(a) unsecured indebtedness of Sprint Capital Corporation and Nextel Communications Inc. existing on the date of issuance of the 2018 Guaranteed Notes and any extensions, renewals or refinancings thereof, provided that any such extension, renewal or refinancing of such indebtedness does not increase the outstanding principal amount thereof, shall be restricted to the obligors who are obligated on the indebtedness being extended, renewed or refinanced and is not secured by Liens;
(b) indebtedness of any Receivables Entity pursuant to a Permitted Securitization;
(c) indebtedness incurred to finance the acquisition, construction or improvement of any fixed or capital assets or inventory and extensions, renewals and replacements of any such indebtedness that do not increase the outstanding principal amount thereof; that such indebtedness is incurred concurrently with or within 270 days after such acquisition or the completion of such construction or improvement; and that any Liens securing such indebtedness do not extend to assets other than those acquired, constructed or improved;
provided
provided further
(d) Intercompany Indebtedness (1) between and among the Company and one or more Subsidiary Guarantors and (2) other Intercompany Indebtedness to the extent such indebtedness is subordinated in right of payment to the 2018 Guaranteed Notes or any applicable Note Guarantee to the same extent the Note Guarantees are subordinated to Designated Senior Debt, including the Credit Agreements;
 
(e) indebtedness of any Person that becomes a Subsidiary after the date of issuance of the 2018 Guaranteed Notes; that such indebtedness exists at the time such Person becomes a Subsidiary (or any extension, renewal or refinancing of indebtedness existing at the time such Person becomes a Subsidiary that does not increase the outstanding principal amount thereof), is not created in contemplation of or in connection with such Person becoming a Subsidiary and is not guaranteed by any other Subsidiary Guarantor (other than a Subsidiary Guarantor that becomes a Subsidiary of the Company at the same time as such other Subsidiary and not created in contemplation with either entity becoming a Subsidiary of the Company) or secured by any of their assets;
provided
(f) other indebtedness in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed $250 million at any time outstanding; and
(g) any sale, lease or other disposition or transfer of wireless telecommunications towers, real property or other assets, and the leasing of such towers, real property or assets or space on such towers or real property.
"" means, with respect to an applicable Redemption Date for the 2018 Guaranteed Notes: (1) the yield, under the heading which represents the average for the immediately preceding week, appearing in the most recently published statistical release designated "H.15(519)" or any successor publication that is published weekly by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and that establishes yields on actively traded United States Treasury Notes adjusted to constant maturity under the caption "Treasury Constant Maturities," for the maturity corresponding to the Comparable Treasury Issue; that if no maturity is within three months before or after the Stated Maturity of the 2018 Guaranteed Notes, yields for the two published maturities most closely corresponding to the Comparable Treasury Issue will be determined and the Treasury Rate will be interpolated or extrapolated from those yields on a straight line basis, rounding to the nearest month; or (2) if that release, or any successor release, is not published during the week preceding the calculation date or does not contain such yields, the rate per annum equal to the semiannual equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, calculated using a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for the Redemption Date. The Treasury Rate will be calculated on the third Business Day preceding the Redemption Date.
Treasury Rate
provided
"" means a U.S. person as defined in Rule 902(o) under the Securities Act.
U.S. Person
"" means a Global Note in the form of bearing the Global Note Legend, deposited with or on behalf of and registered in the name of the Depositary or its nominee.
Unlegended Regulation S Global Note
Exhibit A
"" means one or more Definitive Notes that do not bear and are not required to bear the Private Placement Legend.
Unrestricted Definitive Note
 
"" means a Global Note substantially in the form of that bears the Global Note Legend, that has the "Schedule of Exchanges of Interests in the Global Note" attached thereto, that is deposited with or on behalf of and registered in the name of the Depositary, representing a series of 2018 Guaranteed Notes, and that does not bear the Private Placement Legend.
Unrestricted Global Note
Exhibit A
"" of any Person means the stock or other ownership or equity interests, of whatever class or classes, the holders of which ordinarily have the power to vote for the election of the members of the board of directors, managers, trustees or other voting members of the governing body of such Person (other than stock or other ownership or equity interests having such power only by reason of the happening of a contingency).
Voting Securities
Section 1.03 . The provisions contained in this Supplemental Indenture shall apply only to the 2018 Guaranteed Notes and not to any other series of Securities issued under the Indenture and any covenants provided herein are solely for the benefit of the holders of the 2018 Guaranteed Notes and not for the benefit of the holders of any other series of Securities issued under the Indenture.
Applicability
Section 2.01 . Pursuant to Section 3.01 of the Indenture, the terms of the 2018 Guaranteed Notes shall be as follows:
Terms
(a) The title of the 2018 Guaranteed Notes is "9.000% Guaranteed Notes due 2018."
(b) The 2018 Guaranteed Notes are the general unsecured senior obligations of the Company and shall rank equally with all other unsecured senior obligations of the Company.
(c) The 2018 Guaranteed Notes will mature, and the principal of the 2018 Guaranteed Notes and all accrued and unpaid amounts, including interest, thereon will be due and payable on November 15, 2018, or such earlier date as any of the 2018 Guaranteed Notes may become due and payable in accordance with the provisions of the Indenture and this Supplemental Indenture.
(d) The 2018 Guaranteed Notes will initially be issued in an aggregate principal amount of $3,000,000,000. The Company may issue additional 2018 Guaranteed Notes from time to time without the consent of any Holders of the 2018 Guaranteed Notes. Any such additional 2018 Guaranteed Notes along with the 2018 Guaranteed Notes issued on the date hereof will be treated as a single class for all purposes under the Indenture, including, without limitation, waivers, amendments and redemptions; that, in the case of Notes represented by Global Notes, for so long as may be required by the Securities Act or the procedures of DTC, Euroclear or Clearstream (or a successor clearing system), such additional Notes shall be represented by one or more separate Global Notes in accordance with the terms hereof and subject to applicable transfer or other restrictions.
provided
 
(e) The 2018 Guaranteed Notes will be issued in minimum denominations of $2,000 and thereafter in integral multiples of $1,000.
(f) Interest on the 2018 Guaranteed Notes will accrue from November 9, 2011 or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, semi-annually on May 15 and November 15 in each year, commencing May 15, 2012 (each such date, an "" as defined in the Indenture), at the rate of 9.000% per annum to the Persons in whose name the 2018 Guaranteed Notes are registered in the Security Register on the preceding May 1 or November 1 (each such date, a "" as defined in the Indenture) until the principal thereof is paid or made available for payment; that any principal and premium, and any such installment of interest, which is overdue will bear interest at the rate of 9.000% per annum (to the extent that the payment of such interest is legally enforceable), from the dates such amounts are due until they are paid or made available payment, and such interest will be payable on demand.
Interest Payment Date
Regular Record Date
provided
(g) The 2018 Guaranteed Notes are not entitled to any sinking fund.
(h) The 2018 Guaranteed Notes are guaranteed by the Subsidiary Guarantors on the terms set forth in Article Four hereof.
(i) Clearwire and its Subsidiaries will be deemed to not be Subsidiaries of the Company and will be excluded from all restrictive covenants provided for in the Indenture or this Supplemental Indenture, unless and until (1) Clearwire or its Subsidiaries guarantee Designated Senior Debt and (2) the Company directly or indirectly acquires 100% of the Voting Securities of Clearwire.
Section 2.02 . The terms and provisions contained in the form of 2018 Guaranteed Notes attached as , shall constitute, and are hereby expressly made, a part of the this Supplemental Indenture and, to the extent applicable, the Company, each Subsidiary Guarantor and the Trustee, by their execution and delivery of this Supplemental Indenture, expressly agree to such terms and provisions and to be bound thereby. However, to the extent any provision of any 2018 Guaranteed Note conflicts with the terms of this Supplemental Indenture, this Supplemental Indenture shall govern.
Terms of Notes Incorporated
Exhibit A
Section 3.01 . The 2018 Guaranteed Notes shall be in substantially the form of .
Form
Exhibit A
Section 3.02 . The 2018 Guaranteed Notes initially will be represented by one or more Global Notes in registered, global form without interest coupons (including the Global Note Legend thereon). The Global Notes will be deposited upon issuance with the Trustee as custodian for the Depositary Trust Company (""), and registered in the name of DTC or its nominee, in each case for credit to an account of a direct or indirect participant in DTC. Through and including one year after the later of the issuance of the 2018 Guaranteed Notes (such period through and including one year, the ""),
Global Notes
DTC
Restricted Period
 
beneficial interests in Regulation S Global Notes may be held only through Euroclear Bank, S.A./N.V., as operator of the Euroclear System ("") and Clearstream Banking, S.A. ("") (as indirect participants in DTC), unless transferred to a Person that takes delivery through a 144A Global Note in accordance with the certification requirements described in this Article Three.
Euroclear
Clearstream
Section 3.03 .
Transfer and Exchange
(a) . A Global Note may not be transferred as a whole except by the Depositary (who shall initially be DTC) to a nominee of the Depositary, by a nominee of the Depositary to the Depositary or to another nominee of the Depositary, or by the Depositary or any such nominee to a successor Depositary or a nominee of such successor Depositary. All Global Notes shall be exchanged by the Company for Definitive Notes if (i) the Depositary (A) notifies the Company that it is unwilling or unable to continue as Depositary for the Global Notes and the Company fails to appoint a successor Depositary within 90 days after receiving such notice or (B) has ceased to be a clearing agency registered under the Exchange Act and the Company fails to appoint a successor Depositary within 90 days after becoming aware of such condition; (ii) the Company, at its option, notifies the Trustee in writing that it elects to cause the issuance of Definitive Notes in exchange for Global Notes (in whole but not in part); that in no event shall the Legended Regulation S Global Note be exchanged by the Company for Definitive Notes other than in accordance with Section 3.03(c)(ii); or (iii) there shall have occurred and be continuing a Default or Event of Default with respect to the 2018 Guaranteed Notes and DTC requests such exchange. Upon the occurrence of any of the preceding events in (i), (ii) or (iii) above, Definitive Notes shall be issued in such names as the Depositary shall instruct the Trustee. Global Notes also may be exchanged or replaced, in whole or in part, as provided in Sections 304 and 306 of the Indenture. A Global Note may not be exchanged for another 2018 Guaranteed Note other than as provided in this Section 3.03(a); however, beneficial interests in a Global Note may be transferred and exchanged as provided in Section 3.03(b) or (c) hereof.
Transfer and Exchange of Global Notes
provided
(b) . The transfer and exchange of beneficial interests in the Global Notes shall be effected through the Depositary, in accordance with the provisions of this Indenture and the applicable procedures of the Depositary, Euroclear and Clearstream. Beneficial interests in the Restricted Global Notes shall be subject to restrictions on transfer comparable to those set forth herein to the extent required by the Securities Act. Transfers of beneficial interests in the Global Notes also shall require compliance with either subparagraph (i) or (ii) below, as applicable, as well as one or more of the other following subparagraphs, as applicable:
Transfer and Exchange of Beneficial Interests in the Global Notes
(i) . Beneficial interests in any Restricted Global Note may be transferred to Persons who take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in the same Restricted Global Note in accordance with the transfer restrictions set forth in the Private Placement Legend; , , that prior to the expiration of the Restricted Period, transfers of beneficial interests in the Legended Regulation S Global Note may not be made to a U.S. Person or for the account or benefit of a U.S. Person (other than an initial purchaser of the 2018 Guaranteed Notes). Beneficial interests in any Unrestricted Global Note may be
Transfer of Beneficial Interests in the Same Global Note
provided
however
 
transferred to Persons who take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note. No written orders or instructions shall be required to be delivered to the Trustee to effect the transfers described in this Section 3.03(b)(i).
(ii) . In connection with all transfers and exchanges of beneficial interests that are not subject to Section 3.03(b)(i) above, the transferor of such beneficial interest must deliver to the Trustee either (A) (1) a written order from a Participant or an Indirect Participant given to the Depositary directing the Depositary to credit or cause to be credited a beneficial interest in another Global Note in an amount equal to the beneficial interest to be transferred or exchanged and (2) instructions containing information regarding the Participant account to be credited with such increase or (B) (1) a written order from a Participant or an Indirect Participant given to the Depositary directing the Depositary to cause to be issued a Definitive Note in an amount equal to the beneficial interest to be transferred or exchanged and (2) instructions given by the Depositary to the Trustee containing information regarding the Person in whose name such Definitive Note shall be registered to effect the transfer or exchange referred to in (1) above; that in no event shall Definitive Notes be issued upon the transfer or exchange of beneficial interests in the Legended Regulation S Global Note other than in accordance with Section 3.03(c)(ii). Upon satisfaction of all of the requirements for transfer or exchange of beneficial interests in Global Notes contained in this Supplemental Indenture and the 2018 Guaranteed Notes or otherwise applicable under the Securities Act, the Trustee shall adjust the principal amount at maturity of the relevant Global Notes pursuant to Section 3.03(g).
All Other Transfers and Exchanges of Beneficial Interests in Global Notes
provided
(iii) . A beneficial interest in any Restricted Global Note may be transferred to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in another Restricted Global Note if the transfer complies with the requirements of Section 3.03(b)(ii) above and the Trustee receives the following:
Transfer of Beneficial Interests to Another Restricted Global Note
(A) if the transferee shall take delivery in the form of a beneficial interest in the 144A Global Note, then the transferor must deliver a certificate in the form of , including the certifications in item (1) thereof; and
Exhibit B
(B) if the transferee shall take delivery in the form of a beneficial interest in a Legended Regulation S Global Note, then the transferor must deliver a certificate in the form of , including the certifications in item (2) thereof.
Exhibit B
(iv) . A beneficial interest in any Restricted Global Note may be exchanged by any Holder thereof for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note or transferred to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note if the exchange or transfer complies with the requirements of Section 3.03(b)(ii) above and the Trustee receives the following:
Transfer and Exchange of Beneficial Interests in a Restricted Global Note for Beneficial Interests in an Unrestricted Global Note
 
(A) if the holder of such beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note proposes to exchange such beneficial interest for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note, a certificate from such holder in the form of , including the certifications in item (1)(a) thereof; or
Exhibit C
(B) if the holder of such beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note proposes to transfer such beneficial interest to a Person who shall take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note, a certificate from such holder in the form of , including the certifications in item (4) thereof;
Exhibit B
and, in each such case, if the Trustee or the Company so requests, an opinion of counsel in form reasonably acceptable to the Trustee and the Company to the effect that such exchange or transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act and that the restrictions on transfer contained herein and in the Private Placement Legend are no longer required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act.
If any such transfer is at a time when an Unrestricted Global Note has not yet been issued, the Company shall issue and, upon receipt of an authentication order in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the Trustee shall authenticate one or more Unrestricted Global Notes in an aggregate principal amount equal to the aggregate principal amount of beneficial interests transferred.
Beneficial interests in an Unrestricted Global Note cannot be exchanged for, or transferred to Persons who take delivery thereof in the form of, a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note.
(c) .
Transfer or Exchange of Beneficial Interests for Definitive Notes
(i) . If any holder of a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note proposes to exchange such beneficial interest for a Restricted Definitive Note or to transfer such beneficial interest to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a Restricted Definitive Note, then, upon receipt by the Trustee of the following documentation:
Beneficial Interests in Restricted Global Notes to Restricted Definitive Notes
(A) if the holder of such beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note proposes to exchange such beneficial interest for a Restricted Definitive Note, a certificate from such holder in the form of , including the certifications in item (2)(a) thereof;
Exhibit C
(B) if such beneficial interest is being transferred to a QIB in accordance with Rule 144A, a certificate to the effect set forth in , including the certifications in item (1) thereof;
Exhibit B
(C) if such beneficial interest is being transferred to an Institutional Accredited Investor in reliance on an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act other than that listed in subparagraph (B) above, a certificate to the effect set forth in hereto, including the
Exhibit B
 
certifications, certificates and Opinion of Counsel required by item (3) thereof, if applicable; or
(D) if such beneficial interest is being transferred to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, a certificate to the effect set forth in , including the certifications in item (3)(a) thereof,
Exhibit B
the Trustee shall cause the aggregate principal amount of the applicable Global Note to be reduced accordingly pursuant to Section 3.03(g) hereof, and the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Person designated in the instructions a Definitive Note in the appropriate principal amount. Any Definitive Note issued in exchange for a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note pursuant to this Section 3.03(c) shall be registered in such name or names and in such authorized denomination or denominations as the holder of such beneficial interest shall instruct the Trustee through instructions from the Depositary and the Participant or Indirect Participant. The Trustee shall deliver such Definitive Notes to the Persons in whose names such 2018 Guaranteed Notes are so registered. Any Definitive Note issued in exchange for a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note pursuant to this Section 3.03(c)(i) shall bear the Private Placement Legend and shall be subject to all restrictions on transfer contained therein.
(ii) . A beneficial interest in the Legended Regulation S Global Note may not be exchanged for a Definitive Note or transferred to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a Definitive Note prior to the expiration of the Restricted Period, except in the case of a transfer pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act other than Rule 903 or Rule 904.
Beneficial Interests in Legended Regulation S Global Note to Definitive Notes
(iii) . A holder of a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note may exchange such beneficial interest for an Unrestricted Definitive Note or may transfer such beneficial interest to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of an Unrestricted Definitive Note only if the Trustee receives the following:
Beneficial Interests in Restricted Global Notes to Unrestricted Definitive Notes
(A) if the Holder of such beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note proposes to exchange such beneficial interest for a Definitive Note that does not bear the Private Placement Legend, a certificate from such Holder in the form of , including the certifications in item (1)(b) thereof; or
Exhibit C
(B) if the Holder of such beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note proposes to transfer such beneficial interest to a Person who shall take delivery thereof in the form of a Definitive Note that does not bear the Private Placement Legend, a certificate from such Holder in the form of , including the certifications in item (4) thereof;
Exhibit B
and, in each such case, if the Trustee or the Company so requests , an opinion of counsel in form reasonably acceptable to the Trustee and the Company to the effect that such
 
exchange or transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act and that the restrictions on transfer contained herein and in the Private Placement Legend are no longer required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act.
(iv) . If any holder of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note proposes to exchange such beneficial interest for a Definitive Note or to transfer such beneficial interest to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a Definitive Note, then, upon satisfaction of the conditions set forth in Section 3.03(b)(ii), the Trustee shall cause the aggregate principal amount of the applicable Global Note to be reduced accordingly pursuant to Section 3.03(h), and the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Person designated in the instructions a Definitive Note in the appropriate principal amount. Any Definitive Note issued in exchange for a beneficial interest pursuant to this Section 3.03(c)(iv) shall be registered in such name or names and in such authorized denomination or denominations as the holder of such beneficial interest shall instruct the Trustee through instructions from the Depositary and the Participant or Indirect Participant. The Trustee shall deliver such Definitive Notes to the Persons in whose names such 2018 Guaranteed Notes are so registered. Any Definitive Note issued in exchange for a beneficial interest pursuant to this Section 3.03(c)(iv) shall not bear the Private Placement Legend.
Beneficial Interests in Unrestricted Global Notes to Unrestricted Definitive Notes
(d) .
Transfer and Exchange of Definitive Notes for Beneficial Interests
(i) . If any Holder of a Restricted Definitive Note proposes to exchange such 2018 Guaranteed Note for a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note or to transfer such Restricted Definitive Notes to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note, then, upon receipt by the Trustee of the following documentation:
Restricted Definitive Notes to Beneficial Interests in Restricted Global Notes
(A) if the Holder of such Restricted Definitive Note proposes to exchange such 2018 Guaranteed Note for a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note, a certificate from such Holder in the form of , including the certifications in item (2)(b) thereof;
Exhibit C
(B) if such Restricted Definitive Note is being transferred to a QIB in accordance with Rule 144A, a certificate to the effect set forth in , including the certifications in item (1) thereof;
Exhibit B
(C) if such Restricted Definitive Note is being transferred to a Person that is not a U.S. Person in an "" in accordance with Rule 903 or Rule 904, a certificate to the effect set forth in , including the certifications in item (2) thereof; or
offshore transaction
Exhibit B
(D) if such Restricted Definitive Note is being transferred to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, a certificate to the effect set forth in , including the certifications in item (3)(a) thereof,
Exhibit B
 
the Trustee shall cancel the Restricted Definitive Note, and increase or cause to be increased the aggregate principal amount of, in the case of clause (A) above, the appropriate Restricted Global Note, in the case of clause (B) above, the 144A Global Note, and in the case of clause (C) above, the Regulation S Global Note.
(ii) . A Holder of a Restricted Definitive Note may exchange such 2018 Guaranteed Note for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note or transfer such Restricted Definitive Note to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note only if the Trustee receives the following:
Restricted Definitive Notes to Beneficial Interests in Unrestricted Global Notes
(A) if the Holder of such Restricted Definitive Note proposes to exchange such 2018 Guaranteed Note for a beneficial interest in the Unrestricted Global Note, a certificate from such Holder in the form of , including the certifications in item (1)(c) thereof; or
Exhibit C
(B) if the Holder of such Restricted Definitive Note proposes to transfer such 2018 Guaranteed Note to a Person who shall take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in the Unrestricted Global Note, a certificate from such Holder in the form of , including the certifications in item (4) thereof;
Exhibit B
and, in each such case, if the Trustee or the Company so request, an opinion of counsel in form reasonably acceptable to the Trustee and the Company to the effect that such exchange or transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act and that the restrictions on transfer contained herein and in the Private Placement Legend are no longer required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act.
Upon satisfaction of the conditions of any of the subparagraphs in this Section 3.03(d)(ii), the Trustee shall cancel the Definitive Notes and increase or cause to be increased the aggregate principal amount of the Unrestricted Global Note.
(iii) . A Holder of an Unrestricted Definitive Note may exchange such 2018 Guaranteed Note for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note or transfer such Unrestricted Definitive Note to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note at any time. Upon receipt of a request for such an exchange or transfer, the Trustee shall cancel the applicable Unrestricted Definitive Note and increase or cause to be increased the aggregate principal amount of one of the Unrestricted Global Notes.
Unrestricted Definitive Notes to Beneficial Interests in Unrestricted Global Notes
If any such exchange or transfer from a Definitive Note to a beneficial interest is effected pursuant to subparagraphs (ii) or (iii) above at a time when an Unrestricted Global Note has not yet been issued, the Company shall issue and, upon receipt of an authentication order in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the Trustee shall authenticate one or more Unrestricted Global Notes in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of Definitive Notes so transferred.
 
(e) . Upon request by a Holder of Definitive Notes and such Holder's compliance with the provisions of this Section 3.03(e), the Trustee shall register the transfer or exchange of Definitive Notes. Prior to such registration of transfer or exchange, the requesting Holder shall present or surrender to the Trustee the Definitive Notes duly endorsed or accompanied by a written instruction of transfer in form satisfactory to the Trustee duly executed by such Holder or by its attorney, duly authorized in writing. In addition, the requesting Holder shall provide any additional certifications, documents and information, as applicable, required pursuant to the following provisions of this Section 3.03(e).
Transfer and Exchange of Definitive Notes for Definitive Notes
(i) . Any Restricted Definitive Note may be transferred to and registered in the name of Persons who take delivery thereof in the form of a Restricted Definitive Note if the Trustee receives the following:
Restricted Definitive Notes to Restricted Definitive Notes
(A) if the transfer shall be made pursuant to Rule 144A under the Securities Act, then the transferor must deliver a certificate in the form of , including the certifications in item (1) thereof; and
Exhibit B
(B) if the transfer shall be made pursuant to any other exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act, then the transferor must deliver a certificate in the form of , including the certifications, certificates and Opinion of Counsel required by item (3) thereof, if applicable.
Exhibit B
(ii) . Any Restricted Definitive Note may be exchanged by the Holder thereof for an Unrestricted Definitive Note or transferred to a Person or Persons who take delivery thereof in the form of an Unrestricted Definitive Note if the Trustee receives the following:
Restricted Definitive Notes to Unrestricted Definitive Notes
(A) if the Holder of such Restricted Definitive Note proposes to exchange such 2018 Guaranteed Note for an Unrestricted Definitive Note, a certificate from such Holder in the form of , including the certifications in item (1)(d) thereof; or
Exhibit C
(B) if the Holder of such Restricted Definitive Note proposes to transfer such 2018 Guaranteed Note to a Person who shall take delivery thereof in the form of an Unrestricted Definitive Note, a certificate from such Holder in the form of , including the certifications in item (4) thereof;
Exhibit B
and, in each such case, if the Trustee so requests, an opinion of counsel in form reasonably acceptable to the Company to the effect that such exchange or transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act and that the restrictions on transfer contained herein and in the Private Placement Legend are no longer required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act.
 
(iii) . A Holder of Unrestricted Definitive Notes may transfer such 2018 Guaranteed Notes to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of an Unrestricted Definitive Note. Upon receipt of a request to register such a transfer, the Trustee shall register the Unrestricted Definitive Notes pursuant to the instructions from the Holder thereof.
Unrestricted Definitive Notes to Unrestricted Definitive Notes
(f) . The following legends shall appear on the face of all Global Notes and Definitive Notes issued under this Indenture unless specifically stated otherwise in the applicable provisions of this Indenture.
Legends
(i) . Except as permitted below, each Global Note and each Definitive Note (and all 2018 Guaranteed Notes issued in exchange therefor or substitution thereof) shall bear the legend in substantially the following form:
Private Placement Legend
THIS SECURITY HAS NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933 (THE "SECURITIES ACT"), OR THE SECURITIES LAWS OF ANY STATE OR OTHER JURISDICTION. NEITHER THIS SECURITY NOR ANY INTEREST OR PARTICIPATION HEREIN MAY BE REOFFERED, SOLD, ASSIGNED, TRANSFERRED, PLEDGED, ENCUMBERED OR OTHERWISE DISPOSED OF IN THE ABSENCE OF SUCH REGISTRATION OR UNLESS SUCH TRANSACTION IS EXEMPT FROM, OR NOT SUBJECT TO, SUCH REGISTRATION. THE HOLDER OF THIS SECURITY, BY ITS ACCEPTANCE HEREOF, AGREES ON ITS OWN BEHALF AND ON BEHALF OF ANY INVESTOR ACCOUNT FOR WHICH IT HAS PURCHASED SECURITIES, TO OFFER, SELL OR OTHERWISE TRANSFER SUCH SECURITY, PRIOR TO THE DATE (THE "RESALE RESTRICTION TERMINATION DATE") THAT IS [IN THE CASE OF RULE 144A NOTES: ONE YEAR AFTER THE LATER OF THE ORIGINAL ISSUE DATE HEREOF, THE ORIGINAL ISSUE DATE OF THE ISSUANCE OF ANY ADDITIONAL NOTES AND THE LAST DATE ON WHICH THE ISSUER OR ANY AFFILIATE OF THE ISSUER WAS THE OWNER OF THIS SECURITY (OR ANY PREDECESSOR OF SUCH SECURITY),] [IN THE CASE OF REGULATION S NOTES: ONE YEAR AFTER THE LATER OF THE ORIGINAL ISSUE DATE HEREOF AND THE DATE ON WHICH THIS SECURITY (OR ANY PREDECESSOR OF SUCH SECURITY) WAS FIRST OFFERED TO PERSONS OTHER THAN DISTRIBUTORS (AS DEFINED IN RULE 902 OF REGULATION S) IN RELIANCE ON REGULATION S], ONLY (A) TO THE COMPANY OR ANY SUBSIDIARY THEREOF, (B) PURSUANT TO A REGISTRATION STATEMENT THAT HAS BEEN DECLARED EFFECTIVE
 
UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, (C) FOR SO LONG AS THE SECURITIES ARE ELIGIBLE FOR RESALE PURSUANT TO RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT ("RULE 144A"), TO A PERSON IT REASONABLY BELIEVES IS A "QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER" AS DEFINED IN RULE 144A THAT PURCHASES FOR ITS OWN ACCOUNT OR FOR THE ACCOUNT OF A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER TO WHOM NOTICE IS GIVEN THAT THE TRANSFER IS BEING MADE IN RELIANCE ON RULE 144A, (D) PURSUANT TO OFFERS AND SALES TO NON-U.S. PERSONS THAT OCCUR OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES WITHIN THE MEANING OF REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, (E) TO AN INSTITUTIONAL "ACCREDITED INVESTOR" WITHIN THE MEANING OF RULE 501(a)(1), (2), (3) OR (7) UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT THAT IS NOT A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER AND THAT IS PURCHASING FOR ITS OWN ACCOUNT OR FOR THE ACCOUNT OF ANOTHER INSTITUTIONAL ACCREDITED INVESTOR, IN EACH CASE IN A MINIMUM PRINCIPAL AMOUNT OF SECURITIES OR (F) PURSUANT TO ANOTHER AVAILABLE EXEMPTION FROM THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT, SUBJECT TO THE COMPANY'S AND THE TRUSTEE'S RIGHT PRIOR TO ANY SUCH OFFER, SALE OR TRANSFER PURSUANT TO CLAUSES (D), (E) OR (F) TO REQUIRE THE DELIVERY OF AN OPINION OF COUNSEL, CERTIFICATION AND/ OR OTHER INFORMATION SATISFACTORY TO EACH OF THEM. THIS LEGEND WILL BE REMOVED UPON THE REQUEST OF THE HOLDER AFTER THE RESALE RESTRICTION TERMINATION DATE. [IN THE CASE OF REGULATION S NOTES: BY ITS ACQUISITION HEREOF, THE HOLDER HEREOF REPRESENTS THAT IT IS NOT A U.S. PERSON NOR IS IT PURCHASING FOR THE ACCOUNT OF A U.S. PERSON AND IS ACQUIRING THIS SECURITY IN AN OFFSHORE TRANSACTION IN ACCORDANCE WITH REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT.]
BY ITS ACQUISITION OF THIS SECURITY, THE HOLDER THEREOF WILL BE DEEMED TO HAVE REPRESENTED AND WARRANTED THAT EITHER (1) NO PORTION OF THE ASSETS USED BY SUCH HOLDER TO ACQUIRE OR HOLD THIS SECURITY CONSTITUTES THE ASSETS OF AN EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLAN THAT IS SUBJECT TO TITLE I OF THE U.S. EMPLOYEE
 
RETIREMENT INCOME SECURITY ACT OF 1974, AS AMENDED ("ERISA"), ANY PLAN, ACCOUNT OR OTHER ARRANGEMENT THAT IS SUBJECT TO SECTION 4975 OF THE U.S. INTERNAL REVENUE CODE OF 1986, AS AMENDED (THE "CODE") OR PROVISIONS UNDER ANY OTHER FEDERAL, STATE, LOCAL, NON-U.S. OR OTHER LAWS OR REGULATIONS THAT ARE SIMILAR TO SUCH PROVISIONS OF ERISA OR THE CODE ("SIMILAR LAWS"), OR AN ENTITY WHOSE UNDERLYING ASSETS ARE CONSIDERED TO INCLUDE "PLAN ASSETS" OF ANY SUCH PLAN, ACCOUNT OR ARRANGEMENT, OR (2) THE ACQUISITION AND HOLDING OF THIS SECURITY WILL NOT CONSTITUTE A NON-EXEMPT PROHIBITED TRANSACTION UNDER SECTION 406 OF ERISA OR SECTION 4975 OF THE CODE OR A SIMILAR VIOLATION UNDER ANY APPLICABLE SIMILAR LAW.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, any Global Note or Definitive Note issued pursuant to subparagraph (b)(iv), (c)(iii), (c)(iv), (d)(ii), (d)(iii), (e)(ii) or (e)(iii) to this Section 3.03 (and all 2018 Guaranteed Notes issued in exchange therefor or substitution thereof) shall not bear the Private Placement Legend.
(ii) . Each Global Note shall bear a legend in substantially the following form:
Global Note Legend
THIS GLOBAL NOTE IS HELD BY THE DEPOSITARY (AS DEFINED IN THE INDENTURE GOVERNING THIS NOTE) OR ITS NOMINEE IN CUSTODY FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE BENEFICIAL OWNERS HEREOF, AND IS NOT TRANSFERABLE TO ANY PERSON UNDER ANY CIRCUMSTANCES EXCEPT THAT (I) THE TRUSTEE MAY MAKE SUCH NOTATIONS HEREON AS MAY BE REQUIRED PURSUANT TO SECTION 3.03 OF THE SECOND SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE TO THE INDENTURE, (II) THIS GLOBAL NOTE MAY BE EXCHANGED IN WHOLE BUT NOT IN PART PURSUANT TO SECTION 3.03(a) OF THE SECOND SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE TO THE INDENTURE, (III) THIS GLOBAL NOTE MAY BE DELIVERED TO THE TRUSTEE FOR CANCELLATION PURSUANT TO THE INDENTURE AND (IV) THIS GLOBAL NOTE MAY BE TRANSFERRED TO A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY WITH THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF THE COMPANY.
(ii) . The Regulation S Global Note shall bear a legend in substantially the following form:
Regulation S Global Note Legend
 
THE RIGHTS ATTACHING TO THIS REGULATION S GLOBAL NOTE, AND THE CONDITIONS AND PROCEDURES GOVERNING ITS EXCHANGE FOR CERTIFICATED NOTES, ARE AS SPECIFIED IN THE INDENTURE (AS DEFINED HEREIN).
(g) . At such time as all beneficial interests in a particular Global Note have been exchanged for Definitive Notes or a particular Global Note has been redeemed, repurchased or canceled in whole and not in part, each such Global Note shall be returned to or retained and canceled by the Trustee in accordance with the Indenture. At any time prior to such cancellation, if any beneficial interest in a Global Note is exchanged for or transferred to a Person who shall take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in another Global Note or for Definitive Notes, the principal amount of 2018 Guaranteed Notes represented by such Global Note shall be reduced accordingly and an endorsement shall be made on the Schedule of Exchanges of Interests in such Global Note by the Trustee or by the Depositary at the direction of the Trustee to reflect such reduction; and if the beneficial interest is being exchanged for or transferred to a Person who shall take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in another Global Note, such other Global Note shall be increased accordingly and an endorsement shall be made on such Global Note by the Trustee or by the Depositary at the direction of the Trustee to reflect such increase.
Cancellation and/or Adjustment of Global Notes
(h) .
General Provisions Relating to Transfers and Exchanges
(i) To permit registrations of transfers and exchanges permitted hereunder, the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate Global Notes and Definitive Notes upon the Company's order or at the Trustee's request in accordance with the Indenture.
(ii) No service charge shall be made to a Holder of a beneficial interest in a Global Note or to a Holder of a Definitive Note for any registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any transfer tax or similar governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
(iii) The Trustee shall not be required to register the transfer of or exchange any 2018 Guaranteed Note selected for redemption in whole or in part, except the unredeemed portion of any 2018 Guaranteed Note being redeemed in part.
(iv) All Global Notes and Definitive Notes issued upon any registration of transfer or exchange of Global Notes or Definitive Notes shall be the valid and legally binding obligations of the Company, evidencing the same debt, and entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture, as the Global Notes or Definitive Notes surrendered upon such registration of transfer or exchange.
(v) The Company shall not be required (A) to issue, to register the transfer of or to exchange any 2018 Guaranteed Notes during a period beginning at the opening of business 15 days before the day of any selection of 2018 Guaranteed Notes for redemption and ending at the close of business on the day of selection, (B) to register the
 
transfer of or to exchange any 2018 Guaranteed Note so selected for redemption in whole or in part, except the unredeemed portion of any 2018 Guaranteed Note being redeemed in part, (C) to register the transfer of or to exchange a 2018 Guaranteed Note between a record date and the next succeeding interest payment date or (D) to register the transfer of or to exchange a 2018 Guaranteed Note tendered and not withdrawn in connection with a Change of Control Offer.
(vi) Prior to due presentment for the registration of a transfer of any 2018 Guaranteed Note, the Trustee, the Paying Agent and the Company may deem and treat the Person in whose name any 2018 Guaranteed Note is registered as the absolute owner of such 2018 Guaranteed Note for the purpose of receiving payment of principal of and interest on such 2018 Guaranteed Notes and for all other purposes, and none of the Trustee, the Paying Agent or the Company shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
(vii) Neither the Trustee nor the registrar shall have any duty to monitor the Company's compliance with or have any responsibility with respect to the Company's compliance with any federal or state securities laws in connection with registrations of transfers and exchanges of the 2018 Guaranteed Notes. The Trustee shall have no obligation or duty to monitor, determine or inquire as to compliance with any restrictions on transfer imposed under this Indenture or under applicable law with respect to any transfer of any interest in any 2018 Guaranteed Notes (including any transfers between or among the Depository's participants or beneficial owners of interests in any Global Note) other than to require delivery of such certificates and other documentation, as is expressly required by, and to do so if and when expressly required by, the terms of this Indenture and to examine the same to determine substantial compliance as to form with the express requirements hereof.
Section 4.01 . Each Subsidiary Guarantor jointly and severally irrevocably and unconditionally guarantees, on an unsecured basis, the performance and full and punctual payment when due, whether at maturity, by acceleration or otherwise, of all obligations of the Company under the Indenture (in respect of the 2018 Guaranteed Notes only and not any other series of Securities), this Supplemental Indenture and the 2018 Guaranteed Notes, whether for payment of principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the 2018 Guaranteed Notes, expenses, indemnification, or otherwise, on the terms set forth herein (each such guarantee, a ""). Each Note Guarantee of a Subsidiary Guarantor will be subordinated to all guarantees by that Subsidiary Guarantor of Designated Senior Debt of the Company as set forth in this Article Four of this Supplemental Indenture.
Note Guarantees
Note Guarantee
Section 4.02 . Each Note Guarantee is limited to an amount not to exceed the maximum amount that can be guaranteed by each Subsidiary Guarantor by law or without resulting in its obligations under its Note Guarantee being voidable or unenforceable under applicable laws relating to fraudulent transfer, or under similar laws affecting the rights of creditors generally.
Limitation of Note Guarantees
 
Section 4.03 . Any Subsidiary Guarantor that makes a payment under its Note Guarantee will be entitled upon payment in full of all guaranteed obligations under the 2018 Guaranteed Notes and this Supplemental Indenture to a contribution from each other Subsidiary Guarantor in an amount equal to such other Subsidiary Guarantor's portion of such payment based on the respective net assets of all Subsidiary Guarantors at the time of such payment as determined in accordance with GAAP.
Contribution by Other Subsidiary Guarantors
pro rata
Section 4.04 . A Note Guarantee of a Subsidiary Guarantor shall be automatically and unconditionally released (and thereupon shall terminate and be discharged and of be of no further force and effect) upon:
Release of Note Guarantees
(a)
(i) any sale, exchange or transfer (by merger or otherwise) of capital stock of the Subsidiary Guarantor after which such Subsidiary Guarantor is no longer a Subsidiary of the Company or any sale, exchange, transfer of all or substantially all of the assets of such Subsidiary Guarantor which such sale, exchange or transfer is made in compliance with this Supplemental Indenture and the Indenture; or
(ii) the 2018 Guaranteed Notes receiving an Investment Grade Rating by both of the Rating Agencies, and notwithstanding that the 2018 Guaranteed Notes may later cease to have any Investment Grade Rating by either of the Rating Agencies; or
(iii) the Company exercising its legal defeasance or covenant defeasance option in compliance with the terms of this Supplemental Indenture and the Indenture; and
(b) the Company delivering to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel each stating that all conditions precedent provided for in this Supplemental Indenture and the Indenture relating to such release have been complied with.
Section 4.05 .
Subordination of Note Guarantees to Designated Senior Debt
(a) . The payment by the Subsidiary Guarantors (by set-off, redemption, repurchase or otherwise) of principal of and premium, if any, interest on the Note Guarantees of 2018 Guaranteed Notes (including with respect to any repurchases of the 2018 Guaranteed Notes) will be subordinated in right of payment, as set forth herein, to the prior payment in full in cash or, at the option of the holders of Designated Senior Debt, in Cash Equivalents, of all of the Subsidiary Guarantors' guarantees of Designated Senior Debt whether outstanding on the date of the this Supplemental Indenture or thereafter incurred.
Subordination
(b) . Upon any distribution to creditors of any Subsidiary Guarantor, upon any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of such Subsidiary Guarantor or in a bankruptcy, reorganization, insolvency, receivership or similar proceeding relating to the Subsidiary Guarantor or its property, whether voluntary or involuntary, an assignment for the benefit of creditors or any marshalling of the such Subsidiary Guarantor's assets and liabilities, the holders of Designated Senior Debt will be entitled to receive payment in full in cash or, at the option of the holders of Designated Senior Debt, in Cash Equivalents, of all
Insolvency, Liquidation, etc
 
obligations due or to become due in respect of such guarantees (including interest after the commencement of any such proceeding, at the rate specified in the applicable agreement) before the holders of the 2018 Guaranteed Notes will be entitled to receive any payment of principal of, or premium, if any, interest or additional interest, if any, from such Subsidiary Guarantors, on the 2018 Guaranteed Notes, and until all obligations with respect to the Designated Senior Debt are paid in full in cash or, at the option of the holders of the guarantees under the Designated Senior Debt, in Cash Equivalents, any distribution of any kind or character from the Subsidiary Guarantor to which the holders of the 2018 Guaranteed Notes would be entitled shall be made to the holders of the guarantees under the Designated Senior Debt.
(c) . Each Subsidiary Guarantor may not make any payment in respect of its Note Guarantee (except for payments to the Trustee under Section of the Indenture and except in Permitted Junior Securities or from the trust (if any) created in connection with the legal defeasance or covenant defeasance of the 2018 Guaranteed Notes by the Company) if:
Defaults Under Designated Senior Indebtedness
(i) a payment default on a guarantee of Designated Senior Debt of such Subsidiary Guarantor has occurred and is continuing beyond any applicable grace period; or
(ii) any other default occurs and is continuing on any guarantee of Designated Senior Debt of such Subsidiary Guarantor that permits the holders of that guarantee of Designated Senior Debt to accelerate its maturity and the Trustee receives a notice of such default (a "") from the Company or the holders of guarantees of such Designated Senior Debt.
Payment Blockage Notice
(d) . Payments on any such Note Guarantee of a Subsidiary Guarantor may and will be resumed:
Continuation of Payments on Note Guarantees
(i) in the case of a payment default described above, when such default is cured or waived; or
(ii) in the case of a non-payment default described above, upon the earlier of the date on which such non-payment default is cured or waived and 179 days after the date on which the applicable Payment Blockage Notice is received, unless the maturity of any Designated Senior Debt has been accelerated.
(e) . No new Payment Blockage Notice may be delivered unless and until (x) 360 days have elapsed since the delivery of the immediately prior Payment Blockage Notice and (y) all scheduled payments of principal, premium, if any, and interest on the 2018 Guaranteed Note that have come due have been paid in full in cash. No non-payment default that existed or was continuing on the date of delivery of a Payment Blockage Notice to the Trustee will be, or be made, the basis for a subsequent Payment Blockage Notice.
Limitations on Payment Blockage Notices
(f) . If the Trustee receives a payment in respect of the 2018 Guaranteed Notes when (1) the payment is prohibited by the subordination provisions of this Section 4.05 and (2) the Trustee has actual knowledge that the payment is prohibited, then
Monies Held in Trust
 
the Trustee will hold the payment in trust for the benefit of the holders of the applicable Designated Senior Debt. Upon the written request of such holders, the Trustee will deliver the amounts held in trust to the holders or their proper representative.
The following amendments to the Indenture shall apply only to the 2018 Guaranteed Notes and not to any other series of Securities issued under the Indenture and shall be effective for so long as any 2018 Guaranteed Notes remain Outstanding. The Indenture is amended by this Supplemental Indenture solely with respect to the 2018 Guaranteed Notes, as follows:
Section 5.01 . Solely with respect to the 2018 Guaranteed Notes, Section 113 of the Indenture shall be amended and restated in its entirety by inserting the following in lieu thereof:
Amendments to Article I
"
Section 113. Legal Holidays.
If any Interest Payment Date or the Stated Maturity of the 2018 Guaranteed Notes falls on a day that is not a Business Day, the required payment will be made on the next Business Day as if it were made on the date the payment was due and no interest will accrue on the amount so payable for the period from and after the Interest Payment Date or the Stated Maturity, as the case may be, until the next Business Day."
Section 5.02 . Solely with respect to the 2018 Guaranteed Notes, Section 501 of the Indenture shall be amended by inserting the following new Events of Default immediately following clause (7) thereof:
Amendments to Article V
"(8) any Note Guarantee of a Subsidiary Guarantor that is a Significant Subsidiary is held in a final, non-appealable judgment to be unenforceable or invalid or ceases for any reason to be in full force and effect (except as permitted to be released pursuant to the Second Supplemental Indenture dated as of November 9, 2011) or any Subsidiary Guarantor that is a Significant Subsidiary denies or disaffirms its obligations under its Note Guarantee in writing, except in accordance with the terms of such Note Guarantee or in connection with the release of such Note Guarantee in accordance with the Second Supplemental Indenture dated as of November 9, 2011;
(9) the entry by a court having jurisdiction in the premises of (A) a decree or order for relief in respect of any Subsidiary Guarantor that is a Significant Subsidiary in an involuntary case or proceeding under any applicable Federal or State bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other similar law or (B) a decree or order adjudging any Subsidiary Guarantor that is a Significant Subsidiary bankrupt or insolvent, or approving as properly filed a petition seeking reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition of or in respect of any
 
Subsidiary Guarantor that is a Significant Subsidiary under any applicable Federal or State law, or appointing a custodian, receiver, liquidator, assignee, trustee, sequestrator or other similar official of the any Subsidiary Guarantor that is a Significant Subsidiary or of any substantial part of its Property, or ordering the winding up or liquidation of its affairs, and the continuance of any such decree or order for relief or any such other decree or order unstayed and in effect for a period of 60 consecutive days; or
(10) the commencement by any Subsidiary Guarantor that is a Significant Subsidiary of a voluntary case or proceeding under any applicable Federal or State bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other similar law or of any other case or proceeding to be adjudicated a bankrupt or insolvent, or the consent by any Subsidiary Guarantor that is a Significant Subsidiary to the entry of a decree or order for relief in respect of it in an involuntary case or proceeding under any applicable Federal or State bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other similar law or the commencement of any bankruptcy or insolvency case or proceeding against it, or the filing by it of a petition or answer or consent seeking reorganization or relief under any applicable Federal or State law, or the consent by any Subsidiary Guarantor that is a Significant Subsidiary to the filing of such petition or the appointment of or taking possession by a custodian, receiver, liquidator, assignee, trustee, sequestrator or other similar official of the any Subsidiary Guarantor that is a Significant Subsidiary or of any substantial part of its Property, or the making by it of an assignment for the benefit of creditors, or the admission by it in writing of its inability to pay its debts generally as they become due, or the taking of corporate action by it in furtherance of any such action."
Section 5.03 .
Amendments to Article IX
(a) Solely with respect to the 2018 Guaranteed Notes, Section 901(14) of the Indenture shall be amended and restated in its entirety by inserting the following in lieu thereof:
"(14) to add any Note Guarantee or release any Note Guarantee in accordance with the Second Supplemental Indenture dated as of November 9, 2011 (provided that any supplemental indenture evidencing such Note Guarantee or release of Note Guarantee need be signed by only the Company, the Trustee and the affected Subsidiary Guarantor);"
(b) Solely with respect to the 2018 Guaranteed Notes, Section 902 of the Indenture shall be amended by inserting the following immediately following clause (7) thereof:
"(8) release any Subsidiary Guarantor from any of its obligations under its Note Guarantee or the Indenture, except in accordance with the terms this Indenture (as modified by the Second Supplemental Indenture dated November 9, 2011); or
 
(9) amend or modify any of the provisions hereof (as modified by the Second Supplemental Indenture dated November 9, 2011) or any related definitions affecting the subordination of the 2018 Guaranteed Notes or any Note Guarantee in any manner adverse to the Holders of the 2018 Guaranteed Notes or any Note Guarantee."
(c) Solely with respect to the 2018 Guaranteed Notes, Article IX of the Indenture shall be amended by inserting the following as a new Section 907:
"
Section 907. Amendments to Subordination Provisions
In addition to the other requirements set forth in this Article IX, no amendment to the subordination provisions affecting the Note Guarantees set forth in Section 4.05 of the Second Supplemental Indenture dated as of November 9, 2011 shall be effective without (A) the consent of lenders under each Credit Agreement holding a majority of the principal amount outstanding thereunder and (B) the consent of lenders under each other Designated Senior Debt facility holding a majority of the principal amount outstanding thereunder, to the extent the documents governing such Designated Senior Debt provide for such a consent right."
Section 5.04 . Solely with respect to the 2018 Guaranteed Notes, Article X of the Indenture shall be amended by inserting the following covenants at the end of such Article X:
Amendments to Article X
"
Section 1010. Limitation on Guaranteed, Secured and Subsidiary Guarantor Indebtedness.
The Company will not, and will not permit any Subsidiary Guarantor to, incur any Guaranteed Indebtedness or Subsidiary Guarantor Indebtedness except (A) if at the time of incurrence, after giving effect to the incurrence of such indebtedness and application of the proceeds therefrom, the sum of (i) Guaranteed Indebtedness, (ii) Subsidiary Guarantor Indebtedness and (iii) the amount of the Company's indebtedness for borrowed money that is secured by Liens, other than Permitted Liens, outstanding, does not exceed 15% of Consolidated Net Tangible Assets, and (B) indebtedness incurred to refinance indebtedness outstanding under clause (A).
In addition to the indebtedness permitted to be incurred by the immediately preceding paragraph, the Company may incur Guaranteed Indebtedness (including the 2018 Guaranteed Notes) not to exceed $6.0 billion at any time outstanding (after giving effect to the incurrence of such indebtedness and the receipt and application of the proceeds therefrom), provided that, any guarantees of such Guaranteed Indebtedness are subordinated to the guarantees of Designated Senior Debt to substantially the same extent as, or to a greater extent than, the Note Guarantees of the 2018 Guaranteed Notes are subordinated to the guarantees of Designated Senior Debt.
 
In addition, the Company shall not incur indebtedness for borrowed money secured by Liens (other than Permitted Liens) on its property or assets or any property or assets of its Subsidiaries, now owned or acquired at a later time, if after giving effect to the incurrence of such indebtedness and the receipt and application of the proceeds therefrom, the amount of such indebtedness plus the amount of Guaranteed Indebtedness (excluding any Guaranteed Indebtedness incurred pursuant to the $6.0 billion basket referred to above) and Subsidiary Guarantor Indebtedness, outstanding at the time of such incurrence, exceeds 15% of Consolidated Net Tangible Assets.
.
Section 1011. Anti-Layering
The Company will not permit or cause any Subsidiary Guarantor to directly, or indirectly, create, incur, issue or assume any guarantee that is both subordinate in right of payment to the guarantees of Designated Senior Debt of such Subsidiary Guarantor and senior in any respect in right of payment to the Note Guarantees under the 2018 Guaranteed Notes. For the purposes of the foregoing, no guarantee will be deemed to be subordinated in right of payment to any guarantee of any Subsidiary Guarantor solely by reason of any Liens or guarantees arising or created in respect of such other guarantee of the Subsidiary Guarantor or by virtue of the fact that the holders of any secured indebtedness have entered into intercreditor agreements giving one or more of such holders priority over the other holders in the collateral held by them."
Section 5.05 . Solely with respect to the 2018 Guaranteed Notes, Section 1303 of the Indenture is amended by inserting the following immediately after the phrase "1006 through 1008 inclusive":
Amendments to Article XIII
"and 1010 and 1011".
Section 6.01 . The 2018 Guaranteed Notes will be redeemable in accordance with terms of the Indenture (as modified by this Supplemental Indenture), in each case from time to time, as a whole or in part, at the Company's option, on at least 30 days, but not more than 60 days, prior notice mailed to the registered address of each holder of the 2018 Guaranteed Notes to be redeemed, at a Redemption Price equal to (1) the greater of: (A) 100% of the principal amount of the 2018 Guaranteed Notes to be redeemed, and (B) the sum of the present values of the Remaining Scheduled Payments, discounted to the Redemption Date, on a semi-annual basis, assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months, at the Treasury Rate, plus 50 basis points; (2) in each case, accrued interest to the applicable Redemption Date that has not been paid.
Optional Redemption
plus
Section 6.02 . On and after the Redemption Date, interest will cease to accrue on the 2018
Interest on 2018 Guaranteed Notes Redeemed; Deposit of Redemption Price
 
Guaranteed Notes or any portion thereof called for redemption, unless the Company defaults in the payment of the Redemption Price. On or before the Redemption Date, the Company will deposit with the Paying Agent, or the Trustee, money sufficient to pay the Redemption Price of the 2018 Guaranteed Notes to be redeemed on such date.
Section 7.01 . If a Change of Control Triggering Event occurs with respect to the 2018 Guaranteed Notes, each Holder of 2018 Guaranteed Notes will have the right to require the Company to repurchase all or any part, equal to $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 thereafter, of that Holder's 2018 Guaranteed Notes pursuant to an offer (a "") on the terms set forth in this Article Seven.
Repurchase Offers
Change of Control Offer
Section 7.02 . The Company, in each Change of Control Offer, will offer a cash payment (a "") equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of 2018 Guaranteed Notes repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest on the 2018 Guaranteed Notes up to but excluding the date of repurchase. Within 30 days following any Change of Control Triggering Event, if the Company had not, prior to the Change of Control Triggering Event, sent a redemption notice for all the 2018 Guaranteed Notes in connection with an optional redemption permitted by Section 7.01 of this Supplemental Indenture and Article XI of the Indenture, the Company will mail or cause to be mailed a notice to each registered Holder briefly describing the event or events that constitute a Change of Control Triggering Event and offering to repurchase 2018 Guaranteed Notes on the date specified in such notice (the ""), which date will be no earlier than 30 days and no later than 60 days from the date the notice is mailed, pursuant to the procedures required by the Indenture (as modified by this Supplemental Indenture) and described in such notice.
Terms of Change of Control Offer
Change of Control Payment
Change of Control Payment Date
Section 7.03 . The Company will comply with the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the Exchange Act and any other securities laws and regulations thereunder to the extent such laws and regulations are applicable to any Change of Control Offer. To the extent the provisions of any securities laws or regulations conflict with the provisions of this Article Seven, the Company will comply with the applicable securities laws and regulations and will not be deemed to have breached its obligations hereunder by virtue of such conflict.
Compliance with Securities Laws
Section 7.04 . On the Change of Control Payment Date, the Company will, to the extent lawful:
Acceptance of and Payment for 2018 Guaranteed Notes
(a) accept for payment all 2018 Guaranteed Notes or portions thereof properly tendered pursuant to the Change of Control Offer;
(b) deposit with the Paying Agent an amount equal to the Change of Control Payment in respect of all 2018 Guaranteed Notes or portions thereof properly tendered; and
 
(c) deliver or cause to be delivered to the Trustee the 2018 Guaranteed Notes so accepted together with an Officers' Certificate stating the aggregate principal amount of 2018 Guaranteed Notes or portions thereof being purchased.
Section 7.05 . The Company will determine whether the 2018 Guaranteed Notes are properly tendered, and the Trustee will have no responsibility for, and may conclusively rely upon, the Company's determination with respect thereto. Subject to receipt of sufficient funds from the Company, the Paying Agent will promptly deliver to each registered Holder of 2018 Guaranteed Notes properly tendered, the Change of Control Payment for such 2018 Guaranteed Notes, and the Trustee will promptly authenticate and mail, or cause to be transferred by book entry, to each Holder a new 2018 Guaranteed Note equal in principal amount to any unpurchased portion of the 2018 Guaranteed Notes surrendered, if any; that each such new 2018 Guaranteed Note will be in a principal amount of $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 thereafter. Any 2018 Guaranteed Note so accepted for payment will cease to accrue interest on and after the Change of Control Payment Date.
Determination of Tender; Responsibilities of Paying Agent and Trustee
provided
Section 7.06 . The Company will not be required to make a Change of Control Offer upon a Change of Control Triggering Event if a third party makes the Change of Control Offer in the manner, at the times and otherwise in compliance with the requirements applicable to a Change of Control Offer made by the Company and purchases all 2018 Guaranteed Notes properly tendered and not withdrawn under the Change of Control Offer.
Third Party Change of Control Offers
Section 7.07 . The Company may make a Change of Control Offer in advance of a Change of Control Triggering Event, and condition that Change of Control Offer upon the occurrence of such Change of Control Triggering Event, if a definitive agreement is in place for the Change of Control Triggering Event at the time of making the Change of Control Offer.
Conditional Change of Control Offers
Section 7.08 . Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Article Seven, if the 2018 Guaranteed Notes receive an Investment Grade Rating by both of the Rating Agencies, and notwithstanding that the 2018 Guaranteed Notes may later cease to have an Investment Grade Rating by either of the Rating Agencies, the Company will be released from its obligation to make a Change of Control Offer upon a Change of Control Triggering Event.
Investment Grade Rating
Section 8.01 . This Supplemental Indenture is executed by the Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors, and by the Trustee upon the Company's request, pursuant to the provisions of the Indenture, and the terms and conditions hereof shall be deemed to be part of the Indenture for all purposes. The Indenture, as supplemented and amended by this Supplemental Indenture, is in all respects hereby adopted, ratified and confirmed. Notwithstanding the foregoing, to the extent that any of
Effect of Supplemental Indenture; Conflicts with Indenture
 
the terms of this Supplemental Indenture are inconsistent with, or conflict with, the terms of the Indenture, the terms of this Supplemental Indenture shall govern.
Section 8.02 . This Supplemental Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be an original, but such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
Counterparts
Section 8.03 . The Trustee assumes no responsibility for the correctness of the recitals herein contained, which shall be taken as the statements of the Company. The Trustee makes no representations and shall have no responsibility as to the validity or sufficiency of this Supplemental Indenture or the due authorization and execution hereof by the Company or any Subsidiary Guarantor.
Trustee
Section 8.04 . The Article and Section headings contained herein are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction of this Supplemental Indenture.
Headings
Section 8.05 . This Supplemental Indenture and the 2018 Guaranteed Notes and the Note Guarantees shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
Governing Law
 
, the parties hereto have caused this Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized as of the day and year first above written.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
, a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of Kansas (herein called the "," which term includes any successor Person under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to , or registered assigns, the principal sum of [    ] on November 15, 2018, and to pay interest thereon from November 9, 2011, or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, semi-annually on May 15 and November 15 in each year, commencing May 15, 2012, at the rate of 9.000% per annum, until the principal hereof is paid or made available for payment, that any principal and premium, and any such installment of interest, which is overdue shall bear interest at the rate of 9.000% per annum (to the extent that the payment of such interest shall be legally enforceable), from the dates such amounts are due until they are paid or made available for payment, and such interest shall be payable on demand. If any Interest Payment Date or the Stated Maturity of this 2018 Guaranteed Note falls on a day that is not a Business Day, the required payment shall be made on the next Business Day as if it were made on the date the payment was due and no interest shall accrue on the amount so payable for the period from and after the Interest Payment Date or the Stated Maturity of this 2018 Guaranteed Note, as the case may be, until the next Business Day. The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date (or the next Business Day, as applicable) will, as provided in such Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this 2018 Guaranteed Note (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest, which shall be the May 1 or November 1 (whether or not a Business Day), as the case may be, next preceding such Interest Payment Date. Any such interest not so punctually paid or duly provided for will forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on such Regular Record Date and may either be paid to the Person in whose name this 2018 Guaranteed Note (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be fixed by the Trustee, notice whereof shall be given to Holders of 2018 Guaranteed Notes of this series not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date, or be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the 2018 Guaranteed Notes of this series may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in said Indenture.
SPRINT NEXTEL CORPORATION
Company
CEDE & Co.
MILLION DOLLARS
provided
Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this 2018 Guaranteed Note set forth on the reverse hereof, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the Trustee referred to on the reverse hereof by manual signature, this 2018 Guaranteed Note shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this 2018 Guaranteed Note to be signed manually or by facsimile by its duly authorized officer.
 
 
[SEAL]
This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture
 
This 2018 Guaranteed Note is one of a duly authorized issue of securities of the Company (herein called the ""), issued and to be issued in one or more series under an Indenture, dated as of November 20, 2006 (herein called the "" which term shall have the meaning assigned to it in such instrument), between the Company and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee (herein called the "," which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), as supplemented by the Second Supplemental Indenture, dated as of November 9, 2011 (the ""). Reference is hereby made to the Indenture for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Subsidiary Guarantors, the Trustee and the Holders of the 2018 Guaranteed Notes and of the terms upon which the 2018 Guaranteed Notes are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered.
2018 Guaranteed Notes
Indenture
Trustee
Supplemental Indenture
The Company may redeem the 2018 Guaranteed Notes at any time and from time to time, as a whole or in part, at the Company's option, on at least 30 days, but not more than 60 days, prior notice mailed to the registered address of each Holder of the 2018 Guaranteed Notes to be redeemed, at a redemption price equal to the greater of:
(1) 100% of the principal amount of the 2018 Guaranteed Notes to be redeemed; and
(2) the sum of the present values of the Remaining Scheduled Payments, discounted to the Redemption Date, on a semi-annual basis, assuming a 360 day year consisting of twelve 30 day months, at the Treasury Rate, plus 50 basis points;
, in each case, accrued interest to the Redemption Date that has not been paid (such redemption price, the "").
plus
Redemption Price
"" means the United States Treasury security selected by the Independent Investment Banker as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term of the 2018 Guaranteed Notes that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of the 2018 Guaranteed Notes.
Comparable Treasury Issue
"" means, with respect to any Redemption Date: (1) the average of four Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such Redemption Date, after excluding the highest and lowest of such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations; or (2) if the Trustee is provided fewer than four Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all quotations provided to the Trustee.
Comparable Treasury Price
"" means one of the Reference Treasury Dealers appointed by the Company.
Independent Investment Banker
"" means J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated and Citigroup Global Markets Inc., and their successors, and one other firm that is a primary U.S. Government securities dealer (each a "") which the Company shall specify from time to time; that if any of them ceases to be a Primary Treasury Dealer, the Company will substitute therefor another Primary Treasury Dealer.
Reference Treasury Dealer
Primary Treasury Dealer
provided,
"" means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any Redemption Date, the average of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue, expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount, quoted in writing to the Trustee by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the third Business Day preceding such Redemption Date.
Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations
"" means with respect to each 2018 Guaranteed Note to be redeemed, the remaining scheduled payments of the principal thereof and interest thereon, that would be due after the related Redemption Date but for such redemption; that, if such Redemption Date is not an interest payment date with respect to such 2018 Guaranteed Note, the amount of the next succeeding scheduled interest payment thereon will be deemed reduced by the amount of interest accrued thereon to such Redemption Date.
Remaining Scheduled Payments
provided,
"" means, with respect to an applicable Redemption Date for the 2018 Guaranteed Notes: (1) the yield, under the heading which represents the average for the immediately preceding week, appearing in the most recently published statistical release designated "H.15(519)" or any successor publication that is published weekly by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and that establishes yields on actively traded United States Treasury Notes adjusted to constant maturity under the caption "Treasury Constant Maturities," for the maturity corresponding to the Comparable Treasury Issue; that if no maturity is within three months before or after the Stated Maturity of the 2018 Guaranteed Notes, yields for the two published maturities most closely corresponding to the Comparable Treasury Issue will be determined and the Treasury Rate will be interpolated or extrapolated from those yields on a straight line basis, rounding to the nearest month; or (2) if that release, or any successor release, is not published during the week preceding the calculation date or does not contain such yields, the rate per annum equal to the semiannual equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, calculated using a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for the Redemption Date. The Treasury Rate will be calculated on the third Business Day preceding the Redemption Date.
Treasury Rate
provided
On and after the Redemption Date, interest will cease to accrue on the 2018 Guaranteed Notes or any portion thereof called for redemption, unless the Company defaults in the payment of the Redemption Price.
In the event of redemption of this 2018 Guaranteed Note in part only, a new 2018 Guaranteed Note or 2018 Guaranteed Notes of this series and of like tenor for the unredeemed portion hereof will be issued in the name of the Holder hereof upon the cancellation hereof.
 
Section 8.01 If a Change of Control Triggering Event occurs, each Holder of a 2018 Guaranteed Note will have the right to require the Company to repurchase all or any part, equal to $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 thereafter, of that Holder's 2018 Guaranteed Notes pursuant to an offer (a "") on the terms set forth in the Indenture.
Change of Control Offer
Section 8.02 The Company, in each Change of Control Offer, will offer a cash payment (a "") equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of 2018 Guaranteed Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest on the 2018 Guaranteed Notes up to but excluding the date of repurchase. Within 30 days following any Change of Control Triggering Event, if the Company had not, prior to the Change of Control Triggering Event, sent a redemption notice for all the 2018 Guaranteed Notes in connection with an optional redemption permitted by the Indenture, the Company will mail or cause to be mailed a notice to each registered Holder briefly describing the event or events that constitute a Change of Control Triggering Event and offering to repurchase 2018 Guaranteed Notes on the date specified in such notice (the ""), which date will be no earlier than 30 days and no later than 60 days from the date the notice is mailed, pursuant to the procedures required by the Indenture (as modified by this Supplemental Indenture) and described in such notice.
Change of Control Payment
Change of Control Payment Date
Notwithstanding the preceding two paragraphs, if the 2018 Guaranteed Notes receive an Investment Grade Rating by both of the Rating Agencies, and notwithstanding that the 2018 Guaranteed Notes may later cease to have an Investment Grade Rating by either of the Rating Agencies, the Company will be released from its obligation to make a Change of Control Offer upon a Change of Control Triggering Event.
"" means the occurrence of any of the following:
Change of Control
(a) the direct or indirect sale, transfer, conveyance or other disposition (other than by way of merger or consolidation), in one or a series of related transactions, of all or substantially all of the Company and its Subsidiaries' properties or assets, taken as a whole, to any "person" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act);
(b) the adoption of a plan relating to the Company's liquidation or dissolution; or
(c) any "person" or "group" (as such terms are used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Exchange Act) becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the voting power of the Company's Voting Securities; that a transaction in which the Company becomes a Subsidiary of another person shall not constitute a Change of Control if (a) the Company's stockholders immediately prior to such transaction Beneficially Own, directly or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, 50% or more of the voting power of the outstanding Voting Securities of such other Person of whom the Company is a Subsidiary immediately following such transaction and (b) immediately following such transaction no person (as defined above)
provided
 
other than such other person, Beneficially Owns, directly or indirectly, more than 50% of the voting power of the Company's Voting Securities.
"" means the occurrence of both a Change of Control and a Ratings Decline.
Change of Control Triggering Event
"" means a rating equal to or greater than Baa3 by Moody's and BBB- by S&P or the equivalent thereof under any new ratings system if the ratings systems of either such Rating Agency shall be modified after the issue date of the 2018 Guaranteed Notes, or the equivalent rating of any other Ratings Agency the Company selects as provided in the definition of Ratings Agencies.
Investment Grade Rating
"" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc. or any successor to the rating agency business thereof.
Moody's
"" means (1) Moody's and S&P; and (2) if either Moody's or S&P ceases to rate the 2018 Guaranteed Notes or ceases to make a rating on the 2018 Guaranteed Notes publicly available, an entity registered as a "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" (registered as such pursuant to Rule l7g-1 of the Exchange Act) then making a rating on the 2018 Guaranteed Notes publicly available selected by the Company (as certified by an officer's certificate), which shall be substituted for Moody's or S&P, as the case may be.
Ratings Agencies
"" means the occurrence, during the period commencing on the date of the first public announcement of the Change of Control or the intention to effect a Change of Control and ending 90 days after the occurrence of the Change of Control, of a downgrade of the rating of the 2018 Guaranteed Notes by both Rating Agencies by one or more gradations (including gradations within ratings categories as well as between rating categories).
Ratings Decline
"" means Standard & Poor's Rating Services, a division of the McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc., or any successor to the rating agency business thereof.
S&P
The Indenture contains provisions for defeasance at any time of the entire indebtedness of this 2018 Guaranteed Note or certain restrictive covenants and Events of Default with respect to this 2018 Guaranteed Note, in each case upon compliance with certain conditions set forth in the Indenture.
If an Event of Default with respect to the 2018 Guaranteed Notes shall occur and be continuing, the principal of the 2018 Guaranteed Notes may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.
The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders of the Securities of each series to be affected under the Indenture at any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of all Outstanding Securities affected. With respect to any series of Securities, the consent of the Holders of that series of Securities required by the Indenture may be obtained from either the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities of that series, or from the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities of that series and all other series
 
affected by that consent, voting as a single class. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of specified percentages in principal amount of the Securities of each series at the time Outstanding, on behalf of the Holders of all Securities of such series, to waive compliance by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences. With respect to any series of Securities issued under the Indenture, in addition to obtaining waivers from the Holders of a majority in principal amount of Outstanding Securities of that series, a waiver of compliance with the Indenture and a waiver of past defaults under the Indenture can also be obtained from the Holders of a majority in principal amount of debt securities of that series and all other series affected by the waiver, whether issued under the Indenture or any other indenture of the Company providing for such aggregated voting, all as a single class. Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of this 2018 Guaranteed Note shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of this 2018 Guaranteed Note and of any 2018 Guaranteed Note issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange therefor or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this 2018 Guaranteed Note.
As provided in and subject to the provisions of the Indenture, the Holder of this 2018 Guaranteed Note shall not have the right to institute any proceeding with respect to the Indenture or for the appointment of a receiver or trustee or for any other remedy thereunder, unless such Holder shall have previously given the Trustee written notice of a continuing Event of Default with respect to the 2018 Guaranteed Notes, the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the 2018 Guaranteed Notes at the time Outstanding shall have made written request to the Trustee to institute proceedings in respect of such Event of Default as Trustee and offered the Trustee reasonable indemnity, and the Trustee shall not have received from the Holders of a majority in principal amount of 2018 Guaranteed Notes at the time Outstanding a direction inconsistent with such request, and shall have failed to institute any such proceeding, for 60 days after receipt of such notice, request and offer of indemnity. The foregoing shall not apply to any suit instituted by the Holder of this 2018 Guaranteed Note for the enforcement of any payment of principal hereof or any premium or interest hereon on or after the respective due dates expressed herein.
As provided in the indenture and subject to release and certain other limitations therein set forth, each Subsidiary Guarantor jointly and severally irrevocably and unconditionally guarantees, on an unsecured basis, the performance and full and punctual payment, whether at maturity, by acceleration or otherwise, of all obligations of the Company under the Indenture (in respect of the these 2018 Guaranteed Notes only and not any other series of Securities), the Supplemental Indenture and the 2018 Guaranteed Notes, whether for payment of principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the 2018 Guaranteed Notes, expenses, indemnification, or otherwise. The Note Guarantees of the Subsidiary Guarantors are subordinated to the Designated Senior Debt, on the terms and conditions set forth in Article Four of the Supplemental Indenture.
No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this 2018 Guaranteed Note or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of and any premium and interest on this 2018 Guaranteed Note at the times, place and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed.
 
As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the transfer of this 2018 Guaranteed Note is registerable in the Security Register, upon surrender of this 2018 Guaranteed Note for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the Company in any place where the principal of and any premium and interest on this 2018 Guaranteed Note are payable, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Security Registrar duly executed by, the Holder hereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new 2018 Guaranteed Notes of this series and of like tenor, of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees.
The 2018 Guaranteed Notes of this series are issuable only in registered form, without coupons, in minimum denominations of $2,000 and thereafter any integral multiple of $1,000. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, 2018 Guaranteed Notes of this series are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of 2018 Guaranteed Notes of this series and of like tenor of a different authorized denomination, as requested by the Holder surrendering the same.
No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
Prior to due presentment of this 2018 Guaranteed Note for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this 2018 Guaranteed Note is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this 2018 Guaranteed Note be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
No recourse for payment of the principal of, premium, if any, or interest on this 2018 Guaranteed Note, or for any claim based thereon or otherwise in respect thereof, and no recourse under or upon any obligation, covenant or agreement of the Company contained in the Indenture, or in any 2018 Guaranteed Note, or because of the creation of any indebtedness represented thereby, shall be had against any incorporator or any past, present or future partner, shareholder, other equity holder, officer, director, employee or controlling person, as such, of the Company or of any successor Person, either directly or through the Company or any successor Person, whether by virtue of any constitution, statute or rule of law, or by enforcement of any assessment or penalty or otherwise, it being expressly understood that all such liability, either at common law or in equity or by constitution or statute, is hereby waived and released as a condition of, and as consideration for, the execution of the Indenture and the issuance of this 2018 Guaranteed Note.
THIS 2018 GUARANTEED NOTE SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
All terms used in this 2018 Guaranteed Note which are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture (as modified by the Supplemental Indenture).
 
The following exchanges of a part of this Global Note for an interest in another Global Note or for a Definitive Note, or exchanges of a part of another Global Note or Definitive Note for an interest in this Global Note, have been made:
 
The following exchanges of a part of this Regulation S Global Note for an interest in another Global Note or of other Restricted Global Notes for an interest in this Regulation S Global Note, have been made:
 
 
Sprint Nextel Corporation
6200 Sprint Parkway
Overland Park, KS 66251
Facsimile: (913) 523-9802
Attention: General Counsel
The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A.
2 N. LaSalle Street, Suite 1020
Chicago, IL 60602
Facsimile: (312) 827-8542
Attention: Corporate Trust Administration
Re: 9.000% Guaranteed Notes due 2018
Reference is hereby made to the Indenture, dated as of November 20, 2006 (the ""), among Sprint Nextel Corporation, a Kansas corporation (the "") and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A. (n/k/a The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A.) (the ""), as supplemented by the Second Supplemental Indenture, dated as of November 9, 2011 among the Company, the Subsidiary Guarantors named therein and the Trustee. Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Indenture.
Indenture
Company
Trustee
                    (the "") owns and proposes to transfer the 2018 Guaranteed Note[s] or interest in such 2018 Guaranteed Note[s] specified in Annex A hereto, in the principal amount at maturity of $        in such 2018 Guaranteed Note[s] or interests (the ""), to                     (the ""), as further specified in Annex A hereto. In connection with the Transfer, the Transferor hereby certifies that:
Transferor
Transfer
Transferee
        1. . The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ""), and, accordingly, the Transferor hereby further certifies that the beneficial interest or Definitive Note is being transferred to a Person that the Transferor reasonably believed and believes is purchasing the beneficial interest or Definitive Note for its own account, or for one or more accounts with respect to which such Person exercises sole investment discretion, and such Person and each such account is a "qualified institutional buyer" within the meaning of Rule 144A in a transaction meeting the requirements of Rule 144A and such Transfer is in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States. Upon consummation of the proposed Transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Definitive Note will be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the 144A Global Note and/or the Definitive Note and in the Indenture and the Securities Act.
Check if Transferee will take delivery of a beneficial interest in the 144A Global Note or a Definitive Note Pursuant to Rule 144A
Securities Act
 
        2. . The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 903 or Rule 904 under the Securities Act and, accordingly, the Transferor hereby further certifies that (i) the Transfer is not being made to a person in the United States and (x) at the time the buy order was originated, the Transferee was outside the United States or such Transferor and any Person acting on its behalf reasonably believed and believes that the Transferee was outside the United States or (y) the transaction was executed in, on or through the facilities of a designated offshore securities market and neither such Transferor nor any Person acting on its behalf knows that the transaction was prearranged with a buyer in the United States, (ii) no directed selling efforts have been made in contravention of the requirements of Rule 903(b) or Rule 904(b) of Regulation S under the Securities Act, (iii) the transaction is not part of a plan or scheme to evade the registration requirements of the Securities Act and (iv) the transfer is not being made to a U.S. Person or for the account or benefit of a U.S. Person (other than an initial purchaser of the 2018 Guaranteed Notes). Upon consummation of the proposed transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Definitive Note will be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the Legended Regulation S Global Note and/or the Definitive Note and in the Indenture and the Securities Act.
Check if Transferee will take delivery of a beneficial interest in a Legended Regulation S Global Note, or a Definitive Note pursuant to Regulation S
        3. . The Transfer is being effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to beneficial interests in Restricted Global Notes and Restricted Definitive Notes and pursuant to and in accordance with the Securities Act and any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States, and accordingly the Transferor hereby further certifies that (check one):
Check and complete if Transferee will take delivery of a Restricted Definitive Note pursuant to any provision of the Securities Act other than Rule 144, Rule 144A or Regulation S
        (a) such Transfer is being effected to the Company or a subsidiary thereof; or
        (b) such Transfer is being effected to an Institutional Accredited Investor and pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act other than Rule 144A, Rule 144 or Rule 904, and the Transferor hereby further certifies that it has not engaged in any general solicitation within the meaning of Regulation D under the Securities Act and the Transfer complies with the transfer restrictions applicable to Restricted Definitive Notes and the requirements of the exemption claimed, which certification is supported by (1) a certificate executed by the Transferee in the form of to the Second Supplemental Indenture dated as of November 9, 2011 and (2) an Opinion of Counsel provided by the Transferor or the Transferee (a copy of which the Transferor has attached to this certification), to the effect that such Transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act. Upon consummation of the proposed transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred Definitive Note will be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the Definitive Notes and in the Indenture and the Securities Act.
Exhibit D
 
        4. .
Check if Transferee will take delivery of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note or of an Unrestricted Definitive Note
        (a) Check if Transfer is Pursuant to Rule 144. (i) The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 144 under the Securities Act and in compliance with the transfer restrictions contained in the Indenture and any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States and (ii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act. Upon consummation of the proposed Transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Definitive Note will no longer be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the Restricted Global Notes, on Restricted Definitive Notes and in the Indenture.
        (b) Check if Transfer is Pursuant to Regulation S. (i) The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 903 or Rule 904 under the Securities Act and in compliance with the transfer restrictions contained in the Indenture and any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States and, in the case of a transfer from a Restricted Global Note or a Restricted Definitive Note, the Transferor hereby further certifies that (a) the Transfer is not being made to a person in the United States and (x) at the time the buy order was originated, the Transferee was outside the United States or such Transferor and any Person acting on its behalf reasonably believed and believes that the Transferee was outside the United States or (y) the transaction was executed in, on or through the facilities of a designated offshore securities market and neither such Transferor nor any Person acting on its behalf knows that the transaction was prearranged with a buyer in the United States, (b) no directed selling efforts have been made in contravention of the requirements of Rule 903(b) or Rule 904(b) of Regulation S under the Securities Act, (c) the transaction is not part of a plan or scheme to evade the registration requirements of the Securities Act and (d) the transfer is not being made to a U.S. Person or for the account or benefit of a U.S. Person, and (ii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act. Upon consummation of the proposed Transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Definitive Note will no longer be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the Restricted Global Notes, on Restricted Definitive Notes and in the Indenture.
        (c) Check if Transfer is Pursuant to Other Exemption. (i) The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in compliance with an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act other than Rule 144, Rule 903 or Rule 904 and in compliance with the transfer restrictions contained in the Indenture and any applicable blue sky securities laws of any State of the United States and (ii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act. Upon consummation of the proposed Transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Definitive Note will not be subject to the restrictions
 
on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the Restricted Global Notes or Restricted Definitive Notes and in the Indenture.
 
This certificate and the statements contained herein are made for your benefit and the benefit of the Company.
 
 
 
 
 
 
in accordance with the terms of the Indenture.
 
Sprint Nextel Corporation
6200 Sprint Parkway
Overland Park, KS 66251
Facsimile: (913) 523-9802
Attention: General Counsel
The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A.
2 N. LaSalle Street, Suite 1020
Chicago, IL 60602
Facsimile: (312) 827-8542
Attention: Corporate Trust Administration
Re: 9.000% Guaranteed Notes due 2018
Reference is hereby made to the Indenture, dated as of November 20, 2006 (the ""), among Sprint Nextel Corporation, a Kansas corporation (the "") and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A. (n/k/a The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A.) (the ""), as supplemented by the Second Supplemental Indenture, dated as of November 9, 2011 among the Company, the Subsidiary Guarantors named therein and the Trustee. Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Indenture.
Indenture
Company
Trustee
                     (the "") owns and proposes to exchange the 2018 Guaranteed Note[s] or interest in such 2018 Guaranteed Note[s] specified herein, in the principal amount at maturity of $         in such 2018 Guaranteed Note[s] or interests (the ""). In connection with the Exchange, the Owner hereby certifies that:
Owner
Exchange
1. Exchange of Restricted Definitive Notes or Beneficial Interests in a Restricted Global Note for Unrestricted Definitive Notes or Beneficial Interests in an Unrestricted Global Note
        (a) . In connection with the Exchange of the Owner's beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note in an equal principal amount at maturity, the Owner hereby certifies (i) the beneficial interest is being acquired for the Owner's own account without transfer, (ii) such Exchange has been effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to the Global Notes and pursuant to and in accordance with the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ""), (iii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act and (iv) the beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note is being acquired in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States.
Check if Exchange is from beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note to beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note
Securities Act
        (b) . In connection with the Exchange
Check if Exchange is from beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note to Unrestricted Definitive Note
 
of the Owner's beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note for an Unrestricted Definitive Note, the Owner hereby certifies (i) the Definitive Note is being acquired for the Owner's own account without transfer, (ii) such Exchange has been effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to the Restricted Global Notes and pursuant to and in accordance with the Securities Act, (iii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act and (iv) the Definitive Note is being acquired in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States.
        (c) . In connection with the Owner's Exchange of a Restricted Definitive Note for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note, the Owner hereby certifies (i) the beneficial interest is being acquired for the Owner's own account without transfer, (ii) such Exchange has been effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to Restricted Definitive Notes and pursuant to and in accordance with the Securities Act, (iii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act and (iv) the beneficial interest is being acquired in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States.
Check if Exchange is from Restricted Definitive Note to beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note
        (d) . In connection with the Owner's Exchange of a Restricted Definitive Note for an Unrestricted Definitive Note, the Owner hereby certifies (i) the Unrestricted Definitive Note is being acquired for the Owner's own account without transfer, (ii) such Exchange has been effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to Restricted Definitive Notes and pursuant to and in accordance with the Securities Act, (iii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act and (iv) the Unrestricted Definitive Note is being acquired in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States.
Check if Exchange is from Restricted Definitive Note to Unrestricted Definitive Note
2. Exchange of Restricted Definitive Notes or Beneficial Interests in Restricted Global Notes for Restricted Definitive Notes or Beneficial Interests in Restricted Global Notes
        (a) . In connection with the Exchange of the Owner's beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note for a Restricted Definitive Note with an equal principal amount at maturity, the Owner hereby certifies that the Restricted Definitive Note is being acquired for the Owner's own account without transfer. Upon consummation of the proposed Exchange in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the Restricted Definitive Note issued will continue to be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the Restricted Definitive Note and in the Indenture and the Securities Act.
Check if Exchange is from beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note to Restricted Definitive Note
 
        (b) . In connection with the Exchange of the Owner's Restricted Definitive Note for a beneficial interest in the [CHECK ONE] :
Check if Exchange is from Restricted Definitive Note to beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note
 
 
with an equal principal amount at maturity, the Owner hereby certifies (i) the beneficial interest is being acquired for the Owner's own account without transfer and (ii) such Exchange has been effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to the Restricted Global Notes and pursuant to and in accordance with the Securities Act, and in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States. Upon consummation of the proposed Exchange in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the beneficial interest issued will be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the relevant Restricted Global Note and in the Indenture and the Securities Act.
This certificate and the statements contained herein are made for your benefit and the benefit of the Company.
 
 
Sprint Nextel Corporation
6200 Sprint Parkway
Overland Park, KS 66251
Facsimile: (913) 523-9802
Attention: General Counsel
The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A.
2 N. LaSalle Street, Suite 1020
Chicago, IL 60602
Facsimile: (312) 827-8542
Attention: Corporate Trust Administration
Re: 9.000% Guaranteed Notes due 2018
Reference is hereby made to the Indenture, dated as of November 20, 2006 (the ""), among Sprint Nextel Corporation, a Kansas corporation (the "") and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A. (n/k/a The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A.) (the ""), as supplemented by the Second Supplemental Indenture, dated as of November 9, 2011 among the Company, the Subsidiary Guarantors named therein and the Trustee. Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Indenture.
Indenture
Company
Trustee
In connection with our proposed purchase of $        aggregate principal amount of:
 
we confirm that:
1. We understand that any subsequent transfer of the 2018 Guaranteed Notes or any interest therein is subject to certain restrictions and conditions set forth in the Indenture and the undersigned agrees to be bound by, and not to resell, pledge or otherwise transfer the Notes or any interest therein except in compliance with, such restrictions and conditions and the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "").
Securities Act
2. We understand that the offer and sale of the 2018 Guaranteed Notes have not been registered under the Securities Act, and that the 2018 Guaranteed Notes and any interest therein may not be offered or sold except as permitted in the following sentence. We agree, on our own behalf and on behalf of any accounts for which we are acting as hereinafter stated, that if we should sell the Notes or any interest therein, we shall do so only (A) to the Company or any subsidiary thereof, (B) in accordance with Rule 144A under the Securities Act to a "qualified institutional buyer" (as defined therein), (C) to an institutional "accredited investor" (as defined below) that, prior to such transfer, furnishes (or has furnished on its behalf by a U.S. broker-dealer) to the Trustee and to the Company a signed letter substantially in the form of this letter and an Opinion of Counsel in form reasonably acceptable to the Company to the effect that such transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act, (D) outside the United States in accordance
 
with Rule 904 of Regulation S under the Securities Act, (E) pursuant to the provisions of Rule 144(k) under the Securities Act or (F) pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act, and we further agree to provide to any person purchasing the Definitive Note or beneficial interest in a Global Note from us in a transaction meeting the requirements of clauses (A) through (E) of this paragraph a notice advising such purchaser that resales thereof are restricted as stated herein.
3. We understand that, on any proposed resale of the 2018 Guaranteed Notes or beneficial interest therein, we will be required to furnish to the Trustee and the Company such certifications, legal opinions and other information as you and the Company may reasonably require to confirm that the proposed sale complies with the foregoing restrictions. We further understand that the Notes purchased by us will bear a legend to the foregoing effect.
4. We are an institutional "accredited investor" (as defined in Rule 501(a)(1), (2), (3) or (7) of Regulation D under the Securities Act) and have such knowledge and experience in financial and business matters as to be capable of evaluating the merits and risks of our investment in the Notes, and we and any accounts for which we are acting are each able to bear the economic risk of our or its investment.
5. We are acquiring the Notes or beneficial interest therein purchased by us for our own account or for one or more accounts (each of which is an institutional "accredited investor") as to each of which we exercise sole investment discretion.
The Trustee and the Company are entitled to rely upon this letter and are irrevocably authorized to produce this letter or a copy hereof to any interested party in any administrative or legal proceedings or official inquiry with respect to the matters covered hereby.
 
 

Exhibit 4.4
 
This REGISTRATION RIGHTS AGREEMENT dated November 9, 2011 (this "") is entered into by and among Sprint Nextel Corporation, a Kansas corporation (the ""), and J.P. Morgan Securities LLC ("") and each of the other initial purchasers named in Schedule A hereto (collectively the "") for whom J.P. Morgan is acting as representative (the "").
Agreement
Company
J.P. Morgan
Initial Purchasers
Representative
The Company and the Initial Purchasers are parties to the Purchase Agreement dated November 4, 2011 (the ""), which provides, among other things, for the sale by the Company to the Initial Purchasers of $3,000,000,000 aggregate principal amount of its 9.000% notes due 2018 and $1,000,000,000 aggregate principal amount of its 11.500% notes due 2021 (the ""). As an inducement to the Initial Purchasers to enter into the Purchase Agreement, the Company has agreed to provide to the Initial Purchasers and their direct and indirect transferees the registration rights set forth in this Agreement. The execution and delivery of this Agreement is a condition to the closing under the Purchase Agreement. Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Purchase Agreement.
Purchase Agreement
Securities
In consideration of the foregoing, the parties hereto agree as follows:
1. . As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
Definitions
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble.
Agreement
"" shall mean any day that is not a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which commercial banks in New York City are authorized or required by law to remain closed.
Business Day
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble and shall also include the Company's successors.
Company
"" shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time.
Exchange Act
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2(a)(ii) hereof.
Exchange Dates
"" shall mean the exchange offer by the Company of Exchange Securities for Registrable Securities pursuant to Section 2(a) hereof.
Exchange Offer
"" shall mean a registration under the Securities Act effected pursuant to Section 2(a) hereof.
Exchange Offer Registration
"" shall mean an exchange offer registration statement on Form S-4 (or, if applicable, on another appropriate form) and all amendments and supplements to such registration statement, in each case including the Prospectus contained therein or deemed a part thereof, all exhibits thereto and any document incorporated by reference therein.
Exchange Offer Registration Statement
 
"" shall mean senior notes issued by the Company under the Indenture containing terms identical to the Securities (except that the Exchange Securities will not be subject to restrictions on transfer or to any increase in annual interest rate for failure to comply with this Agreement) and to be offered to Holders of Securities in exchange for Securities pursuant to the Exchange Offer.
Exchange Securities
"" means the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc.
FINRA
"" means each free writing prospectus (as defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act) prepared by or on behalf of the Company or used or referred to by the Company in connection with the sale of the Securities or the Exchange Securities.
Free Writing Prospectus
"" shall mean the Initial Purchasers, for so long as they own any Registrable Securities, and each of their successors, assigns and direct and indirect transferees who become owners of Registrable Securities under the Indenture; that, for purposes of Section 4 and Section 5 hereof, the term "Holders" shall include Participating Broker-Dealers.
Holders
provided
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5(c) hereof.
Indemnified Person
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5(c) hereof.
Indemnifying Person
"" shall mean the Indenture relating to the Securities dated as of November 20, 2006 among the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as trustee, as supplemented by the supplemental indenture relating to the Securities, dated as of November 9, 2011, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as trustee, and as the same may be amended from time to time in accordance with the terms thereof.
Indenture
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble.
Initial Purchasers
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3(a)(xiv) hereof.
Inspector
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5(a) hereof.
Issuer Information
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble.
J.P. Morgan
"" shall mean the Holders of a majority of the aggregate principal amount of the outstanding Registrable Securities; that whenever the consent or approval of Holders of a specified percentage of Registrable Securities is required hereunder, any Registrable Securities owned directly or indirectly by the Company or any of its affiliates (within the meaning of Rule 405 under the Securities Act) shall not be counted in determining whether such consent or approval was given by the Holders of such required percentage or amount; and , , that if the Company shall issue any additional Securities under the Indenture prior to consummation of the Exchange Offer or, if applicable, the effectiveness of any Shelf Registration Statement, such additional Securities and the Registrable Securities to which this Agreement relates shall be treated together as one class for purposes of determining whether the consent or approval of Holders of a specified percentage of Registrable Securities has been obtained.
Majority Holders
provided
provided
further
 
"" shall mean a notice of registration statement and selling security holder questionnaire distributed to a Holder by the Company upon receipt of a Shelf Request from such Holder.
Notice and Questionnaire
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof.
Participating Broker-Dealers
"" shall mean any Holder of Registrable Securities that has returned a completed and signed Notice and Questionnaire to the Company in accordance with Section 2(b) hereof.
Participating Holder
"" shall mean an individual, partnership, limited liability company, corporation, trust or unincorporated organization, or a government or agency or political subdivision thereof.
Person
"" shall mean the prospectus included in, or, pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities Act, deemed a part of, a Registration Statement, including any preliminary prospectus, and any such prospectus as amended or supplemented by any prospectus supplement, including a prospectus supplement with respect to the terms of the offering of any portion of the Registrable Securities covered by a Shelf Registration Statement, and all other amendments and supplements to such prospectus, and in each case including any document incorporated by reference therein.
Prospectus
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble.
Purchase Agreement
"" shall mean the Securities; that the Securities shall cease to be Registrable Securities (i) when a Registration Statement with respect to such Securities has become effective under the Securities Act and such Securities have been exchanged or disposed of pursuant to such Registration Statement, (ii) when such Securities cease to be outstanding, (iii) except in the case of Securities that otherwise remain Registrable Securities and that are held by an Initial Purchaser and that are ineligible to be exchanged in the Exchange Offer, when the Exchange Offer is consummated or (iv) when such Securities have been sold to the public pursuant to Rule 144 (or any similar provision then in force, but not Rule 144A).
Registrable Securities
provided
"" shall mean the occurrence of any of the following: (i) the Exchange Offer is not completed on or prior to the Target Registration Date, (ii) the Shelf Registration Statement, if required pursuant to Section 2(b)(i) or Section 2(b)(ii) hereof, has not become effective on or prior to the Target Registration Date, (iii) if the Company receives valid a Shelf Request pursuant to Section 2(b)(iii), the Shelf Registration Statement required to be filed thereby has not become effective by the later of (a) the Target Registration Date and (b) 90 days after delivery of such Shelf Request, or (iv) the Shelf Registration Statement, if required by this Agreement, has become effective and thereafter ceases to be effective or the Prospectus contained therein ceases to be usable, in each case whether or not permitted by this Agreement, at any time during the Shelf Effectiveness Period, and such failure to remain effective or usable exists for more than 45 days (whether or not consecutive) in any 12-month period.
Registration Default
"" shall mean any and all expenses incident to performance of or compliance by the Company with this Agreement, including without limitation: (i) all SEC, stock exchange or FINRA registration and filing fees, (ii) all fees and expenses incurred in connection with compliance with state securities or blue sky laws (including reasonable and
Registration Expenses
 
documented fees and disbursements of one counsel for any Underwriters or Holders in connection with blue sky qualification of any Exchange Securities or Registrable Securities), (iii) all expenses of any Persons in preparing or assisting in preparing, word processing, printing and distributing any Registration Statement, any Prospectus, any Free Writing Prospectus and any amendments or supplements thereto, any underwriting agreements, securities sales agreements or other similar agreements and any other documents relating to the performance of and compliance with this Agreement provided that such Persons have been appointed by the Company or with prior approval of the Company, (iv) all rating agency fees, (v) all fees and disbursements relating to the qualification of the Indenture under applicable securities laws, (vi) the reasonable and documented fees and disbursements of the Trustee and its counsel in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, (vii) the reasonable and documented fees and disbursements of counsel for the Company and, in the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, the reasonable and documented fees and disbursements of one counsel for the Participating Holders (which counsel shall be selected by the Participating Holders holding a majority of the aggregate principal amount of Registrable Securities held by such Participating Holders and which counsel may also be counsel for the Initial Purchasers) and (viii) the reasonable and documented fees and disbursements of the independent registered public accountants of the Company, including the expenses of any special audits or "comfort" letters required by or incident to the performance of and compliance with this Agreement, but excluding fees and expenses of counsel to the Underwriters (other than fees and expenses set forth in clause (ii) above) or the Holders and underwriting discounts and commissions, brokerage commissions and transfer taxes, if any, relating to the sale or disposition of Registrable Securities by a Holder.
"" shall mean any registration statement of the Company that covers any of the Exchange Securities or Registrable Securities pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement and all amendments and supplements to any such registration statement, including post-effective amendments, in each case including the Prospectus contained therein or deemed a part thereof, all exhibits thereto and any document incorporated by reference therein.
Registration Statement
"" shall mean the United States Securities and Exchange Commission.
SEC
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble.
Securities
"" shall mean the Securities Act of 1933, as amended from time to time.
Securities Act
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2(b) hereof.
Shelf Effectiveness Period
"" shall mean a registration effected pursuant to Section 2(b) hereof.
Shelf Registration
"" shall mean a "shelf" registration statement of the Company that covers all or a portion of the Registrable Securities (but no other securities unless approved by a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities held by the Participating Holders) on an appropriate form under Rule 415 under the Securities Act, or any similar rule that may be adopted by the SEC, and all amendments and supplements to such registration statement, including post-effective amendments, in each case including the Prospectus contained therein or deemed a part thereof, all exhibits thereto and any document incorporated by reference therein.
Shelf Registration Statement
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2(b) hereof.
Shelf Request
 
"" shall mean the staff of the SEC.
Staff
"" shall mean September 19, 2012.
Target Registration Date
"" shall mean the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended from time to time.
Trust Indenture Act
"" shall mean the trustee with respect to the Securities under the Indenture.
Trustee
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3(e) hereof.
Underwriter
"" shall mean an offering in which Registrable Securities are sold to an Underwriter for reoffering to the public.
Underwritten Offering
2. . (a) To the extent not prohibited by any applicable law or applicable interpretations of the Staff, the Company shall use its reasonable best efforts to (x) cause to be filed an Exchange Offer Registration Statement covering an offer to the Holders to exchange all the Registrable Securities for Exchange Securities and (y) have such Registration Statement become and remain effective until 180 days after the last Exchange Date for use by one or more Participating Broker-Dealers. The Company shall commence the Exchange Offer promptly after the Exchange Offer Registration Statement is declared effective by the SEC and use its reasonable best efforts to complete the Exchange Offer not later than 60 days after such effective date.
Registration Under the Securities Act
The Company shall commence the Exchange Offer by mailing or electronically delivering, pursuant to procedures of the depositary, the related Prospectus, appropriate letters of transmittal and other accompanying documents to each Holder stating, in addition to such other disclosures as are required by applicable law, substantially the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
As a condition to participating in the Exchange Offer, a Holder will be required to represent to the Company that (1) any Exchange Securities to be received by it will be acquired in the ordinary course of its business, (2) at the time of the commencement of the Exchange Offer it has no arrangement or understanding with any Person to participate in the distribution (within the meaning of the Securities Act) of the Exchange Securities in violation of the provisions of the Securities Act, (3) it is not an "affiliate" (within the meaning of Rule 405 under the Securities Act) of the Company and (4) if such Holder is a broker-dealer that will receive Exchange Securities for its own account in exchange for Registrable Securities that were acquired as a result of market-making or other trading activities, then such Holder will deliver a Prospectus (or, to the extent permitted by law, make available a Prospectus to purchasers) in connection with any resale of such Exchange Securities.
As soon as practicable after the last Exchange Date, the Company shall:
 
 
The Company shall use its reasonable best efforts to complete the Exchange Offer as provided above and shall comply with the applicable requirements of the Securities Act, the Exchange Act and other applicable laws and regulations in connection with the Exchange Offer. The Exchange Offer shall not be subject to any conditions, other than that the Exchange Offer does not violate any applicable law or applicable interpretations of the Staff.
(b) In the event that (i) the Company determines that the Exchange Offer Registration provided for in Section 2(a) hereof is not available or the Exchange Offer may not be completed as soon as practicable after the last Exchange Date because it would violate any applicable law or applicable interpretations of the Staff, (ii) the Exchange Offer is not for any other reason completed by the Target Registration Date or (iii) upon receipt of a written request (a "") from any Initial Purchaser representing that it holds Registrable Securities that are or were ineligible to be exchanged in the Exchange Offer, the Company shall use its reasonable best efforts to cause to be filed as soon as practicable after such determination, date or Shelf Request, as the case may be, a Shelf Registration Statement providing for the sale of all the Registrable Securities by the Holders thereof and to have such Shelf Registration Statement become effective; that no Holder will be entitled to have any Registrable Securities included in any Shelf Registration Statement, or entitled to use the prospectus forming a part of such Shelf
Shelf Request
provided
 
Registration Statement, until such Holder shall have delivered a completed and signed Notice and Questionnaire and provided such other information regarding such Holder to the Company as is contemplated by Section 3(b) hereof.
In the event that the Company is required to file a Shelf Registration Statement pursuant to clause (iii) of the preceding sentence, the Company shall use its reasonable best efforts to file and have become effective both an Exchange Offer Registration Statement pursuant to Section 2(a) hereof with respect to all Registrable Securities and a Shelf Registration Statement (which may be a combined Registration Statement with the Exchange Offer Registration Statement) with respect to offers and sales of Registrable Securities held by the Initial Purchasers after completion of the Exchange Offer.
The Company agrees to use its reasonable best efforts to keep the Shelf Registration Statement continuously effective until the Securities cease to be Registrable Securities (the "). The Company further agrees to supplement or amend the Shelf Registration Statement, the related Prospectus and any Free Writing Prospectus if required by the rules, regulations or instructions applicable to the registration form used by the Company for such Shelf Registration Statement or by the Securities Act or by any other rules and regulations thereunder or if reasonably requested by a Holder of Registrable Securities with respect to information relating to such Holder, and to use its reasonable best efforts to cause any such amendment to become effective, if required, and such Shelf Registration Statement, Prospectus or Free Writing Prospectus, as the case may be, to become usable as soon as thereafter practicable. The Company agrees to furnish to the Participating Holders copies of any such supplement or amendment promptly after its being used or filed with the SEC. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company shall not be required to file more than one post-effective amendment to the Shelf Registration Statement in any fiscal quarter, such timing to be determined in the reasonable discretion of the Company, to add one or more Holders to the "Selling Securityholders" table of the Shelf Registration Statement or to update any information in such table.
Shelf Effectiveness Period"
(c) The Company shall pay all Registration Expenses in connection with any registration pursuant to Section 2(a) or Section 2(b) hereof. Each Holder shall pay all underwriting discounts and commissions, brokerage commissions and transfer taxes, if any, relating to the sale or disposition of such Holder's Registrable Securities pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement.
(d) An Exchange Offer Registration Statement pursuant to Section 2(a) hereof will not be deemed to have become effective unless it has been declared effective by the SEC. A Shelf Registration Statement pursuant to Section 2(b) hereof will not be deemed to have become effective unless it has been declared effective by the SEC or is automatically effective upon filing with the SEC as provided by Rule 462 under the Securities Act.
If a Registration Default occurs, the interest rate on the Registrable Securities will be increased by (i) 0.25% per annum for the first 90-day period beginning on the day immediately following such Registration Default and (ii) an additional 0.25% per annum with respect to each subsequent 90-day period, in each case until and including the date such Registration Default ends, up to a maximum increase of 0.50% per annum (the ""). A Registration
Additional Interest
 
Default ends when the Securities cease to be Registrable Securities or, if earlier, (1) in the case of a Registration Default under clause (i) of the definition thereof, when the Exchange Offer is completed or when a Shelf Registration Statement becomes effective, (2) in the case of a Registration Default under clause (ii) or clause (iii) of the definition thereof, when the Shelf Registration Statement becomes effective or (3) in the case of a Registration Default under clause (iv) or clause (v) of the definition thereof, when the Shelf Registration Statement again becomes effective or the Prospectus again becomes usable. If at any time more than one Registration Default has occurred and is continuing, then, until the next date that there is no Registration Default, the increase in interest rate provided for by this paragraph shall apply as if there occurred a single Registration Default that begins on the date that the earliest such Registration Default occurred and ends on such next date that there is no Registration Default.
Any increase in interest will be payable in cash semiannually in arrears on the same interest payment dates as the Securities, commencing with the first interest payment date occurring after any such Additional Interest commences to accrue.
(e) Without limiting the remedies available to the Initial Purchasers and the Holders, the Company acknowledges that any failure by the Company to comply with its obligations under Section 2(a) and Section 2(b) hereof may result in material irreparable injury to the Initial Purchasers or the Holders for which there is no adequate remedy at law, that it will not be possible to measure damages for such injuries precisely and that, in the event of any such failure, the Initial Purchasers or any Holder may obtain such relief as may be required to specifically enforce the Company's obligations under Section 2(a) and Section 2(b) hereof.
3. . (a) In connection with their obligations pursuant to Section 2(a) and Section 2(b) hereof, the Company shall use reasonable best efforts to:
Registration Procedures
(i) prepare and file with the SEC a Registration Statement on the appropriate form under the Securities Act, which form (A) shall be selected by the Company, (B) shall, in the case of a Shelf Registration, be available for the sale of the Registrable Securities by the Holders thereof and (C) shall comply as to form in all material respects with the requirements of the applicable form and include all financial statements required by the SEC to be filed therewith; and use its reasonable best efforts to cause such Registration Statement to become effective and remain effective for the applicable period in accordance with Section 2 hereof;
(ii) prepare and file with the SEC such amendments and post-effective amendments to each Registration Statement as may be necessary to keep such Registration Statement effective for the applicable period in accordance with Section 2 hereof and cause each Prospectus to be supplemented by any required prospectus supplement and, as so supplemented, to be filed pursuant to Rule 424 under the Securities Act; and keep each Prospectus current during the period described in Section 4(3) of and Rule 174 under the Securities Act that is applicable to transactions by brokers or dealers with respect to the Registrable Securities or Exchange Securities;
(iii) to the extent any Free Writing Prospectus is used, file with the SEC any Free Writing Prospectus that is required to be filed by the Company with the SEC in accordance with the Securities Act and to retain any Free Writing Prospectus not required to be filed;
 
(iv) in the case of a Shelf Registration, furnish to each Participating Holder, to counsel for the Initial Purchasers, to counsel for such Participating Holders and to each Underwriter of an Underwritten Offering of Registrable Securities, if any, without charge, as many copies of each Prospectus, preliminary prospectus or Free Writing Prospectus, and any amendment or supplement thereto, as such Participating Holder, counsel or Underwriter may reasonably request in order to facilitate the sale or other disposition of the Registrable Securities thereunder; and, subject to Section 3(c) hereof, the Company consents to the use of such Prospectus, preliminary prospectus or such Free Writing Prospectus and any amendment or supplement thereto in accordance with applicable law by each of the Participating Holders and any such Underwriters in connection with the offering and sale of the Registrable Securities covered by and in the manner described in such Prospectus, preliminary prospectus or such Free Writing Prospectus or any amendment or supplement thereto in accordance with applicable law;
(v) use its reasonable best efforts to register or qualify the Registrable Securities under all applicable state securities or blue sky laws of such jurisdictions as any Participating Holder shall reasonably request in writing by the time the applicable Registration Statement becomes effective; cooperate with such Participating Holders in connection with any filings required to be made with FINRA; and do any and all other acts and things that may be reasonably necessary or advisable to enable each Participating Holder to complete the disposition in each such jurisdiction of the Registrable Securities owned by such Participating Holder; that the Company shall not be required to (1) qualify as a foreign corporation or other entity or as a dealer in securities in any such jurisdiction where it would not otherwise be required to so qualify, (2) file any general consent to service of process in any such jurisdiction or (3) subject itself to taxation in any such jurisdiction if it is not so subject;
provided
(vi) notify counsel for the Initial Purchasers and, in the case of a Shelf Registration, notify each Participating Holder and counsel for such Participating Holders promptly and, if requested by any such Participating Holder or counsel, confirm such advice in writing (1) when a Registration Statement has become effective, when any post-effective amendment thereto has been filed and becomes effective, when any Free Writing Prospectus has been filed or any amendment or supplement to the Prospectus or any Free Writing Prospectus has been filed, (2) of any request by the SEC or any state securities authority for amendments and supplements to a Registration Statement, Prospectus or any Free Writing Prospectus or for additional information after the Registration Statement has become effective, (3) of the issuance by the SEC or any state securities authority of any stop order suspending the effectiveness of a Registration Statement or the initiation of any proceedings for that purpose, including the receipt by the Company of any notice of objection of the SEC to the use of a Shelf Registration Statement or any post-effective amendment thereto pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) under the Securities Act, (4) if, between the applicable effective date of a Shelf Registration Statement and the closing of any sale of Registrable Securities covered thereby, the representations and warranties of the Company contained in any underwriting agreement, securities sales agreement or other similar agreement, if any, relating to an offering of such Registrable Securities cease to be true and correct in all material respects or if the Company receives any notification with respect to the suspension of the qualification of the Registrable Securities for sale in any jurisdiction or the initiation of any proceeding for such purpose, (5) of the happening of any event during the period a Registration Statement is effective that makes any statement made in such Registration Statement or the related Prospectus or any Free Writing Prospectus untrue in any material respect or that requires
 
the making of any changes in such Registration Statement or Prospectus or any Free Writing Prospectus in order to make the statements therein not misleading and (6) of any determination by the Company that a post-effective amendment to a Registration Statement (other than an amendment that does nothing more substantive than add one or more Holders to the "Selling Securityholders" table of such Registration Statement or to update any information set forth in such table) or any amendment or supplement to the Prospectus or any Free Writing Prospectus would be appropriate;
(vii) use its reasonable best efforts to obtain the withdrawal of any order suspending the effectiveness of a Registration Statement or, in the case of a Shelf Registration, the resolution of any objection of the SEC pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) under the Securities Act, including by filing an amendment to such Registration Statement on the proper form, at the earliest possible moment and provide immediate notice to each Holder or Participating Holder of the withdrawal of any such order or such resolution;
(viii) in the case of a Shelf Registration, furnish to each Participating Holder, without charge, at least one conformed copy of each Registration Statement and any post-effective amendment thereto (without any documents incorporated therein by reference or exhibits thereto, unless requested);
(ix) in the case of a Shelf Registration, cooperate with the Participating Holders to facilitate the timely preparation and delivery of certificates representing Registrable Securities to be sold and not bearing any restrictive legends and enable such Registrable Securities to be issued in such denominations and registered in such names (consistent with the provisions of the Indenture) as such Participating Holders may reasonably request at least one Business Day prior to the closing of any sale of Registrable Securities;
(x) upon the occurrence of any event contemplated by Section 3(a)(vi)(5) hereof, use its reasonable best efforts to prepare and file with the SEC a supplement or post-effective amendment to the applicable Exchange Offer Registration Statement or Shelf Registration Statement or the related Prospectus or any Free Writing Prospectus or any document incorporated therein by reference or file any other required document so that, as thereafter delivered (or, to the extent permitted by law, made available) to purchasers of the Registrable Securities, such Prospectus or Free Writing Prospectus, as the case may be, will not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; and the Company shall notify the Participating Holders (in the case of a Shelf Registration Statement) and the Initial Purchasers and any Participating Broker-Dealers known to the Company (in the case of an Exchange Offer Registration Statement) to suspend use of the Prospectus or any Free Writing Prospectus as promptly as practicable after the occurrence of such an event, and such Participating Holders, such Participating Broker-Dealers and the Initial Purchasers, as applicable, hereby agree to suspend use of the Prospectus or any Free Writing Prospectus, as the case may be, until the Company has amended or supplemented the Prospectus or the Free Writing Prospectus, as the case may be, to correct such misstatement or omission;
(xi) a reasonable time prior to the filing of any Registration Statement, any Prospectus, any Free Writing Prospectus, any amendment to a Registration Statement or
 
amendment or supplement to a Prospectus or a Free Writing Prospectus or of any document that is to be incorporated by reference into a Registration Statement, a Prospectus or a Free Writing Prospectus after initial filing of a Registration Statement, provide copies of such document to the Initial Purchasers and their counsel (and, in the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, to the Participating Holders and their counsel) and make such of the representatives of the Company as shall be reasonably requested by the Initial Purchasers or their counsel (and, in the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, the Participating Holders or their counsel) available for discussion of such document; and the Company shall not, at any time after initial filing of a Registration Statement, use or file any Prospectus, any Free Writing Prospectus, any amendment of or supplement to a Registration Statement or a Prospectus or a Free Writing Prospectus, or any document that is to be incorporated by reference into a Registration Statement (other than filings not related specifically to the Securities pursuant to the Exchange Act), a Prospectus or a Free Writing Prospectus, of which the Initial Purchasers and their counsel (and, in the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, the Participating Holders and their counsel) shall not have previously been advised and furnished a copy or to which the Initial Purchasers or their counsel (and, in the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, the Participating Holders or their counsel) shall object;
(xii) obtain a CUSIP number for all Exchange Securities or Registrable Securities, as the case may be, not later than the initial effective date of a Registration Statement;
(xii) in the case of a Shelf Registration, make available for inspection by a representative of the Participating Holders (an ""), any Underwriter participating in any disposition pursuant to such Shelf Registration Statement, any attorneys and accountants designated by a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities held by the Participating Holders and any attorneys and accountants designated by such Underwriter, at reasonable times and in a reasonable manner, all pertinent financial and other records, documents and properties of the Company and its subsidiaries, and cause the respective officers, directors and employees of the Company to supply all information reasonably requested by any such Inspector, Underwriter, attorney or accountant in connection with a Shelf Registration Statement; that if any such information is identified by the Company as being confidential or proprietary, each Person receiving such information shall take such actions as are reasonably necessary to protect the confidentiality of such information to the extent such action is otherwise not inconsistent with, an impairment of or in derogation of the rights and interests of any Inspector, Holder or Underwriter;
Inspector
provided
(xiv) in the case of a Shelf Registration, use its reasonable best efforts to cause all Registrable Securities to be listed on any securities exchange or any automated quotation system on which similar debt securities issued or guaranteed by the Company are then listed if requested by the Majority Holders, to the extent such Registrable Securities satisfy applicable listing requirements;
(xv) if reasonably requested by any Participating Holder, promptly include in a Prospectus supplement or post-effective amendment such information with respect to such Participating Holder as such Participating Holder reasonably requests to be included therein and make all required filings of such Prospectus supplement or such post-effective amendment as soon as the Company has received notification of the matters to be so included in such filing; and
 
(xvi) in the case of a Shelf Registration, enter into such customary agreements and take all such other actions in connection therewith (including those requested by the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Registrable Securities covered by the Shelf Registration Statement) in order to expedite or facilitate the disposition of such Registrable Securities including, but not limited to, an Underwritten Offering and in such connection, (1) to the extent possible, make such representations and warranties to the Participating Holders and any Underwriters of such Registrable Securities with respect to the business of the Company and its subsidiaries and the Registration Statement, Prospectus, any Free Writing Prospectus and documents incorporated by reference or deemed incorporated by reference, if any, in each case, in form, substance and scope as are customarily made by issuers to underwriters in underwritten offerings and confirm the same if and when requested, (2) obtain opinions of counsel to the Company (which counsel and opinions, in form, scope and substance, shall be reasonably satisfactory to the Participating Holders and such Underwriters and their respective counsel) addressed to each Participating Holder (to whom a "comfort" letter is addressed) and Underwriter of Registrable Securities, covering the matters customarily covered in opinions requested in underwritten offerings, (3) obtain "comfort" letters from the independent registered public accountants of the Company (and, if necessary, any other registered public accountant of any subsidiary of the Company, or of any business acquired by the Company for which financial statements and financial data are or are required to be included in the Registration Statement) addressed to each Participating Holder (to the extent permitted by applicable professional standards) and Underwriter of Registrable Securities, such letters to be in customary form and covering matters of the type customarily covered in "comfort" letters in connection with underwritten offerings, including but not limited to financial information contained in any preliminary prospectus, Prospectus or Free Writing Prospectus and (4) deliver such documents and certificates as may be reasonably requested by the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Registrable Securities being sold or the Underwriters, and which are customarily delivered in underwritten offerings, to evidence the continued validity of the representations and warranties of the Company made pursuant to clause (1) above and to evidence compliance with any customary conditions contained in an underwriting agreement.
(b) In the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, the Company may require each Holder of Registrable Securities to furnish to the Company a Notice and Questionnaire and such other information regarding such Holder and the proposed disposition by such Holder of such Registrable Securities as the Company may from time to time reasonably request in writing.
(c) Each Participating Holder agrees that, upon receipt of any notice from the Company of the happening of any event of the kind described in Section 3(a)(vi)(3) or Section 3(a)(vi)(5) hereof, such Participating Holder will forthwith discontinue disposition of Registrable Securities pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement until such Participating Holder's receipt of the copies of the supplemented or amended Prospectus and any Free Writing Prospectus contemplated by Section 3(a)(x) hereof and, if so directed by the Company, such Participating Holder will deliver to the Company all copies in its possession, other than permanent file copies then in such Participating Holder's possession, of the Prospectus and any Free Writing Prospectus covering such Registrable Securities that is current at the time of receipt of such notice.
 
(d) If the Company shall give any notice to suspend the disposition of Registrable Securities pursuant to a Registration Statement, the Company shall extend the period during which such Registration Statement shall be maintained effective pursuant to this Agreement by the number of days during the period from and including the date of the giving of such notice to and including the date when the Holders of such Registrable Securities shall have received copies of the supplemented or amended Prospectus or any Free Writing Prospectus necessary to resume such dispositions. Any such suspensions shall not exceed 45 days during any 365-day period.
4. . (a) The Staff has taken the position that any broker-dealer that receives Exchange Securities for its own account in the Exchange Offer in exchange for Securities that were acquired by such broker-dealer as a result of market-making or other trading activities (a "") may be deemed to be an "underwriter" within the meaning of the Securities Act and must deliver a prospectus meeting the requirements of the Securities Act in connection with any resale of such Exchange Securities.
Participation of Broker-Dealers in Exchange Offer
Participating Broker-Dealer
The Company understands that it is the Staff's position that if the Prospectus contained in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement includes a plan of distribution containing a statement to the above effect and the means by which Participating Broker-Dealers may resell the Exchange Securities, without naming the Participating Broker-Dealers or specifying the amount of Exchange Securities owned by them, such Prospectus may be delivered by Participating Broker-Dealers (or, to the extent permitted by law, made available to purchasers) to satisfy their prospectus delivery obligation under the Securities Act in connection with resales of Exchange Securities for their own accounts, so long as the Prospectus otherwise meets the requirements of the Securities Act.
(b) In light of the above, and notwithstanding the other provisions of this Agreement, the Company agrees to amend or supplement the Prospectus contained in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement for a period of up to 180 days after the last Exchange Date (as such period may be extended pursuant to Section 3(d) hereof), in order to expedite or facilitate the disposition of any Exchange Securities by Participating Broker-Dealers consistent with the positions of the Staff recited in Section 4(a) above. The Company further agrees that Participating Broker-Dealers shall be authorized to deliver such Prospectus (or, to the extent permitted by law, make available) during such period in connection with the resales contemplated by this Section 4.
(c) The Initial Purchasers shall have no liability to the Company or any Holder with respect to any request that they may make pursuant to Section 4(b) hereof.
5. . (a) The Company agrees to indemnify and hold harmless each Initial Purchaser and each Holder, their respective affiliates (within the meaning of Rule 405 under the Securities Act), directors and officers and each Person, if any, who controls any Initial Purchaser or any Holder within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act, from and against any and all losses, claims, damages and liabilities (including, without limitation, legal fees and other expenses incurred in connection with any suit, action or proceeding or any claim asserted, as such fees and expenses are incurred), joint or several, that arise out of, or are based upon, (1) any untrue statement or
Indemnification and Contribution
 
alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Registration Statement or any omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein not misleading, or (2) any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Prospectus, any Free Writing Prospectus or any "issuer information" ("") filed or required to be filed pursuant to Rule 433(d) under the Securities Act, or any omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, in each case except insofar as such losses, claims, damages or liabilities arise out of, or are based upon, any untrue statement or omission or alleged untrue statement or omission made in reliance upon and in conformity with any information relating to any Initial Purchaser or information relating to any Holder furnished to the Company in writing through J.P. Morgan or any selling Holder, respectively, expressly for use therein. In connection with any Underwritten Offering permitted by Section 3, the Company will also indemnify the Underwriters, if any, selling brokers, dealers and similar securities industry professionals participating in the distribution, their respective affiliates (within the meaning of Rule 405 under the Securities Act) and each Person who controls such Persons (within the meaning of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act) to the same extent as provided above with respect to the indemnification of the Holders, if requested in connection with any Registration Statement, any Prospectus, any Free Writing Prospectus or any Issuer Information.
Issuer Information
(b) Each Holder agrees, severally and not jointly, to indemnify and hold harmless the Company, the Initial Purchasers and the other selling Holders, the directors of the Company, each officer of the Company who signed the Registration Statement and each Person, if any, who controls the Company, any Initial Purchaser and any other selling Holder within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act to the same extent as the indemnity set forth in paragraph (a) above, but only with respect to any losses, claims, damages or liabilities that arise out of, or are based upon, any untrue statement or omission or alleged untrue statement or omission made in reliance upon and in conformity with any information relating to such Holder furnished to the Company in writing by such Holder expressly for use in any Registration Statement, any Prospectus and any Free Writing Prospectus.
(c) If any suit, action, proceeding (including any governmental or regulatory investigation), claim or demand shall be brought or asserted against any Person in respect of which indemnification may be sought pursuant to either paragraph (a) or (b) above, such Person (the "") shall promptly notify the Person against whom such indemnification may be sought (the "") in writing; that the failure to notify the Indemnifying Person shall not relieve it from any liability that it may have under paragraph (a) or (b) above except to the extent that it has been materially prejudiced (through the forfeiture of substantive rights or defenses) by such failure; and , , that the failure to notify the Indemnifying Person shall not relieve it from any liability that it may have to an Indemnified Person otherwise than under paragraph (a) or (b) above. If any such proceeding shall be brought or asserted against an Indemnified Person and it shall have notified the Indemnifying Person thereof, the Indemnifying Person shall retain counsel reasonably satisfactory to the Indemnified Person to represent the Indemnified Person and any others entitled to indemnification pursuant to this Section 5 that the Indemnifying Person may designate in such proceeding and shall pay the fees and expenses of such proceeding and shall pay the fees and expenses of such counsel related to such proceeding, as incurred. In any such proceeding, any Indemnified Person shall have the
Indemnified Person
Indemnifying Person
provided
provided
further
 
right to retain its own counsel, but the fees and expenses of such counsel shall be at the expense of such Indemnified Person unless (i) the Indemnifying Person and the Indemnified Person shall have mutually agreed to the contrary; (ii) the Indemnifying Person has failed within a reasonable time to retain counsel reasonably satisfactory to the Indemnified Person; (iii) the Indemnified Person shall have reasonably concluded that there may be legal defenses available to it that are different from or in addition to those available to the Indemnifying Person; or (iv) the named parties in any such proceeding (including any impleaded parties) include both the Indemnifying Person and the Indemnified Person and representation of both parties by the same counsel would be inappropriate due to actual or potential differing interests between them. It is understood and agreed that the Indemnifying Person shall not, in connection with any proceeding or related proceeding in the same jurisdiction, be liable for the fees and expenses of more than one separate firm (in addition to any local counsel) for all Indemnified Persons, and that all such fees and expenses shall be reimbursed as they are incurred. Any such separate firm (x) for any Initial Purchaser, its affiliates (within the meaning of Rule 405 under the Securities Act), directors and officers and any control Persons of such Initial Purchaser shall be designated in writing by J.P. Morgan, (y) for any Holder, its directors and officers and any control Persons of such Holder shall be designated in writing by the Majority Holders and (z) in all other cases shall be designated in writing by the Company. The Indemnifying Person shall not be liable for any settlement of any proceeding effected without its written consent, but if settled with such consent or if there be a final judgment for the plaintiff, the Indemnifying Person agrees to indemnify each Indemnified Person from and against any loss or liability by reason of such settlement or judgment. Notwithstanding the foregoing sentence, if at any time an Indemnified Person shall have requested that an Indemnifying Person reimburse the Indemnified Person for fees and expenses of counsel as contemplated by this paragraph, the Indemnifying Person shall be liable for any settlement of any proceeding effected without its written consent if (i) such settlement is entered into more than 30 days after receipt by the Indemnifying Person of such request and (ii) the Indemnifying Person shall not have reimbursed the Indemnified Person in accordance with such request prior to the date of such settlement. No Indemnifying Person shall, without the written consent of the Indemnified Person, effect any settlement of any pending or threatened proceeding in respect of which any Indemnified Person is or could have been a party and indemnification could have been sought hereunder by such Indemnified Person, unless such settlement (A) includes an unconditional release of such Indemnified Person, from all liability on claims that are the subject matter of such proceeding, provided that such unconditional release may be subject to a parallel release by a claimant or plaintiff of such indemnified party and (B) does not include any statement as to or any admission of fault, culpability or a failure to act by or on behalf of any Indemnified Person.
(d) If the indemnification provided for in paragraphs (a) and (b) above is unavailable to an Indemnified Person or insufficient in respect of any losses, claims, damages or liabilities referred to therein, then each Indemnifying Person under such paragraph, in lieu of indemnifying such Indemnified Person thereunder, shall contribute to the amount paid or payable by such Indemnified Person as a result of such losses, claims, damages or liabilities (i) in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by the Company from the offering of the Securities and the Exchange Securities, on the one hand, and by the Holders from receiving Securities or Exchange Securities registered under the Securities Act, on the other hand, or (ii) if the allocation provided by clause (i) is not permitted by applicable law, in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only the relative benefits referred to in clause (i) but also the relative
 
fault of the Company on the one hand and the Holders on the other in connection with the statements or omissions that resulted in such losses, claims, damages or liabilities, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. The relative fault of the Company on the one hand and the Holders on the other shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether the untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or the omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Company or by the Holders and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission.
(e) The Company and the Holders agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 5 were determined by allocation (even if the Holders were treated as one entity for such purpose) or by any other method of allocation that does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to in paragraph (d) above. The amount paid or payable by an Indemnified Person as a result of the losses, claims, damages and liabilities referred to in paragraph (d) above shall be deemed to include, subject to the limitations set forth above, any legal or other expenses incurred by such Indemnified Person in connection with any such action or claim. Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 5, in no event shall a Holder be required to contribute any amount in excess of the amount by which the total price at which the Securities or Exchange Securities sold by such Holder exceeds the amount of any damages that such Holder has otherwise been required to pay by reason of such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission. No Person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Securities Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any Person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation. The Holders' obligations to contribute pursuant to this Section 5 are several and not joint.
pro
rata
(f) The remedies provided for in this Section 5 are not exclusive and shall not limit any rights or remedies that may otherwise be available to any Indemnified Person at law or in equity.
(g) The indemnity and contribution provisions contained in this Section 5 shall remain operative and in full force and effect regardless of (i) any termination of this Agreement, (ii) any investigation made by or on behalf of the Initial Purchasers or any Holder or any Person controlling any Initial Purchaser or any Holder, or by or on behalf of the Company or the officers or directors of or any Person controlling the Company, (iii) acceptance of any of the Exchange Securities and (iv) any sale of Registrable Securities pursuant to a Shelf Registration Statement.
6. .
General
(a) The Company represents, warrants and agrees that (i) the rights granted to the Holders hereunder do not in any way conflict with and are not inconsistent with the rights granted to the holders of any other outstanding securities issued or guaranteed by the Company under any other agreement and (ii) the Company has not entered into, or on or after the date of this Agreement will enter into, any agreement that is inconsistent with the rights granted to the Holders of Registrable Securities in this Agreement or otherwise conflicts with the provisions hereof.
No Inconsistent Agreements.
 
(b) The provisions of this Agreement, including the provisions of this sentence, may not be amended, modified or supplemented, and waivers or consents to departures from the provisions hereof may not be given unless the Company has obtained the written consent of Holders of at least a majority in aggregate principal amount of the outstanding Registrable Securities affected by such amendment, modification, supplement, waiver or consent; that no amendment, modification, supplement, waiver or consent to any departure from the provisions of Section 5 hereof shall be effective as against any Holder of Registrable Securities unless consented to in writing by such Holder. Any amendments, modifications, supplements, waivers or consents pursuant to this Section 6(b) shall be by a writing executed by each of the parties hereto.
Amendments and Waivers.
provided
(c) All notices and other communications provided for or permitted hereunder shall be made in writing by hand-delivery, registered first-class mail, telecopier, or any courier guaranteeing overnight delivery (i) if to a Holder, at the most current address given by such Holder to the Company by means of a notice given in accordance with the provisions of this Section 6(c), which address initially is, with respect to the Initial Purchasers, the address set forth in the Purchase Agreement; (ii) if to the Company, initially at the Company's address set forth in the Purchase Agreement and thereafter at such other address, notice of which is given in accordance with the provisions of this Section 6(c); and (iii) to such other persons at their respective addresses as provided in the Purchase Agreement and thereafter at such other address, notice of which is given in accordance with the provisions of this Section 6(c). All such notices and communications shall be deemed to have been duly given: at the time delivered by hand, if personally delivered; five Business Days after being deposited in the mail, postage prepaid, if mailed; when receipt is acknowledged, if telecopied; and on the next Business Day if timely delivered to an air courier guaranteeing overnight delivery. Copies of all such notices, demands or other communications shall be concurrently delivered by the Person giving the same to the Trustee, at the address specified in the Indenture.
Notices.
(d) This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the successors, assigns and transferees of each of the parties, including, without limitation and without the need for an express assignment, subsequent Holders; that nothing herein shall be deemed to permit any assignment, transfer or other disposition of Registrable Securities in violation of the terms of the Purchase Agreement or the Indenture. If any transferee of any Holder shall acquire Registrable Securities in any manner, whether by operation of law or otherwise, such Registrable Securities shall be held subject to all the terms of this Agreement, and by taking and holding such Registrable Securities such Person shall be conclusively deemed to have agreed to be bound by and to perform all of the terms and provisions of this Agreement and such Person shall be entitled to receive the benefits hereof. The Initial Purchasers (in their capacity as Initial Purchasers) shall have no liability or obligation
Successors and Assigns.
provided
 
to the Company with respect to any failure by a Holder to comply with, or any breach by any Holder of, any of the obligations of such Holder under this Agreement.
(e) Each Holder shall be a third party beneficiary to the agreements made hereunder between the Company, on the one hand, and the Initial Purchasers, on the other hand, and shall have the right to enforce such agreements directly to the extent it deems such enforcement necessary or advisable to protect its rights or the rights of other Holders hereunder.
Third Party Beneficiaries.
(f) This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts and by the parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement.
Counterparts.
(g) The headings in this Agreement are for convenience of reference only, are not a part of this Agreement and shall not limit or otherwise affect the meaning hereof.
Headings.
(h) This Agreement, and any claim, controversy or dispute arising under or related to this Agreement, shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
Governing Law.
(j) This Agreement contains the entire agreement between the parties relating to the subject matter hereof and supersedes all oral statements and prior writings with respect thereto. If any term, provision, covenant or restriction contained in this Agreement is held by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, void or unenforceable or against public policy, the remainder of the terms, provisions, covenants and restrictions contained herein shall remain in full force and effect and shall in no way be affected, impaired or invalidated. The Company and the Initial Purchasers shall endeavor in good faith negotiations to replace the invalid, void or unenforceable provisions with valid provisions the economic effect of which comes as close as possible to that of the invalid, void or unenforceable provisions.
Entire Agreement; Severability.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement as of the date first written above.
 
Confirmed and accepted as of the date first above written:
J.P. MORGAN SECURITIES LLC
MERRILL LYNCH, PIERCE, FENNER & SMITH
                               INCORPORATED
BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC.
CITIGROUP GLOBAL MARKETS INC.
DEUTSCHE BANK SECURITIES INC.
GOLDMAN, SACHS & CO.
SCOTIA CAPITAL (USA) INC.
WELLS FARGO SECURITIES, LLC
THE WILLIAMS CAPITAL GROUP, L.P.
 
Name of Initial Purchasers
J.P. Morgan Securities LLC
Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith
                     Incorporated
Barclays Capital Inc.
Citigroup Global Markets Inc.
Deutsche Bank Securities Inc.
Goldman, Sachs & Co.
Scotia Capital (USA) Inc.
Wells Fargo Securities, LLC
The Williams Capital Group, L.P.

News Release
Sprint Nextel
6200 Sprint Parkway
Overland Park, Kan. 66251
Media Contact:
Leigh Horner
703-433-3044
leigh.horner@sprint.com
Investor Contact:
Yijing Brentano
800-259-3755
investor.relations@sprint.com
 
 
Overland Park, Kan., Nov. 9, 2011  Sprint Nextel Corp. (NYSE: S) announced today the closing of its previously announced offering of $1 billion aggregate principal amount of 11.5% notes due 2021 (the "2021 Notes") and $3 billion aggregate principal amount of 9% guaranteed notes due 2018 (the "2018 Notes" and, together with the 2021 Notes, the "Notes"). The 2018 Notes are guaranteed by the company's wholly-owned subsidiaries that guarantee its existing credit agreements.
The company intends to use the net proceeds from the offering of the Notes for general corporate purposes, which may include, among other things, redemptions or service requirements of outstanding debt, network expansion and modernization and potential funding of Clearwire Corporation and, its subsidiary, Clearwire Communications LLC.
The Notes and the guarantees related to the 2018 Notes have not been, and will not be, registered under the Securities Act of 1933 (the "Act") or the securities laws of any other place and may not be offered or sold in the United States absent registration or an applicable exemption therefrom. The Notes will be offered only to qualified institutional buyers under Rule 144A and to persons outside the United States under Regulation S.
This press release does not constitute an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy the Notes, and shall not constitute an offer, solicitation or sale of any Notes in any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful. This notice is being issued pursuant to, and, in accordance with, Rule 135c under the Act.
Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
This news release includes "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the securities laws. The statements in this news release regarding Sprint Nextel's current expectations and beliefs as to the uses of proceeds of the offering, as well as other statements that are not historical facts, are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are estimates and projections reflecting management's judgment based on currently available information and involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested by the forward-looking statements. All information set forth in this release is as of Nov. 9, 2011. Sprint Nextel does not intend, and undertakes no duty, to update this information to reflect future events or circumstances. Information about certain potential factors that could affect our business and financial results and cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in any forward-looking statements are included from time to time in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including Part II, Item 1A "Risk Factors" of our quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2011.


