FILE:S/S-8K-20121025070203.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
_______________________________________ 
FORM 8-K
 
_______________________________________ 
 
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported) October 25, 2012
 
_______________________________________ 
SPRINT NEXTEL CORPORATION
(Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)
 
_______________________________________ 
 
 
Registrants telephone number, including area code (800) 829-0965
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On October 25, 2012, Sprint Nextel Corporation announced its results for the third quarter of 2012. The press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
The following exhibit is furnished with this report:
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 

News Release
Contacts:
Media Relations        
Scott Sloat
240-855-0164
scott.sloat@sprint.com
Investor Relations
Brad Hampton
800-259-3755
investor.relations@sprint.com
SPRINT NEXTEL REPORTS
THIRD QUARTER 2012 RESULTS
The company's third quarter 2012 earnings conference call will be held at 8 a.m. ET today. Participants may
dial 800-938-1120 in the U.S. or Canada (706-634-7849 internationally) and provide the following ID: 83806887 or may listen via the Internet at www.sprint.com/investors.
OVERLAND PARK, Kan. - October 25, 2012 - Sprint Nextel Corp. (NYSE: S)
today reported wireless service revenues of nearly $7.3 billion during the quarter, an increase of nearly 6 percent year-over-year. Wireless service revenues for the Sprint platform grew 14 percent year-over-year driven by postpaid ARPU growth of $3.01 and continued subscriber growth.
The company reported a net loss of $767 million and a diluted net loss of $.26 per share for the third quarter of 2012 as compared to a net loss of $301 million and a diluted net loss of $.10 per share in the third quarter of 2011. Sprint's third quarter 2012 results include accelerated depreciation of $397 million, or negative $.13 per share (pre-tax), primarily related to Network Vision, including the expected shutdown of the Nextel platform.
1
The Sprint platform postpaid subscriber base grew for the tenth consecutive quarter, with net additions of 410,000 driven by a postpaid Nextel recapture rate of 59 percent and best ever third quarter churn. Sprint recorded approximately 1.5 million iPhone
sales in the third quarter with 40 percent representing new customers. The company also surpassed 1 million LTE smartphones sold prior to the launch of iPhone 5.
The Sprint platform performed well, with strong net subscriber additions, record third quarter postpaid and prepaid churn and robust revenue growth, contributing to Adjusted OIBDA* of $1.28 billion even as we continue to invest in Network Vision and position the company for future growth, said Dan Hesse, Sprint CEO. As a result, we believe we will slightly exceed the top of the range of our recently increased Adjusted OIBDA* forecast.
NETWORK VISION HIGHLIGHTS
Sprint's Network Vision initiative continues to gain momentum. The number of sites that are either ready for construction or already underway has more than doubled in the last three months to more than 13,500. Leasing and zoning have been completed on more than 20,000 sites. To date nearly 4,300
sites are on-air and meeting speed and coverage enhancement targets. Recent weekly construction starts are up over 250 percent from the second quarter. Sprint now expects to bring 12,000 sites on air approximately one quarter later than originally planned.
As part of Network Vision, Sprint has launched 4G LTE in 32
cities and expects that 4G LTE will be available in more than 115 additional cities in the coming months. Sprint has launched or announced 13 4G LTE devices to date. Sprint launched Motorola PHOTON Q 4G LTE and Samsung Galaxy Victory 4G LTE in addition to iPhone 5 in the third quarter. Earlier this month Sprint announced the upcoming availability of LG Optimus G, LG Mach, Samsung Galaxy Note
II and Samsung Galaxy Tab
2 10.1.
In the third quarter, Sprint nearly surpassed 1.2 million Sprint
Direct Connect
push-to-talk devices sold, which contributed to the strong recapture rate of Nextel subscribers on the Sprint platform. The company has shut down power and disconnected backhaul to most of the 9,600 Nextel sites taken off air and is realizing the related savings. The Nextel platform shutdown remains on pace for the middle of 2013.
LIQUIDITY
During the third quarter, Sprint raised additional financing of $1.5 billion and retired $1.5 billion of debt maturities including $473 million of 2013 maturities and $1 billion of 2015 maturities. Sprint's next scheduled debt maturities include $317 million due in 2013 and approximately $1.4 billion of total maturities in 2014. As of September 30, 2012, the company's liquidity was approximately $7.5 billion
consisting of $6.3 billion in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments and $1.2 billion
of undrawn borrowing capacity available under its revolving bank credit facility. Additionally, the company borrowed $77 million of available funding under the equipment financing credit facility, reducing the remaining undrawn availability to $923 million.
Sprint generated $628
million of net cash provided by operating activities and negative Free Cash Flow* of $487 million
in the quarter.
CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE AND BRAND HIGHLIGHTS
Third-party studies continue to confirm Sprint offers the industry's best customer experience. Sprint earned J.D. Power and Associates' top ranking - for the third straight time - for purchase experience among full-service wireless carriers. Sprint also received the Nemertes 2012 PilotHouse award for MPLS Services, beating all rivals in customer service. Sprint's Virgin Mobile USA brand ranked highest in satisfaction for customer care with non-contract wireless service by J.D. Power and Associates. Sprint was also recognized for its innovative machine-to-machine (M2M) solutions in the transportation and home health care industries by
Connected World Magazine
and earlier this month was named to the magazine's annual list of the 100 most important and influential providers of M2M services. For the fourth straight year,
Newsweek's
annual Green Rankings has recognized Sprint as one of the greenest companies in the U.S., ranking the company third among the 500 largest publicly traded corporations.
Sprint was also named the top U.S. wireless carrier on the 2012 Carbon Disclosure Project S&P 500 Climate Change Report for its leading carbon disclosure score and for the second consecutive year, the Dow Jones Sustainability Index named Sprint as a leader in sustainability.
Sprint launched a number of innovative products and services during the third quarter including Single Source Enablement, a turnkey set of wireless solutions and support enabling any business to become a wireless Mobile Virtual Network Operator (MVNO). Sprint also began offering Microsoft Office 365 to small and mid-sized businesses to bring organizations new ways to enhance productivity, reduce costs and collaborate with customers and partners while also extending the cloud-based communication tools to mobile workforces. In October, Sprint launched Pinsight Media+, a new advertising service that gives advertisers the power to reach consumers on their mobile device in a more
2
personalized way. Finally, the Samsung Galaxy family of devices was introduced to Sprint's prepaid brand Virgin Mobile with Samsung Galaxy Reverb and Boost Mobile also launched the award-winning Samsung Galaxy S
II 4G.
CONSOLIDATED RESULTS 
TABLE 1: Selected Consolidated Financial Data (Unaudited)
(Millions, except per share data)
 
3
WIRELESS RESULTS
Wireless Customers
Sprint Platform Churn and Nextel Recapture
 
4
TABLE 2: Wireless Operating Statistics (Unaudited)
(a)
Postpaid subscribers on the Sprint platform are defined as retail postpaid subscribers on the CDMA network, including subscribers with PowerSource devices, and those utilizing WiMax and LTE technology. Postpaid subscribers on the Nextel platform are defined as retail postpaid subscribers on the iDEN network.
(b)
Prepaid subscribers on the Sprint platform are defined as retail prepaid subscribers who utilize CDMA and WiMax technology via our multi-brand offerings. Prepaid subscribers on the Nextel platform are defined as retail prepaid subscribers who utilize iDEN technology via our multi-brand offerings.
5
(c)
ARPU is calculated by dividing service revenue by the sum of the average number of subscribers in the applicable service category. Changes in average monthly service revenue reflect subscribers for either the postpaid or prepaid service category who change rate plans, the level of voice and data usage, the amount of service credits which are offered to subscribers, plus the net effect of average monthly revenue generated by new subscribers and deactivating subscribers.
(d)
Nextel Subscriber Recaptures are defined as the number of subscribers that deactivated service from the postpaid or prepaid Nextel platform, as applicable, during each period but remained with the Company as subscribers on the postpaid or prepaid Sprint platform, respectively. Subscribers that deactivate service from the Nextel platform and activate service on the Sprint platform are included in the Sprint platform net additions for the applicable period.
(e)
The Postpaid and Prepaid Nextel Recapture Rates are defined as the portion of total subscribers that left the postpaid or prepaid Nextel platform, as applicable, during the period and were retained on the postpaid or prepaid Sprint platform, respectively.
6
TABLE 3: Selected Wireless Financial Data (Unaudited)
(Millions)
Wireless Service Revenues
Wireless Operating Expenses
 
7
Sprint does not take device title.
Customer care expense declined year-over-year due primarily to lower call volumes.
WIRELINE RESULTS
TABLE 4: Selected Wireline Financial Data (Unaudited)
(Millions)
 
 
Forecast
The company expects 2012 Adjusted OIBDA* to slightly exceed the high end of the previously stated forecast of between $4.5 billion and $4.6 billion. Within that Adjusted OIBDA* expectation, we continue to anticipate full year consolidated net service revenue growth of 4 to 6 percent (consolidated revenue less wireless equipment revenue). Sprint now expects full year capital expenditures of less than $6 billion in 2012, excluding capitalized interest.
8
TABLE 5: CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (Unaudited)
(Millions, except per Share Data)
TABLE 6: NON-GAAP RECONCILIATION - NET LOSS TO ADJUSTED OIBDA* (Unaudited)
(Millions)
9
TABLE 7: WIRELESS STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (Unaudited)
(Millions)
(a)
Postpaid subscribers on the Sprint platform are defined as retail postpaid subscribers on the CDMA network, including subscribers with PowerSource devices, and those utilizing WiMax and LTE technology. Postpaid subscribers on the Nextel platform are defined as retail postpaid subscribers on the iDEN network.
(b)
Prepaid subscribers on the Sprint platform are defined as retail prepaid subscribers who utilize CDMA and WiMax technology via our multi-brand offerings. Prepaid subscribers on the Nextel platform are defined as retail prepaid subscribers who utilize iDEN technology via our multi-brand offerings.
NON-GAAP RECONCILIATION
10
TABLE 8: WIRELINE STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (Unaudited)
(Millions)
NON-GAAP RECONCILIATION
11
TABLE 9: CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW INFORMATION (Unaudited)
(Millions)
TABLE 10: RECONCILIATION TO FREE CASH FLOW* (NON-GAAP) (Unaudited)
(Millions)
12
TABLE 11: CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (Unaudited)
(Millions)
TABLE 12: NET DEBT* (NON-GAAP) (Unaudited)
(Millions)
13
TABLE 13: SCHEDULE OF DEBT (Unaudited)
(Millions)
Supplemental information:
The Company had $1.2 billion of borrowing capacity available under our revolving bank credit facility as of September 30, 2012. Our revolving bank credit facility expires in October 2013.
In May 2012, certain of our subsidiaries entered into a $1.0 billion secured equipment credit facility to finance equipment-related purchases for Network Vision. The facility is equally divided into two consecutive tranches of $500 million, with the drawdown availability contingent upon Sprint's acquisition of equipment-related purchases from Ericsson, up to the maximum of each tranche, ending on May 31, 2013 and May 31, 2014, for the first and second tranche, respectively. Interest and principal are payable semi-annually with a final maturity of March 2017 for both tranches.
*This table excludes (i) our revolving bank credit facility, which will mature in 2013 and has no outstanding balance, (ii) $1 billion in letters of credit under our revolving bank credit facility, (iii) any undrawn, available credit under our secured equipment credit facility, which will mature in 2017, and (iv) all capital leases and other financing obligations.
14
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL INFORMATION (Unaudited)
(1)
Results include pre-tax, non-cash "Equity in losses of unconsolidated investments and other, net" of $112 million ($.04 per share), $398 million ($.13 per share) and $783 million ($.26 per share) in the third and second quarters and year-to-date periods of 2012, respectively, and $261 million ($.09 per share) and $1.3 billion ($.42 per share) in the third quarter and year-to-date periods of 2011.
(2)
Capital expenditures is an accrual based amount that includes the changes in unpaid capital expenditures and excludes capitalized interest. Cash paid for capital expenditures includes total capitalized interest of $52 million, $102 million and $269 million for the third and second quarters and year-to-date periods of 2012, respectively, and $103 million and $304 million for the third quarter and year-to-date periods of 2011, and can be found in the condensed consolidated cash flow information on Table 9 and the reconciliation to Free Cash Flow* on Table 10.
(3)
The second quarter of 2012 includes a non-cash impairment of $204 million to reflect a reduction of our investment in Clearwire to its estimated fair value at June 30, 2012.
(4)
For the second and third quarters of 2012, lease exit costs are primarily associated with taking Nextel platform sites off air.
(5)
For the year-to-date period of 2012, gains from asset dispositions and exchanges are primarily due to spectrum exchange transactions.
(6)
For the year-to-date period of 2012, asset impairments and abandonments relate to a change in our backhaul architecture in connection to our Network Vision design from microwave to a more cost effective fiber backhaul.
(7)
On March 16, 2012, we elected to terminate the arrangement with LightSquared LP and LightSquared, Inc. (LightSquared). As we have no future service obligations with respect to the arrangement with LightSquared, we recognized $236 million of the advanced payments as other operating income in the first quarter of 2012. As a result of the termination of the hosting agreement, we impaired capitalized costs specific to LightSquared's 1.6 GHz spectrum that the company no longer intends to deploy which totaled $66 million.
(8)
Favorable developments during the first quarter of 2012 relating to disagreements with local exchange carriers resulted in a reduction in expected access costs of $17 million.
15
*FINANCIAL MEASURES
Sprint Nextel provides financial measures determined in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP) and adjusted GAAP (non-GAAP). The non-GAAP financial measures reflect industry conventions, or standard measures of liquidity, profitability or performance commonly used by the investment community for comparability purposes. These measurements should be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for, financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. We have defined below each of the non-GAAP measures we use, but these measures may not be synonymous to similar measurement terms used by other companies.
Sprint Nextel provides reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures in its financial reporting. Because Sprint Nextel does not predict special items that might occur in the future, and our forecasts are developed at a level of detail different than that used to prepare GAAP-based financial measures, Sprint Nextel does not provide reconciliations to GAAP of its forward-looking financial measures.
The measures used in this release include the following:
OIBDA
is operating income/(loss) before depreciation and amortization.
Adjusted OIBDA
is
OIBDA
excluding severance, exit costs, and other special items.
Adjusted OIBDA Margin
represents Adjusted OIBDA divided by non-equipment net operating revenues for Wireless and Adjusted OIBDA divided by net operating revenues for Wireline. We believe that Adjusted OIBDA and Adjusted OIBDA Margin provide useful information to investors because they are an indicator of the strength and performance of our ongoing business operations, including our ability to fund discretionary spending such as capital expenditures, spectrum acquisitions and other investments and our ability to incur and service debt. While depreciation and amortization are considered operating costs under GAAP, these expenses primarily represent non-cash current period costs associated with the use of long-lived tangible and definite-lived intangible assets. Adjusted OIBDA and Adjusted OIBDA Margin are calculations commonly used as a basis for investors, analysts and credit rating agencies to evaluate and compare the periodic and future operating performance and value of companies within the telecommunications industry.
Free Cash Flow
is the cash provided by operating activities less the cash used in investing activities other than short-term investments and equity method investments during the period. We believe that Free Cash Flow provides useful information to investors, analysts and our management about the cash generated by our core operations after interest and dividends, if any, and our ability to fund scheduled debt maturities and other financing activities, including discretionary refinancing and retirement of debt and purchase or sale of investments.
Net Debt
is consolidated debt, including current maturities, less cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments and if any, restricted cash. We believe that Net Debt provides useful information to investors, analysts and credit rating agencies about the capacity of the company to reduce the debt load and improve its capital structure.
16
SAFE HARBOR
This release includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the securities laws. The words may, could, should, estimate, project, forecast, intend, expect, anticipate, believe, target, plan, providing guidance, and similar expressions are intended to identify information that is not historical in nature. All statements that address operating performance, events or developments that we expect or anticipate will occur in the future - including statements relating to network performance, subscriber growth, and liquidity, and statements expressing general views about future operating results - are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are estimates and projections reflecting management's judgment based on currently available information and involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested by the forward-looking statements. With respect to these forward-looking statements, management has made assumptions regarding, among other things, development and deployment of new technologies; efficiencies and cost savings of multimode technologies; customer and network usage; customer growth and retention; service, coverage and quality; availability of devices; the timing of various events and the economic environment. Sprint Nextel believes these forward-looking statements are reasonable; however, you should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which are based on current expectations and speak only as of the date when made. Sprint Nextel undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. In addition, forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from our company's historical experience and our present expectations or projections. Factors that might cause such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011 filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, which are incorporated herein by reference and when filed, our Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2012. You should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, you should not consider any such list to be a complete set of all potential risks or uncertainties.
Clearwire's third quarter 2012 results from operations have not yet been finalized. As a result, the amount reflected for Sprint's share of Clearwire's results of operations for the quarter ended September 30, 2012, is an estimate and, based upon the finalization of Clearwire's results, may need to be revised if our estimate materially differs from Clearwire's actual results. Changes in our estimate, if any, would affect the carrying value of our investment in Clearwire, net loss, basic and diluted net loss per common share, and comprehensive loss but would have no effect on Sprint's operating income, OIBDA*, Adjusted OIBDA* or consolidated statement of cash flows.
About Sprint Nextel
Sprint Nextel offers a comprehensive range of wireless and wireline communications services bringing the freedom of mobility to consumers, businesses and government users. Sprint Nextel served nearly 56 million customers at the end of the third quarter of 2012 and is widely recognized for developing, engineering and deploying innovative technologies, including the first wireless 4G service from a national carrier in the United States; offering industry-leading mobile data services, leading prepaid brands including Virgin Mobile USA, Boost Mobile, and Assurance Wireless; instant national and international push-to-talk capabilities; and a global Tier 1 Internet backbone. The
American Customer Satisfaction Index
rated Sprint No. 1 among all national carriers in customer satisfaction and most improved, across all 47 industries, during the last four years.
Newsweek
ranked Sprint
No. 3 i
n its 2012 Green Rankings, listing it as one of the nation's greenest companies, the highest of any telecommunications company. You can learn more and visit Sprint at www.sprint.com or www.facebook.com/sprint and www.twitter.com/sprint.
###
17


