FILE:S/S-8K-20120504174448.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
FORM 8-K
 
 
CURRENT REPORT
 
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported) May 4, 2012
 
 
SPRINT NEXTEL CORPORATION
(Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)
 
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code (800) 829-0965
 
 
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
On May 4, 2012, James H. Hance, Jr., Chairman of the Board of Directors of Sprint Nextel Corporation (the Company) made the following statement regarding the Company's announcement on Form 8-K today concerning the Letter Agreement between the Company and Daniel R. Hesse. The Letter Agreement described Mr. Hesse's decision to voluntarily reduce his 2011 and 2012 total compensation package.
Today Sprint announced in an SEC filing that President and CEO Dan Hesse has offered to return to the company any additional compensation he received as a result of the discretionary adjustment in incentive pay relating to the launch of the iPhone.  Dan discussed with the board his plan to also reduce his 2012 short term and long term target opportunities, and we have accepted his proposal.  We applaud Dan for his willingness to sacrifice personal compensation in order to reduce any distraction that could negatively affect the morale and performance of the company.  Dan enjoys the full support of our board of directors and we appreciate the leadership he has demonstrated as he continues to guide the company through a turnaround in a difficult competitive environment.
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
    
 
    
 
    
 
    
 
 
    
 
    
SPRINT NEXTEL CORPORATION
 
    
 
    
 
        
        
Date: May 4, 2012
    
                    
/s/ Timothy O'Grady
                
 
    
 
    
By:
    
Timothy O'Grady
 
    
 
    
 
    
 
    
Assistant Secretary


