FILE:S/S-8K-20120425065945.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
_______________________________________ 
FORM 8-K
 
_______________________________________ 
 
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported) April 25, 2012
 
_______________________________________ 
SPRINT NEXTEL CORPORATION
(Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)
 
_______________________________________ 
 
 
Registrants telephone number, including area code (800) 829-0965
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On April 25, 2012, Sprint Nextel Corporation announced its results for the first quarter of 2012. The press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
The following exhibit is furnished with this report:
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
and

News Release
Contacts:
Media Relations        
Scott Sloat
240-855-0164
scott.sloat@sprint.com
Investor Relations
Brad Hampton
800-259-3755
investor.relations@sprint.com
SPRINT NEXTEL REPORTS
FIRST QUARTER 2012 RESULTS
The company's first quarter 2012 earnings conference call will be held at 8 a.m. ET today. Participants may dial 800-938-1120 in the U.S. or Canada (706-634-7849 internationally) and provide the following ID: 68178739 or may listen via the Internet at www.sprint.com/investor.
OVERLAND PARK, Kan. - April 25, 2012 - Sprint Nextel Corp. (NYSE: S)
today reported a net loss of $863 million and a diluted net loss of $.29 per share for the first quarter of 2012. This compares to a net loss of $439 million and a diluted net loss of $.15 per share in the first quarter of 2011 and includes depreciation of approximately $543 million, or negative $.18 cents per share, primarily due to accelerated depreciation related to the expected shut down of the Nextel platform and a one-time net benefit of $170 million, or approximately $.06 per share, related to the spectrum hosting contract termination with LightSquared. The company had wireless service revenues of $7.2 billion during the quarter, an increase of more than 7 percent year-over-year, driven primarily by Sprint platform postpaid ARPU growth of $4.03 - the largest year-over-year increase on record for the U.S. wireless industry. The company reported total net subscriber additions of nearly 1.1 million during the first quarter, bringing total ending subscribers to a record 56 million.
The total number of customers on the Sprint platform grew almost 4 percent sequentially including 263,000 postpaid net subscriber additions, 870,000 prepaid net subscriber additions and 785,000 wholesale and affiliate net subscriber additions. Sprint recorded more than 1.5 million iPhone
sales in the first quarter with 44 percent going to new customers. Prepaid churn on the Sprint platform improved to 2.92 percent, the tenth consecutive quarter of year-over-year improvement.
1
The continuing revenue growth on the Sprint platform, which represents the future of our company, driven by record ARPU improvement and strong net subscriber growth, contributed to our Adjusted OIBDA* performance of $1.2 billion, said Dan Hesse, Sprint CEO. The value and simplicity of our unlimited data, talk and text plans, combined with an unsurpassed customer experience and our increasingly robust device portfolio make for a strong combination.
NETWORK VISION HIGHLIGHTS
Sprint's Network Vision initiative remains on track. To date, the company has approximately 600 sites on air, which are meeting speed and coverage enhancement targets. Zoning requirements are completed for approximately 9,700 sites and leasing agreements have been completed for close to 7,700 sites. More than 3,200 sites are in notice to proceed status and work has started on approximately 3,000. Sprint expects to bring approximately 12,000 sites on air by the end of 2012 and to complete the majority of its Network Vision roll-out in 2013. The company has also taken approximately 1,300 iDEN sites off air to date and expects to shut down a total of 9,600 before the end of the third quarter.
In addition, as part of Network Vision, Sprint continues to expect to launch 4G LTE in six major cities by mid-year 2012 including Houston, Dallas, San Antonio, Atlanta, Kansas City and Baltimore. This week, Sprint launched its first two 4G LTE smartphones - Galaxy Nexus and LG Viper 4G LTE with eco-friendly features - and earlier this month also announced the upcoming launch of HTC EVO 4G LTE.
We continue to hit our key internal milestones and make significant progress on Network Vision, said Hesse.
CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE AND BRAND HIGHLIGHTS
During the first quarter, Sprint recorded its lowest level of calls to customer care per postpaid subscriber on record, consistent with more third-party recognition of Sprint's customer experience. Sprint was ranked by J.D. Power and Associates highest among full-service providers in its 2012 Wireless Purchase Experience Study, Volume 1. Boost Mobile was ranked highest among non-contract providers in the same study and Virgin Mobile USA received the highest ranking in the J.D. Power and Associates 2012 Wireless Customer Care Non-Contract Study - Volume 1, with Boost placing second. This month, Sprint Wholesale collected four 2012 Domestic Best-In-Class Awards from Atlantic-ACM in the categories of Network, Provisioning, Customer Service and Sales Representatives. Sprint also received the ATLANTIC ACM Best-in-Class Network Award for Global Wholesale Excellence earlier this year and Frost & Sullivan identified Sprint as an excellent example of an end-to-end mobile solution provider for the small business sector.
Sprint also launched several innovative products and services in addition to its 4G LTE devices. Sprint introduced its first tablet for under $100 with a two year agreement, ZTE Optik as well as ZTE Fury, a family-friendly Android-powered device. Boost Mobile began offering LG Rumor Reflex - the fifth device from Sprint with eco-friendly attributes and the second from Boost. Additionally, the company introduced Sprint Complete Collaboration, the most comprehensive hosted and fully managed unified communications bundle available for businesses and launched additional Sprint Biz 360 solutions, phone and applications for small businesses. Sprint also created New Ventures, a new organization focused on delivering new business models that leverage open platforms to drive revenue and overall customer satisfaction for the global marketplace.
LIQUIDITY
During the first quarter, Sprint raised additional financing of $2 billion to help fund the Network Vision deployment, debt maturities and working capital requirements over the next few years. This followed financing of $4 billion raised in the fourth quarter of 2011. Sprint's next scheduled debt maturities include $300 million due in May 2013 and $1.5 billion due in October 2013. As of March 31, 2012, the company's total liquidity was approximately $8.8 billion, consisting of $7.6 billion in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments and $1.2 billion of undrawn borrowing capacity available under its revolving bank credit facility. Sprint generated $978 million of net cash provided by operating activities and $138 million of Free Cash Flow* in the quarter.
2
CONSOLIDATED RESULTS 
TABLE NO. 1 Selected Consolidated Financial Data (Unaudited)
(dollars in millions, except per share data)
 
3
WIRELESS RESULTS
Wireless Customers
Sprint Platform Churn and Nextel Recapture
4
TABLE NO. 2 Wireless Operating Statistics (Unaudited)
(a)
Postpaid subscribers on the Sprint platform are defined as retail postpaid subscribers on the CDMA network, including subscribers with PowerSource devices, and those utilizing WiMax technology. Postpaid subscribers on the Nextel platform are defined as retail postpaid subscribers on the iDEN network.
(b)
Prepaid subscribers on the Sprint platform are defined as retail prepaid subscribers who utilize CDMA technology via our multi-brand offerings. Prepaid subscribers on the Nextel platform are defined as retail prepaid subscribers who utilize iDEN technology via our multi-brand offerings.
(c)
ARPU is calculated by dividing service revenue by the sum of the average number of subscribers in the applicable service category. Changes in average monthly service revenue reflect subscribers for either the postpaid or prepaid service category who change rate plans, the level of voice and data usage, the amount of service credits which are offered to subscribers, plus the net effect of average monthly revenue generated by new subscribers and deactivating subscribers.
(d)
The Postpaid Nextel Recapture Rate is defined as the portion of total subscribers that left the postpaid Nextel platform during the quarter and were retained on the postpaid Sprint platform.
5
TABLE NO. 3 Selected Wireless Financial Data (Unaudited)
(dollars in millions)
Wireless Service Revenues
Wireless Operating Expenses
 
6
increased year-over-year primarily due to iPhone point-of- sale discounts (subsidy) for devices directly sold by the manufacturer to indirect dealers in which Sprint does not take device title, as well as higher postpaid gross additions. The impact from the iPhone was partially offset by improvements in sales channel mix with a larger portion of activations coming from direct retail channels. Bad debt expense increased year-over-year by $60 million driven primarily by an increase in the agings of accounts receivable outstanding combined with a higher average write-off per account. Sequentially, SG&A expenses decreased primarily as a result of lower sales and bad debt expenses, partially offset by seasonally higher marketing expense.
Sequentially, bad debt expense declined $50 million due to a seasonal improvement in the agings of accounts receivable outstanding.
WIRELINE RESULTS
TABLE NO. 4 Selected Wireline Financial Data (Unaudited)
(dollars in millions)
 
 
Forecast
The company expects 2012 Adjusted OIBDA* to be at the high-end of the previous forecast of between $3.7 billion and $3.9 billion. Within that Adjusted OIBDA* expectation, we continue to anticipate full year consolidated net service revenue growth of 4 to 6 percent (consolidated revenue less wireless equipment revenue). Sprint continues to expect full year capital expenditures of approximately $6 billion in 2012, excluding capitalized interest.
7
Sprint Nextel Corporation
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (Unaudited)
(Millions, except per Share Data)
NON-GAAP RECONCILIATION - NET LOSS TO ADJUSTED OIBDA* (Unaudited)
(Millions)
8
Sprint Nextel Corporation
WIRELESS STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (Unaudited)
(Millions)
(a)
Postpaid subscribers on the Sprint platform are defined as retail postpaid subscribers on the CDMA network, including subscribers with PowerSource devices, and those utilizing WiMax technology. Postpaid subscribers on the Nextel platform are defined as retail postpaid subscribers on the iDEN network.
(b)
Prepaid subscribers on the Sprint platform are defined as retail prepaid subscribers who utilize CDMA technology via our multi-brand offerings. Prepaid subscribers on the Nextel platform are defined as retail prepaid subscribers who utilize iDEN technology via our multi-brand offerings.
9
Sprint Nextel Corporation
WIRELINE STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (Unaudited)
(Millions)
10
Sprint Nextel Corporation
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW INFORMATION (Unaudited)
(Millions)
RECONCILIATION TO FREE CASH FLOW* (NON-GAAP) (Unaudited)
(Millions)
11
Sprint Nextel Corporation
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (Unaudited)
(Millions)
NET DEBT* (NON-GAAP) (Unaudited)
(Millions)
12
Sprint Nextel Corporation
SCHEDULE OF DEBT (Unaudited)
(Millions)
13
Sprint Nextel Corporation
RECONCILIATION OF RETAIL POSTPAID NET (LOSSES) ADDITIONS
TO ADJUSTED SPRINT PLATFORM POSTPAID NET ADDITIONS
(Thousands)
14
Sprint Nextel Corporation
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL INFORMATION (Unaudited)
(1)
Results include pre-tax, non-cash equity in losses of unconsolidated investments and other, net of $273 million ($.09 per share), $472 million ($.16 per share) and $412 million ($.14 per share) in the first quarter of 2012 and the fourth and first quarters of 2011, respectively.
(2)
Capital expenditures is an accrual based amount that includes the changes in unpaid capital expenditures and excludes capitalized interest. Cash paid for capital expenditures for the first quarter 2012 and fourth quarter 2011, respectively, includes $115 million and $99 million of total capitalized interest and can be found in the condensed consolidated cash flow information on Table No. 9 and the reconciliation to Free Cash Flow* on Table No. 10.
(3)
The fourth quarter 2011 includes a non-cash impairment of $135 million to reflect a reduction of our investment in Clearwire to its estimated fair value, and a dilution loss of approximately $27 million associated with the fourth quarter reduction of Sprint's economic interest from 53.5% to 51.5% as a result of Clearwire's fourth quarter 2011 equity offering.
(4)
Severance and exit costs are primarily related to work force reductions, lease termination charges, and organizational realignment initiatives.
(5)
For the first quarter 2012, gains from asset dispositions and exchanges are primarily due to spectrum exchange transactions.
(6)
For the first quarter 2012, asset impairments and abandonments relate to a change in our backhaul architecture in connection to our Network Vision design from microwave to a more cost effective fiber backhaul.
(7)
On March 16, 2012, we elected to terminate the arrangement with LightSquared LP and LightSquared, Inc. (LightSquared). As we have no future service obligations with respect to the arrangement with LightSquared, we recognized $236 million of the advanced payments as other operating income in the first quarter of 2012. As a result of the termination of the hosting agreement, we impaired capitalized costs specific to LightSquared's 1.6 GHz spectrum that the Company no longer intends to deploy which totaled $66 million.
(8)
Favorable developments during the first quarter of 2012 relating to disagreements with local exchange carriers resulted in a reduction in expected access costs of $17 million.
(9)
$135 million in reimbursements were received in the fourth quarter of 2011 from the mobile satellite service (MSS) entrants for their pro rata share of our costs of clearing a portion of the 1.9 GHz spectrum related to spectrum reconfiguration under FCC's Report and Order.
15
*FINANCIAL MEASURES
Sprint Nextel provides financial measures determined in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP) and adjusted GAAP (non-GAAP). The non-GAAP financial measures reflect industry conventions, or standard measures of liquidity, profitability or performance commonly used by the investment community for comparability purposes. These measurements should be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for, financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. We have defined below each of the non-GAAP measures we use, but these measures may not be synonymous to similar measurement terms used by other companies.
Sprint Nextel provides reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures in its financial reporting. Because Sprint Nextel does not predict special items that might occur in the future, and our forecasts are developed at a level of detail different than that used to prepare GAAP-based financial measures, Sprint Nextel does not provide reconciliations to GAAP of its forward-looking financial measures.
The measures used in this release include the following:
OIBDA
is operating income/(loss) before depreciation and amortization.
Adjusted OIBDA
is
OIBDA
excluding severance, exit costs, and other special items.
Adjusted OIBDA Margin
represents Adjusted OIBDA divided by non-equipment net operating revenues for Wireless and Adjusted OIBDA divided by net operating revenues for Wireline. We believe that Adjusted OIBDA and Adjusted OIBDA Margin provide useful information to investors because they are an indicator of the strength and performance of our ongoing business operations, including our ability to fund discretionary spending such as capital expenditures, spectrum acquisitions and other investments and our ability to incur and service debt. While depreciation and amortization are considered operating costs under GAAP, these expenses primarily represent non-cash current period costs associated with the use of long-lived tangible and definite-lived intangible assets. Adjusted OIBDA and Adjusted OIBDA Margin are calculations commonly used as a basis for investors, analysts and credit rating agencies to evaluate and compare the periodic and future operating performance and value of companies within the telecommunications industry.
Free Cash Flow
is the cash provided by operating activities less the cash used in investing activities other than short-term investments and equity method investments during the period. We believe that Free Cash Flow provides useful information to investors, analysts and our management about the cash generated by our core operations after interest and dividends, if any, and our ability to fund scheduled debt maturities and other financing activities, including discretionary refinancing and retirement of debt and purchase or sale of investments.
Net Debt
is consolidated debt, including current maturities, less cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments and if any, restricted cash. We believe that Net Debt provides useful information to investors, analysts and credit rating agencies about the capacity of the company to reduce the debt load and improve its capital structure.
16
SAFE HARBOR
This news release includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the securities laws. The statements in this news release regarding the business outlook, expected performance and forward-looking guidance, as well as other statements that are not historical facts, are forward-looking statements. The words may, could, should, "estimate," "project," "forecast," "intend," "expect," "believe," anticipate, "target," "providing guidance" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements are estimates and projections reflecting management's judgment based on currently available information and involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested by the forward-looking statements. With respect to these forward-looking statements, management has made assumptions regarding, among other things, customer and network usage, customer growth and retention, pricing, operating costs, the timing of various events and the economic and regulatory environment.
Future performance cannot be assured. Actual results may differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. Some factors that could cause actual results to differ include:
17
Sprint Nextel believes these forward-looking statements are reasonable; however, you should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which are based on current expectations and speak only as of the date of this release. Sprint Nextel is not obligated to publicly release any revisions to forward-looking statements to reflect events after the date of this release.
Clearwire's first quarter 2012 results from operations have not yet been finalized. As a result, the amount reflected for Sprint's share of Clearwire's results of operations for the quarter ended March 31, 2012, is an estimate and, based upon the finalization of Clearwire's results, may need to be revised if our estimate materially differs from Clearwire's actual results. Changes in our estimate, if any, would affect the carrying value of our investment in Clearwire, net loss, basic and diluted net loss per common share, and comprehensive loss but would have no effect on Sprint's operating income, OIBDA*, Adjusted OIBDA* or consolidated statement of cash flows.
About Sprint Nextel
Sprint Nextel offers a comprehensive range of wireless and wireline communications services bringing the freedom of mobility to consumers, businesses and government users. Sprint Nextel served more than 56 million customers at the end of the first quarter of 2012 and is widely recognized for developing, engineering and deploying innovative technologies, including the first wireless 4G service from a national carrier in the United States; offering industry-leading mobile data services, leading prepaid brands including Virgin Mobile USA, Boost Mobile, and Assurance Wireless; instant national and international push-to-talk capabilities; and a global Tier 1 Internet backbone.
Newsweek
ranked Sprint No. 3 in its 2011 Green Rankings, listing it as one of the nation's greenest companies, the highest of any telecommunications company. You can learn more and visit Sprint at www.sprint.com or www.facebook.com/sprint and www.twitter.com/sprint.
###
18


