FILE:S/S-8K-20120301164652.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On March 1, 2012, Sprint Nextel Corporation (the "Company") issued and sold $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of 7.000% Guaranteed Notes due 2020 (the "2020 Guaranteed Notes") and $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of 9.125% Notes due 2017 (the "2017 Notes" and, together with the 2020 Guaranteed Notes, the "Notes"). The Company offered and sold the Notes to the initial purchasers in reliance on the exemption from registration provided by Section 4(2) of the Securities Act of 1933 (the "Securities Act"). The initial purchasers then resold the Notes pursuant to exemptions from registration under the Securities Act, including Rule 144A and Regulation S. The Company relied on these exemptions from registration based in part on representations made by the initial purchasers in the purchase agreement relating to the issuance and sale of the Notes.
The Notes are payable semi-annually in arrears on March 1 and September 1 of each year, beginning on September 1, 2012. The Notes are governed by the Indenture dated November 20, 2006. In addition, the 2017 Notes are governed by the Third Supplemental Indenture (the "Third Supplemental Indenture"), dated March 1, 2012, between the Company and the Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (the "Trustee") and the 2020 Guaranteed Notes are governed by the Fourth Supplemental Indenture, dated March 1, 2012, among the Company, the subsidiary guarantors and the Trustee (the "Fourth Supplemental Indenture," and together with the Third Supplemental Indenture, the "Supplemental Indentures"). The Supplemental Indentures provide for customary events of default, including nonpayment and failure to comply with covenants or other agreements. If any event of default occurs and is continuing, the trustee or the holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the outstanding Notes of that series may declare all amounts under such Notes to be due and payable immediately.
The Supplemental Indentures contain covenants that limit the Company's ability to sell all or substantially all of its assets or to merge or consolidate with or into other companies and that provide that the Company and certain of its subsidiaries' may not grant liens to other creditors, unless the Notes are secured by liens on an equal and ratable basis to those granted to such other creditors. In addition, if a change of control (as that term is defined in the Supplemental Indentures) occurs prior to the Company being rated "investment grade" by the applicable rating agencies, the holders of Notes will have the right, subject to certain conditions, to require the Company to repurchase their Notes at a purchase price equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of Notes repurchased plus accrued and unpaid interest, as of the date of repurchase. Additionally, the Third Supplemental Indenture provides, for the benefit of the holders of the 2017 Guaranteed Notes, that the Company will be limited in its ability to issue secured debt, and that the subsidiaries of the Company who guarantee the 2017 Guaranteed Notes will be limited in their ability to issue debt and to guarantee debt of the Company.
The 2017 Notes will mature on March 1, 2017 and the 2020 Guaranteed Notes will mature on March 1, 2020. The Company, at its option, may redeem either issue of the Notes at any time in whole or from time to time in part, at a redemption price equal to the greater of (i) 100% of the principal amount of the Notes being redeemed and (ii) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest on the Notes to be redeemed discounted to the date of redemption on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at a rate equal to the sum of the applicable treasury rate plus 50 basis points. The Company will also pay the accrued and unpaid interest on the principal amount being redeemed to the date of redemption.
The Company has various relationships with the initial purchasers. Certain of the initial purchasers and their affiliates have engaged, and may in the future engage, in investment banking, commercial banking and other financial advisory and commercial dealings with the Company and its affiliates. In addition, certain of the initial purchasers or their respective affiliates have a lending relationship with the Company. These agents and lenders, or their respective affiliates, have received, and may in the future receive, customary fees and expenses for those services.
2017 Notes
The Company agreed, pursuant to a registration rights agreement, dated March 1, 2012, with the initial purchasers of the 2017 Notes (the "Registration Rights Agreement"), to file an exchange offer registration statement with respect to an offer to exchange the 2017 Notes for a new issue of identical exchange notes registered under the Securities Act. The Company agreed to use its reasonable best efforts to cause the exchange offer to be completed within 315 days after the closing date of the offering. In certain circumstances, the Company may be required to file a shelf registration statement to cover resales of the 2017 Notes. If the Company does not comply with certain covenants set forth in the Registration Rights Agreement, it must pay additional interest to holders of the 2017 Notes.
2020 Guaranteed Notes
The 2020 Guaranteed Notes are guaranteed by the Company's subsidiaries that guarantee its existing credit agreements. A note guarantee by a subsidiary guarantor may be automatically and unconditionally released and discharged in certain situations, including, any sale, exchange or transfer of all the capital stock of such guarantor after which the applicable subsidiary guarantor is no longer a subsidiary of the Company or a sale of all or substantially all of the assets of such subsidiary guarantor.
The descriptions set forth above are qualified in their entirety by the Third Supplemental Indenture, the Fourth Supplemental Indenture and the Registration Rights Agreement filed as exhibits hereto and incorporated by reference herein.
ITEM 2.03. Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant.
The information set forth in Item 1.01 above is incorporated by reference into this Item 2.03.
ITEM 8.01. Other Matters.
On March 1, 2012, the Company issued a press release announcing the closing of its private placement of the Notes, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and hereby incorporated by reference herein.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
The following exhibits are filed with this report:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 4.1
 
 
 
 
THIRD SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE ("this "), dated as of March 1, 2012, among SPRINT NEXTEL CORPORATION, a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Kansas (the ""), and THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON TRUST COMPANY, N.A., as trustee (the "").
Supplemental Indenture
Company
Trustee
, the Company and the Trustee have duly executed and delivered that certain Senior Notes Indenture, dated as of November 20, 2006 (the ""), providing for the issuance from time to time of unsecured debentures, notes or other evidences of indebtedness, to be issued in one or more series (the "");
WHEREAS
Indenture
Securities
, Sections 201, 301 and 901 of the Indenture provide that the Company and the Trustee may from time to time enter into one or more indentures supplemental thereto to establish the form or terms of Securities of a new series issues pursuant to the Indenture;
WHEREAS
, pursuant to the terms of the Indenture, the Company desires to provide for the establishment of a new series of Securities designated as its 9.125% Notes due 2017 (the "") to be issued under the Indenture, as supplemented by this Supplemental Indenture, initially in an aggregate principal amount of $1,000,000,000, to be authenticated and delivered as provided in the Indenture;
WHEREAS
2017 Notes
, the Company desires to supplement the provisions of the Indenture to provide for the issuance of the 2017 Notes under the terms of the Indenture as supplemented hereby;
WHEREAS
, for the purposes hereinabove recited, and pursuant to due corporate action, the Company has duly determined to execute and deliver to the Trustee this Supplemental Indenture; and
WHEREAS
, all conditions and requirements necessary to make this Supplemental Indenture a valid and binding instrument in accordance with its terms have been done and performed, and the execution and delivery hereof have been in all respects duly authorized.
WHEREAS
, in consideration of the premises, the covenants and other agreements contained herein and other good and valuable consideration, the sufficiency of which is hereby confirmed, the Company and the Trustee mutually covenant and agree as follows:
NOW, THEREFORE
Section 1.01 . All terms contained in this Supplemental Indenture shall, except as specifically provided herein or except as the context may otherwise require, have the meanings defined in the Indenture. In the event of any inconsistency between the Indenture and this Supplemental Indenture, this Supplemental Indenture shall govern. The words "herein," "hereof," "hereunder," and words of similar import shall refer to this Supplemental Indenture.
Relationship with Indenture
Section 1.02 . Solely with respect to the 2017 Notes, the following definitions shall be added to Section 101 of the Indenture and replace any existing definitions (as applicable) in the Indenture, each in appropriate alphabetical order, unless the context requires otherwise.
Additional Definitions
"" means a global note substantially in the form of bearing the Global Note Legend and the Private Placement Legend and deposited with or on behalf of, and registered in the name of, the Depositary or its nominee, that shall be initially issued in aggregate denominations equal to the outstanding principal amount of the 2017 Notes sold in reliance on Rule 144A.
144A Global Note
Exhibit A
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the recitals to this Supplemental Indenture.
2017 Notes
"" means all additional interest owing on the 2017 Notes pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement.
Additional Interest
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Rule 13d-3 and Rule 13d-5 under the Exchange Act. The terms "" and "" shall have a corresponding meaning.
Beneficial Owner
Beneficially Owns
Beneficially Owned
"" means any day, other than a Saturday or Sunday, or legal holidays on which the banks in The City of New York are not required or authorized by law or executive order to be closed.
Business Day
"" means the occurrence of any of the following:
Change of Control
(a) the direct or indirect sale, transfer, conveyance or other disposition (other than by way of merger or consolidation), in one or a series of related transactions, of all or substantially all of the Company and its Subsidiaries' properties or assets, taken as a whole, to any "person" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act);
(b) the adoption of a plan relating to the Company's liquidation or dissolution; or
(c) any "person" or "group" (as such terms are used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Exchange Act) becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the voting power of the Company's Voting Securities; that a transaction in which the Company becomes a Subsidiary of another person shall not constitute a Change of Control if (a) the Company's stockholders immediately prior to such transaction Beneficially Own, directly or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, 50% or more of the voting power of the outstanding Voting Securities of such other Person of whom the Company is a Subsidiary immediately following such transaction and (b) immediately following such transaction no person (as defined above) other than such other person, Beneficially Owns, directly or indirectly, more than 50% of the voting power of the Company's Voting Securities.
provided
 
"" means the occurrence of both a Change of Control and a Ratings Decline.
Change of Control Triggering Event
"" means collectively, Clearwire Corporation, a Delaware corporation, and its operating Subsidiary, Clearwire Communications LLC, a Delaware limited liability company.
Clearwire
"" means the United States Treasury security selected by the Independent Investment Banker as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term of the 2017 Notes that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of the 2017 Notes.
Comparable Treasury Issue
"" means, with respect to any Redemption Date: (1) the average of five Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such Redemption Date, after excluding the highest and lowest of such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations; or (2) if the Trustee is provided fewer than five Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all quotations provided to the Trustee.
Comparable Treasury Price
"" means a certificated 2017 Note registered in the name of the Holder thereof and issued in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, substantially in the form of , except that such 2017 Note shall not bear the Global Note Legend and shall not have the "Schedule of Exchanges of Interests in the Global Note" attached thereto.
Definitive Note
Exhibit A
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the Registration Rights Agreement.
Exchange Offer
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the Registration Rights Agreement.
Exchange Offer Registration Statement
"" means the legend set forth in Section 3.03(f)(ii) of this Supplemental Indenture, which is required to be placed on all Global Notes issued under this Indenture.
Global Note Legend
"" means, individually and collectively, each of the Restricted Global Notes and the Unrestricted Global Notes, substantially in the form of .
Global Notes
Exhibit A
"" means one of the Reference Treasury Dealers appointed by the Company.
Independent Investment Banker
"" means a Person who holds a beneficial interest in a Global Note through a Participant.
Indirect Participant
 
"" means an institution that is an "accredited investor" as defined in Rule 501(a)(1), (2), (3) or (7) under the Securities Act, which is not also a QIB.
Institutional Accredited Investor
"" means a rating equal to or greater than Baa3 by Moody's and BBB- by S&P or the equivalent thereof under any new ratings system if the ratings systems of either such Rating Agency shall be modified after the issue date of the 2017 Notes, or the equivalent rating of any other Ratings Agency the Company selects as provided in the definition of Ratings Agencies.
Investment Grade Rating
"" means a Global Note in the form of bearing the Global Note Legend and the Private Placement Legend and deposited with or on behalf of and registered in the name of the Depositary or its nominee, issued in a denomination equal to the outstanding principal amount of the 2017 Notes initially sold in reliance on Rule 903 of Regulation S.
Legended Regulation S Global Note
Exhibit A
"" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc. or any successor to the rating agency business thereof.
Moody's
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the Registration Rights Agreement.
Participating Broker-Dealer
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the definition of Reference Treasury Dealer.
Primary Treasury Dealer
"" means the legend set forth in Section 3.03(f)(i) of this Supplemental Indenture to be placed on all 2017 Notes issued under this Indenture except as otherwise permitted by the provisions of this Indenture.
Private Placement Legend
"" means a "qualified institutional buyer" as defined in Rule 144A.
QIB
"" means (1) Moody's and S&P; and (2) if either Moody's or S&P ceases to rate the 2017 Notes or ceases to make a rating on the 2017 Notes publicly available, an entity registered as a "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" (registered as such pursuant to Rule l7g-1 of the Exchange Act) then making a rating on the 2017 Notes publicly available selected by the Company (as certified by an officer's certificate), which shall be substituted for Moody's or S&P, as the case may be.
Ratings Agencies
"" means the occurrence, during the period commencing on the date of the first public announcement of the Change of Control or the intention to effect a Change of Control and ending 90 days after the occurrence of the Change of Control, of a downgrade of the rating of the 2017 Notes by both Rating Agencies by one or more gradations (including gradations within ratings categories as well as between rating categories).
Ratings Decline
"" means Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, Barclays Capital Inc., Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, and their successors, and one other firm that is a primary U.S. Government securities dealer (each a "") which the Company shall specify from time to time; that if any of them ceases to be a Primary Treasury Dealer, the Company will substitute therefor another Primary Treasury Dealer.
Reference Treasury Dealer
Primary Treasury Dealer
provided,
 
"" means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any Redemption Date, the average of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue, expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount, quoted in writing to the Trustee by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the third Business Day preceding such Redemption Date.
Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations
"" means (a) with respect to the 2017 Notes issued on the date hereof, the Registration Rights Agreement, dated the date hereof, among the Company and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated for itself and for each of the other initial purchasers named on Schedule A thereto and (b) with respect to any additional 2017 Notes issued, any registration rights agreement between the Company and the other parties thereto relating to the registration by the Company of such additional 2017 Notes.
Registration Rights Agreement
"" means Regulation S promulgated under the Securities Act.
Regulation S
"" means a Legended Regulation S Global Note or an Unlegended Regulation S Global Note, as appropriate.
Regulation S Global Note
"" means with respect to each 2017 Note to be redeemed, the remaining scheduled payments of the principal thereof and interest and Additional Interest (if any) thereon, that would be due after the related Redemption Date but for such redemption; that, if such Redemption Date is not an Interest Payment Date with respect to such 2017 Note, the amount of the next succeeding scheduled interest payment thereon will be deemed reduced by the amount of interest accrued thereon to such Redemption Date.
Remaining Scheduled Payments
provided,
"" means a Definitive Note bearing the Private Placement Legend.
Restricted Definitive Note
"" means a Global Note bearing the Private Placement Legend.
Restricted Global Note
"" means Rule 144A promulgated under the Securities Act.
Rule 144A
"" means Standard & Poor's Rating Services, a division of the McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc., or any successor to the rating agency business thereof.
S&P
"" means the Shelf Registration Statement as defined in the Registration Rights Agreement.
Shelf Registration Statement
"" means, with respect to any Person, a Corporation, partnership, limited liability company or other business organization, whether or not incorporated, a majority of the Voting Securities of which is owned, directly or indirectly, by such Person; that, with respect to the Company and its Subsidiaries, Clearwire and its subsidiaries shall be deemed to not be Subsidiaries.
Subsidiary
provided
 
"" means, with respect to an applicable Redemption Date for the 2017 Notes: (1) the yield, under the heading which represents the average for the immediately preceding week, appearing in the most recently published statistical release designated "H.15(519)" or any successor publication that is published weekly by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and that establishes yields on actively traded United States Treasury Notes adjusted to constant maturity under the caption "Treasury Constant Maturities," for the maturity corresponding to the Comparable Treasury Issue; that if no maturity is within three months before or after the Stated Maturity of the 2017 Notes, yields for the two published maturities most closely corresponding to the Comparable Treasury Issue will be determined and the Treasury Rate will be interpolated or extrapolated from those yields on a straight line basis, rounding to the nearest month; or (2) if that release, or any successor release, is not published during the week preceding the calculation date or does not contain such yields, the rate per annum equal to the semiannual equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, calculated using a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for the Redemption Date. The Treasury Rate will be calculated on the third Business Day preceding the Redemption Date.
Treasury Rate
provided
"" means a U.S. person as defined in Rule 902(o) under the Securities Act.
U.S. Person
"" means a Global Note in the form of bearing the Global Note Legend, deposited with or on behalf of and registered in the name of the Depositary or its nominee.
Unlegended Regulation S Global Note
Exhibit A
"" means one or more Definitive Notes that do not bear and are not required to bear the Private Placement Legend.
Unrestricted Definitive Note
"" means a Global Note substantially in the form of that bears the Global Note Legend, that has the "Schedule of Exchanges of Interests in the Global Note" attached thereto, that is deposited with or on behalf of and registered in the name of the Depositary, representing a series of 2017 Notes, and that does not bear the Private Placement Legend.
Unrestricted Global Note
Exhibit A
"" of any Person means the stock or other ownership or equity interests, of whatever class or classes, the holders of which ordinarily have the power to vote for the election of the members of the board of directors, managers, trustees or other voting members of the governing body of such Person (other than stock or other ownership or equity interests having such power only by reason of the happening of a contingency).
Voting Securities
Section 1.03 . Unless the context requires otherwise, "interest" shall include Additional Interest (if any), even if not expressly mentioned, for purpose of the 2017 Notes only and not any other series of Securities issued under the Indenture (as modified by this Supplemental Indenture).
Interest
Section 1.04 . The provisions contained in this Supplemental Indenture shall apply only to the 2017 Notes and not to any other series of Securities issued under the Indenture and any covenants provided herein are solely for the benefit of the holders of the 2017 Notes and not for the benefit of the holders of any other series of Securities issued under the Indenture.
Applicability
 
Section 2.01 . Pursuant to Section 3.01 of the Indenture, the terms of the 2017 Notes shall be as follows:
Terms
(a) The title of the 2017 Notes is "9.125% Notes due 2017."
(b) The 2017 Notes are the general unsecured senior obligations of the Company and shall rank equally with all other unsecured senior obligations of the Company.
(c) The 2017 Notes will mature, and the principal of the 2017 Notes and all accrued and unpaid amounts, including interest and Additional Interest (if any), thereon will be due and payable on on March 1, 2017, or such earlier date as any of the 2017 Notes may become due and payable in accordance with the provisions of the Indenture and this Supplemental Indenture.
(d) The 2017 Notes will initially be issued in an aggregate principal amount of $1,000,000,000. The Company may issue additional 2017 Notes from time to time without the consent of any Holders of the 2017 Notes. Any such additional 2017 Notes along with the 2017 Notes issued on the date hereof will be treated as a single class for all purposes under the Indenture, including, without limitation, waivers, amendments and redemptions; that, in the case of Notes represented by Global Notes, for so long as may be required by the Securities Act or the procedures of DTC, Euroclear or Clearstream (or a successor clearing system), such additional Notes shall be represented by one or more separate Global Notes in accordance with the terms hereof and subject to applicable transfer or other restrictions.
provided
(e) The 2017 Notes will be issued in minimum denominations of $2,000 and thereafter in integral multiples of $1,000.
(f) Interest and Additional Interest (if any) on the 2017 Notes will accrue from March 1, 2012 or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, semi-annually on March 1 and September 1 in each year, commencing September 1, 2012 (each such date, an "" as defined in the Indenture), at the rate of 9.125% per annum to the Persons in whose name the 2017 Notes are registered in the Security Register on the preceding February 15 or August 15 (each such date, a "" as defined in the Indenture) until the principal thereof is paid or made available for payment; that any principal and premium, and any such installment of interest and Additional Interest (if any), which is overdue will bear interest at the rate of 9.125% per annum (to the extent that the payment of such interest is legally enforceable), from the dates such amounts are due until they are paid or made available payment, and such interest will be payable on demand.
Interest Payment Date
Regular Record Date
provided
(g) The 2017 Notes are not entitled to any sinking fund.
 
(h) Clearwire and its Subsidiaries will be deemed to not be Subsidiaries of the Company and will be excluded from all restrictive covenants provided for in the Indenture or this Supplemental Indenture.
Section 2.02 . The terms and provisions contained in the form of 2017 Notes attached as , shall constitute, and are hereby expressly made, a part of the this Supplemental Indenture and, to the extent applicable, the Company and the Trustee, by their execution and delivery of this Supplemental Indenture, expressly agree to such terms and provisions and to be bound thereby. However, to the extent any provision of any 2017 Note conflicts with the terms of this Supplemental Indenture, this Supplemental Indenture shall govern.
Terms of Notes Incorporated
Exhibit A
Section 3.01 . The 2017 Notes shall be in substantially the form of .
Form
Exhibit A
Section 3.02 . The 2017 Notes initially will be represented by one or more Global Notes in registered, global form without interest coupons (including the Global Note Legend thereon). The Global Notes will be deposited upon issuance with the Trustee as custodian for the Depository Trust Company (""), and registered in the name of DTC or its nominee, in each case for credit to an account of a direct or indirect participant in DTC. Through and including 40 days after the later of the issuance of the 2017 Notes (such period through and including 40 days, the ""), beneficial interests in Regulation S Global Notes may be held only through Euroclear Bank, S.A./N.V., as operator of the Euroclear System ("") and Clearstream Banking, S.A. ("") (as indirect participants in DTC), unless transferred to a Person that takes delivery through a 144A Global Note in accordance with the certification requirements described in this Article Three.
Global Notes
DTC
Restricted Period
Euroclear
Clearstream
Section 3.03 .
Transfer and Exchange
(a) . A Global Note may not be transferred as a whole except by the Depositary (who shall initially be DTC) to a nominee of the Depositary, by a nominee of the Depositary to the Depositary or to another nominee of the Depositary, or by the Depositary or any such nominee to a successor Depositary or a nominee of such successor Depositary. All Global Notes shall be exchanged by the Company for Definitive Notes if (i) the Depositary (A) notifies the Company that it is unwilling or unable to continue as Depositary for the Global Notes and the Company fails to appoint a successor Depositary within 90 days after receiving such notice or (B) has ceased to be a clearing agency registered under the Exchange Act, and in each case the Company fails to appoint a successor Depositary within 90 days after becoming aware of such condition; (ii) the Company, at its option, notifies the Trustee in writing that it elects to cause the issuance of Definitive Notes in exchange for Global Notes (in whole but not in part); that in no event shall the Legended Regulation S Global Note be exchanged by the Company for Definitive Notes other than in accordance with Section 3.03(c)(ii); or (iii) there shall have occurred and be continuing a Default or Event of
Transfer and Exchange of Global Notes
provided
 
Default with respect to the 2017 Notes and DTC requests such exchange. Upon the occurrence of any of the preceding events in (i), (ii) or (iii) above, Definitive Notes shall be issued in such names as the Depositary shall instruct the Trustee. Global Notes also may be exchanged or replaced, in whole or in part, as provided in Sections 304 and 306 of the Indenture. A Global Note may not be exchanged for another 2017 Note other than as provided in this Section 3.03(a); however, beneficial interests in a Global Note may be transferred and exchanged as provided in Section 3.03(b), (c) or (h) hereof.
(b) . The transfer and exchange of beneficial interests in the Global Notes shall be effected through the Depositary, in accordance with the provisions of this Indenture and the applicable procedures of the Depositary, Euroclear and Clearstream. Beneficial interests in the Restricted Global Notes shall be subject to restrictions on transfer comparable to those set forth herein to the extent required by the Securities Act. Transfers of beneficial interests in the Global Notes also shall require compliance with either subparagraph (i) or (ii) below, as applicable, as well as one or more of the other following subparagraphs, as applicable:
Transfer and Exchange of Beneficial Interests in the Global Notes
(i) . Beneficial interests in any Restricted Global Note may be transferred to Persons who take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in the same Restricted Global Note in accordance with the transfer restrictions set forth in the Private Placement Legend; , , that prior to the expiration of the Restricted Period, transfers of beneficial interests in the Legended Regulation S Global Note may not be made to a U.S. Person or for the account or benefit of a U.S. Person (other than an initial purchaser of the 2017 Notes). Beneficial interests in any Unrestricted Global Note may be transferred to Persons who take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note. No written orders or instructions shall be required to be delivered to the Trustee to effect the transfers described in this Section 3.03(b)(i).
Transfer of Beneficial Interests in the Same Global Note
provided
however
(ii) . In connection with all transfers and exchanges of beneficial interests that are not subject to Section 3.03(b)(i) above, the transferor of such beneficial interest must deliver to the Trustee either (A) (1) a written order from a Participant or an Indirect Participant given to the Depositary directing the Depositary to credit or cause to be credited a beneficial interest in another Global Note in an amount equal to the beneficial interest to be transferred or exchanged and (2) instructions containing information regarding the Participant account to be credited with such increase or (B) (1) a written order from a Participant or an Indirect Participant given to the Depositary directing the Depositary to cause to be issued a Definitive Note in an amount equal to the beneficial interest to be transferred or exchanged and (2) instructions given by the Depositary to the Trustee containing information regarding the Person in whose name such Definitive Note shall be registered to effect the transfer or exchange referred to in (1) above; that in no event shall Definitive Notes be issued upon the transfer or exchange of beneficial interests in the Legended Regulation S Global Note other than in accordance with Section 3.03(c)(ii). Upon satisfaction of all of the requirements for transfer or exchange of beneficial interests in Global Notes contained in this Supplemental Indenture and the 2017 Notes or otherwise applicable under the Securities Act, the Trustee shall adjust the principal amount at maturity of the relevant Global Notes pursuant to Section 3.03(g).
All Other Transfers and Exchanges of Beneficial Interests in Global Notes
provided
 
(iii) . A beneficial interest in any Restricted Global Note may be transferred to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in another Restricted Global Note if the transfer complies with the requirements of Section 3.03(b)(ii) above and the Trustee receives the following:
Transfer of Beneficial Interests to Another Restricted Global Note
(A) if the transferee shall take delivery in the form of a beneficial interest in the 144A Global Note, then the transferor must deliver a certificate in the form of , including the certifications in item (1) thereof; and
Exhibit B
(B) if the transferee shall take delivery in the form of a beneficial interest in a Legended Regulation S Global Note, then the transferor must deliver a certificate in the form of , including the certifications in item (2) thereof.
Exhibit B
(iv) . A beneficial interest in any Restricted Global Note may be exchanged by any Holder thereof for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note or transferred to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note if the exchange or transfer complies with the requirements of Section 3.03(b)(ii) above and:
Transfer and Exchange of Beneficial Interests in a Restricted Global Note for Beneficial Interests in an Unrestricted Global Note
(A) such exchange or transfer is effected pursuant to the Exchange Offer in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement and the Holder of the beneficial interest to be transferred, in the case of an exchange, or the transferee, in the case of a transfer, certifies in the applicable letter of transmittal (1) it is not an affiliate (as defined in Rule 144) of the Company, (2) it is not engaged in, and does not intend to engage in, and has no arrangement or understanding with any Person to participate in, a distribution of the Exchange Notes to be issued in the Exchange Offer and (3) it is acquiring the Exchange Notes in its ordinary course of business;
(B) such transfer is effected pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement;
(C) such transfer is effected by a Participating Broker Dealer pursuant to the Exchange Offer Registration Statement in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement; or
(D) the Trustee receives the following:
(1) if the holder of such beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note proposes to exchange such beneficial interest for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note, a certificate from such holder in the form of , including the certifications in item (1)(a) thereof; or
Exhibit C
 
(2) if the holder of such beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note proposes to transfer such beneficial interest to a Person who shall take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note, a certificate from such holder in the form of , including the certifications in item (4) thereof;
Exhibit B
and, in each such case set forth in subparagraph (D), if the Trustee or the Company so requests, an opinion of counsel in form reasonably acceptable to the Trustee and the Company to the effect that such exchange or transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act and that the restrictions on transfer contained herein and in the Private Placement Legend are no longer required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act.
If any such transfer is effectuated pursuant to subparagraphs (B) or (D) at a time when an Unrestricted Global Note has not yet been issued, the Company shall issue and, upon receipt of an authentication order in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the Trustee shall authenticate one or more Unrestricted Global Notes in an aggregate principal amount equal to the aggregate principal amount of beneficial interests transferred pursuant to subparagraphs (B) or (D).
Beneficial interests in an Unrestricted Global Note cannot be exchanged for, or transferred to Persons who take delivery thereof in the form of, a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note.
(c) .
Transfer or Exchange of Beneficial Interests for Definitive Notes
(i) . If any holder of a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note proposes to exchange such beneficial interest for a Restricted Definitive Note or to transfer such beneficial interest to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a Restricted Definitive Note, then, upon receipt by the Trustee of the following documentation:
Beneficial Interests in Restricted Global Notes to Restricted Definitive Notes
(A) if the holder of such beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note proposes to exchange such beneficial interest for a Restricted Definitive Note, a certificate from such holder in the form of , including the certifications in item (2)(a) thereof;
Exhibit C
(B) if such beneficial interest is being transferred to a QIB in accordance with Rule 144A, a certificate to the effect set forth in , including the certifications in item (1) thereof;
Exhibit B
(C) if such beneficial interest is being transferred to an Institutional Accredited Investor in reliance on an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act other than that listed in subparagraph (B) above, a certificate to the effect set forth in hereto, including the certifications, certificates and Opinion of Counsel required by item (3) thereof, if applicable; or
Exhibit B
 
(D) if such beneficial interest is being transferred to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, a certificate to the effect set forth in , including the certifications in item (3)(a) thereof,
Exhibit B
the Trustee shall cause the aggregate principal amount of the applicable Global Note to be reduced accordingly pursuant to Section 3.03(g) hereof, and the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Person designated in the instructions a Definitive Note in the appropriate principal amount. Any Definitive Note issued in exchange for a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note pursuant to this Section 3.03(c) shall be registered in such name or names and in such authorized denomination or denominations as the holder of such beneficial interest shall instruct the Trustee through instructions from the Depositary and the Participant or Indirect Participant. The Trustee shall deliver such Definitive Notes to the Persons in whose names such 2017 Notes are so registered. Any Definitive Note issued in exchange for a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note pursuant to this Section 3.03(c)(i) shall bear the Private Placement Legend and shall be subject to all restrictions on transfer contained therein.
(ii) . A beneficial interest in the Legended Regulation S Global Note may not be exchanged for a Definitive Note or transferred to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a Definitive Note prior to the expiration of the Restricted Period, except in the case of a transfer pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act other than Rule 903 or Rule 904.
Beneficial Interests in Legended Regulation S Global Note to Definitive Notes
(iii) . A holder of a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note may exchange such beneficial interest for an Unrestricted Definitive Note or may transfer such beneficial interest to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of an Unrestricted Definitive Note only if:
Beneficial Interests in Restricted Global Notes to Unrestricted Definitive Notes
(A) such exchange or transfer is effected pursuant to the Exchange Offer in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement and the holder of such beneficial interest, in the case of an exchange, or the transferee, in the case of a transfer, certifies in the applicable letter of transmittal that (1) it is not an affiliate (as defined in Rule 144) of the Company, (2) it is not engaged in, and does not intend to engage in, and has no arrangement or understanding with any Person to participate in, a distribution of the Exchange Notes to be issued in the Exchange Offer and (3) it is acquiring the Exchange Notes in its ordinary course of business;
(B) such transfer is effected pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement;
(C) such transfer is effected by a Participating Broker Dealer pursuant to the Exchange Offer Registration Statement in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement; or
 
(D) the Trustee receives the following:
(1) if the Holder of such beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note proposes to exchange such beneficial interest for a Definitive Note that does not bear the Private Placement Legend, a certificate from such Holder in the form of , including the certifications in item (1)(b) thereof; or
Exhibit C
(2) if the Holder of such beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note proposes to transfer such beneficial interest to a Person who shall take delivery thereof in the form of a Definitive Note that does not bear the Private Placement Legend, a certificate from such Holder in the form of , including the certifications in item (4) thereof;
Exhibit B
and, in each such case set forth in subparagraph (D), if the Trustee or the Company so requests, an opinion of counsel in form reasonably acceptable to the Trustee and the Company to the effect that such exchange or transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act and that the restrictions on transfer contained herein and in the Private Placement Legend are no longer required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act.
(iv) . If any holder of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note proposes to exchange such beneficial interest for a Definitive Note or to transfer such beneficial interest to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a Definitive Note, then, upon satisfaction of the conditions set forth in Section 3.03(b)(ii), the Trustee shall cause the aggregate principal amount of the applicable Global Note to be reduced accordingly pursuant to Section 3.03(h), and the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Person designated in the instructions a Definitive Note in the appropriate principal amount. Any Definitive Note issued in exchange for a beneficial interest pursuant to this Section 3.03(c)(iv) shall be registered in such name or names and in such authorized denomination or denominations as the holder of such beneficial interest shall instruct the Trustee through instructions from the Depositary and the Participant or Indirect Participant. The Trustee shall deliver such Definitive Notes to the Persons in whose names such 2017 Notes are so registered. Any Definitive Note issued in exchange for a beneficial interest pursuant to this Section 3.03(c)(iv) shall not bear the Private Placement Legend.
Beneficial Interests in Unrestricted Global Notes to Unrestricted Definitive Notes
(d) .
Transfer and Exchange of Definitive Notes for Beneficial Interests
(i) . If any Holder of a Restricted Definitive Note proposes to exchange such 2017 Note for a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note or to transfer such Restricted Definitive Notes to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note, then, upon receipt by the Trustee of the following documentation:
Restricted Definitive Notes to Beneficial Interests in Restricted Global Notes
(A) if the Holder of such Restricted Definitive Note proposes to exchange such 2017 Note for a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note, a certificate from such Holder in the form of , including the certifications in item (2)(b) thereof;
Exhibit C
 
(B) if such Restricted Definitive Note is being transferred to a QIB in accordance with Rule 144A, a certificate to the effect set forth in , including the certifications in item (1) thereof;
Exhibit B
(C) if such Restricted Definitive Note is being transferred to a Person that is not a U.S. Person in an "" in accordance with Rule 903 or Rule 904, a certificate to the effect set forth in , including the certifications in item (2) thereof; or
offshore transaction
Exhibit B
(D) if such Restricted Definitive Note is being transferred to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, a certificate to the effect set forth in , including the certifications in item (3)(a) thereof,
Exhibit B
the Trustee shall cancel the Restricted Definitive Note, and increase or cause to be increased the aggregate principal amount of, in the case of clause (A) above, the appropriate Restricted Global Note, in the case of clause (B) above, the 144A Global Note, and in the case of clause (C) above, the Regulation S Global Note.
(ii) . A Holder of a Restricted Definitive Note may exchange such 2017 Note for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note or transfer such Restricted Definitive Note to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note only if:
Restricted Definitive Notes to Beneficial Interests in Unrestricted Global Notes
(A) such exchange or transfer is effected pursuant to the Exchange Offer in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement and the Holder, in the case of an exchange, or the transferee, in the case of a transfer, certifies in the applicable letter of transmittal (1) it is not an affiliate (as defined in Rule 144) of the Company, (2) it is not engaged in, and does not intend to engage in, and has no arrangement or understanding with any Person to participate in, a distribution of the Exchange Notes to be issued in the Exchange Offer and (3) it is acquiring the Exchange Notes in its ordinary course of business;
(B) such transfer is effected pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement;
(C) such transfer is effected by a Participating Broker Dealer pursuant to the Exchange Offer Registration Statement in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement; or
(D) the Trustee receives the following:
(1) if the Holder of such Restricted Definitive Note proposes to exchange such 2017 Note for a beneficial interest in the Unrestricted Global Note, a certificate from such Holder in the form of , including the certifications in item (1)(c) thereof; or
Exhibit C
 
(2) if the Holder of such Restricted Definitive Note proposes to transfer such 2017 Note to a Person who shall take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in the Unrestricted Global Note, a certificate from such Holder in the form of , including the certifications in item (4) thereof;
Exhibit B
and, in each such case as set forth in subparagraph (D), if the Trustee or the Company so request, an opinion of counsel in form reasonably acceptable to the Trustee and the Company to the effect that such exchange or transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act and that the restrictions on transfer contained herein and in the Private Placement Legend are no longer required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act.
Upon satisfaction of the conditions of any of the subparagraphs in this Section 3.03(d)(ii), the Trustee shall cancel the Definitive Notes and increase or cause to be increased the aggregate principal amount of the Unrestricted Global Note.
(iii) . A Holder of an Unrestricted Definitive Note may exchange such 2017 Note for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note or transfer such Unrestricted Definitive Note to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note at any time. Upon receipt of a request for such an exchange or transfer, the Trustee shall cancel the applicable Unrestricted Definitive Note and increase or cause to be increased the aggregate principal amount of one of the Unrestricted Global Notes.
Unrestricted Definitive Notes to Beneficial Interests in Unrestricted Global Notes
If any such exchange or transfer from a Definitive Note to a beneficial interest is effected pursuant to subparagraphs (ii)(B), (ii)(D) or (iii) above at a time when an Unrestricted Global Note has not yet been issued, the Company shall issue and, upon receipt of an authentication order in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the Trustee shall authenticate one or more Unrestricted Global Notes in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of Definitive Notes so transferred.
(e) . Upon request by a Holder of Definitive Notes and such Holder's compliance with the provisions of this Section 3.03(e), the Trustee shall register the transfer or exchange of Definitive Notes. Prior to such registration of transfer or exchange, the requesting Holder shall present or surrender to the Trustee the Definitive Notes duly endorsed or accompanied by a written instruction of transfer in form satisfactory to the Trustee duly executed by such Holder or by its attorney, duly authorized in writing. In addition, the requesting Holder shall provide any additional certifications, documents and information, as applicable, required pursuant to the following provisions of this Section 3.03(e).
Transfer and Exchange of Definitive Notes for Definitive Notes
 
(i) . Any Restricted Definitive Note may be transferred to and registered in the name of Persons who take delivery thereof in the form of a Restricted Definitive Note if the Trustee receives the following:
Restricted Definitive Notes to Restricted Definitive Notes
(A) if the transfer shall be made pursuant to Rule 144A under the Securities Act, then the transferor must deliver a certificate in the form of , including the certifications in item (1) thereof; and
Exhibit B
(B) if the transfer shall be made pursuant to any other exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act, then the transferor must deliver a certificate in the form of , including the certifications, certificates and Opinion of Counsel required by item (3) thereof, if applicable.
Exhibit B
(ii) . Any Restricted Definitive Note may be exchanged by the Holder thereof for an Unrestricted Definitive Note or transferred to a Person or Persons who take delivery thereof in the form of an Unrestricted Definitive Note if:
Restricted Definitive Notes to Unrestricted Definitive Notes
(A) such exchange or transfer is effected pursuant to the Exchange Offer in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement and the Holder, in the case of an exchange, or the transferee, in the case of a transfer, certifies in the applicable letter of transmittal that (1) it is not an affiliate (as defined in Rule 144) of the Company, (2) it is not engaged in, and does not intend to engage in, and has no arrangement or understanding with any Person to participate in, a distribution of the Exchange Notes to be issued in the Exchange Offer and (3) it is acquiring the Exchange Notes in its ordinary course of business;
(B) any such transfer is effected pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement;
(C) any such transfer is effected by a Participating Broker Dealer pursuant to the Exchange Offer Registration Statement in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement; or
(D) the Trustee receives the following:
(1) if the Holder of such Restricted Definitive Note proposes to exchange such 2017 Note for an Unrestricted Definitive Note, a certificate from such Holder in the form of , including the certifications in item (1)(d) thereof; or
Exhibit C
(2) if the Holder of such Restricted Definitive Note proposes to transfer such 2017 Note to a Person who shall take delivery thereof in the form of an Unrestricted Definitive Note, a certificate from such Holder in the form of , including the certifications in item (4) thereof;
Exhibit B
 
and, in each such case set forth in subparagraph (D), if the Trustee so requests, an opinion of counsel in form reasonably acceptable to the Company to the effect that such exchange or transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act and that the restrictions on transfer contained herein and in the Private Placement Legend are no longer required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act.
(iii) . A Holder of Unrestricted Definitive Notes may transfer such 2017 Notes to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of an Unrestricted Definitive Note. Upon receipt of a request to register such a transfer, the Trustee shall register the Unrestricted Definitive Notes pursuant to the instructions from the Holder thereof.
Unrestricted Definitive Notes to Unrestricted Definitive Notes
(f) . The following legends shall appear on the face of all Global Notes and Definitive Notes issued under this Indenture unless specifically stated otherwise in the applicable provisions of this Indenture.
Legends
(i) . Except as permitted below, each Global Note and each Definitive Note (and all 2017 Notes issued in exchange therefor or substitution thereof) shall bear the legend in substantially the following form:
Private Placement Legend
THIS SECURITY HAS NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933 (THE "SECURITIES ACT"), OR THE SECURITIES LAWS OF ANY STATE OR OTHER JURISDICTION. NEITHER THIS SECURITY NOR ANY INTEREST OR PARTICIPATION HEREIN MAY BE REOFFERED, SOLD, ASSIGNED, TRANSFERRED, PLEDGED, ENCUMBERED OR OTHERWISE DISPOSED OF IN THE ABSENCE OF SUCH REGISTRATION OR UNLESS SUCH TRANSACTION IS EXEMPT FROM, OR NOT SUBJECT TO, SUCH REGISTRATION. THE HOLDER OF THIS SECURITY, BY ITS ACCEPTANCE HEREOF, AGREES ON ITS OWN BEHALF AND ON BEHALF OF ANY INVESTOR ACCOUNT FOR WHICH IT HAS PURCHASED SECURITIES, TO OFFER, SELL OR OTHERWISE TRANSFER SUCH SECURITY, PRIOR TO THE DATE (THE "RESALE RESTRICTION TERMINATION DATE") THAT IS [IN THE CASE OF RULE 144A NOTES: ONE YEAR AFTER THE LATER OF THE ORIGINAL ISSUE DATE HEREOF, THE ORIGINAL ISSUE DATE OF THE ISSUANCE OF ANY ADDITIONAL NOTES AND THE LAST DATE ON WHICH THE ISSUER OR ANY AFFILIATE OF THE ISSUER WAS THE OWNER OF THIS SECURITY (OR ANY PREDECESSOR OF SUCH SECURITY),] [IN THE CASE OF REGULATION S NOTES: 40 DAYS AFTER THE LATER OF THE ORIGINAL ISSUE DATE HEREOF AND THE DATE ON WHICH THIS SECURITY (OR ANY PREDECESSOR OF SUCH
 
SECURITY) WAS FIRST OFFERED TO PERSONS OTHER THAN DISTRIBUTORS (AS DEFINED IN RULE 902 OF REGULATION S) IN RELIANCE ON REGULATION S], ONLY (A) TO THE COMPANY OR ANY SUBSIDIARY THEREOF, (B) PURSUANT TO A REGISTRATION STATEMENT THAT HAS BEEN DECLARED EFFECTIVE UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, (C) FOR SO LONG AS THE SECURITIES ARE ELIGIBLE FOR RESALE PURSUANT TO RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT ("RULE 144A"), TO A PERSON IT REASONABLY BELIEVES IS A "QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER" AS DEFINED IN RULE 144A THAT PURCHASES FOR ITS OWN ACCOUNT OR FOR THE ACCOUNT OF A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER TO WHOM NOTICE IS GIVEN THAT THE TRANSFER IS BEING MADE IN RELIANCE ON RULE 144A, (D) PURSUANT TO OFFERS AND SALES TO NON-U.S. PERSONS THAT OCCUR OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES WITHIN THE MEANING OF REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, (E) TO AN INSTITUTIONAL "ACCREDITED INVESTOR" WITHIN THE MEANING OF RULE 501(a)(1), (2), (3) OR (7) UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT THAT IS NOT A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER AND THAT IS PURCHASING FOR ITS OWN ACCOUNT OR FOR THE ACCOUNT OF ANOTHER INSTITUTIONAL ACCREDITED INVESTOR, IN EACH CASE IN A MINIMUM PRINCIPAL AMOUNT OF SECURITIES OR (F) PURSUANT TO ANOTHER AVAILABLE EXEMPTION FROM THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT, SUBJECT TO THE COMPANY'S AND THE TRUSTEE'S RIGHT PRIOR TO ANY SUCH OFFER, SALE OR TRANSFER PURSUANT TO CLAUSES (D), (E) OR (F) TO REQUIRE THE DELIVERY OF AN OPINION OF COUNSEL, CERTIFICATION AND/ OR OTHER INFORMATION SATISFACTORY TO EACH OF THEM. THIS LEGEND WILL BE REMOVED UPON THE REQUEST OF THE HOLDER AFTER THE RESALE RESTRICTION TERMINATION DATE. [IN THE CASE OF REGULATION S NOTES: BY ITS ACQUISITION HEREOF, THE HOLDER HEREOF REPRESENTS THAT IT IS NOT A U.S. PERSON NOR IS IT PURCHASING FOR THE ACCOUNT OF A U.S. PERSON AND IS ACQUIRING THIS SECURITY IN AN OFFSHORE TRANSACTION IN ACCORDANCE WITH REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT.]
 
BY ITS ACQUISITION OF THIS SECURITY, THE HOLDER THEREOF WILL BE DEEMED TO HAVE REPRESENTED AND WARRANTED THAT EITHER (1) NO PORTION OF THE ASSETS USED BY SUCH HOLDER TO ACQUIRE OR HOLD THIS SECURITY CONSTITUTES THE ASSETS OF AN EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLAN THAT IS SUBJECT TO TITLE I OF THE U.S. EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT INCOME SECURITY ACT OF 1974, AS AMENDED ("ERISA"), ANY PLAN, ACCOUNT OR OTHER ARRANGEMENT THAT IS SUBJECT TO SECTION 4975 OF THE U.S. INTERNAL REVENUE CODE OF 1986, AS AMENDED (THE "CODE") OR PROVISIONS UNDER ANY OTHER FEDERAL, STATE, LOCAL, NON-U.S. OR OTHER LAWS OR REGULATIONS THAT ARE SIMILAR TO SUCH PROVISIONS OF ERISA OR THE CODE ("SIMILAR LAWS"), OR AN ENTITY WHOSE UNDERLYING ASSETS ARE CONSIDERED TO INCLUDE "PLAN ASSETS" OF ANY SUCH PLAN, ACCOUNT OR ARRANGEMENT, OR (2) THE ACQUISITION AND HOLDING OF THIS SECURITY WILL NOT CONSTITUTE A NON-EXEMPT PROHIBITED TRANSACTION UNDER SECTION 406 OF ERISA OR SECTION 4975 OF THE CODE OR A SIMILAR VIOLATION UNDER ANY APPLICABLE SIMILAR LAW.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, any Global Note or Definitive Note issued pursuant to subparagraph (b)(iv), (c)(iii), (c)(iv), (d)(ii), (d)(iii), (e)(ii), (e)(iii) or (h) to this Section 3.03 (and all 2017 Notes issued in exchange therefor or substitution thereof) shall not bear the Private Placement Legend.
(ii) . Each Global Note shall bear a legend in substantially the following form:
Global Note Legend
THIS GLOBAL NOTE IS HELD BY THE DEPOSITARY (AS DEFINED IN THE INDENTURE GOVERNING THIS NOTE) OR ITS NOMINEE IN CUSTODY FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE BENEFICIAL OWNERS HEREOF, AND IS NOT TRANSFERABLE TO ANY PERSON UNDER ANY CIRCUMSTANCES EXCEPT THAT (I) THE TRUSTEE MAY MAKE SUCH NOTATIONS HEREON AS MAY BE REQUIRED PURSUANT TO SECTION 3.03 OF THE THIRD SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE TO THE INDENTURE, (II) THIS GLOBAL NOTE MAY BE EXCHANGED IN WHOLE BUT NOT IN PART PURSUANT TO SECTION 3.03(a) OF THE THIRD SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE TO THE INDENTURE, (III) THIS GLOBAL NOTE MAY BE DELIVERED TO THE
 
TRUSTEE FOR CANCELLATION PURSUANT TO THE INDENTURE AND (IV) THIS GLOBAL NOTE MAY BE TRANSFERRED TO A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY WITH THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF THE COMPANY.
(ii) . The Regulation S Global Note shall bear a legend in substantially the following form:
Regulation S Global Note Legend
THE RIGHTS ATTACHING TO THIS REGULATION S GLOBAL NOTE, AND THE CONDITIONS AND PROCEDURES GOVERNING ITS EXCHANGE FOR CERTIFICATED NOTES, ARE AS SPECIFIED IN THE INDENTURE (AS DEFINED HEREIN).
(g) . At such time as all beneficial interests in a particular Global Note have been exchanged for Definitive Notes or a particular Global Note has been redeemed, repurchased or canceled in whole and not in part, each such Global Note shall be returned to or retained and canceled by the Trustee in accordance with the Indenture. At any time prior to such cancellation, if any beneficial interest in a Global Note is exchanged for or transferred to a Person who shall take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in another Global Note or for Definitive Notes, the principal amount of 2017 Notes represented by such Global Note shall be reduced accordingly and an endorsement shall be made on the Schedule of Exchanges of Interests in such Global Note by the Trustee or by the Depositary at the direction of the Trustee to reflect such reduction; and if the beneficial interest is being exchanged for or transferred to a Person who shall take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in another Global Note, such other Global Note shall be increased accordingly and an endorsement shall be made on such Global Note by the Trustee or by the Depositary at the direction of the Trustee to reflect such increase.
Cancellation and/or Adjustment of Global Notes
(h) . Upon the occurrence of the Exchange Offer in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement, the Company shall issue and, upon receipt of an authentication order, the Trustee shall authenticate (i) one or more Unrestricted Global Notes in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of the beneficial interests in the Restricted Global Notes tendered for acceptance by Persons that certify in the applicable letters of transmittal that (x) they are not affiliates (as defined in Rule 144) of the Company, (y) they are not engaged in, and do not intend to engage in, and have no arrangement or understanding with any Person to participate in, a distribution of the exchange notes to be issued in the Exchange Offer and (z) they are acquiring the exchange notes in their ordinary course of business and (ii) Unrestricted Definitive Notes in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of the Restricted Definitive Notes accepted for exchange in the Exchange Offer. Concurrently with the issuance of such Notes, the Trustee shall cause the aggregate principal amount of the applicable Restricted Global Notes to be reduced accordingly, and the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Persons designated by the Holders of Restricted Global Notes so accepted Unrestricted Global Notes in the appropriate principal amount.
Exchange Offer
(i) .
General Provisions Relating to Transfers and Exchanges
(i) To permit registrations of transfers and exchanges permitted hereunder, the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate Global Notes and Definitive Notes upon the Company's order or at the Trustee's request in accordance with the Indenture.
 
(ii) No service charge shall be made to a Holder of a beneficial interest in a Global Note or to a Holder of a Definitive Note for any registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any transfer tax or similar governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
(iii) The Trustee shall not be required to register the transfer of or exchange any 2017 Note selected for redemption in whole or in part, except the unredeemed portion of any 2017 Note being redeemed in part.
(iv) All Global Notes and Definitive Notes issued upon any registration of transfer or exchange of Global Notes or Definitive Notes shall be the valid and legally binding obligations of the Company, evidencing the same debt, and entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture, as the Global Notes or Definitive Notes surrendered upon such registration of transfer or exchange.
(v) The Company shall not be required (A) to issue, to register the transfer of or to exchange any 2017 Notes during a period beginning at the opening of business 15 days before the day of any selection of 2017 Notes for redemption and ending at the close of business on the day of selection, (B) to register the transfer of or to exchange any 2017 Note so selected for redemption in whole or in part, except the unredeemed portion of any 2017 Note being redeemed in part, (C) to register the transfer of or to exchange a 2017 Note between a record date and the next succeeding interest payment date or (D) to register the transfer of or to exchange a 2017 Note tendered and not withdrawn in connection with a Change of Control Offer.
(vi) Prior to due presentment for the registration of a transfer of any 2017 Note, the Trustee, the Paying Agent and the Company may deem and treat the Person in whose name any 2017 Note is registered as the absolute owner of such 2017 Note for the purpose of receiving payment of principal of and interest on such 2017 Notes and for all other purposes, and none of the Trustee, the Paying Agent or the Company shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
(vii) Neither the Trustee nor the registrar shall have any duty to monitor the Company's compliance with or have any responsibility with respect to the Company's compliance with any federal or state securities laws in connection with registrations of transfers and exchanges of the 2017 Notes. The Trustee shall have no obligation or duty to monitor, determine or inquire as to compliance with any restrictions on transfer imposed under this Indenture or under applicable law with respect to any transfer of any interest in any 2017 Notes (including any transfers between or among the Depositary's participants or beneficial owners of interests in any Global Note) other than to require delivery of such certificates and other documentation, as is expressly required by, and to do so if and when expressly required by, the terms of this Indenture and to examine the same to determine substantial compliance as to form with the express requirements hereof.
 
The following amendment to the Indenture shall apply only to the 2017 Notes and not to any other series of Securities issued under the Indenture and shall be effective for so long as any 2017 Notes remain Outstanding. The Indenture is amended by this Supplemental Indenture solely with respect to the 2017 Notes, as follows:
Section 5.01 . Solely with respect to the 2017 Notes, Section 113 of the Indenture shall be amended and restated in its entirety by inserting the following in lieu thereof:
Amendments to Article I
"
Section 113. Legal Holidays.
If any Interest Payment Date or the Stated Maturity of the 2017 Notes falls on a day that is not a Business Day, the required payment will be made on the next Business Day as if it were made on the date the payment was due and no interest will accrue on the amount so payable for the period from and after the Interest Payment Date or the Stated Maturity, as the case may be, until the next Business Day."
Section 6.01 . The 2017 Notes will be redeemable in accordance with terms of the Indenture (as modified by this Supplemental Indenture), in each case from time to time, as a whole or in part, at the Company's option, on at least 30 days, but not more than 60 days, prior notice mailed to the registered address of each holder of the 2017 Notes to be redeemed, at a Redemption Price equal to (1) the greater of: (A) 100% of the principal amount of the 2017 Notes to be redeemed, and (B) the sum of the present values of the Remaining Scheduled Payments, discounted to the Redemption Date, on a semi-annual basis, assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months, at the Treasury Rate, plus 50 basis points; (2) in each case, accrued interest and Additional Interest (if any) to the applicable Redemption Date, in each case, that has not been paid.
Optional Redemption
plus
Section 6.02 . On and after the Redemption Date, interest and Additional Interest will cease to accrue on the
Interest on 2017 Notes Redeemed; Deposit of Redemption Price
 
2017 Notes or any portion thereof called for redemption, unless the Company defaults in the payment of the Redemption Price. On or before the Redemption Date, the Company will deposit with the Paying Agent, or the Trustee, money sufficient to pay the Redemption Price of the 2017 Notes to be redeemed on such date.
Section 7.01 . If a Change of Control Triggering Event occurs with respect to the 2017 Notes, each Holder of 2017 Notes will have the right to require the Company to repurchase all or any part, equal to $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 thereafter, of that Holder's 2017 Notes pursuant to an offer (a "") on the terms set forth in this Article Seven.
Repurchase Offers
Change of Control Offer
Section 7.02 . The Company, in each Change of Control Offer, will offer a cash payment (a "") equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of 2017 Notes repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest and Additional Interest (if any) on the 2017 Notes, in each case, up to but excluding the date of repurchase. Within 30 days following any Change of Control Triggering Event, if the Company had not, prior to the Change of Control Triggering Event, sent a redemption notice for all the 2017 Notes in connection with an optional redemption permitted by Section 7.01 of this Supplemental Indenture and Article XI of the Indenture, the Company will mail or cause to be mailed a notice to each registered Holder briefly describing the event or events that constitute a Change of Control Triggering Event and offering to repurchase 2017 Notes on the date specified in such notice (the ""), which date will be no earlier than 30 days and no later than 60 days from the date the notice is mailed, pursuant to the procedures required by the Indenture (as modified by this Supplemental Indenture) and described in such notice.
Terms of Change of Control Offer
Change of Control Payment
Change of Control Payment Date
Section 7.03 . The Company will comply with the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the Exchange Act and any other securities laws and regulations thereunder to the extent such laws and regulations are applicable to any Change of Control Offer. To the extent the provisions of any securities laws or regulations conflict with the provisions of this Article Seven, the Company will comply with the applicable securities laws and regulations and will not be deemed to have breached its obligations hereunder by virtue of such conflict.
Compliance with Securities Laws
Section 7.04 . On the Change of Control Payment Date, the Company will, to the extent lawful:
Acceptance of and Payment for 2017 Notes
(a) accept for payment all 2017 Notes or portions thereof properly tendered pursuant to the Change of Control Offer;
(b) deposit with the Paying Agent an amount equal to the Change of Control Payment in respect of all 2017 Notes or portions thereof properly tendered; and
 
(c) deliver or cause to be delivered to the Trustee the 2017 Notes so accepted together with an Officers' Certificate stating the aggregate principal amount of 2017 Notes or portions thereof being purchased.
Section 7.05 . The Company will determine whether the 2017 Notes are properly tendered, and the Trustee will have no responsibility for, and may conclusively rely upon, the Company's determination with respect thereto. Subject to receipt of sufficient funds from the Company, the Paying Agent will promptly deliver to each registered Holder of 2017 Notes properly tendered, the Change of Control Payment for such 2017 Notes, and the Trustee will promptly authenticate and mail, or cause to be transferred by book entry, to each Holder a new 2017 Note equal in principal amount to any unpurchased portion of the 2017 Notes surrendered, if any; that each such new 2017 Note will be in a principal amount of $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 thereafter. Any 2017 Note so accepted for payment will cease to accrue interest on and after the Change of Control Payment Date.
Determination of Tender; Responsibilities of Paying Agent and Trustee
provided
Section 7.06 . The Company will not be required to make a Change of Control Offer upon a Change of Control Triggering Event if a third party makes the Change of Control Offer in the manner, at the times and otherwise in compliance with the requirements applicable to a Change of Control Offer made by the Company and purchases all 2017 Notes properly tendered and not withdrawn under the Change of Control Offer.
Third Party Change of Control Offers
Section 7.07 . The Company may make a Change of Control Offer in advance of a Change of Control Triggering Event, and condition that Change of Control Offer upon the occurrence of such Change of Control Triggering Event, if a definitive agreement is in place for the Change of Control Triggering Event at the time of making the Change of Control Offer.
Conditional Change of Control Offers
Section 7.08 . Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Article Seven, if the 2017 Notes receive an Investment Grade Rating by both of the Rating Agencies, and notwithstanding that the 2017 Notes may later cease to have an Investment Grade Rating by either of the Rating Agencies, the Company will be released from its obligation to make a Change of Control Offer upon a Change of Control Triggering Event.
Investment Grade Rating
Section 8.01 . This Supplemental Indenture is executed by the Company and by the Trustee upon the Company's request, pursuant to the provisions of the Indenture, and the terms and conditions hereof shall be deemed to be part of the Indenture for all purposes. The Indenture, as supplemented and amended by this Supplemental Indenture, is in all respects hereby adopted, ratified and confirmed. Notwithstanding the foregoing, to the extent that any of the terms of this Supplemental Indenture are inconsistent with, or conflict with, the terms of the Indenture, the terms of this Supplemental Indenture shall govern.
Effect of Supplemental Indenture; Conflicts with Indenture
 
Section 8.02 . This Supplemental Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be an original, but such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
Counterparts
Section 8.03 . The Trustee assumes no responsibility for the correctness of the recitals herein contained, which shall be taken as the statements of the Company. The Trustee makes no representations and shall have no responsibility as to the validity or sufficiency of this Supplemental Indenture or the due authorization and execution hereof by the Company.
Trustee
Section 8.04 . The Article and Section headings contained herein are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction of this Supplemental Indenture.
Headings
Section 8.05 . This Supplemental Indenture and the 2017 Notes shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
Governing Law
 
, the parties hereto have caused this Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized as of the day and year first above written.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
 
 
 
 
, a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of Kansas (herein called the "," which term includes any successor Person under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to , or registered assigns, the principal sum of [            ] on March 1, 2017, and to pay interest and Additional Interest (if any) thereon from March 1, 2012, or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, semi-annually on March 1 and September 1 in each year, commencing September 1, 2012, at the rate of 9.125% per annum, until the principal hereof is paid or made available for payment, that any principal and premium, and any such installment of interest and Additional Interest (if any), which is overdue shall bear interest at the rate of 9.125% per annum (to the extent that the payment of such interest shall be legally enforceable), from the dates such amounts are due until they are paid or made available for payment, and such interest shall be payable on demand. If any Interest Payment Date or the Stated Maturity of this 2017 Note falls on a day that is not a Business Day, the required payment shall be made on the next Business Day as if it were made on the date the payment was due and no interest shall accrue on the amount so payable for the period from and after the Interest Payment Date or the Stated Maturity of this 2017 Note, as the case may be, until the next Business Day. The interest and Additional Interest (if any) so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date (or the next Business Day, as applicable) will, as provided in such Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this 2017 Note (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest and Additional Interest (if any), which shall be the February 15 or August 15 (whether or not a Business Day), as the case may be, next preceding such Interest Payment Date. Any such interest and Additional Interest (if any) not so punctually paid or duly provided for will forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on such Regular Record Date and may either be paid to the Person in whose name this 2017 Note (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be fixed by the Trustee, notice whereof shall be given to Holders of 2017 Notes of this series not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date, or be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the 2017 Notes of this series may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in said Indenture.
SPRINT NEXTEL CORPORATION
Company
CEDE & Co.
MILLION DOLLARS
provided
Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this 2017 Note set forth on the reverse hereof, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the Trustee referred to on the reverse hereof by manual signature, this 2017 Note shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this 2017 Note to be signed manually or by facsimile by its duly authorized officer.
 
 
[SEAL]
TRUSTEE'S CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION
This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture
 
 
This 2017 Note is one of a duly authorized issue of securities of the Company (herein called the ""), issued and to be issued in one or more series under an Indenture, dated as of November 20, 2006 (herein called the "" which term shall have the meaning assigned to it in such instrument), between the Company and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee (herein called the "," which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), as supplemented by the Third Supplemental Indenture, dated as of March 1, 2012 (the ""). Reference is hereby made to the Indenture for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the 2017 Notes and of the terms upon which the 2017 Notes are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered.
2017 Notes
Indenture
Trustee
Supplemental Indenture
Any payments of interest on this 2017 Note shall include Additional Interest, if any, to the extent applicable under the Registration Rights Agreement.
"" means the Registration Rights Agreement, dated March 1 2012, among the Company and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated for itself and for each of the other initial purchasers named on Schedule A thereto.
Registration Rights Agreement
The Company may redeem the 2017 Notes at any time and from time to time, as a whole or in part, at the Company's option, on at least 30 days, but not more than 60 days, prior notice mailed to the registered address of each Holder of the 2017 Notes to be redeemed, at a redemption price equal to the greater of:
(1) 100% of the principal amount of the 2017 Notes to be redeemed; and
(2) the sum of the present values of the Remaining Scheduled Payments, discounted to the Redemption Date, on a semi-annual basis, assuming a 360 day year consisting of twelve 30 day months, at the Treasury Rate, plus 50 basis points;
, in each case, accrued interest and Additional Interest (if any) to the Redemption Date that has not been paid (such redemption price, the "").
plus
Redemption Price
"" means the United States Treasury security selected by the Independent Investment Banker as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term of the 2017 Notes that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of the 2017 Notes.
Comparable Treasury Issue
"" means, with respect to any Redemption Date: (1) the average of four Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such Redemption Date, after excluding the highest and lowest of such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations; or (2) if the Trustee is provided fewer than four Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all quotations provided to the Trustee.
Comparable Treasury Price
"" means one of the Reference Treasury Dealers appointed by the Company.
Independent Investment Banker
"" means Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, Baclays Capital Inc., Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, and their successors, and one other firm that is a primary U.S. Government securities dealer (each a "") which the Company shall specify from time to time; that if any of them ceases to be a Primary Treasury Dealer, the Company will substitute therefor another Primary Treasury Dealer.
Reference Treasury Dealer
Primary Treasury Dealer
provided,
"" means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any Redemption Date, the average of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue, expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount, quoted in writing to the Trustee by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the third Business Day preceding such Redemption Date.
Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations
"" means with respect to each 2017 Note to be redeemed, the remaining scheduled payments of the principal thereof and interest and Additional Interest (if any) thereon, that would be due after the related Redemption Date but for such redemption; that, if such Redemption Date is not an interest payment date with respect to such 2017 Note, the amount of the next succeeding scheduled interest payment thereon will be deemed reduced by the amount of interest accrued thereon to such Redemption Date.
Remaining Scheduled Payments
provided,
"" means, with respect to an applicable Redemption Date for the 2017 Notes: (1) the yield, under the heading which represents the average for the immediately preceding week, appearing in the most recently published statistical release designated "H.15(519)" or any successor publication that is published weekly by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and that establishes yields on actively traded United States Treasury Notes adjusted to constant maturity under the caption "Treasury Constant Maturities," for the maturity corresponding to the Comparable Treasury Issue; that if no maturity is within three months before or after the Stated Maturity of the 2017 Notes, yields for the two published maturities most closely corresponding to the Comparable Treasury Issue will be determined and the Treasury Rate will be interpolated or extrapolated from those yields on a straight line basis, rounding to the nearest month; or (2) if that release, or any successor release, is not published during the week preceding the calculation date or does not contain such yields, the rate per annum equal to the semiannual equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, calculated using a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for the Redemption Date. The Treasury Rate will be calculated on the third Business Day preceding the Redemption Date.
Treasury Rate
provided
On and after the Redemption Date, interest and Additional Interest (if any) will cease to accrue on the 2017 Notes or any portion thereof called for redemption, unless the Company defaults in the payment of the Redemption Price.
In the event of redemption of this 2017 Note in part only, a new 2017 Note or 2017 Notes of this series and of like tenor for the unredeemed portion hereof will be issued in the name of the Holder hereof upon the cancellation hereof.
If a Change of Control Triggering Event occurs, each Holder of a 2017 Note will have the right to require the Company to repurchase all or any part, equal to $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 thereafter, of that Holder's 2017 Notes pursuant to an offer (a "") on the terms set forth in the Supplemental Indenture.
Change of Control Offer
The Company, in each Change of Control Offer, will offer a cash payment (a "") equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of 2017 Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest and Additional Interest (if any) on the 2017 Notes up to but excluding the date of repurchase. Within 30 days following any Change of Control Triggering Event, if the Company had not, prior to the Change of Control Triggering Event, sent a redemption notice for all the 2017 Notes in connection with an optional redemption permitted by the Indenture, the Company will mail or cause to be mailed a notice to each registered Holder briefly describing the event or events that constitute a Change of Control Triggering Event and offering to repurchase 2017 Notes on the date specified in such notice (the ""), which date will be no earlier than 30 days and no later than 60 days from the date the notice is mailed, pursuant to the procedures required by the Indenture (as modified by this Supplemental Indenture) and described in such notice.
Change of Control Payment
Change of Control Payment Date
Notwithstanding the preceding two paragraphs, if the 2017 Notes receive an Investment Grade Rating by both of the Rating Agencies, and notwithstanding that the 2017 Notes may later cease to have an Investment Grade Rating by either of the Rating Agencies, the Company will be released from its obligation to make a Change of Control Offer upon a Change of Control Triggering Event.
"" means the occurrence of any of the following:
Change of Control
(a) the direct or indirect sale, transfer, conveyance or other disposition (other than by way of merger or consolidation), in one or a series of related transactions, of all or substantially all of the Company and its Subsidiaries' properties or assets, taken as a whole, to any "person" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act);
(b) the adoption of a plan relating to the Company's liquidation or dissolution; or
(c) any "person" or "group" (as such terms are used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Exchange Act) becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the voting power of the Company's Voting Securities; that a transaction in which the Company becomes a Subsidiary of another person shall not constitute a Change of Control if (a) the Company's stockholders immediately prior to such transaction Beneficially Own, directly or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, 50% or more of the voting power of the outstanding Voting Securities of such other Person of whom the Company is a Subsidiary immediately following such
provided
transaction and (b) immediately following such transaction no person (as defined above) other than such other person, Beneficially Owns, directly or indirectly, more than 50% of the voting power of the Company's Voting Securities.
"" means the occurrence of both a Change of Control and a Ratings Decline.
Change of Control Triggering Event
"" means a rating equal to or greater than Baa3 by Moody's and BBB- by S&P or the equivalent thereof under any new ratings system if the ratings systems of either such Rating Agency shall be modified after the issue date of the 2017 Notes, or the equivalent rating of any other Ratings Agency the Company selects as provided in the definition of Ratings Agencies.
Investment Grade Rating
"" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc. or any successor to the rating agency business thereof.
Moody's
"" means (1) Moody's and S&P; and (2) if either Moody's or S&P ceases to rate the 2017 Notes or ceases to make a rating on the 2017 Notes publicly available, an entity registered as a "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" (registered as such pursuant to Rule l7g-1 of the Exchange Act) then making a rating on the 2017 Notes publicly available selected by the Company (as certified by an officer's certificate), which shall be substituted for Moody's or S&P, as the case may be.
Ratings Agencies
"" means the occurrence, during the period commencing on the date of the first public announcement of the Change of Control or the intention to effect a Change of Control and ending 90 days after the occurrence of the Change of Control, of a downgrade of the rating of the 2017 Notes by both Rating Agencies by one or more gradations (including gradations within ratings categories as well as between rating categories).
Ratings Decline
"" means Standard & Poor's Rating Services, a division of the McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc., or any successor to the rating agency business thereof.
S&P
The Indenture contains provisions for defeasance at any time of the entire indebtedness of this 2017 Note or certain restrictive covenants and Events of Default with respect to this 2017 Note, in each case upon compliance with certain conditions set forth in the Indenture.
If an Event of Default with respect to the 2017 Notes shall occur and be continuing, the principal of the 2017 Notes may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.
The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders of the Securities of each series to be affected under the Indenture at any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of all Outstanding Securities affected. With respect to any series of Securities, the consent of the Holders of that series of Securities required by the Indenture may be obtained from either the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities of that series, or from
the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities of that series and all other series affected by that consent, voting as a single class. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of specified percentages in principal amount of the Securities of each series at the time Outstanding, on behalf of the Holders of all Securities of such series, to waive compliance by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences. With respect to any series of Securities issued under the Indenture, in addition to obtaining waivers from the Holders of a majority in principal amount of Outstanding Securities of that series, a waiver of compliance with the Indenture and a waiver of past defaults under the Indenture can also be obtained from the Holders of a majority in principal amount of debt securities of that series and all other series affected by the waiver, whether issued under the Indenture or any other indenture of the Company providing for such aggregated voting, all as a single class. Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of this 2017 Note shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of this 2017 Note and of any 2017 Note issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange therefor or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this 2017 Note.
As provided in and subject to the provisions of the Indenture, the Holder of this 2017 Note shall not have the right to institute any proceeding with respect to the Indenture or for the appointment of a receiver or trustee or for any other remedy thereunder, unless such Holder shall have previously given the Trustee written notice of a continuing Event of Default with respect to the 2017 Notes, the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the 2017 Notes at the time Outstanding shall have made written request to the Trustee to institute proceedings in respect of such Event of Default as Trustee and offered the Trustee reasonable indemnity, and the Trustee shall not have received from the Holders of a majority in principal amount of 2017 Notes at the time Outstanding a direction inconsistent with such request, and shall have failed to institute any such proceeding, for 60 days after receipt of such notice, request and offer of indemnity. The foregoing shall not apply to any suit instituted by the Holder of this 2017 Note for the enforcement of any payment of principal hereof or any premium or interest hereon on or after the respective due dates expressed herein.
No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this 2017 Note or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of and any premium and interest on this 2017 Note at the times, place and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed.
As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the transfer of this 2017 Note is registerable in the Security Register, upon surrender of this 2017 Note for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the Company in any place where the principal of and any premium and interest on this 2017 Note are payable, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Security Registrar duly executed by, the Holder hereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new 2017 Notes of this series and of like tenor, of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees.
The 2017 Notes of this series are issuable only in registered form, without coupons, in minimum denominations of $2,000 and thereafter any integral multiple of $1,000.
As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, 2017 Notes of this series are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of 2017 Notes of this series and of like tenor of a different authorized denomination, as requested by the Holder surrendering the same.
No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
Prior to due presentment of this 2017 Note for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this 2017 Note is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this 2017 Note be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
No recourse for payment of the principal of, premium, if any, or interest on this 2017 Note, or for any claim based thereon or otherwise in respect thereof, and no recourse under or upon any obligation, covenant or agreement of the Company contained in the Indenture, or in any 2017 Note, or because of the creation of any indebtedness represented thereby, shall be had against any incorporator or any past, present or future partner, shareholder, other equity holder, officer, director, employee or controlling person, as such, of the Company or of any successor Person, either directly or through the Company or any successor Person, whether by virtue of any constitution, statute or rule of law, or by enforcement of any assessment or penalty or otherwise, it being expressly understood that all such liability, either at common law or in equity or by constitution or statute, is hereby waived and released as a condition of, and as consideration for, the execution of the Indenture and the issuance of this 2017 Note.
THIS 2017 NOTE SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
All terms used in this 2017 Note which are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture (as modified by the Supplemental Indenture).
The following exchanges of a part of this Global Note for an interest in another Global Note or for a Definitive Note, or exchanges of a part of another Global Note or Definitive Note for an interest in this Global Note, have been made:
 
The following exchanges of a part of this Regulation S Global Note for an interest in another Global Note or of other Restricted Global Notes for an interest in this Regulation S Global Note, have been made:
 
Sprint Nextel Corporation
6200 Sprint Parkway
Overland Park, KS 66251
Facsimile: (913) 523-9802
Attention: General Counsel
The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A.
2 N. LaSalle Street, Suite 1020
Chicago, IL 60602
Facsimile: 312-827-8542
Attention: Corporate Trust Administration
 
Reference is hereby made to the Indenture, dated as of November 20, 2006 (the ""), among Sprint Nextel Corporation, a Kansas corporation (the "") and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A. (n/k/a The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A.) (the ""), as supplemented by the Third Supplemental Indenture, dated as of March 1, 2012 among the Company and the Trustee. Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Indenture.
Indenture
Company
Trustee
                             (the "") owns and proposes to transfer the 2017 Note[s] or interest in such 2017 Note[s] specified in Annex A hereto, in the principal amount at maturity of $            in such 2017 Note[s] or interests (the ""), to                             (the ""), as further specified in Annex A hereto. In connection with the Transfer, the Transferor hereby certifies that:
Transferor
Transfer
Transferee
1. . The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ""), and, accordingly, the Transferor hereby further certifies that the beneficial interest or Definitive Note is being transferred to a Person that the Transferor reasonably believed and believes is purchasing the beneficial interest or Definitive Note for its own account, or for one or more accounts with respect to which such Person exercises sole investment discretion, and such Person and each such account is a "qualified institutional buyer" within the meaning of Rule 144A in a transaction meeting the requirements of Rule 144A and such Transfer is in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States. Upon consummation of the proposed Transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Definitive Note will be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the 144A Global Note and/or the Definitive Note and in the Indenture and the Securities Act.
Check if Transferee will take delivery of a beneficial interest in the 144A Global Note or a Definitive Note Pursuant to Rule 144A
Securities Act
2.
Check if Transferee will take delivery of a beneficial interest in a Legended Regulation S Global Note, or a Definitive Note pursuant to
 
. The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 903 or Rule 904 under the Securities Act and, accordingly, the Transferor hereby further certifies that (i) the Transfer is not being made to a person in the United States and (x) at the time the buy order was originated, the Transferee was outside the United States or such Transferor and any Person acting on its behalf reasonably believed and believes that the Transferee was outside the United States or (y) the transaction was executed in, on or through the facilities of a designated offshore securities market and neither such Transferor nor any Person acting on its behalf knows that the transaction was prearranged with a buyer in the United States, (ii) no directed selling efforts have been made in contravention of the requirements of Rule 903(b) or Rule 904(b) of Regulation S under the Securities Act, (iii) the transaction is not part of a plan or scheme to evade the registration requirements of the Securities Act and (iv) the transfer is not being made to a U.S. Person or for the account or benefit of a U.S. Person (other than an initial purchaser of the 2017 Notes). Upon consummation of the proposed transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Definitive Note will be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the Legended Regulation S Global Note and/or the Definitive Note and in the Indenture and the Securities Act.
Regulation S
3. . The Transfer is being effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to beneficial interests in Restricted Global Notes and Restricted Definitive Notes and pursuant to and in accordance with the Securities Act and any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States, and accordingly the Transferor hereby further certifies that (check one):
Check and complete if Transferee will take delivery of a Restricted Definitive Note pursuant to any provision of the Securities Act other than Rule 144, Rule 144A or Regulation S
(a) such Transfer is being effected to the Company or a subsidiary thereof; or
(b) such Transfer is being effected to an Institutional Accredited Investor and pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act other than Rule 144A, Rule 144 or Rule 904, and the Transferor hereby further certifies that it has not engaged in any general solicitation within the meaning of Regulation D under the Securities Act and the Transfer complies with the transfer restrictions applicable to Restricted Definitive Notes and the requirements of the exemption claimed, which certification is supported by (1) a certificate executed by the Transferee in the form of to the Third Supplemental Indenture dated as of March 1, 2012 and (2) an Opinion of Counsel provided by the Transferor or the Transferee (a copy of which the Transferor has attached to this certification), to the effect that such Transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act. Upon consummation of the proposed transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred Definitive Note will be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the Definitive Notes and in the Indenture and the Securities Act.
Exhibit D
4. .
Check if Transferee will take delivery of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note or of an Unrestricted Definitive Note
 
(a) Check if Transfer is Pursuant to Rule 144. (i) The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 144 under the Securities Act and in compliance with the transfer restrictions contained in the Indenture and any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States and (ii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act. Upon consummation of the proposed Transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Definitive Note will no longer be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the Restricted Global Notes, on Restricted Definitive Notes and in the Indenture.
(b) Check if Transfer is Pursuant to Regulation S. (i) The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 903 or Rule 904 under the Securities Act and in compliance with the transfer restrictions contained in the Indenture and any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States and, in the case of a transfer from a Restricted Global Note or a Restricted Definitive Note, the Transferor hereby further certifies that (a) the Transfer is not being made to a person in the United States and (x) at the time the buy order was originated, the Transferee was outside the United States or such Transferor and any Person acting on its behalf reasonably believed and believes that the Transferee was outside the United States or (y) the transaction was executed in, on or through the facilities of a designated offshore securities market and neither such Transferor nor any Person acting on its behalf knows that the transaction was prearranged with a buyer in the United States, (b) no directed selling efforts have been made in contravention of the requirements of Rule 903(b) or Rule 904(b) of Regulation S under the Securities Act, (c) the transaction is not part of a plan or scheme to evade the registration requirements of the Securities Act and (d) the transfer is not being made to a U.S. Person or for the account or benefit of a U.S. Person, and (ii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act. Upon consummation of the proposed Transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Definitive Note will no longer be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the Restricted Global Notes, on Restricted Definitive Notes and in the Indenture.
(c) Check if Transfer is Pursuant to Other Exemption. (i) The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in compliance with an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act other than Rule 144, Rule 903 or Rule 904 and in compliance with the transfer restrictions contained in the Indenture and any applicable blue sky securities laws of any State of the United States and (ii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act. Upon consummation of the proposed Transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Definitive Note will not be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the Restricted Global Notes or Restricted Definitive Notes and in the Indenture.
 
This certificate and the statements contained herein are made for your benefit and the benefit of the Company.
 
 
 
 
 
 
in accordance with the terms of the Indenture.
 
Sprint Nextel Corporation
6200 Sprint Parkway
Overland Park, KS 66251
Facsimile: (913) 523-9802
Attention: General Counsel
The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A.
2 N. LaSalle Street, Suite 1020
Chicago, IL 60602
Facsimile: 312-827-8542
Attention: Corporate Trust Administration
 
Reference is hereby made to the Indenture, dated as of November 20, 2006 (the ""), among Sprint Nextel Corporation, a Kansas corporation (the "") and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A. (n/k/a The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A.) (the ""), as supplemented by the Third Supplemental Indenture, dated as of March 1, 2012 among the Company and the Trustee. Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Indenture.
Indenture
Company
Trustee
                             (the "") owns and proposes to exchange the 2017 Note[s] or interest in such 2017 Note[s] specified herein, in the principal amount at maturity of $            in such 2017 Note[s] or interests (the ""). In connection with the Exchange, the Owner hereby certifies that:
Owner
Exchange
1. Exchange of Restricted Definitive Notes or Beneficial Interests in a Restricted Global Note for Unrestricted Definitive Notes or Beneficial Interests in an Unrestricted Global Note
(a) . In connection with the Exchange of the Owner's beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note in an equal principal amount at maturity, the Owner hereby certifies (i) the beneficial interest is being acquired for the Owner's own account without transfer, (ii) such Exchange has been effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to the Global Notes and pursuant to and in accordance with the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ""), (iii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act and (iv) the beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note is being acquired in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States.
Check if Exchange is from beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note to beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note
Securities Act
(b) . In connection with the Exchange of the Owner's beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note for an Unrestricted
Check if Exchange is from beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note to Unrestricted Definitive Note
 
Definitive Note, the Owner hereby certifies (i) the Definitive Note is being acquired for the Owner's own account without transfer, (ii) such Exchange has been effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to the Restricted Global Notes and pursuant to and in accordance with the Securities Act, (iii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act and (iv) the Definitive Note is being acquired in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States.
(c) . In connection with the Owner's Exchange of a Restricted Definitive Note for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note, the Owner hereby certifies (i) the beneficial interest is being acquired for the Owner's own account without transfer, (ii) such Exchange has been effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to Restricted Definitive Notes and pursuant to and in accordance with the Securities Act, (iii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act and (iv) the beneficial interest is being acquired in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States.
Check if Exchange is from Restricted Definitive Note to beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note
(d) . In connection with the Owner's Exchange of a Restricted Definitive Note for an Unrestricted Definitive Note, the Owner hereby certifies (i) the Unrestricted Definitive Note is being acquired for the Owner's own account without transfer, (ii) such Exchange has been effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to Restricted Definitive Notes and pursuant to and in accordance with the Securities Act, (iii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act and (iv) the Unrestricted Definitive Note is being acquired in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States.
Check if Exchange is from Restricted Definitive Note to Unrestricted Definitive Note
2. Exchange of Restricted Definitive Notes or Beneficial Interests in Restricted Global Notes for Restricted Definitive Notes or Beneficial Interests in Restricted Global Notes
(a) . In connection with the Exchange of the Owner's beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note for a Restricted Definitive Note with an equal principal amount at maturity, the Owner hereby certifies that the Restricted Definitive Note is being acquired for the Owner's own account without transfer. Upon consummation of the proposed Exchange in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the Restricted Definitive Note issued will continue to be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the Restricted Definitive Note and in the Indenture and the Securities Act.
Check if Exchange is from beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note to Restricted Definitive Note
 
(b) . In connection with the Exchange of the Owner's Restricted Definitive Note for a beneficial interest in the [CHECK ONE]:
Check if Exchange is from Restricted Definitive Note to beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note
 
 
with an equal principal amount at maturity, the Owner hereby certifies (i) the beneficial interest is being acquired for the Owner's own account without transfer and (ii) such Exchange has been effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to the Restricted Global Notes and pursuant to and in accordance with the Securities Act, and in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States. Upon consummation of the proposed Exchange in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the beneficial interest issued will be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the relevant Restricted Global Note and in the Indenture and the Securities Act.
This certificate and the statements contained herein are made for your benefit and the benefit of the Company.
 
 
Sprint Nextel Corporation
6200 Sprint Parkway
Overland Park, KS 66251
Facsimile: (913) 523-9802
Attention: General Counsel
The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A.
2 N. LaSalle Street, Suite 1020
Chicago, IL 60602
Facsimile: 312-827-8542
Attention: Corporate Trust Administration
 
Reference is hereby made to the Indenture, dated as of November 20, 2006 (the ""), among Sprint Nextel Corporation, a Kansas corporation (the "") and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A. (n/k/a The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A.) (the ""), as supplemented by the Third Supplemental Indenture, dated as of March 1, 2012 among the Company and the Trustee. Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Indenture.
Indenture
Company
Trustee
In connection with our proposed purchase of $                    aggregate principal amount of:
(a)            beneficial interest in a Global Note, or
(b)            a Definitive Note,
we confirm that:
1. We understand that any subsequent transfer of the 2017 Notes or any interest therein is subject to certain restrictions and conditions set forth in the Indenture and the undersigned agrees to be bound by, and not to resell, pledge or otherwise transfer the Notes or any interest therein except in compliance with, such restrictions and conditions and the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "").
Securities Act
2. We understand that the offer and sale of the 2017 Notes have not been registered under the Securities Act, and that the 2017 Notes and any interest therein may not be offered or sold except as permitted in the following sentence. We agree, on our own behalf and on behalf of any accounts for which we are acting as hereinafter stated, that if we should sell the Notes or any interest therein, we shall do so only (A) to the Company or any subsidiary thereof, (B) in accordance with Rule 144A under the Securities Act to a "qualified institutional buyer" (as defined therein), (C) to an institutional "accredited investor" (as defined below) that, prior to such transfer, furnishes (or has furnished on its behalf by a U.S. broker-dealer) to the Trustee and to the Company a signed letter substantially in the form of this letter and an Opinion of Counsel in form reasonably acceptable to the Company to the effect that such transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act, (D) outside the United States in accordance with Rule 904 of Regulation S under the Securities Act, (E) pursuant to the provisions of Rule 144(k) under the
 
Securities Act or (F) pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act, and we further agree to provide to any person purchasing the Definitive Note or beneficial interest in a Global Note from us in a transaction meeting the requirements of clauses (A) through (E) of this paragraph a notice advising such purchaser that resales thereof are restricted as stated herein.
3. We understand that, on any proposed resale of the 2017 Notes or beneficial interest therein, we will be required to furnish to the Trustee and the Company such certifications, legal opinions and other information as you and the Company may reasonably require to confirm that the proposed sale complies with the foregoing restrictions. We further understand that the Notes purchased by us will bear a legend to the foregoing effect.
4. We are an institutional "accredited investor" (as defined in Rule 501(a)(1), (2), (3) or (7) of Regulation D under the Securities Act) and have such knowledge and experience in financial and business matters as to be capable of evaluating the merits and risks of our investment in the Notes, and we and any accounts for which we are acting are each able to bear the economic risk of our or its investment.
5. We are acquiring the Notes or beneficial interest therein purchased by us for our own account or for one or more accounts (each of which is an institutional "accredited investor") as to each of which we exercise sole investment discretion.
The Trustee and the Company are entitled to rely upon this letter and are irrevocably authorized to produce this letter or a copy hereof to any interested party in any administrative or legal proceedings or official inquiry with respect to the matters covered hereby.
 
 

Exhibit 4.2
 
 
 
 
FOURTH SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE ("this "), dated as of March 1, 2012, among SPRINT NEXTEL CORPORATION, a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Kansas (the ""), the Subsidiary Guarantors appearing on the signature pages hereto and THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON TRUST COMPANY, N.A., as trustee (the "").
Supplemental Indenture
Company
Trustee
, the Company and the Trustee have duly executed and delivered that certain Senior Notes Indenture, dated as of November 20, 2006 (the ""), providing for the issuance from time to time of unsecured debentures, notes or other evidences of indebtedness, to be issued in one or more series (the "");
WHEREAS
Indenture
Securities
, Sections 201, 301 and 901 of the Indenture provide that the Company and the Trustee may from time to time enter into one or more indentures supplemental thereto to establish the form or terms of Securities of a new series issues pursuant to the Indenture;
WHEREAS
, pursuant to the terms of the Indenture, the Company desires to provide for the establishment of a new series of Securities designated as its 7.000% Guaranteed Notes due 2020 (the "") to be issued under the Indenture, as supplemented by this Supplemental Indenture, initially in an aggregate principal amount of $1,000,000,000, to be authenticated and delivered as provided in the Indenture;
WHEREAS
2020 Guaranteed Notes
, the Company desires to supplement the provisions of the Indenture to provide for the issuance of the 2020 Guaranteed Notes under the terms of the Indenture as supplemented hereby;
WHEREAS
, each Subsidiary Guarantor acknowledges that the issuance of the 2020 Guaranteed Notes constitutes a direct benefit to it and in consideration therefor is willing to guarantee the 2020 Guaranteed Notes on the terms set forth herein;
WHEREAS
, for the purposes hereinabove recited, and pursuant to due corporate action, the Company has duly determined to execute and deliver to the Trustee this Supplemental Indenture; and
WHEREAS
, all conditions and requirements necessary to make this Supplemental Indenture a valid and binding instrument in accordance with its terms have been done and performed, and the execution and delivery hereof have been in all respects duly authorized.
WHEREAS
, in consideration of the premises, the covenants and other agreements contained herein and other good and valuable consideration, the sufficiency of which is hereby confirmed, the Company, the Subsidiary Guarantors and the Trustee mutually covenant and agree as follows:
NOW, THEREFORE
Section 1.01 . All terms contained in this Supplemental Indenture shall, except as specifically provided herein or except as the context may otherwise require, have the meanings defined in the Indenture. In the event of any inconsistency between the Indenture and this Supplemental Indenture, this Supplemental Indenture shall govern. The words "herein," "hereof," "hereunder," and words of similar import shall refer to this Supplemental Indenture.
Relationship with Indenture
Section 1.02 . Solely with respect to the 2020 Guaranteed Notes, the following definitions shall be added to Section 101 of the Indenture and replace any existing definitions (as applicable) in the Indenture, each in appropriate alphabetical order, unless the context requires otherwise.
Additional Definitions
"" means a global note substantially in the form of bearing the Global Note Legend and the Private Placement Legend and deposited with or on behalf of, and registered in the name of, the Depositary or its nominee, that shall be initially issued in aggregate denominations equal to the outstanding principal amount of the 2020 Guaranteed Notes sold in reliance on Rule 144A.
144A Global Note
Exhibit A
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the recitals to this Supplemental Indenture.
2020 Guaranteed Notes
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Rule 13d-3 and Rule 13d-5 under the Exchange Act. The terms "" and "" shall have a corresponding meaning.
Beneficial Owner
Beneficially Owns
Beneficially Owned
"" means any day, other than a Saturday or Sunday, or legal holidays on which the banks in The City of New York are not required or authorized by law or executive order to be closed.
Business Day
"" means (a) marketable obligations issued or unconditionally guaranteed by the U.S. or issued by any of its agencies and backed by the full faith and credit of the U.S., in each case maturing within one year from the date of acquisition; (b) short-term investment grade domestic and eurodollar certificates of deposit or time deposits that are fully insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or are issued by commercial banks organized under the laws of the U.S. or any of its states having combined capital, surplus and undivided profits of not less than $100,000,000 (as shown on its most recently published statement of condition); (c) commercial paper and similar obligations rated "P-1" by Moody's or "A-1" by S&P; (d) readily marketable tax-free municipal bonds of domestic issuers rated "A-2" or better by Moody's or "A" or better by S&P, and maturing within one year from the date of issuance; and (e) mutual funds or money market accounts investing primarily in items described in clauses (a) through (d) above.
Cash Equivalents
"" means the occurrence of any of the following:
Change of Control
(a) the direct or indirect sale, transfer, conveyance or other disposition (other than by way of merger or consolidation), in one or a series of related transactions, of all or substantially all of the Company and its Subsidiaries' properties or assets, taken as a whole, to any "person" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act);
 
(b) the adoption of a plan relating to the Company's liquidation or dissolution; or
(c) any "person" or "group" (as such terms are used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Exchange Act) becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the voting power of the Company's Voting Securities; that a transaction in which the Company becomes a Subsidiary of another person shall not constitute a Change of Control if (a) the Company's stockholders immediately prior to such transaction Beneficially Own, directly or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, 50% or more of the voting power of the outstanding Voting Securities of such other Person of whom the Company is a Subsidiary immediately following such transaction and (b) immediately following such transaction no person (as defined above) other than such other person, Beneficially Owns, directly or indirectly, more than 50% of the voting power of the Company's Voting Securities.
provided
"" means the occurrence of both a Change of Control and a Ratings Decline.
Change of Control Triggering Event
"" means collectively, Clearwire Corporation, a Delaware corporation, and its operating Subsidiary, Clearwire Communications LLC, a Delaware limited liability company.
Clearwire
"" means the United States Treasury security selected by the Independent Investment Banker as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term of the 2020 Guaranteed Notes that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of the 2020 Guaranteed Notes.
Comparable Treasury Issue
"" means, with respect to any Redemption Date: (1) the average of five Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such Redemption Date, after excluding the highest and lowest of such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations; or (2) if the Trustee is provided fewer than five Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all quotations provided to the Trustee.
Comparable Treasury Price
"" means the Credit Agreement, dated May 21, 2010 among the Company, as borrower, the Subsidiary Guarantors parties thereto, the lenders party thereto and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administration agent, and the other loan documents related thereto (all as amended, extended, renewed, increased, modified, restated, supplemented or refinanced from time to time), and the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, dated May 21, 2010 between the Company and Export Development Canada, and the other loan documents related thereto (all as amended, extended, renewed, increased, modified, restated, supplemented or refinanced from time to time).
Credit Agreements
 
"" means a certificated 2020 Guaranteed Note registered in the name of the Holder thereof and issued in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, substantially in the form of , except that such 2020 Guaranteed Note shall not bear the Global Note Legend and shall not have the "Schedule of Exchanges of Interests in the Global Note" attached thereto.
Definitive Note
Exhibit A
"" means (i) any indebtedness of the Company outstanding under the Credit Agreements and (ii) any other indebtedness the principal amount of which is $25 million or more and that is or will upon issuance be guaranteed by a Subsidiary Guarantor and has been designated by the Company as "Designated Senior Debt".
Designated Senior Debt
"" means the legend set forth in Section 3.03(f)(ii) of this Supplemental Indenture, which is required to be placed on all Global Notes issued under this Indenture.
Global Note Legend
"" means, individually and collectively, each of the Restricted Global Notes and the Unrestricted Global Notes, substantially in the form of .
Global Notes
Exhibit A
"" means a guarantee, direct or indirect, in any manner, of all or any part of any indebtedness for borrowed money.
guarantee
"" means indebtedness for borrowed money (or guarantee of borrowed money) of the Company that is guaranteed by one or more Subsidiary Guarantors.
Guaranteed Indebtedness
"" means one of the Reference Treasury Dealers appointed by the Company.
Independent Investment Banker
"" means a Person who holds a beneficial interest in a Global Note through a Participant.
Indirect Participant
"" means an institution that is an "accredited investor" as defined in Rule 501(a)(1), (2), (3) or (7) under the Securities Act, which is not also a QIB.
Institutional Accredited Investor
"" means indebtedness of the Company owing to any of its Subsidiaries and of any Subsidiary owing to the Company or any other Subsidiary.
Intercompany Indebtedness
"" means a rating equal to or greater than Baa3 by Moody's and BBB- by S&P or the equivalent thereof under any new ratings system if the ratings systems of either such Rating Agency shall be modified after the issue date of the 2020 Guaranteed Notes, or the equivalent rating of any other Ratings Agency the Company selects as provided in the definition of Ratings Agencies.
Investment Grade Rating
"" means a Global Note in the form of bearing the Global Note Legend and the Private Placement Legend and deposited with or on behalf of and registered in the name of the Depositary or its nominee, issued in a denomination equal to the outstanding principal amount of the 2020 Guaranteed Notes initially sold in reliance on Rule 903 of Regulation S.
Legended Regulation S Global Note
Exhibit A
 
"" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc. or any successor to the rating agency business thereof.
Moody's
"" shall have the meaning set forth Section 4.01 of this Supplemental Indenture.
Note Guarantee
"" means, with respect to a Subsidiary Guarantor, (a) Capital Stock in such Subsidiary Guarantor; or (b) debt securities of the Subsidiary Guarantor that are subordinated to all Designated Senior Debt and any debt securities issued in exchange for Designated Senior Debt to substantially the same extent as, or to a greater extent than, the Note Guarantees are subordinated to the guarantees of Designated Senior Debt.
Permitted Junior Securities
"" means any transaction or series of transactions that may be entered into by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries pursuant to which such Person may sell or convey accounts (as such term is defined in Article 9 of the Uniform Commercial Code as in effect from time to time in the State of New York) to any Receivables Entity, provided that there shall be no recourse under any such securitization to the Company or any of its subsidiaries other than pursuant to Standard Securitization Undertakings.
Permitted Securitization
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the definition of Reference Treasury Dealer.
Primary Treasury Dealer
"" means the legend set forth in Section 3.03(f)(i) of the this Supplemental Indenture to be placed on all 2020 Guaranteed Notes issued under this Indenture except as otherwise permitted by the provisions of this Indenture.
Private Placement Legend
"" means a "qualified institutional buyer" as defined in Rule 144A.
QIB
"" means (1) Moody's and S&P; and (2) if either Moody's or S&P ceases to rate the 2020 Guaranteed Notes or ceases to make a rating on the 2020 Guaranteed Notes publicly available, an entity registered as a "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" (registered as such pursuant to Rule l7g-1 of the Exchange Act) then making a rating on the 2020 Guaranteed Notes publicly available selected by the Company (as certified by an officer's certificate), which shall be substituted for Moody's or S&P, as the case may be.
Ratings Agencies
"" means the occurrence, during the period commencing on the date of the first public announcement of the Change of Control or the intention to effect a Change of Control and ending 90 days after the occurrence of the Change of Control, of a downgrade of the rating of the 2020 Guaranteed Notes by both Rating Agencies by one or more gradations (including gradations within ratings categories as well as between rating categories).
Ratings Decline
"" means a special purpose Person that engages in no activities other than in connection with the financing of accounts pursuant to a Permitted Securitization.
Receivables Entity
 
"" means Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, Barclays Capital Inc., Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, and their successors, and one other firm that is a primary U.S. Government securities dealer (each a "") which the Company shall specify from time to time; that if any of them ceases to be a Primary Treasury Dealer, the Company will substitute therefor another Primary Treasury Dealer.
Reference Treasury Dealer
Primary Treasury Dealer
provided,
"" means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any Redemption Date, the average of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue, expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount, quoted in writing to the Trustee by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the third Business Day preceding such Redemption Date.
Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations
"" means Regulation S promulgated under the Securities Act.
Regulation S
"" means a Legended Regulation S Global Note or an Unlegended Regulation S Global Note, as appropriate.
Regulation S Global Note
"" means with respect to each 2020 Guaranteed Note to be redeemed, the remaining scheduled payments of the principal thereof and interest thereon, that would be due after the related Redemption Date but for such redemption; that, if such Redemption Date is not an Interest Payment Date with respect to such 2020 Guaranteed Note, the amount of the next succeeding scheduled interest payment thereon will be deemed reduced by the amount of interest accrued thereon to such Redemption Date.
Remaining Scheduled Payments
provided,
"" means a Definitive Note bearing the Private Placement Legend.
Restricted Definitive Note
"" means a Global Note bearing the Private Placement Legend.
Restricted Global Note
"" means Rule 144A promulgated under the Securities Act.
Rule 144A
"" means Standard & Poor's Rating Services, a division of the McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc., or any successor to the rating agency business thereof.
S&P
"" means any Subsidiary of the Company that would constitute a "significant subsidiary" of the Company within the meaning of Rule 1-02(w)(1), (2) or (3) of Regulation S-X under the Securities Act.
Significant Subsidiary
"" means representations, warranties, covenants and indemnities entered into by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries in connection with any Permitted Securitization that are customary in non-recourse securitization transactions of comparable receivables.
Standard Securitization Undertakings
"" means, with respect to any Person, a Corporation, partnership, limited liability company or other business organization, whether or not incorporated, a majority of the Voting Securities of which is owned, directly or indirectly, by such Person; that,
Subsidiary
provided
 
with respect to the Company and its Subsidiaries, Clearwire and its subsidiaries shall be deemed to not be Subsidiaries, unless (1) Clearwire or its subsidiaries guarantee Designated Senior Debt and (2) the Company directly or indirectly acquires 100% of the Voting Securities of Clearwire.
"" means a Subsidiary of the Company that guarantees either Credit Agreement or any other Designated Senior Debt, including any Subsidiary that guarantees either Credit Agreement or any other Designated Senior Debt after the date of issuance of the 2020 Guaranteed Notes; that a Subsidiary acquired or created after the date of issuance of the Notes will not be required to become and will not become a Subsidiary Guarantor if it is prohibited from doing so pursuant to the terms of any agreement to which such Subsidiary is a party prior to becoming a guarantor of either Credit Agreement; that any Subsidiary of the Company that becomes a Subsidiary Guarantor after the date hereof shall execute an indenture supplemental hereto evidencing its agreement to provide a Note Guarantee; that any Subsidiary whose Note Guarantee is released in accordance with the terms of the Indenture will no longer be a Subsidiary Guarantor.
Subsidiary Guarantor
provided
provided further
provided further
"" means indebtedness for borrowed money of one or more Subsidiary Guarantors or guarantees of indebtedness for borrowed money by one or more Subsidiary Guarantors (in either case, not otherwise defined as Guaranteed Indebtedness), provided that the following shall be deemed not to be Subsidiary Guarantor Indebtedness:
Subsidiary Guarantor Indebtedness
(a) unsecured indebtedness of Sprint Capital Corporation and Nextel Communications Inc. existing on the date of issuance of the 2020 Guaranteed Notes and any extensions, renewals or refinancings thereof, provided that any such extension, renewal or refinancing of such indebtedness does not increase the outstanding principal amount thereof, shall be restricted to the obligors who are obligated on the indebtedness being extended, renewed or refinanced and is not secured by Liens;
(b) indebtedness of any Receivables Entity pursuant to a Permitted Securitization;
(c) indebtedness incurred to finance the acquisition, construction or improvement of any fixed or capital assets or inventory and extensions, renewals and replacements of any such indebtedness that do not increase the outstanding principal amount thereof; that such indebtedness is incurred concurrently with or within 270 days after such acquisition or the completion of such construction or improvement; and that any Liens securing such indebtedness do not extend to assets other than those acquired, constructed or improved;
provided
provided further
(d) Intercompany Indebtedness (1) between and among the Company and one or more Subsidiary Guarantors and (2) other Intercompany Indebtedness to the extent such indebtedness is subordinated in right of payment to the 2020 Guaranteed Notes or any applicable Note Guarantee to the same extent the Note Guarantees are subordinated to Designated Senior Debt, including the Credit Agreements;
 
(e) indebtedness of any Person that becomes a Subsidiary after the date of issuance of the 2020 Guaranteed Notes; that such indebtedness exists at the time such Person becomes a Subsidiary (or any extension, renewal or refinancing of indebtedness existing at the time such Person becomes a Subsidiary that does not increase the outstanding principal amount thereof), is not created in contemplation of or in connection with such Person becoming a Subsidiary and is not guaranteed by any other Subsidiary Guarantor (other than a Subsidiary Guarantor that becomes a Subsidiary of the Company at the same time as such other Subsidiary and not created in contemplation with either entity becoming a Subsidiary of the Company) or secured by any of their assets;
provided
(f) other indebtedness in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed $250 million at any time outstanding; and
(g) any sale, lease or other disposition or transfer of wireless telecommunications towers, real property or other assets, and the leasing of such towers, real property or assets or space on such towers or real property.
"" means, with respect to an applicable Redemption Date for the 2020 Guaranteed Notes: (1) the yield, under the heading which represents the average for the immediately preceding week, appearing in the most recently published statistical release designated "H.15(519)" or any successor publication that is published weekly by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and that establishes yields on actively traded United States Treasury Notes adjusted to constant maturity under the caption "Treasury Constant Maturities," for the maturity corresponding to the Comparable Treasury Issue; that if no maturity is within three months before or after the Stated Maturity of the 2020 Guaranteed Notes, yields for the two published maturities most closely corresponding to the Comparable Treasury Issue will be determined and the Treasury Rate will be interpolated or extrapolated from those yields on a straight line basis, rounding to the nearest month; or (2) if that release, or any successor release, is not published during the week preceding the calculation date or does not contain such yields, the rate per annum equal to the semiannual equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, calculated using a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for the Redemption Date. The Treasury Rate will be calculated on the third Business Day preceding the Redemption Date.
Treasury Rate
provided
"" means a U.S. person as defined in Rule 902(o) under the Securities Act.
U.S. Person
"" means a Global Note in the form of bearing the Global Note Legend, deposited with or on behalf of and registered in the name of the Depositary or its nominee.
Unlegended Regulation S Global Note
Exhibit A
"" means one or more Definitive Notes that do not bear and are not required to bear the Private Placement Legend.
Unrestricted Definitive Note
 
"" means a Global Note substantially in the form of that bears the Global Note Legend, that has the "Schedule of Exchanges of Interests in the Global Note" attached thereto, that is deposited with or on behalf of and registered in the name of the Depositary, representing a series of 2020 Guaranteed Notes, and that does not bear the Private Placement Legend.
Unrestricted Global Note
Exhibit A
"" of any Person means the stock or other ownership or equity interests, of whatever class or classes, the holders of which ordinarily have the power to vote for the election of the members of the board of directors, managers, trustees or other voting members of the governing body of such Person (other than stock or other ownership or equity interests having such power only by reason of the happening of a contingency).
Voting Securities
Section 1.03 . The provisions contained in this Supplemental Indenture shall apply only to the 2020 Guaranteed Notes and not to any other series of Securities issued under the Indenture and any covenants provided herein are solely for the benefit of the holders of the 2020 Guaranteed Notes and not for the benefit of the holders of any other series of Securities issued under the Indenture.
Applicability
Section 2.01 . Pursuant to Section 3.01 of the Indenture, the terms of the 2020 Guaranteed Notes shall be as follows:
Terms
(a) The title of the 2020 Guaranteed Notes is "7.000% Guaranteed Notes due 2020."
(b) The 2020 Guaranteed Notes are the general unsecured senior obligations of the Company and shall rank equally with all other unsecured senior obligations of the Company.
(c) The 2020 Guaranteed Notes will mature, and the principal of the 2020 Guaranteed Notes and all accrued and unpaid amounts, including interest, thereon will be due and payable on March 1, 2020, or such earlier date as any of the 2020 Guaranteed Notes may become due and payable in accordance with the provisions of the Indenture and this Supplemental Indenture.
(d) The 2020 Guaranteed Notes will initially be issued in an aggregate principal amount of $1,000,000,000. The Company may issue additional 2020 Guaranteed Notes from time to time without the consent of any Holders of the 2020 Guaranteed Notes. Any such additional 2020 Guaranteed Notes along with the 2020 Guaranteed Notes issued on the date hereof will be treated as a single class for all purposes under the Indenture, including, without limitation, waivers, amendments and redemptions; that, in the case of Notes represented by Global Notes, for so long as may be required by the Securities Act or the procedures of DTC, Euroclear or Clearstream (or a successor clearing system), such additional Notes shall be represented by one or more separate Global Notes in accordance with the terms hereof and subject to applicable transfer or other restrictions.
provided
 
(e) The 2020 Guaranteed Notes will be issued in minimum denominations of $2,000 and thereafter in integral multiples of $1,000.
(f) Interest on the 2020 Guaranteed Notes will accrue from March 1, 2012 or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, semi-annually on March 1 and September 1 in each year, commencing September 1, 2012 (each such date, an "" as defined in the Indenture), at the rate of 7.000% per annum to the Persons in whose name the 2020 Guaranteed Notes are registered in the Security Register on the preceding February 15 or August 15 (each such date, a "" as defined in the Indenture) until the principal thereof is paid or made available for payment; that any principal and premium, and any such installment of interest, which is overdue will bear interest at the rate of 7.000% per annum (to the extent that the payment of such interest is legally enforceable), from the dates such amounts are due until they are paid or made available payment, and such interest will be payable on demand.
Interest Payment Date
Regular Record Date
provided
(g) The 2020 Guaranteed Notes are not entitled to any sinking fund.
(h) The 2020 Guaranteed Notes are guaranteed by the Subsidiary Guarantors on the terms set forth in Article Four hereof.
(i) Clearwire and its Subsidiaries will be deemed to not be Subsidiaries of the Company and will be excluded from all restrictive covenants provided for in the Indenture or this Supplemental Indenture, unless and until (1) Clearwire or its Subsidiaries guarantee Designated Senior Debt and (2) the Company directly or indirectly acquires 100% of the Voting Securities of Clearwire.
Section 2.02 . The terms and provisions contained in the form of 2020 Guaranteed Notes attached as , shall constitute, and are hereby expressly made, a part of the this Supplemental Indenture and, to the extent applicable, the Company, each Subsidiary Guarantor and the Trustee, by their execution and delivery of this Supplemental Indenture, expressly agree to such terms and provisions and to be bound thereby. However, to the extent any provision of any 2020 Guaranteed Note conflicts with the terms of this Supplemental Indenture, this Supplemental Indenture shall govern.
Terms of Notes Incorporated
Exhibit A
Section 3.01 . The 2020 Guaranteed Notes shall be in substantially the form of .
Form
Exhibit A
Section 3.02 . The 2020 Guaranteed Notes initially will be represented by one or more Global Notes in registered, global form without interest coupons (including the Global Note Legend thereon). The Global Notes will be deposited upon issuance with the Trustee as custodian for the Depository Trust Company (""), and registered in the name of DTC or its nominee, in each case for credit to an account of a direct or indirect participant in DTC. Through and including one year after the later of the issuance of the 2020 Guaranteed Notes (such period through and including one year, the ""),
Global Notes
DTC
Restricted Period
 
beneficial interests in Regulation S Global Notes may be held only through Euroclear Bank, S.A./N.V., as operator of the Euroclear System ("") and Clearstream Banking, S.A. ("") (as indirect participants in DTC), unless transferred to a Person that takes delivery through a 144A Global Note in accordance with the certification requirements described in this Article Three.
Euroclear
Clearstream
Section 3.03 .
Transfer and Exchange
(a) . A Global Note may not be transferred as a whole except by the Depositary (who shall initially be DTC) to a nominee of the Depositary, by a nominee of the Depositary to the Depositary or to another nominee of the Depositary, or by the Depositary or any such nominee to a successor Depositary or a nominee of such successor Depositary. All Global Notes shall be exchanged by the Company for Definitive Notes if (i) the Depositary (A) notifies the Company that it is unwilling or unable to continue as Depositary for the Global Notes and the Company fails to appoint a successor Depositary within 90 days after receiving such notice or (B) has ceased to be a clearing agency registered under the Exchange Act and the Company fails to appoint a successor Depositary within 90 days after becoming aware of such condition; (ii) the Company, at its option, notifies the Trustee in writing that it elects to cause the issuance of Definitive Notes in exchange for Global Notes (in whole but not in part); that in no event shall the Legended Regulation S Global Note be exchanged by the Company for Definitive Notes other than in accordance with Section 3.03(c)(ii); or (iii) there shall have occurred and be continuing a Default or Event of Default with respect to the 2020 Guaranteed Notes and DTC requests such exchange. Upon the occurrence of any of the preceding events in (i), (ii) or (iii) above, Definitive Notes shall be issued in such names as the Depositary shall instruct the Trustee. Global Notes also may be exchanged or replaced, in whole or in part, as provided in Sections 304 and 306 of the Indenture. A Global Note may not be exchanged for another 2020 Guaranteed Note other than as provided in this Section 3.03(a); however, beneficial interests in a Global Note may be transferred and exchanged as provided in Section 3.03(b) or (c) hereof.
Transfer and Exchange of Global Notes
provided
(b) . The transfer and exchange of beneficial interests in the Global Notes shall be effected through the Depositary, in accordance with the provisions of this Indenture and the applicable procedures of the Depositary, Euroclear and Clearstream. Beneficial interests in the Restricted Global Notes shall be subject to restrictions on transfer comparable to those set forth herein to the extent required by the Securities Act. Transfers of beneficial interests in the Global Notes also shall require compliance with either subparagraph (i) or (ii) below, as applicable, as well as one or more of the other following subparagraphs, as applicable:
Transfer and Exchange of Beneficial Interests in the Global Notes
(i) . Beneficial interests in any Restricted Global Note may be transferred to Persons who take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in the same Restricted Global Note in accordance with the transfer restrictions set forth in the Private Placement Legend; , , that prior to the expiration of the Restricted Period, transfers of beneficial interests in the Legended Regulation S Global Note may not be made to a U.S. Person or for the account or benefit of a U.S. Person (other than an initial purchaser of the 2020 Guaranteed Notes). Beneficial interests in any Unrestricted Global Note may be
Transfer of Beneficial Interests in the Same Global Note
provided
however
 
transferred to Persons who take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note. No written orders or instructions shall be required to be delivered to the Trustee to effect the transfers described in this Section 3.03(b)(i).
(ii) . In connection with all transfers and exchanges of beneficial interests that are not subject to Section 3.03(b)(i) above, the transferor of such beneficial interest must deliver to the Trustee either (A) (1) a written order from a Participant or an Indirect Participant given to the Depositary directing the Depositary to credit or cause to be credited a beneficial interest in another Global Note in an amount equal to the beneficial interest to be transferred or exchanged and (2) instructions containing information regarding the Participant account to be credited with such increase or (B) (1) a written order from a Participant or an Indirect Participant given to the Depositary directing the Depositary to cause to be issued a Definitive Note in an amount equal to the beneficial interest to be transferred or exchanged and (2) instructions given by the Depositary to the Trustee containing information regarding the Person in whose name such Definitive Note shall be registered to effect the transfer or exchange referred to in (1) above; that in no event shall Definitive Notes be issued upon the transfer or exchange of beneficial interests in the Legended Regulation S Global Note other than in accordance with Section 3.03(c)(ii). Upon satisfaction of all of the requirements for transfer or exchange of beneficial interests in Global Notes contained in this Supplemental Indenture and the 2020 Guaranteed Notes or otherwise applicable under the Securities Act, the Trustee shall adjust the principal amount at maturity of the relevant Global Notes pursuant to Section 3.03(g).
All Other Transfers and Exchanges of Beneficial Interests in Global Notes
provided
(iii) . A beneficial interest in any Restricted Global Note may be transferred to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in another Restricted Global Note if the transfer complies with the requirements of Section 3.03(b)(ii) above and the Trustee receives the following:
Transfer of Beneficial Interests to Another Restricted Global Note
(A) if the transferee shall take delivery in the form of a beneficial interest in the 144A Global Note, then the transferor must deliver a certificate in the form of , including the certifications in item (1) thereof; and
Exhibit B
(B) if the transferee shall take delivery in the form of a beneficial interest in a Legended Regulation S Global Note, then the transferor must deliver a certificate in the form of , including the certifications in item (2) thereof.
Exhibit B
(iv) . A beneficial interest in any Restricted Global Note may be exchanged by any Holder thereof for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note or transferred to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note if the exchange or transfer complies with the requirements of Section 3.03(b)(ii) above and the Trustee receives the following:
Transfer and Exchange of Beneficial Interests in a Restricted Global Note for Beneficial Interests in an Unrestricted Global Note
(A) if the holder of such beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note proposes to exchange such beneficial interest for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note, a certificate from such holder in the form of , including the certifications in item (1)(a) thereof; or
Exhibit C
 
(B) if the holder of such beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note proposes to transfer such beneficial interest to a Person who shall take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note, a certificate from such holder in the form of , including the certifications in item (4) thereof;
Exhibit B
and, in each such case, if the Trustee or the Company so requests, an opinion of counsel in form reasonably acceptable to the Trustee and the Company to the effect that such exchange or transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act and that the restrictions on transfer contained herein and in the Private Placement Legend are no longer required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act.
If any such transfer is at a time when an Unrestricted Global Note has not yet been issued, the Company shall issue and, upon receipt of an authentication order in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the Trustee shall authenticate one or more Unrestricted Global Notes in an aggregate principal amount equal to the aggregate principal amount of beneficial interests transferred.
Beneficial interests in an Unrestricted Global Note cannot be exchanged for, or transferred to Persons who take delivery thereof in the form of, a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note.
(c) .
Transfer or Exchange of Beneficial Interests for Definitive Notes
(i) . If any holder of a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note proposes to exchange such beneficial interest for a Restricted Definitive Note or to transfer such beneficial interest to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a Restricted Definitive Note, then, upon receipt by the Trustee of the following documentation:
Beneficial Interests in Restricted Global Notes to Restricted Definitive Notes
(A) if the holder of such beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note proposes to exchange such beneficial interest for a Restricted Definitive Note, a certificate from such holder in the form of , including the certifications in item (2)(a) thereof;
Exhibit C
(B) if such beneficial interest is being transferred to a QIB in accordance with Rule 144A, a certificate to the effect set forth in , including the certifications in item (1) thereof;
Exhibit B
(C) if such beneficial interest is being transferred to an Institutional Accredited Investor in reliance on an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act other than that listed in subparagraph (B) above, a certificate to the effect set forth in hereto, including the certifications, certificates and Opinion of Counsel required by item (3) thereof, if applicable; or
Exhibit B
 
(D) if such beneficial interest is being transferred to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, a certificate to the effect set forth in , including the certifications in item (3)(a) thereof,
Exhibit B
the Trustee shall cause the aggregate principal amount of the applicable Global Note to be reduced accordingly pursuant to Section 3.03(g) hereof, and the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Person designated in the instructions a Definitive Note in the appropriate principal amount. Any Definitive Note issued in exchange for a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note pursuant to this Section 3.03(c) shall be registered in such name or names and in such authorized denomination or denominations as the holder of such beneficial interest shall instruct the Trustee through instructions from the Depositary and the Participant or Indirect Participant. The Trustee shall deliver such Definitive Notes to the Persons in whose names such 2020 Guaranteed Notes are so registered. Any Definitive Note issued in exchange for a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note pursuant to this Section 3.03(c)(i) shall bear the Private Placement Legend and shall be subject to all restrictions on transfer contained therein.
(ii) . A beneficial interest in the Legended Regulation S Global Note may not be exchanged for a Definitive Note or transferred to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a Definitive Note prior to the expiration of the Restricted Period, except in the case of a transfer pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act other than Rule 903 or Rule 904.
Beneficial Interests in Legended Regulation S Global Note to Definitive Notes
(iii) . A holder of a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note may exchange such beneficial interest for an Unrestricted Definitive Note or may transfer such beneficial interest to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of an Unrestricted Definitive Note only if the Trustee receives the following:
Beneficial Interests in Restricted Global Notes to Unrestricted Definitive Notes
(A) if the Holder of such beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note proposes to exchange such beneficial interest for a Definitive Note that does not bear the Private Placement Legend, a certificate from such Holder in the form of , including the certifications in item (1)(b) thereof; or
Exhibit C
(B) if the Holder of such beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note proposes to transfer such beneficial interest to a Person who shall take delivery thereof in the form of a Definitive Note that does not bear the Private Placement Legend, a certificate from such Holder in the form of , including the certifications in item (4) thereof;
Exhibit B
and, in each such case, if the Trustee or the Company so requests, an opinion of counsel in form reasonably acceptable to the Trustee and the Company to the effect that such
 
exchange or transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act and that the restrictions on transfer contained herein and in the Private Placement Legend are no longer required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act.
(iv) . If any holder of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note proposes to exchange such beneficial interest for a Definitive Note or to transfer such beneficial interest to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a Definitive Note, then, upon satisfaction of the conditions set forth in Section 3.03(b)(ii), the Trustee shall cause the aggregate principal amount of the applicable Global Note to be reduced accordingly pursuant to Section 3.03(h), and the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Person designated in the instructions a Definitive Note in the appropriate principal amount. Any Definitive Note issued in exchange for a beneficial interest pursuant to this Section 3.03(c)(iv) shall be registered in such name or names and in such authorized denomination or denominations as the holder of such beneficial interest shall instruct the Trustee through instructions from the Depositary and the Participant or Indirect Participant. The Trustee shall deliver such Definitive Notes to the Persons in whose names such 2020 Guaranteed Notes are so registered. Any Definitive Note issued in exchange for a beneficial interest pursuant to this Section 3.03(c)(iv) shall not bear the Private Placement Legend.
Beneficial Interests in Unrestricted Global Notes to Unrestricted Definitive Notes
(d) .
Transfer and Exchange of Definitive Notes for Beneficial Interests
(i) . If any Holder of a Restricted Definitive Note proposes to exchange such 2020 Guaranteed Note for a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note or to transfer such Restricted Definitive Notes to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note, then, upon receipt by the Trustee of the following documentation:
Restricted Definitive Notes to Beneficial Interests in Restricted Global Notes
(A) if the Holder of such Restricted Definitive Note proposes to exchange such 2020 Guaranteed Note for a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note, a certificate from such Holder in the form of , including the certifications in item (2)(b) thereof;
Exhibit C
(B) if such Restricted Definitive Note is being transferred to a QIB in accordance with Rule 144A, a certificate to the effect set forth in , including the certifications in item (1) thereof;
Exhibit B
(C) if such Restricted Definitive Note is being transferred to a Person that is not a U.S. Person in an "" in accordance with Rule 903 or Rule 904, a certificate to the effect set forth in , including the certifications in item (2) thereof; or
offshore transaction
Exhibit B
(D) if such Restricted Definitive Note is being transferred to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, a certificate to the effect set forth in , including the certifications in item (3)(a) thereof,
Exhibit B
 
the Trustee shall cancel the Restricted Definitive Note, and increase or cause to be increased the aggregate principal amount of, in the case of clause (A) above, the appropriate Restricted Global Note, in the case of clause (B) above, the 144A Global Note, and in the case of clause (C) above, the Regulation S Global Note.
(ii) . A Holder of a Restricted Definitive Note may exchange such 2020 Guaranteed Note for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note or transfer such Restricted Definitive Note to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note only if the Trustee receives the following:
Restricted Definitive Notes to Beneficial Interests in Unrestricted Global Notes
(A) if the Holder of such Restricted Definitive Note proposes to exchange such 2020 Guaranteed Note for a beneficial interest in the Unrestricted Global Note, a certificate from such Holder in the form of , including the certifications in item (1)(c) thereof; or
Exhibit C
(B) if the Holder of such Restricted Definitive Note proposes to transfer such 2020 Guaranteed Note to a Person who shall take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in the Unrestricted Global Note, a certificate from such Holder in the form of , including the certifications in item (4) thereof;
Exhibit B
and, in each such case, if the Trustee or the Company so request, an opinion of counsel in form reasonably acceptable to the Trustee and the Company to the effect that such exchange or transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act and that the restrictions on transfer contained herein and in the Private Placement Legend are no longer required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act.
Upon satisfaction of the conditions of any of the subparagraphs in this Section 3.03(d)(ii), the Trustee shall cancel the Definitive Notes and increase or cause to be increased the aggregate principal amount of the Unrestricted Global Note.
(iii) . A Holder of an Unrestricted Definitive Note may exchange such 2020 Guaranteed Note for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note or transfer such Unrestricted Definitive Note to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note at any time. Upon receipt of a request for such an exchange or transfer, the Trustee shall cancel the applicable Unrestricted Definitive Note and increase or cause to be increased the aggregate principal amount of one of the Unrestricted Global Notes.
Unrestricted Definitive Notes to Beneficial Interests in Unrestricted Global Notes
If any such exchange or transfer from a Definitive Note to a beneficial interest is effected pursuant to subparagraphs (ii) or (iii) above at a time when an Unrestricted Global Note has not yet been issued, the Company shall issue and, upon receipt of an authentication order in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the Trustee shall authenticate one or more Unrestricted Global Notes in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of Definitive Notes so transferred.
 
(e) . Upon request by a Holder of Definitive Notes and such Holder's compliance with the provisions of this Section 3.03(e), the Trustee shall register the transfer or exchange of Definitive Notes. Prior to such registration of transfer or exchange, the requesting Holder shall present or surrender to the Trustee the Definitive Notes duly endorsed or accompanied by a written instruction of transfer in form satisfactory to the Trustee duly executed by such Holder or by its attorney, duly authorized in writing. In addition, the requesting Holder shall provide any additional certifications, documents and information, as applicable, required pursuant to the following provisions of this Section 3.03(e).
Transfer and Exchange of Definitive Notes for Definitive Notes
(i) . Any Restricted Definitive Note may be transferred to and registered in the name of Persons who take delivery thereof in the form of a Restricted Definitive Note if the Trustee receives the following:
Restricted Definitive Notes to Restricted Definitive Notes
(A) if the transfer shall be made pursuant to Rule 144A under the Securities Act, then the transferor must deliver a certificate in the form of , including the certifications in item (1) thereof; and
Exhibit B
(B) if the transfer shall be made pursuant to any other exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act, then the transferor must deliver a certificate in the form of , including the certifications, certificates and Opinion of Counsel required by item (3) thereof, if applicable.
Exhibit B
(ii) . Any Restricted Definitive Note may be exchanged by the Holder thereof for an Unrestricted Definitive Note or transferred to a Person or Persons who take delivery thereof in the form of an Unrestricted Definitive Note if the Trustee receives the following:
Restricted Definitive Notes to Unrestricted Definitive Notes
(A) if the Holder of such Restricted Definitive Note proposes to exchange such 2020 Guaranteed Note for an Unrestricted Definitive Note, a certificate from such Holder in the form of , including the certifications in item (1)(d) thereof; or
Exhibit C
(B) if the Holder of such Restricted Definitive Note proposes to transfer such 2020 Guaranteed Note to a Person who shall take delivery thereof in the form of an Unrestricted Definitive Note, a certificate from such Holder in the form of , including the certifications in item (4) thereof;
Exhibit B
and, in each such case, if the Trustee so requests, an opinion of counsel in form reasonably acceptable to the Company to the effect that such exchange or transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act and that the restrictions on transfer contained herein and in the Private Placement Legend are no longer required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act.
 
(iii) . A Holder of Unrestricted Definitive Notes may transfer such 2020 Guaranteed Notes to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of an Unrestricted Definitive Note. Upon receipt of a request to register such a transfer, the Trustee shall register the Unrestricted Definitive Notes pursuant to the instructions from the Holder thereof.
Unrestricted Definitive Notes to Unrestricted Definitive Notes
(f) . The following legends shall appear on the face of all Global Notes and Definitive Notes issued under this Indenture unless specifically stated otherwise in the applicable provisions of this Indenture.
Legends
(i) . Except as permitted below, each Global Note and each Definitive Note (and all 2020 Guaranteed Notes issued in exchange therefor or substitution thereof) shall bear the legend in substantially the following form:
Private Placement Legend
THIS SECURITY HAS NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933 (THE "SECURITIES ACT"), OR THE SECURITIES LAWS OF ANY STATE OR OTHER JURISDICTION. NEITHER THIS SECURITY NOR ANY INTEREST OR PARTICIPATION HEREIN MAY BE REOFFERED, SOLD, ASSIGNED, TRANSFERRED, PLEDGED, ENCUMBERED OR OTHERWISE DISPOSED OF IN THE ABSENCE OF SUCH REGISTRATION OR UNLESS SUCH TRANSACTION IS EXEMPT FROM, OR NOT SUBJECT TO, SUCH REGISTRATION. THE HOLDER OF THIS SECURITY, BY ITS ACCEPTANCE HEREOF, AGREES ON ITS OWN BEHALF AND ON BEHALF OF ANY INVESTOR ACCOUNT FOR WHICH IT HAS PURCHASED SECURITIES, TO OFFER, SELL OR OTHERWISE TRANSFER SUCH SECURITY, PRIOR TO THE DATE (THE "RESALE RESTRICTION TERMINATION DATE") THAT IS [IN THE CASE OF RULE 144A NOTES: ONE YEAR AFTER THE LATER OF THE ORIGINAL ISSUE DATE HEREOF, THE ORIGINAL ISSUE DATE OF THE ISSUANCE OF ANY ADDITIONAL NOTES AND THE LAST DATE ON WHICH THE ISSUER OR ANY AFFILIATE OF THE ISSUER WAS THE OWNER OF THIS SECURITY (OR ANY PREDECESSOR OF SUCH SECURITY),] [IN THE CASE OF REGULATION S NOTES: ONE YEAR AFTER THE LATER OF THE ORIGINAL ISSUE DATE HEREOF AND THE DATE ON WHICH THIS SECURITY (OR ANY PREDECESSOR OF SUCH SECURITY) WAS FIRST OFFERED TO PERSONS OTHER THAN DISTRIBUTORS (AS DEFINED IN RULE 902 OF REGULATION S) IN RELIANCE ON REGULATION S], ONLY (A) TO THE COMPANY OR ANY SUBSIDIARY THEREOF, (B) PURSUANT TO A REGISTRATION STATEMENT THAT HAS BEEN DECLARED EFFECTIVE
 
UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, (C) FOR SO LONG AS THE SECURITIES ARE ELIGIBLE FOR RESALE PURSUANT TO RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT ("RULE 144A"), TO A PERSON IT REASONABLY BELIEVES IS A "QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER" AS DEFINED IN RULE 144A THAT PURCHASES FOR ITS OWN ACCOUNT OR FOR THE ACCOUNT OF A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER TO WHOM NOTICE IS GIVEN THAT THE TRANSFER IS BEING MADE IN RELIANCE ON RULE 144A, (D) PURSUANT TO OFFERS AND SALES TO NON-U.S. PERSONS THAT OCCUR OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES WITHIN THE MEANING OF REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, (E) TO AN INSTITUTIONAL "ACCREDITED INVESTOR" WITHIN THE MEANING OF RULE 501(a)(1), (2), (3) OR (7) UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT THAT IS NOT A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER AND THAT IS PURCHASING FOR ITS OWN ACCOUNT OR FOR THE ACCOUNT OF ANOTHER INSTITUTIONAL ACCREDITED INVESTOR, IN EACH CASE IN A MINIMUM PRINCIPAL AMOUNT OF SECURITIES OR (F) PURSUANT TO ANOTHER AVAILABLE EXEMPTION FROM THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT, SUBJECT TO THE COMPANY'S AND THE TRUSTEE'S RIGHT PRIOR TO ANY SUCH OFFER, SALE OR TRANSFER PURSUANT TO CLAUSES (D), (E) OR (F) TO REQUIRE THE DELIVERY OF AN OPINION OF COUNSEL, CERTIFICATION AND/ OR OTHER INFORMATION SATISFACTORY TO EACH OF THEM. THIS LEGEND WILL BE REMOVED UPON THE REQUEST OF THE HOLDER AFTER THE RESALE RESTRICTION TERMINATION DATE. [IN THE CASE OF REGULATION S NOTES: BY ITS ACQUISITION HEREOF, THE HOLDER HEREOF REPRESENTS THAT IT IS NOT A U.S. PERSON NOR IS IT PURCHASING FOR THE ACCOUNT OF A U.S. PERSON AND IS ACQUIRING THIS SECURITY IN AN OFFSHORE TRANSACTION IN ACCORDANCE WITH REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT.]
BY ITS ACQUISITION OF THIS SECURITY, THE HOLDER THEREOF WILL BE DEEMED TO HAVE REPRESENTED AND WARRANTED THAT EITHER (1) NO PORTION OF THE ASSETS USED BY SUCH HOLDER TO ACQUIRE OR HOLD THIS SECURITY CONSTITUTES THE ASSETS OF AN EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLAN THAT IS SUBJECT TO TITLE I OF THE U.S. EMPLOYEE
 
RETIREMENT INCOME SECURITY ACT OF 1974, AS AMENDED ("ERISA"), ANY PLAN, ACCOUNT OR OTHER ARRANGEMENT THAT IS SUBJECT TO SECTION 4975 OF THE U.S. INTERNAL REVENUE CODE OF 1986, AS AMENDED (THE "CODE") OR PROVISIONS UNDER ANY OTHER FEDERAL, STATE, LOCAL, NON-U.S. OR OTHER LAWS OR REGULATIONS THAT ARE SIMILAR TO SUCH PROVISIONS OF ERISA OR THE CODE ("SIMILAR LAWS"), OR AN ENTITY WHOSE UNDERLYING ASSETS ARE CONSIDERED TO INCLUDE "PLAN ASSETS" OF ANY SUCH PLAN, ACCOUNT OR ARRANGEMENT, OR (2) THE ACQUISITION AND HOLDING OF THIS SECURITY WILL NOT CONSTITUTE A NON-EXEMPT PROHIBITED TRANSACTION UNDER SECTION 406 OF ERISA OR SECTION 4975 OF THE CODE OR A SIMILAR VIOLATION UNDER ANY APPLICABLE SIMILAR LAW.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, any Global Note or Definitive Note issued pursuant to subparagraph (b)(iv), (c)(iii), (c)(iv), (d)(ii), (d)(iii), (e)(ii) or (e)(iii) to this Section 3.03 (and all 2020 Guaranteed Notes issued in exchange therefor or substitution thereof) shall not bear the Private Placement Legend.
(ii) . Each Global Note shall bear a legend in substantially the following form:
Global Note Legend
THIS GLOBAL NOTE IS HELD BY THE DEPOSITARY (AS DEFINED IN THE INDENTURE GOVERNING THIS NOTE) OR ITS NOMINEE IN CUSTODY FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE BENEFICIAL OWNERS HEREOF, AND IS NOT TRANSFERABLE TO ANY PERSON UNDER ANY CIRCUMSTANCES EXCEPT THAT (I) THE TRUSTEE MAY MAKE SUCH NOTATIONS HEREON AS MAY BE REQUIRED PURSUANT TO SECTION 3.03 OF THE FOURTH SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE TO THE INDENTURE, (II) THIS GLOBAL NOTE MAY BE EXCHANGED IN WHOLE BUT NOT IN PART PURSUANT TO SECTION 3.03(a) OF THE FOURTH SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE TO THE INDENTURE, (III) THIS GLOBAL NOTE MAY BE DELIVERED TO THE TRUSTEE FOR CANCELLATION PURSUANT TO THE INDENTURE AND (IV) THIS GLOBAL NOTE MAY BE TRANSFERRED TO A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY WITH THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF THE COMPANY.
(ii) . The Regulation S Global Note shall bear a legend in substantially the following form:
Regulation S Global Note Legend
THE RIGHTS ATTACHING TO THIS REGULATION S GLOBAL NOTE, AND THE CONDITIONS AND PROCEDURES GOVERNING ITS EXCHANGE FOR CERTIFICATED NOTES, ARE AS SPECIFIED IN THE INDENTURE (AS DEFINED HEREIN).
 
(g) . At such time as all beneficial interests in a particular Global Note have been exchanged for Definitive Notes or a particular Global Note has been redeemed, repurchased or canceled in whole and not in part, each such Global Note shall be returned to or retained and canceled by the Trustee in accordance with the Indenture. At any time prior to such cancellation, if any beneficial interest in a Global Note is exchanged for or transferred to a Person who shall take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in another Global Note or for Definitive Notes, the principal amount of 2020 Guaranteed Notes represented by such Global Note shall be reduced accordingly and an endorsement shall be made on the Schedule of Exchanges of Interests in such Global Note by the Trustee or by the Depositary at the direction of the Trustee to reflect such reduction; and if the beneficial interest is being exchanged for or transferred to a Person who shall take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in another Global Note, such other Global Note shall be increased accordingly and an endorsement shall be made on such Global Note by the Trustee or by the Depositary at the direction of the Trustee to reflect such increase.
Cancellation and/or Adjustment of Global Notes
(h) .
General Provisions Relating to Transfers and Exchanges
(i) To permit registrations of transfers and exchanges permitted hereunder, the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate Global Notes and Definitive Notes upon the Company's order or at the Trustee's request in accordance with the Indenture.
(ii) No service charge shall be made to a Holder of a beneficial interest in a Global Note or to a Holder of a Definitive Note for any registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any transfer tax or similar governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
(iii) The Trustee shall not be required to register the transfer of or exchange any 2020 Guaranteed Note selected for redemption in whole or in part, except the unredeemed portion of any 2020 Guaranteed Note being redeemed in part.
(iv) All Global Notes and Definitive Notes issued upon any registration of transfer or exchange of Global Notes or Definitive Notes shall be the valid and legally binding obligations of the Company, evidencing the same debt, and entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture, as the Global Notes or Definitive Notes surrendered upon such registration of transfer or exchange.
(v) The Company shall not be required (A) to issue, to register the transfer of or to exchange any 2020 Guaranteed Notes during a period beginning at the opening of business 15 days before the day of any selection of 2020 Guaranteed Notes for redemption and ending at the close of business on the day of selection, (B) to register the
 
transfer of or to exchange any 2020 Guaranteed Note so selected for redemption in whole or in part, except the unredeemed portion of any 2020 Guaranteed Note being redeemed in part, (C) to register the transfer of or to exchange a 2020 Guaranteed Note between a record date and the next succeeding interest payment date or (D) to register the transfer of or to exchange a 2020 Guaranteed Note tendered and not withdrawn in connection with a Change of Control Offer.
(vi) Prior to due presentment for the registration of a transfer of any 2020 Guaranteed Note, the Trustee, the Paying Agent and the Company may deem and treat the Person in whose name any 2020 Guaranteed Note is registered as the absolute owner of such 2020 Guaranteed Note for the purpose of receiving payment of principal of and interest on such 2020 Guaranteed Notes and for all other purposes, and none of the Trustee, the Paying Agent or the Company shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
(vii) Neither the Trustee nor the registrar shall have any duty to monitor the Company's compliance with or have any responsibility with respect to the Company's compliance with any federal or state securities laws in connection with registrations of transfers and exchanges of the 2020 Guaranteed Notes. The Trustee shall have no obligation or duty to monitor, determine or inquire as to compliance with any restrictions on transfer imposed under this Indenture or under applicable law with respect to any transfer of any interest in any 2020 Guaranteed Notes (including any transfers between or among the Depositary's participants or beneficial owners of interests in any Global Note) other than to require delivery of such certificates and other documentation, as is expressly required by, and to do so if and when expressly required by, the terms of this Indenture and to examine the same to determine substantial compliance as to form with the express requirements hereof.
Section 4.01 . Each Subsidiary Guarantor jointly and severally irrevocably and unconditionally guarantees, on an unsecured basis, the performance and full and punctual payment when due, whether at maturity, by acceleration or otherwise, of all obligations of the Company under the Indenture (in respect of the 2020 Guaranteed Notes only and not any other series of Securities), this Supplemental Indenture and the 2020 Guaranteed Notes, whether for payment of principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the 2020 Guaranteed Notes, expenses, indemnification, or otherwise, on the terms set forth herein (each such guarantee, a ""). Each Note Guarantee of a Subsidiary Guarantor will be subordinated to all guarantees by that Subsidiary Guarantor of Designated Senior Debt of the Company as set forth in this Article Four of this Supplemental Indenture.
Note Guarantees
Note Guarantee
Section 4.02 . Each Note Guarantee is limited to an amount not to exceed the maximum amount that can be guaranteed by each Subsidiary Guarantor by law or without resulting in its obligations under its Note Guarantee being voidable or unenforceable under applicable laws relating to fraudulent transfer, or under similar laws affecting the rights of creditors generally.
Limitation of Note Guarantees
 
Section 4.03 . Any Subsidiary Guarantor that makes a payment under its Note Guarantee will be entitled upon payment in full of all guaranteed obligations under the 2020 Guaranteed Notes and this Supplemental Indenture to a contribution from each other Subsidiary Guarantor in an amount equal to such other Subsidiary Guarantor's portion of such payment based on the respective net assets of all Subsidiary Guarantors at the time of such payment as determined in accordance with GAAP.
Contribution by Other Subsidiary Guarantors
pro rata
Section 4.04 . A Note Guarantee of a Subsidiary Guarantor shall be automatically and unconditionally released (and thereupon shall terminate and be discharged and of be of no further force and effect) upon:
Release of Note Guarantees
(a)
(i) any sale, exchange or transfer (by merger or otherwise) of capital stock of the Subsidiary Guarantor after which such Subsidiary Guarantor is no longer a Subsidiary of the Company or any sale, exchange, transfer of all or substantially all of the assets of such Subsidiary Guarantor which such sale, exchange or transfer is made in compliance with this Supplemental Indenture and the Indenture; or
(ii) the 2020 Guaranteed Notes receiving an Investment Grade Rating by both of the Rating Agencies, and notwithstanding that the 2020 Guaranteed Notes may later cease to have any Investment Grade Rating by either of the Rating Agencies; or
(iii) the Company exercising its legal defeasance or covenant defeasance option in compliance with the terms of this Supplemental Indenture and the Indenture; and
(b) the Company delivering to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel each stating that all conditions precedent provided for in this Supplemental Indenture and the Indenture relating to such release have been complied with.
Section 4.05 .
Subordination of Note Guarantees to Designated Senior Debt
(a) . The payment by the Subsidiary Guarantors (by set-off, redemption, repurchase or otherwise) of principal of and premium, if any, interest on the Note Guarantees of 2020 Guaranteed Notes (including with respect to any repurchases of the 2020 Guaranteed Notes) will be subordinated in right of payment, as set forth herein, to the prior payment in full in cash or, at the option of the holders of Designated Senior Debt, in Cash Equivalents, of all of the Subsidiary Guarantors' guarantees of Designated Senior Debt whether outstanding on the date of the this Supplemental Indenture or thereafter incurred.
Subordination
(b) . Upon any distribution to creditors of any Subsidiary Guarantor, upon any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of such Subsidiary Guarantor or in a bankruptcy, reorganization, insolvency, receivership or similar proceeding relating to the Subsidiary Guarantor or its property, whether voluntary or involuntary, an assignment for the benefit of creditors or any marshalling of the such Subsidiary Guarantor's assets and liabilities, the holders of Designated Senior Debt will be entitled to receive payment in full in cash or, at the option of the holders of Designated Senior Debt, in Cash Equivalents, of all
Insolvency, Liquidation, etc
 
obligations due or to become due in respect of such guarantees (including interest after the commencement of any such proceeding, at the rate specified in the applicable agreement) before the holders of the 2020 Guaranteed Notes will be entitled to receive any payment of principal of, or premium, if any, interest or additional interest, if any, from such Subsidiary Guarantors, on the 2020 Guaranteed Notes, and until all obligations with respect to the Designated Senior Debt are paid in full in cash or, at the option of the holders of the guarantees under the Designated Senior Debt, in Cash Equivalents, any distribution of any kind or character from the Subsidiary Guarantor to which the holders of the 2020 Guaranteed Notes would be entitled shall be made to the holders of the guarantees under the Designated Senior Debt.
(c) . Each Subsidiary Guarantor may not make any payment in respect of its Note Guarantee (except for payments to the Trustee under Section of the Indenture and except in Permitted Junior Securities or from the trust (if any) created in connection with the legal defeasance or covenant defeasance of the 2020 Guaranteed Notes by the Company) if:
Defaults Under Designated Senior Indebtedness
(i) a payment default on a guarantee of Designated Senior Debt of such Subsidiary Guarantor has occurred and is continuing beyond any applicable grace period; or
(ii) any other default occurs and is continuing on any guarantee of Designated Senior Debt of such Subsidiary Guarantor that permits the holders of that guarantee of Designated Senior Debt to accelerate its maturity and the Trustee receives a notice of such default (a "") from the Company or the holders of guarantees of such Designated Senior Debt.
Payment Blockage Notice
(d) . Payments on any such Note Guarantee of a Subsidiary Guarantor may and will be resumed:
Continuation of Payments on Note Guarantees
(i) in the case of a payment default described above, when such default is cured or waived; or
(ii) in the case of a non-payment default described above, upon the earlier of the date on which such non-payment default is cured or waived and 179 days after the date on which the applicable Payment Blockage Notice is received, unless the maturity of any Designated Senior Debt has been accelerated.
(e) . No new Payment Blockage Notice may be delivered unless and until (x) 360 days have elapsed since the delivery of the immediately prior Payment Blockage Notice and (y) all scheduled payments of principal, premium, if any, and interest on the 2020 Guaranteed Note that have come due have been paid in full in cash. No non-payment default that existed or was continuing on the date of delivery of a Payment Blockage Notice to the Trustee will be, or be made, the basis for a subsequent Payment Blockage Notice.
Limitations on Payment Blockage Notices
(f) . If the Trustee receives a payment in respect of the 2020 Guaranteed Notes when (1) the payment is prohibited by the subordination provisions of this Section 4.05 and (2) the Trustee has actual knowledge that the payment is prohibited, then
Monies Held in Trust
 
the Trustee will hold the payment in trust for the benefit of the holders of the applicable Designated Senior Debt. Upon the written request of such holders, the Trustee will deliver the amounts held in trust to the holders or their proper representative.
The following amendments to the Indenture shall apply only to the 2020 Guaranteed Notes and not to any other series of Securities issued under the Indenture and shall be effective for so long as any 2020 Guaranteed Notes remain Outstanding. The Indenture is amended by this Supplemental Indenture solely with respect to the 2020 Guaranteed Notes, as follows:
Section 5.01 . Solely with respect to the 2020 Guaranteed Notes, Section 113 of the Indenture shall be amended and restated in its entirety by inserting the following in lieu thereof:
Amendments to Article I
"
Section 113. Legal Holidays.
If any Interest Payment Date or the Stated Maturity of the 2020 Guaranteed Notes falls on a day that is not a Business Day, the required payment will be made on the next Business Day as if it were made on the date the payment was due and no interest will accrue on the amount so payable for the period from and after the Interest Payment Date or the Stated Maturity, as the case may be, until the next Business Day."
Section 5.02 . Solely with respect to the 2020 Guaranteed Notes, Section 501 of the Indenture shall be amended by inserting the following new Events of Default immediately following clause (7) thereof:
Amendments to Article V
"(8) any Note Guarantee of a Subsidiary Guarantor that is a Significant Subsidiary is held in a final, non-appealable judgment to be unenforceable or invalid or ceases for any reason to be in full force and effect (except as permitted to be released pursuant to the Fourth Supplemental Indenture dated as of March 1, 2012) or any Subsidiary Guarantor that is a Significant Subsidiary denies or disaffirms its obligations under its Note Guarantee in writing, except in accordance with the terms of such Note Guarantee or in connection with the release of such Note Guarantee in accordance with the Fourth Supplemental Indenture dated as of March 1, 2012;
(9) the entry by a court having jurisdiction in the premises of (A) a decree or order for relief in respect of any Subsidiary Guarantor that is a Significant Subsidiary in an involuntary case or proceeding under any applicable Federal or State bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other similar law or (B) a decree or order adjudging any Subsidiary Guarantor that is a Significant Subsidiary bankrupt or insolvent, or approving as properly filed a petition seeking reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition of or in respect of any
 
Subsidiary Guarantor that is a Significant Subsidiary under any applicable Federal or State law, or appointing a custodian, receiver, liquidator, assignee, trustee, sequestrator or other similar official of the any Subsidiary Guarantor that is a Significant Subsidiary or of any substantial part of its Property, or ordering the winding up or liquidation of its affairs, and the continuance of any such decree or order for relief or any such other decree or order unstayed and in effect for a period of 60 consecutive days; or
(10) the commencement by any Subsidiary Guarantor that is a Significant Subsidiary of a voluntary case or proceeding under any applicable Federal or State bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other similar law or of any other case or proceeding to be adjudicated a bankrupt or insolvent, or the consent by any Subsidiary Guarantor that is a Significant Subsidiary to the entry of a decree or order for relief in respect of it in an involuntary case or proceeding under any applicable Federal or State bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other similar law or the commencement of any bankruptcy or insolvency case or proceeding against it, or the filing by it of a petition or answer or consent seeking reorganization or relief under any applicable Federal or State law, or the consent by any Subsidiary Guarantor that is a Significant Subsidiary to the filing of such petition or the appointment of or taking possession by a custodian, receiver, liquidator, assignee, trustee, sequestrator or other similar official of the any Subsidiary Guarantor that is a Significant Subsidiary or of any substantial part of its Property, or the making by it of an assignment for the benefit of creditors, or the admission by it in writing of its inability to pay its debts generally as they become due, or the taking of corporate action by it in furtherance of any such action."
Section 5.03 .
Amendments to Article IX
(a) Solely with respect to the 2020 Guaranteed Notes, Section 901(14) of the Indenture shall be amended and restated in its entirety by inserting the following in lieu thereof:
"(14) to add any Note Guarantee or release any Note Guarantee in accordance with the Fourth Supplemental Indenture dated as of March 1, 2012 (provided that any supplemental indenture evidencing such Note Guarantee or release of Note Guarantee need be signed by only the Company, the Trustee and the affected Subsidiary Guarantor);"
(b) Solely with respect to the 2020 Guaranteed Notes, Section 902 of the Indenture shall be amended by inserting the following immediately following clause (7) thereof:
"(8) release any Subsidiary Guarantor from any of its obligations under its Note Guarantee or the Indenture, except in accordance with the terms this Indenture (as modified by the Fourth Supplemental Indenture dated March 1, 2012); or
 
(9) amend or modify any of the provisions hereof (as modified by the Fourth Supplemental Indenture dated March 1, 2012) or any related definitions affecting the subordination of the 2020 Guaranteed Notes or any Note Guarantee in any manner adverse to the Holders of the 2020 Guaranteed Notes or any Note Guarantee."
(c) Solely with respect to the 2020 Guaranteed Notes, Article IX of the Indenture shall be amended by inserting the following as a new Section 907:
"
Section 907. Amendments to Subordination Provisions
In addition to the other requirements set forth in this Article IX, no amendment to the subordination provisions affecting the Note Guarantees set forth in Section 4.05 of the Fourth Supplemental Indenture dated as of March 1, 2012 shall be effective without (A) the consent of lenders under each Credit Agreement holding a majority of the principal amount outstanding thereunder and (B) the consent of lenders under each other Designated Senior Debt facility holding a majority of the principal amount outstanding thereunder, to the extent the documents governing such Designated Senior Debt provide for such a consent right."
Section 5.04 . Solely with respect to the 2020 Guaranteed Notes, Article X of the Indenture shall be amended by inserting the following covenants at the end of such Article X:
Amendments to Article X
"
Section 1010. Limitation on Guaranteed, Secured and Subsidiary Guarantor Indebtedness.
The Company will not, and will not permit any Subsidiary Guarantor to, incur any Guaranteed Indebtedness or Subsidiary Guarantor Indebtedness except (A) if at the time of incurrence, after giving effect to the incurrence of such indebtedness and application of the proceeds therefrom, the sum of (i) Guaranteed Indebtedness, (ii) Subsidiary Guarantor Indebtedness and (iii) the amount of the Company's indebtedness for borrowed money that is secured by Liens, other than Permitted Liens, outstanding, does not exceed 15% of Consolidated Net Tangible Assets, and (B) indebtedness incurred to refinance indebtedness outstanding under clause (A).
In addition to the indebtedness permitted to be incurred by the immediately preceding paragraph, the Company may incur Guaranteed Indebtedness (including the 2020 Guaranteed Notes) not to exceed $6.0 billion at any time outstanding (after giving effect to the incurrence of such indebtedness and the receipt and application of the proceeds therefrom), provided that, any guarantees of such Guaranteed Indebtedness are subordinated to the guarantees of Designated Senior Debt to substantially the same extent as, or to a greater extent than, the Note Guarantees of the 2020 Guaranteed Notes are subordinated to the guarantees of Designated Senior Debt.
 
In addition, the Company shall not incur indebtedness for borrowed money secured by Liens (other than Permitted Liens) on its property or assets or any property or assets of its Subsidiaries, now owned or acquired at a later time, if after giving effect to the incurrence of such indebtedness and the receipt and application of the proceeds therefrom, the amount of such indebtedness plus the amount of Guaranteed Indebtedness (excluding any Guaranteed Indebtedness incurred pursuant to the $6.0 billion basket referred to above) and Subsidiary Guarantor Indebtedness, outstanding at the time of such incurrence, exceeds 15% of Consolidated Net Tangible Assets.
.
Section 1011. Anti-Layering
The Company will not permit or cause any Subsidiary Guarantor to directly, or indirectly, create, incur, issue or assume any guarantee that is both subordinate in right of payment to the guarantees of Designated Senior Debt of such Subsidiary Guarantor and senior in any respect in right of payment to the Note Guarantees under the 2020 Guaranteed Notes. For the purposes of the foregoing, no guarantee will be deemed to be subordinated in right of payment to any guarantee of any Subsidiary Guarantor solely by reason of any Liens or guarantees arising or created in respect of such other guarantee of the Subsidiary Guarantor or by virtue of the fact that the holders of any secured indebtedness have entered into intercreditor agreements giving one or more of such holders priority over the other holders in the collateral held by them."
Section 5.05 . Solely with respect to the 2020 Guaranteed Notes, Section 1303 of the Indenture is amended by inserting the following immediately after the phrase "1006 through 1008 inclusive":
Amendments to Article XIII
"and 1010 and 1011".
Section 6.01 . The 2020 Guaranteed Notes will be redeemable in accordance with terms of the Indenture (as modified by this Supplemental Indenture), in each case from time to time, as a whole or in part, at the Company's option, on at least 30 days, but not more than 60 days, prior notice mailed to the registered address of each holder of the 2020 Guaranteed Notes to be redeemed, at a Redemption Price equal to (1) the greater of: (A) 100% of the principal amount of the 2020 Guaranteed Notes to be redeemed, and (B) the sum of the present values of the Remaining Scheduled Payments, discounted to the Redemption Date, on a semi-annual basis, assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months, at the Treasury Rate, plus 50 basis points; (2) in each case, accrued interest to the applicable Redemption Date that has not been paid.
Optional Redemption
plus
Section 6.02 . On and after the Redemption Date, interest will cease to accrue on the 2020
Interest on 2020 Guaranteed Notes Redeemed; Deposit of Redemption Price
 
Guaranteed Notes or any portion thereof called for redemption, unless the Company defaults in the payment of the Redemption Price. On or before the Redemption Date, the Company will deposit with the Paying Agent, or the Trustee, money sufficient to pay the Redemption Price of the 2020 Guaranteed Notes to be redeemed on such date.
Section 7.01 . If a Change of Control Triggering Event occurs with respect to the 2020 Guaranteed Notes, each Holder of 2020 Guaranteed Notes will have the right to require the Company to repurchase all or any part, equal to $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 thereafter, of that Holder's 2020 Guaranteed Notes pursuant to an offer (a "") on the terms set forth in this Article Seven.
Repurchase Offers
Change of Control Offer
Section 7.02 . The Company, in each Change of Control Offer, will offer a cash payment (a "") equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of 2020 Guaranteed Notes repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest on the 2020 Guaranteed Notes up to but excluding the date of repurchase. Within 30 days following any Change of Control Triggering Event, if the Company had not, prior to the Change of Control Triggering Event, sent a redemption notice for all the 2020 Guaranteed Notes in connection with an optional redemption permitted by Section 7.01 of this Supplemental Indenture and Article XI of the Indenture, the Company will mail or cause to be mailed a notice to each registered Holder briefly describing the event or events that constitute a Change of Control Triggering Event and offering to repurchase 2020 Guaranteed Notes on the date specified in such notice (the ""), which date will be no earlier than 30 days and no later than 60 days from the date the notice is mailed, pursuant to the procedures required by the Indenture (as modified by this Supplemental Indenture) and described in such notice.
Terms of Change of Control Offer
Change of Control Payment
Change of Control Payment Date
Section 7.03 . The Company will comply with the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the Exchange Act and any other securities laws and regulations thereunder to the extent such laws and regulations are applicable to any Change of Control Offer. To the extent the provisions of any securities laws or regulations conflict with the provisions of this Article Seven, the Company will comply with the applicable securities laws and regulations and will not be deemed to have breached its obligations hereunder by virtue of such conflict.
Compliance with Securities Laws
Section 7.04 . On the Change of Control Payment Date, the Company will, to the extent lawful:
Acceptance of and Payment for 2020 Guaranteed Notes
(a) accept for payment all 2020 Guaranteed Notes or portions thereof properly tendered pursuant to the Change of Control Offer;
(b) deposit with the Paying Agent an amount equal to the Change of Control Payment in respect of all 2020 Guaranteed Notes or portions thereof properly tendered; and
 
(c) deliver or cause to be delivered to the Trustee the 2020 Guaranteed Notes so accepted together with an Officers' Certificate stating the aggregate principal amount of 2020 Guaranteed Notes or portions thereof being purchased.
Section 7.05 . The Company will determine whether the 2020 Guaranteed Notes are properly tendered, and the Trustee will have no responsibility for, and may conclusively rely upon, the Company's determination with respect thereto. Subject to receipt of sufficient funds from the Company, the Paying Agent will promptly deliver to each registered Holder of 2020 Guaranteed Notes properly tendered, the Change of Control Payment for such 2020 Guaranteed Notes, and the Trustee will promptly authenticate and mail, or cause to be transferred by book entry, to each Holder a new 2020 Guaranteed Note equal in principal amount to any unpurchased portion of the 2020 Guaranteed Notes surrendered, if any; that each such new 2020 Guaranteed Note will be in a principal amount of $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 thereafter. Any 2020 Guaranteed Note so accepted for payment will cease to accrue interest on and after the Change of Control Payment Date.
Determination of Tender; Responsibilities of Paying Agent and Trustee
provided
Section 7.06 . The Company will not be required to make a Change of Control Offer upon a Change of Control Triggering Event if a third party makes the Change of Control Offer in the manner, at the times and otherwise in compliance with the requirements applicable to a Change of Control Offer made by the Company and purchases all 2020 Guaranteed Notes properly tendered and not withdrawn under the Change of Control Offer.
Third Party Change of Control Offers
Section 7.07 . The Company may make a Change of Control Offer in advance of a Change of Control Triggering Event, and condition that Change of Control Offer upon the occurrence of such Change of Control Triggering Event, if a definitive agreement is in place for the Change of Control Triggering Event at the time of making the Change of Control Offer.
Conditional Change of Control Offers
Section 7.08 . Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Article Seven, if the 2020 Guaranteed Notes receive an Investment Grade Rating by both of the Rating Agencies, and notwithstanding that the 2020 Guaranteed Notes may later cease to have an Investment Grade Rating by either of the Rating Agencies, the Company will be released from its obligation to make a Change of Control Offer upon a Change of Control Triggering Event.
Investment Grade Rating
Section 8.01 . This Supplemental Indenture is executed by the Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors, and by the Trustee upon the Company's request, pursuant to the provisions of the Indenture, and the terms and conditions hereof shall be deemed to be part of the Indenture for all purposes. The Indenture, as supplemented and amended by this Supplemental Indenture, is in all respects hereby adopted, ratified and confirmed. Notwithstanding the foregoing, to the extent that any of the terms of this Supplemental Indenture are inconsistent with, or conflict with, the terms of the Indenture, the terms of this Supplemental Indenture shall govern.
Effect of Supplemental Indenture; Conflicts with Indenture
 
Section 8.02 . This Supplemental Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be an original, but such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
Counterparts
Section 8.03 . The Trustee assumes no responsibility for the correctness of the recitals herein contained, which shall be taken as the statements of the Company. The Trustee makes no representations and shall have no responsibility as to the validity or sufficiency of this Supplemental Indenture or the due authorization and execution hereof by the Company or any Subsidiary Guarantor.
Trustee
Section 8.04 . The Article and Section headings contained herein are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction of this Supplemental Indenture.
Headings
Section 8.05 . This Supplemental Indenture and the 2020 Guaranteed Notes and the Note Guarantees shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
Governing Law
 
, the parties hereto have caused this Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized as of the day and year first above written.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
, a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of Kansas (herein called the "," which term includes any successor Person under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to , or registered assigns, the principal sum of [            ] on March 1, 2020, and to pay interest thereon from March 1 2012, or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, semi-annually on March 1 and September 1 in each year, commencing September 1, 2012, at the rate of 7.000% per annum, until the principal hereof is paid or made available for payment, that any principal and premium, and any such installment of interest, which is overdue shall bear interest at the rate of 7.000% per annum (to the extent that the payment of such interest shall be legally enforceable), from the dates such amounts are due until they are paid or made available for payment, and such interest shall be payable on demand. If any Interest Payment Date or the Stated Maturity of this 2020 Guaranteed Note falls on a day that is not a Business Day, the required payment shall be made on the next Business Day as if it were made on the date the payment was due and no interest shall accrue on the amount so payable for the period from and after the Interest Payment Date or the Stated Maturity of this 2020 Guaranteed Note, as the case may be, until the next Business Day. The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date (or the next Business Day, as applicable) will, as provided in such Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this 2020 Guaranteed Note (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest, which shall be the February 15 or August 15 (whether or not a Business Day), as the case may be, next preceding such Interest Payment Date. Any such interest not so punctually paid or duly provided for will forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on such Regular Record Date and may either be paid to the Person in whose name this 2020 Guaranteed Note (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be fixed by the Trustee, notice whereof shall be given to Holders of 2020 Guaranteed Notes of this series not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date, or be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the 2020 Guaranteed Notes of this series may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in said Indenture.
SPRINT NEXTEL CORPORATION
Company
CEDE & Co.
MILLION DOLLARS
provided
Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this 2020 Guaranteed Note set forth on the reverse hereof, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the Trustee referred to on the reverse hereof by manual signature, this 2020 Guaranteed Note shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this 2020 Guaranteed Note to be signed manually or by facsimile by its duly authorized officer.
 
 
[SEAL]
TRUSTEE'S CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION
This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture
 
Date
                    
This 2020 Guaranteed Note is one of a duly authorized issue of securities of the Company (herein called the ""), issued and to be issued in one or more series under an Indenture, dated as of November 20, 2006 (herein called the "" which term shall have the meaning assigned to it in such instrument), between the Company and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee (herein called the "," which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), as supplemented by the Fourth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of March 1, 2012 (the ""). Reference is hereby made to the Indenture for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Subsidiary Guarantors, the Trustee and the Holders of the 2020 Guaranteed Notes and of the terms upon which the 2020 Guaranteed Notes are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered.
2020 Guaranteed Notes
Indenture
Trustee
Supplemental Indenture
The Company may redeem the 2020 Guaranteed Notes at any time and from time to time, as a whole or in part, at the Company's option, on at least 30 days, but not more than 60 days, prior notice mailed to the registered address of each Holder of the 2020 Guaranteed Notes to be redeemed, at a redemption price equal to the greater of:
(1) 100% of the principal amount of the 2020 Guaranteed Notes to be redeemed; and
(2) the sum of the present values of the Remaining Scheduled Payments, discounted to the Redemption Date, on a semi-annual basis, assuming a 360 day year consisting of twelve 30 day months, at the Treasury Rate, plus 50 basis points;
, in each case, accrued interest to the Redemption Date that has not been paid (such redemption price, the "").
plus
Redemption Price
"" means the United States Treasury security selected by the Independent Investment Banker as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term of the 2020 Guaranteed Notes that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of the 2020 Guaranteed Notes.
Comparable Treasury Issue
"" means, with respect to any Redemption Date: (1) the average of four Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such Redemption Date, after excluding the highest and lowest of such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations; or (2) if the Trustee is provided fewer than four Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all quotations provided to the Trustee.
Comparable Treasury Price
"" means one of the Reference Treasury Dealers appointed by the Company.
Independent Investment Banker
"" means Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, Barclays Capital Inc., Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, and their successors, and one other firm that is a primary U.S. Government securities dealer (each a "") which the Company shall specify from time to time; that if any of them ceases to be a Primary Treasury Dealer, the Company will substitute therefor another Primary Treasury Dealer.
Reference Treasury Dealer
Primary Treasury Dealer
provided,
"" means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any Redemption Date, the average of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue, expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount, quoted in writing to the Trustee by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the third Business Day preceding such Redemption Date.
Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations
"" means with respect to each 2020 Guaranteed Note to be redeemed, the remaining scheduled payments of the principal thereof and interest thereon, that would be due after the related Redemption Date but for such redemption; that, if such Redemption Date is not an interest payment date with respect to such 2020 Guaranteed Note, the amount of the next succeeding scheduled interest payment thereon will be deemed reduced by the amount of interest accrued thereon to such Redemption Date.
Remaining Scheduled Payments
provided,
"" means, with respect to an applicable Redemption Date for the 2020 Guaranteed Notes: (1) the yield, under the heading which represents the average for the immediately preceding week, appearing in the most recently published statistical release designated "H.15(519)" or any successor publication that is published weekly by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and that establishes yields on actively traded United States Treasury Notes adjusted to constant maturity under the caption "Treasury Constant Maturities," for the maturity corresponding to the Comparable Treasury Issue; that if no maturity is within three months before or after the Stated Maturity of the 2020 Guaranteed Notes, yields for the two published maturities most closely corresponding to the Comparable Treasury Issue will be determined and the Treasury Rate will be interpolated or extrapolated from those yields on a straight line basis, rounding to the nearest month; or (2) if that release, or any successor release, is not published during the week preceding the calculation date or does not contain such yields, the rate per annum equal to the semiannual equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, calculated using a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for the Redemption Date. The Treasury Rate will be calculated on the third Business Day preceding the Redemption Date.
Treasury Rate
provided
On and after the Redemption Date, interest will cease to accrue on the 2020 Guaranteed Notes or any portion thereof called for redemption, unless the Company defaults in the payment of the Redemption Price.
In the event of redemption of this 2020 Guaranteed Note in part only, a new 2020 Guaranteed Note or 2020 Guaranteed Notes of this series and of like tenor for the unredeemed portion hereof will be issued in the name of the Holder hereof upon the cancellation hereof.
If a Change of Control Triggering Event occurs, each Holder of a 2020 Guaranteed Note will have the right to require the Company to repurchase all or any part, equal to $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 thereafter, of that Holder's 2020 Guaranteed Notes pursuant to an offer (a "") on the terms set forth in the Supplemental Indenture.
Change of Control Offer
The Company, in each Change of Control Offer, will offer a cash payment (a "") equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of 2020 Guaranteed Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest on the 2020 Guaranteed Notes up to but excluding the date of repurchase. Within 30 days following any Change of Control Triggering Event, if the Company had not, prior to the Change of Control Triggering Event, sent a redemption notice for all the 2020 Guaranteed Notes in connection with an optional redemption permitted by the Indenture, the Company will mail or cause to be mailed a notice to each registered Holder briefly describing the event or events that constitute a Change of Control Triggering Event and offering to repurchase 2020 Guaranteed Notes on the date specified in such notice (the ""), which date will be no earlier than 30 days and no later than 60 days from the date the notice is mailed, pursuant to the procedures required by the Indenture (as modified by this Supplemental Indenture) and described in such notice.
Change of Control Payment
Change of Control Payment Date
Notwithstanding the preceding two paragraphs, if the 2020 Guaranteed Notes receive an Investment Grade Rating by both of the Rating Agencies, and notwithstanding that the 2020 Guaranteed Notes may later cease to have an Investment Grade Rating by either of the Rating Agencies, the Company will be released from its obligation to make a Change of Control Offer upon a Change of Control Triggering Event.
"" means the occurrence of any of the following:
Change of Control
(a) the direct or indirect sale, transfer, conveyance or other disposition (other than by way of merger or consolidation), in one or a series of related transactions, of all or substantially all of the Company and its Subsidiaries' properties or assets, taken as a whole, to any "person" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act);
(b) the adoption of a plan relating to the Company's liquidation or dissolution; or
(c) any "person" or "group" (as such terms are used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Exchange Act) becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the voting power of the Company's Voting Securities; that a transaction in which the Company becomes a Subsidiary of another person shall not constitute a Change of Control if (a) the Company's stockholders immediately prior to such transaction Beneficially Own, directly or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, 50% or more of the voting power of the outstanding Voting Securities of such other Person of whom the Company is a Subsidiary immediately following such transaction and (b) immediately following such transaction no person (as defined above) other than such other person, Beneficially Owns, directly or indirectly, more than 50% of the voting power of the Company's Voting Securities.
provided
"" means the occurrence of both a Change of Control and a Ratings Decline.
Change of Control Triggering Event
"" means a rating equal to or greater than Baa3 by Moody's and BBB- by S&P or the equivalent thereof under any new ratings system if the ratings systems of either such Rating Agency shall be modified after the issue date of the 2020 Guaranteed Notes, or the equivalent rating of any other Ratings Agency the Company selects as provided in the definition of Ratings Agencies.
Investment Grade Rating
"" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc. or any successor to the rating agency business thereof.
Moody's
"" means (1) Moody's and S&P; and (2) if either Moody's or S&P ceases to rate the 2020 Guaranteed Notes or ceases to make a rating on the 2020 Guaranteed Notes publicly available, an entity registered as a "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" (registered as such pursuant to Rule l7g-1 of the Exchange Act) then making a rating on the 2020 Guaranteed Notes publicly available selected by the Company (as certified by an officer's certificate), which shall be substituted for Moody's or S&P, as the case may be.
Ratings Agencies
"" means the occurrence, during the period commencing on the date of the first public announcement of the Change of Control or the intention to effect a Change of Control and ending 90 days after the occurrence of the Change of Control, of a downgrade of the rating of the 2020 Guaranteed Notes by both Rating Agencies by one or more gradations (including gradations within ratings categories as well as between rating categories).
Ratings Decline
"" means Standard & Poor's Rating Services, a division of the McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc., or any successor to the rating agency business thereof.
S&P
The Indenture contains provisions for defeasance at any time of the entire indebtedness of this 2020 Guaranteed Note or certain restrictive covenants and Events of Default with respect to this 2020 Guaranteed Note, in each case upon compliance with certain conditions set forth in the Indenture.
If an Event of Default with respect to the 2020 Guaranteed Notes shall occur and be continuing, the principal of the 2020 Guaranteed Notes may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.
The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders of the Securities of each series to be affected under the Indenture at any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of all Outstanding Securities affected. With respect to any series of Securities, the consent of the Holders of that series of Securities required by the Indenture may be obtained from either the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities of that series, or from the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities of that series and all other series affected by that consent, voting as a single class. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of specified percentages in principal amount of the Securities of each series at the time Outstanding, on behalf of the Holders of all Securities of such series, to waive
compliance by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences. With respect to any series of Securities issued under the Indenture, in addition to obtaining waivers from the Holders of a majority in principal amount of Outstanding Securities of that series, a waiver of compliance with the Indenture and a waiver of past defaults under the Indenture can also be obtained from the Holders of a majority in principal amount of debt securities of that series and all other series affected by the waiver, whether issued under the Indenture or any other indenture of the Company providing for such aggregated voting, all as a single class. Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of this 2020 Guaranteed Note shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of this 2020 Guaranteed Note and of any 2020 Guaranteed Note issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange therefor or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this 2020 Guaranteed Note.
As provided in and subject to the provisions of the Indenture, the Holder of this 2020 Guaranteed Note shall not have the right to institute any proceeding with respect to the Indenture or for the appointment of a receiver or trustee or for any other remedy thereunder, unless such Holder shall have previously given the Trustee written notice of a continuing Event of Default with respect to the 2020 Guaranteed Notes, the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the 2020 Guaranteed Notes at the time Outstanding shall have made written request to the Trustee to institute proceedings in respect of such Event of Default as Trustee and offered the Trustee reasonable indemnity, and the Trustee shall not have received from the Holders of a majority in principal amount of 2020 Guaranteed Notes at the time Outstanding a direction inconsistent with such request, and shall have failed to institute any such proceeding, for 60 days after receipt of such notice, request and offer of indemnity. The foregoing shall not apply to any suit instituted by the Holder of this 2020 Guaranteed Note for the enforcement of any payment of principal hereof or any premium or interest hereon on or after the respective due dates expressed herein.
As provided in the indenture and subject to release and certain other limitations therein set forth, each Subsidiary Guarantor jointly and severally irrevocably and unconditionally guarantees, on an unsecured basis, the performance and full and punctual payment, whether at maturity, by acceleration or otherwise, of all obligations of the Company under the Indenture (in respect of the these 2020 Guaranteed Notes only and not any other series of Securities), the Supplemental Indenture and the 2020 Guaranteed Notes, whether for payment of principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the 2020 Guaranteed Notes, expenses, indemnification, or otherwise. The Note Guarantees of the Subsidiary Guarantors are subordinated to the Designated Senior Debt, on the terms and conditions set forth in Article Four of the Supplemental Indenture.
No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this 2020 Guaranteed Note or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of and any premium and interest on this 2020 Guaranteed Note at the times, place and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed.
As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the transfer of this 2020 Guaranteed Note is registerable in the Security Register, upon surrender of this 2020 Guaranteed Note for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the Company
in any place where the principal of and any premium and interest on this 2020 Guaranteed Note are payable, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Security Registrar duly executed by, the Holder hereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new 2020 Guaranteed Notes of this series and of like tenor, of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees.
The 2020 Guaranteed Notes of this series are issuable only in registered form, without coupons, in minimum denominations of $2,000 and thereafter any integral multiple of $1,000. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, 2020 Guaranteed Notes of this series are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of 2020 Guaranteed Notes of this series and of like tenor of a different authorized denomination, as requested by the Holder surrendering the same.
No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
Prior to due presentment of this 2020 Guaranteed Note for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this 2020 Guaranteed Note is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this 2020 Guaranteed Note be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
No recourse for payment of the principal of, premium, if any, or interest on this 2020 Guaranteed Note, or for any claim based thereon or otherwise in respect thereof, and no recourse under or upon any obligation, covenant or agreement of the Company contained in the Indenture, or in any 2020 Guaranteed Note, or because of the creation of any indebtedness represented thereby, shall be had against any incorporator or any past, present or future partner, shareholder, other equity holder, officer, director, employee or controlling person, as such, of the Company or of any successor Person, either directly or through the Company or any successor Person, whether by virtue of any constitution, statute or rule of law, or by enforcement of any assessment or penalty or otherwise, it being expressly understood that all such liability, either at common law or in equity or by constitution or statute, is hereby waived and released as a condition of, and as consideration for, the execution of the Indenture and the issuance of this 2020 Guaranteed Note.
THIS 2020 GUARANTEED NOTE SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
All terms used in this 2020 Guaranteed Note which are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture (as modified by the Supplemental Indenture).
The following exchanges of a part of this Global Note for an interest in another Global Note or for a Definitive Note, or exchanges of a part of another Global Note or Definitive Note for an interest in this Global Note, have been made:
 
The following exchanges of a part of this Regulation S Global Note for an interest in another Global Note or of other Restricted Global Notes for an interest in this Regulation S Global Note, have been made:
 
Sprint Nextel Corporation
6200 Sprint Parkway
Overland Park, KS 66251
Facsimile: (913) 523-9802
Attention: General Counsel
The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A.
2 N. LaSalle Street, Suite 1020
Chicago, IL 60602
Facsimile: (312) 827-8542
Attention: Corporate Trust Administration
 
Reference is hereby made to the Indenture, dated as of November 20, 2006 (the ""), among Sprint Nextel Corporation, a Kansas corporation (the "") and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A. (n/k/a The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A.) (the ""), as supplemented by the Fourth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of March 1, 2012 among the Company, the Subsidiary Guarantors named therein and the Trustee. Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Indenture.
Indenture
Company
Trustee
                                (the "") owns and proposes to transfer the 2020 Guaranteed Note[s] or interest in such 2020 Guaranteed Note[s] specified in Annex A hereto, in the principal amount at maturity of $            in such 2020 Guaranteed Note[s] or interests (the ""), to                                 (the ""), as further specified in Annex A hereto. In connection with the Transfer, the Transferor hereby certifies that:
Transferor
Transfer
Transferee
1. . The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ""), and, accordingly, the Transferor hereby further certifies that the beneficial interest or Definitive Note is being transferred to a Person that the Transferor reasonably believed and believes is purchasing the beneficial interest or Definitive Note for its own account, or for one or more accounts with respect to which such Person exercises sole investment discretion, and such Person and each such account is a "qualified institutional buyer" within the meaning of Rule 144A in a transaction meeting the requirements of Rule 144A and such Transfer is in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States. Upon consummation of the proposed Transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Definitive Note will be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the 144A Global Note and/or the Definitive Note and in the Indenture and the Securities Act.
Check if Transferee will take delivery of a beneficial interest in the 144A Global Note or a Definitive Note Pursuant to Rule 144A
Securities Act
 
2. . The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 903 or Rule 904 under the Securities Act and, accordingly, the Transferor hereby further certifies that (i) the Transfer is not being made to a person in the United States and (x) at the time the buy order was originated, the Transferee was outside the United States or such Transferor and any Person acting on its behalf reasonably believed and believes that the Transferee was outside the United States or (y) the transaction was executed in, on or through the facilities of a designated offshore securities market and neither such Transferor nor any Person acting on its behalf knows that the transaction was prearranged with a buyer in the United States, (ii) no directed selling efforts have been made in contravention of the requirements of Rule 903(b) or Rule 904(b) of Regulation S under the Securities Act, (iii) the transaction is not part of a plan or scheme to evade the registration requirements of the Securities Act and (iv) the transfer is not being made to a U.S. Person or for the account or benefit of a U.S. Person (other than an initial purchaser of the 2020 Guaranteed Notes). Upon consummation of the proposed transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Definitive Note will be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the Legended Regulation S Global Note and/or the Definitive Note and in the Indenture and the Securities Act.
Check if Transferee will take delivery of a beneficial interest in a Legended Regulation S Global Note, or a Definitive Note pursuant to Regulation S
3. . The Transfer is being effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to beneficial interests in Restricted Global Notes and Restricted Definitive Notes and pursuant to and in accordance with the Securities Act and any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States, and accordingly the Transferor hereby further certifies that (check one):
Check and complete if Transferee will take delivery of a Restricted Definitive Note pursuant to any provision of the Securities Act other than Rule 144, Rule 144A or Regulation S
(a) such Transfer is being effected to the Company or a subsidiary thereof; or
(b) such Transfer is being effected to an Institutional Accredited Investor and pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act other than Rule 144A, Rule 144 or Rule 904, and the Transferor hereby further certifies that it has not engaged in any general solicitation within the meaning of Regulation D under the Securities Act and the Transfer complies with the transfer restrictions applicable to Restricted Definitive Notes and the requirements of the exemption claimed, which certification is supported by (1) a certificate executed by the Transferee in the form of to the Fourth Supplemental Indenture dated as of March 1, 2012 and (2) an Opinion of Counsel provided by the Transferor or the Transferee (a copy of which the Transferor has attached to this certification), to the effect that such Transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act. Upon consummation of the proposed transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred Definitive Note will be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the Definitive Notes and in the Indenture and the Securities Act.
Exhibit D
 
4. .
Check if Transferee will take delivery of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note or of an Unrestricted Definitive Note
(a) Check if Transfer is Pursuant to Rule 144. (i) The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 144 under the Securities Act and in compliance with the transfer restrictions contained in the Indenture and any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States and (ii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act. Upon consummation of the proposed Transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Definitive Note will no longer be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the Restricted Global Notes, on Restricted Definitive Notes and in the Indenture.
(b) Check if Transfer is Pursuant to Regulation S. (i) The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 903 or Rule 904 under the Securities Act and in compliance with the transfer restrictions contained in the Indenture and any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States and, in the case of a transfer from a Restricted Global Note or a Restricted Definitive Note, the Transferor hereby further certifies that (a) the Transfer is not being made to a person in the United States and (x) at the time the buy order was originated, the Transferee was outside the United States or such Transferor and any Person acting on its behalf reasonably believed and believes that the Transferee was outside the United States or (y) the transaction was executed in, on or through the facilities of a designated offshore securities market and neither such Transferor nor any Person acting on its behalf knows that the transaction was prearranged with a buyer in the United States, (b) no directed selling efforts have been made in contravention of the requirements of Rule 903(b) or Rule 904(b) of Regulation S under the Securities Act, (c) the transaction is not part of a plan or scheme to evade the registration requirements of the Securities Act and (d) the transfer is not being made to a U.S. Person or for the account or benefit of a U.S. Person, and (ii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act. Upon consummation of the proposed Transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Definitive Note will no longer be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the Restricted Global Notes, on Restricted Definitive Notes and in the Indenture.
(c) Check if Transfer is Pursuant to Other Exemption. (i) The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in compliance with an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act other than Rule 144, Rule 903 or Rule 904 and in compliance with the transfer restrictions contained in the Indenture and any applicable blue sky securities laws of any State of the United States and (ii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act. Upon consummation of the proposed Transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Definitive Note will not be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the Restricted Global Notes or Restricted Definitive Notes and in the Indenture.
 
This certificate and the statements contained herein are made for your benefit and the benefit of the Company.
 
 
 
 
 
 
in accordance with the terms of the Indenture.
 
Sprint Nextel Corporation
6200 Sprint Parkway
Overland Park, KS 66251
Facsimile: (913) 523-9802
Attention: General Counsel
The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A.
2 N. LaSalle Street, Suite 1020
Chicago, IL 60602
Facsimile: (312) 827-8542
Attention: Corporate Trust Administration
 
Reference is hereby made to the Indenture, dated as of November 20, 2006 (the ""), among Sprint Nextel Corporation, a Kansas corporation (the "") and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A. (n/k/a The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A.) (the ""), as supplemented by the Fourth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of March 1, 2012 among the Company, the Subsidiary Guarantors named therein and the Trustee. Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Indenture.
Indenture
Company
Trustee
                             (the "") owns and proposes to exchange the 2020 Guaranteed Note[s] or interest in such 2020 Guaranteed Note[s] specified herein, in the principal amount at maturity of $             in such 2020 Guaranteed Note[s] or interests (the ""). In connection with the Exchange, the Owner hereby certifies that:
Owner
Exchange
1. Exchange of Restricted Definitive Notes or Beneficial Interests in a Restricted Global Note for Unrestricted Definitive Notes or Beneficial Interests in an Unrestricted Global Note
(a) . In connection with the Exchange of the Owner's beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note in an equal principal amount at maturity, the Owner hereby certifies (i) the beneficial interest is being acquired for the Owner's own account without transfer, (ii) such Exchange has been effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to the Global Notes and pursuant to and in accordance with the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ""), (iii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act and (iv) the beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note is being acquired in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States.
Check if Exchange is from beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note to beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note
Securities Act
(b) . In connection with the Exchange
Check if Exchange is from beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note to Unrestricted Definitive Note
 
of the Owner's beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note for an Unrestricted Definitive Note, the Owner hereby certifies (i) the Definitive Note is being acquired for the Owner's own account without transfer, (ii) such Exchange has been effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to the Restricted Global Notes and pursuant to and in accordance with the Securities Act, (iii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act and (iv) the Definitive Note is being acquired in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States.
(c) . In connection with the Owner's Exchange of a Restricted Definitive Note for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note, the Owner hereby certifies (i) the beneficial interest is being acquired for the Owner's own account without transfer, (ii) such Exchange has been effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to Restricted Definitive Notes and pursuant to and in accordance with the Securities Act, (iii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act and (iv) the beneficial interest is being acquired in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States.
Check if Exchange is from Restricted Definitive Note to beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note
(d) . In connection with the Owner's Exchange of a Restricted Definitive Note for an Unrestricted Definitive Note, the Owner hereby certifies (i) the Unrestricted Definitive Note is being acquired for the Owner's own account without transfer, (ii) such Exchange has been effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to Restricted Definitive Notes and pursuant to and in accordance with the Securities Act, (iii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act and (iv) the Unrestricted Definitive Note is being acquired in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States.
Check if Exchange is from Restricted Definitive Note to Unrestricted Definitive Note
2. Exchange of Restricted Definitive Notes or Beneficial Interests in Restricted Global Notes for Restricted Definitive Notes or Beneficial Interests in Restricted Global Notes
(a) . In connection with the Exchange of the Owner's beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note for a Restricted Definitive Note with an equal principal amount at maturity, the Owner hereby certifies that the Restricted Definitive Note is being acquired for the Owner's own account without transfer. Upon consummation of the proposed Exchange in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the Restricted Definitive Note issued will continue to be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the Restricted Definitive Note and in the Indenture and the Securities Act.
Check if Exchange is from beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note to Restricted Definitive Note
 
(b) . In connection with the Exchange of the Owner's Restricted Definitive Note for a beneficial interest in the [CHECK ONE] :
Check if Exchange is from Restricted Definitive Note to beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note
144A Global Note:
Regulation S Global Note:
with an equal principal amount at maturity, the Owner hereby certifies (i) the beneficial interest is being acquired for the Owner's own account without transfer and (ii) such Exchange has been effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to the Restricted Global Notes and pursuant to and in accordance with the Securities Act, and in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States. Upon consummation of the proposed Exchange in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the beneficial interest issued will be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the relevant Restricted Global Note and in the Indenture and the Securities Act.
This certificate and the statements contained herein are made for your benefit and the benefit of the Company.
 
 
Sprint Nextel Corporation
6200 Sprint Parkway
Overland Park, KS 66251
Facsimile: (913) 523-9802
Attention: General Counsel
The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A.
2 N. LaSalle Street, Suite 1020
Chicago, IL 60602
Facsimile: (312) 827-8542
Attention: Corporate Trust Administration
 
Reference is hereby made to the Indenture, dated as of November 20, 2006 (the ""), among Sprint Nextel Corporation, a Kansas corporation (the "") and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A. (n/k/a The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A.) (the ""), as supplemented by the Fourth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of March 1, 2012 among the Company, the Subsidiary Guarantors named therein and the Trustee. Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Indenture.
Indenture
Company
Trustee
In connection with our proposed purchase of $             aggregate principal amount of:
(a) beneficial interest in a Global Note, or
(b) a Definitive Note,
we confirm that:
1. We understand that any subsequent transfer of the 2020 Guaranteed Notes or any interest therein is subject to certain restrictions and conditions set forth in the Indenture and the undersigned agrees to be bound by, and not to resell, pledge or otherwise transfer the Notes or any interest therein except in compliance with, such restrictions and conditions and the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "").
Securities Act
2. We understand that the offer and sale of the 2020 Guaranteed Notes have not been registered under the Securities Act, and that the 2020 Guaranteed Notes and any interest therein may not be offered or sold except as permitted in the following sentence. We agree, on our own behalf and on behalf of any accounts for which we are acting as hereinafter stated, that if we should sell the Notes or any interest therein, we shall do so only (A) to the Company or any subsidiary thereof, (B) in accordance with Rule 144A under the Securities Act to a "qualified institutional buyer" (as defined therein), (C) to an institutional "accredited investor" (as defined below) that, prior to such transfer, furnishes (or has furnished on its behalf by a U.S. broker-dealer) to the Trustee and to the Company a signed letter substantially in the form of this letter and an Opinion of Counsel in form reasonably acceptable to the Company to the effect that such transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act, (D) outside the United States in accordance
 
with Rule 904 of Regulation S under the Securities Act, (E) pursuant to the provisions of Rule 144(k) under the Securities Act or (F) pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act, and we further agree to provide to any person purchasing the Definitive Note or beneficial interest in a Global Note from us in a transaction meeting the requirements of clauses (A) through (E) of this paragraph a notice advising such purchaser that resales thereof are restricted as stated herein.
3. We understand that, on any proposed resale of the 2020 Guaranteed Notes or beneficial interest therein, we will be required to furnish to the Trustee and the Company such certifications, legal opinions and other information as you and the Company may reasonably require to confirm that the proposed sale complies with the foregoing restrictions. We further understand that the Notes purchased by us will bear a legend to the foregoing effect.
4. We are an institutional "accredited investor" (as defined in Rule 501(a)(1), (2), (3) or (7) of Regulation D under the Securities Act) and have such knowledge and experience in financial and business matters as to be capable of evaluating the merits and risks of our investment in the Notes, and we and any accounts for which we are acting are each able to bear the economic risk of our or its investment.
5. We are acquiring the Notes or beneficial interest therein purchased by us for our own account or for one or more accounts (each of which is an institutional "accredited investor") as to each of which we exercise sole investment discretion.
The Trustee and the Company are entitled to rely upon this letter and are irrevocably authorized to produce this letter or a copy hereof to any interested party in any administrative or legal proceedings or official inquiry with respect to the matters covered hereby.
 
 

Exhibit 4.3
 
This REGISTRATION RIGHTS AGREEMENT dated March 1, 2012 (this "") is entered into by and among Sprint Nextel Corporation, a Kansas corporation (the ""), and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated ("") and each of the other initial purchasers named in Schedule A hereto (collectively the "") for whom Merrill Lynch is acting as representative (the "").
Agreement
Company
Merrill Lynch
Initial Purchasers
Representative
The Company and the Initial Purchasers are parties to the Purchase Agreement dated February 27, 2012 (the ""), which provides, among other things, for the sale by the Company to the Initial Purchasers of $1,000,000,000 aggregate principal amount of its 9.125% notes due 2017 (the ""). As an inducement to the Initial Purchasers to enter into the Purchase Agreement, the Company has agreed to provide to the Initial Purchasers and their direct and indirect transferees the registration rights set forth in this Agreement. The execution and delivery of this Agreement is a condition to the closing under the Purchase Agreement. Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Purchase Agreement.
Purchase Agreement
Securities
In consideration of the foregoing, the parties hereto agree as follows:
1. . As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
Definitions
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble.
Agreement
"" shall mean any day that is not a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which commercial banks in New York City are authorized or required by law to remain closed.
Business Day
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble and shall also include the Company's successors.
Company
"" shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time.
Exchange Act
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2(a)(ii) hereof.
Exchange Dates
"" shall mean the exchange offer by the Company of Exchange Securities for Registrable Securities pursuant to Section 2(a) hereof.
Exchange Offer
"" shall mean a registration under the Securities Act effected pursuant to Section 2(a) hereof.
Exchange Offer Registration
"" shall mean an exchange offer registration statement on Form S-4 (or, if applicable, on another appropriate form) and all amendments and supplements to such registration statement, in each case including the Prospectus contained therein or deemed a part thereof, all exhibits thereto and any document incorporated by reference therein.
Exchange Offer Registration Statement
 
"" shall mean senior notes issued by the Company under the Indenture containing terms identical to the Securities (except that the Exchange Securities will not be subject to restrictions on transfer or to any increase in annual interest rate for failure to comply with this Agreement) and to be offered to Holders of Securities in exchange for Securities pursuant to the Exchange Offer.
Exchange Securities
"" means the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc.
FINRA
"" means each free writing prospectus (as defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act) prepared by or on behalf of the Company or used or referred to by the Company in connection with the sale of the Securities or the Exchange Securities.
Free Writing Prospectus
"" shall mean the Initial Purchasers, for so long as they own any Registrable Securities, and each of their successors, assigns and direct and indirect transferees who become owners of Registrable Securities under the Indenture; that, for purposes of Section 4 and Section 5 hereof, the term "Holders" shall include Participating Broker-Dealers.
Holders
provided
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5(c) hereof.
Indemnified Person
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5(c) hereof.
Indemnifying Person
"" shall mean the Indenture relating to the Securities dated as of November 20, 2006 among the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as trustee, as supplemented by the supplemental indenture relating to the Securities, dated as of March 1, 2012, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as trustee, and as the same may be amended from time to time in accordance with the terms thereof.
Indenture
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble.
Initial Purchasers
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3(a)(xiv) hereof.
Inspector
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5(a) hereof.
Issuer Information
"" shall mean the Holders of a majority of the aggregate principal amount of the outstanding Registrable Securities; that whenever the consent or approval of Holders of a specified percentage of Registrable Securities is required hereunder, any Registrable Securities owned directly or indirectly by the Company or any of its affiliates (within the meaning of Rule 405 under the Securities Act) shall not be counted in determining whether such consent or approval was given by the Holders of such required percentage or amount; and , , that if the Company shall issue any additional Securities under the Indenture prior to consummation of the Exchange Offer or, if applicable, the effectiveness of any Shelf Registration Statement, such additional Securities and the Registrable Securities to which this Agreement relates shall be treated together as one class for purposes of determining whether the consent or approval of Holders of a specified percentage of Registrable Securities has been obtained.
Majority Holders
provided
provided
further
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble.
Merrill Lynch
 
"" shall mean a notice of registration statement and selling security holder questionnaire distributed to a Holder by the Company upon receipt of a Shelf Request from such Holder.
Notice and Questionnaire
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof.
Participating Broker-Dealers
"" shall mean any Holder of Registrable Securities that has returned a completed and signed Notice and Questionnaire to the Company in accordance with Section 2(b) hereof.
Participating Holder
"" shall mean an individual, partnership, limited liability company, corporation, trust or unincorporated organization, or a government or agency or political subdivision thereof.
Person
"" shall mean the prospectus included in, or, pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities Act, deemed a part of, a Registration Statement, including any preliminary prospectus, and any such prospectus as amended or supplemented by any prospectus supplement, including a prospectus supplement with respect to the terms of the offering of any portion of the Registrable Securities covered by a Shelf Registration Statement, and all other amendments and supplements to such prospectus, and in each case including any document incorporated by reference therein.
Prospectus
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble.
Purchase Agreement
"" shall mean the Securities; that the Securities shall cease to be Registrable Securities (i) when a Registration Statement with respect to such Securities has become effective under the Securities Act and such Securities have been exchanged or disposed of pursuant to such Registration Statement, (ii) when such Securities cease to be outstanding, (iii) except in the case of Securities that otherwise remain Registrable Securities and that are held by an Initial Purchaser and that are ineligible to be exchanged in the Exchange Offer, when the Exchange Offer is consummated or (iv) when such Securities have been sold to the public pursuant to Rule 144 (or any similar provision then in force, but not Rule 144A).
Registrable Securities
provided
"" shall mean the occurrence of any of the following: (i) the Exchange Offer is not completed on or prior to the Target Registration Date, (ii) the Shelf Registration Statement, if required pursuant to Section 2(b)(i) or Section 2(b)(ii) hereof, has not become effective on or prior to the Target Registration Date, (iii) if the Company receives valid a Shelf Request pursuant to Section 2(b)(iii), the Shelf Registration Statement required to be filed thereby has not become effective by the later of (a) the Target Registration Date and (b) 90 days after delivery of such Shelf Request, or (iv) the Shelf Registration Statement, if required by this Agreement, has become effective and thereafter ceases to be effective or the Prospectus contained therein ceases to be usable, in each case whether or not permitted by this Agreement, at any time during the Shelf Effectiveness Period, and such failure to remain effective or usable exists for more than 45 days (whether or not consecutive) in any 12-month period.
Registration Default
"" shall mean any and all expenses incident to performance of or compliance by the Company with this Agreement, including without limitation: (i) all SEC, stock exchange or FINRA registration and filing fees, (ii) all fees and expenses incurred in connection with compliance with state securities or blue sky laws (including reasonable and
Registration Expenses
 
documented fees and disbursements of one counsel for any Underwriters or Holders in connection with blue sky qualification of any Exchange Securities or Registrable Securities), (iii) all expenses of any Persons in preparing or assisting in preparing, word processing, printing and distributing any Registration Statement, any Prospectus, any Free Writing Prospectus and any amendments or supplements thereto, any underwriting agreements, securities sales agreements or other similar agreements and any other documents relating to the performance of and compliance with this Agreement provided that such Persons have been appointed by the Company or with prior approval of the Company, (iv) all rating agency fees, (v) all fees and disbursements relating to the qualification of the Indenture under applicable securities laws, (vi) the reasonable and documented fees and disbursements of the Trustee and its counsel in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, (vii) the reasonable and documented fees and disbursements of counsel for the Company and, in the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, the reasonable and documented fees and disbursements of one counsel for the Participating Holders (which counsel shall be selected by the Participating Holders holding a majority of the aggregate principal amount of Registrable Securities held by such Participating Holders and which counsel may also be counsel for the Initial Purchasers) and (viii) the reasonable and documented fees and disbursements of the independent registered public accountants of the Company, including the expenses of any special audits or "comfort" letters required by or incident to the performance of and compliance with this Agreement, but excluding fees and expenses of counsel to the Underwriters (other than fees and expenses set forth in clause (ii) above) or the Holders and underwriting discounts and commissions, brokerage commissions and transfer taxes, if any, relating to the sale or disposition of Registrable Securities by a Holder.
"" shall mean any registration statement of the Company that covers any of the Exchange Securities or Registrable Securities pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement and all amendments and supplements to any such registration statement, including post-effective amendments, in each case including the Prospectus contained therein or deemed a part thereof, all exhibits thereto and any document incorporated by reference therein.
Registration Statement
"" shall mean the United States Securities and Exchange Commission.
SEC
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble.
Securities
"" shall mean the Securities Act of 1933, as amended from time to time.
Securities Act
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2(b) hereof.
Shelf Effectiveness Period
"" shall mean a registration effected pursuant to Section 2(b) hereof.
Shelf Registration
"" shall mean a "shelf" registration statement of the Company that covers all or a portion of the Registrable Securities (but no other securities unless approved by a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities held by the Participating Holders) on an appropriate form under Rule 415 under the Securities Act, or any similar rule that may be adopted by the SEC, and all amendments and supplements to such registration statement, including post-effective amendments, in each case including the Prospectus contained therein or deemed a part thereof, all exhibits thereto and any document incorporated by reference therein.
Shelf Registration Statement
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2(b) hereof.
Shelf Request
 
"" shall mean the staff of the SEC.
Staff
"" shall mean January 10, 2013.
Target Registration Date
"" shall mean the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended from time to time.
Trust Indenture Act
"" shall mean the trustee with respect to the Securities under the Indenture.
Trustee
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3(e) hereof.
Underwriter
"" shall mean an offering in which Registrable Securities are sold to an Underwriter for reoffering to the public.
Underwritten Offering
2. . (a) To the extent not prohibited by any applicable law or applicable interpretations of the Staff, the Company shall use its reasonable best efforts to (x) cause to be filed an Exchange Offer Registration Statement covering an offer to the Holders to exchange all the Registrable Securities for Exchange Securities and (y) have such Registration Statement become and remain effective until 180 days after the last Exchange Date for use by one or more Participating Broker-Dealers. The Company shall commence the Exchange Offer promptly after the Exchange Offer Registration Statement is declared effective by the SEC and use its reasonable best efforts to complete the Exchange Offer not later than 60 days after such effective date.
Registration Under the Securities Act
The Company shall commence the Exchange Offer by mailing or electronically delivering, pursuant to procedures of the depositary, the related Prospectus, appropriate letter of transmittal and other accompanying documents, if any, to each Holder stating, in addition to such other disclosures as are required by applicable law, substantially the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
As a condition to participating in the Exchange Offer, a Holder will be required to represent to the Company that (1) any Exchange Securities to be received by it will be acquired in the ordinary course of its business, (2) at the time of the commencement of the Exchange Offer it has no arrangement or understanding with any Person to participate in the distribution (within the meaning of the Securities Act) of the Exchange Securities in violation of the provisions of the Securities Act, (3) it is not an "affiliate" (within the meaning of Rule 405 under the Securities Act) of the Company and (4) if such Holder is a broker-dealer that will receive Exchange Securities for its own account in exchange for Registrable Securities that were acquired as a result of market-making or other trading activities, then such Holder will deliver a Prospectus (or, to the extent permitted by law, make available a Prospectus to purchasers) in connection with any resale of such Exchange Securities.
As soon as practicable after the last Exchange Date, the Company shall:
 
 
The Company shall use its reasonable best efforts to complete the Exchange Offer as provided above and shall comply with the applicable requirements of the Securities Act, the Exchange Act and other applicable laws and regulations in connection with the Exchange Offer. The Exchange Offer shall not be subject to any conditions, other than that the Exchange Offer does not violate any applicable law or applicable interpretations of the Staff.
(b) In the event that (i) the Company determines that the Exchange Offer Registration provided for in Section 2(a) hereof is not available or the Exchange Offer may not be completed as soon as practicable after the last Exchange Date because it would violate any applicable law or applicable interpretations of the Staff, (ii) the Exchange Offer is not for any other reason completed by the Target Registration Date or (iii) upon receipt of a written request (a "") from any Initial Purchaser representing that it holds Registrable Securities that are or were ineligible to be exchanged in the Exchange Offer, the Company shall use its reasonable best efforts to cause to be filed as soon as practicable after such determination, date or Shelf Request, as the case may be, a Shelf Registration Statement providing for the sale of all the Registrable Securities by the Holders thereof and to have such Shelf Registration Statement become effective; that no Holder will be entitled to have any Registrable Securities included in any Shelf Registration Statement, or entitled to use the prospectus forming a part of such Shelf
Shelf Request
provided
 
Registration Statement, until such Holder shall have delivered a completed and signed Notice and Questionnaire and provided such other information regarding such Holder to the Company as is contemplated by Section 3(b) hereof.
In the event that the Company is required to file a Shelf Registration Statement pursuant to clause (iii) of the preceding sentence, the Company shall use its reasonable best efforts to file and have become effective both an Exchange Offer Registration Statement pursuant to Section 2(a) hereof with respect to all Registrable Securities and a Shelf Registration Statement (which may be a combined Registration Statement with the Exchange Offer Registration Statement) with respect to offers and sales of Registrable Securities held by the Initial Purchasers after completion of the Exchange Offer.
The Company agrees to use its reasonable best efforts to keep the Shelf Registration Statement continuously effective until the Securities cease to be Registrable Securities (the ""). The Company further agrees to supplement or amend the Shelf Registration Statement, the related Prospectus and any Free Writing Prospectus if required by the rules, regulations or instructions applicable to the registration form used by the Company for such Shelf Registration Statement or by the Securities Act or by any other rules and regulations thereunder or if reasonably requested by a Holder of Registrable Securities with respect to information relating to such Holder, and to use its reasonable best efforts to cause any such amendment to become effective, if required, and such Shelf Registration Statement, Prospectus or Free Writing Prospectus, as the case may be, to become usable as soon as thereafter practicable. The Company agrees to furnish to the Participating Holders copies of any such supplement or amendment promptly after its being used or filed with the SEC. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company shall not be required to file more than one post-effective amendment to the Shelf Registration Statement in any fiscal quarter, such timing to be determined in the reasonable discretion of the Company, to add one or more Holders to the "Selling Securityholders" table of the Shelf Registration Statement or to update any information in such table.
Shelf Effectiveness Period
(c) The Company shall pay all Registration Expenses in connection with any registration pursuant to Section 2(a) or Section 2(b) hereof. Each Holder shall pay all underwriting discounts and commissions, brokerage commissions and transfer taxes, if any, relating to the sale or disposition of such Holder's Registrable Securities pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement.
(d) An Exchange Offer Registration Statement pursuant to Section 2(a) hereof will not be deemed to have become effective unless it has been declared effective by the SEC. A Shelf Registration Statement pursuant to Section 2(b) hereof will not be deemed to have become effective unless it has been declared effective by the SEC or is automatically effective upon filing with the SEC as provided by Rule 462 under the Securities Act.
If a Registration Default occurs, the interest rate on the Registrable Securities will be increased by (i) 0.25% per annum for the first 90-day period beginning on the day immediately following such Registration Default and (ii) an additional 0.25% per annum with respect to each subsequent 90-day period, in each case until and including the date such Registration Default ends, up to a maximum increase of 0.50% per annum (the ""). A Registration
Additional Interest
 
Default ends when the Securities cease to be Registrable Securities or, if earlier, (1) in the case of a Registration Default under clause (i) of the definition thereof, when the Exchange Offer is completed or when a Shelf Registration Statement becomes effective, (2) in the case of a Registration Default under clause (ii) or clause (iii) of the definition thereof, when the Shelf Registration Statement becomes effective or (3) in the case of a Registration Default under clause (iv) or clause (v) of the definition thereof, when the Shelf Registration Statement again becomes effective or the Prospectus again becomes usable. If at any time more than one Registration Default has occurred and is continuing, then, until the next date that there is no Registration Default, the increase in interest rate provided for by this paragraph shall apply as if there occurred a single Registration Default that begins on the date that the earliest such Registration Default occurred and ends on such next date that there is no Registration Default.
Any increase in interest will be payable in cash semiannually in arrears on the same interest payment dates as the Securities, commencing with the first interest payment date occurring after any such Additional Interest commences to accrue.
(e) Without limiting the remedies available to the Initial Purchasers and the Holders, the Company acknowledges that any failure by the Company to comply with its obligations under Section 2(a) and Section 2(b) hereof may result in material irreparable injury to the Initial Purchasers or the Holders for which there is no adequate remedy at law, that it will not be possible to measure damages for such injuries precisely and that, in the event of any such failure, the Initial Purchasers or any Holder may obtain such relief as may be required to specifically enforce the Company's obligations under Section 2(a) and Section 2(b) hereof.
3. . (a) In connection with their obligations pursuant to Section 2(a) and Section 2(b) hereof, the Company shall use reasonable best efforts to:
Registration Procedures
(i) prepare and file with the SEC a Registration Statement on the appropriate form under the Securities Act, which form (A) shall be selected by the Company, (B) shall, in the case of a Shelf Registration, be available for the sale of the Registrable Securities by the Holders thereof and (C) shall comply as to form in all material respects with the requirements of the applicable form and include all financial statements required by the SEC to be filed therewith; and use its reasonable best efforts to cause such Registration Statement to become effective and remain effective for the applicable period in accordance with Section 2 hereof;
(ii) prepare and file with the SEC such amendments and post-effective amendments to each Registration Statement as may be necessary to keep such Registration Statement effective for the applicable period in accordance with Section 2 hereof and cause each Prospectus to be supplemented by any required prospectus supplement and, as so supplemented, to be filed pursuant to Rule 424 under the Securities Act; and keep each Prospectus current during the period described in Section 4(3) of and Rule 174 under the Securities Act that is applicable to transactions by brokers or dealers with respect to the Registrable Securities or Exchange Securities;
(iii) to the extent any Free Writing Prospectus is used, file with the SEC any Free Writing Prospectus that is required to be filed by the Company with the SEC in accordance with the Securities Act and to retain any Free Writing Prospectus not required to be filed;
 
(iv) in the case of a Shelf Registration, furnish to each Participating Holder, to counsel for the Initial Purchasers, to counsel for such Participating Holders and to each Underwriter of an Underwritten Offering of Registrable Securities, if any, without charge, as many copies of each Prospectus, preliminary prospectus or Free Writing Prospectus, and any amendment or supplement thereto, as such Participating Holder, counsel or Underwriter may reasonably request in order to facilitate the sale or other disposition of the Registrable Securities thereunder; and, subject to Section 3(c) hereof, the Company consents to the use of such Prospectus, preliminary prospectus or such Free Writing Prospectus and any amendment or supplement thereto in accordance with applicable law by each of the Participating Holders and any such Underwriters in connection with the offering and sale of the Registrable Securities covered by and in the manner described in such Prospectus, preliminary prospectus or such Free Writing Prospectus or any amendment or supplement thereto in accordance with applicable law;
(v) use its reasonable best efforts to register or qualify the Registrable Securities under all applicable state securities or blue sky laws of such jurisdictions as any Participating Holder shall reasonably request in writing by the time the applicable Registration Statement becomes effective; cooperate with such Participating Holders in connection with any filings required to be made with FINRA; and do any and all other acts and things that may be reasonably necessary or advisable to enable each Participating Holder to complete the disposition in each such jurisdiction of the Registrable Securities owned by such Participating Holder; that the Company shall not be required to (1) qualify as a foreign corporation or other entity or as a dealer in securities in any such jurisdiction where it would not otherwise be required to so qualify, (2) file any general consent to service of process in any such jurisdiction or (3) subject itself to taxation in any such jurisdiction if it is not so subject;
provided
(vi) notify counsel for the Initial Purchasers and, in the case of a Shelf Registration, notify each Participating Holder and counsel for such Participating Holders promptly and, if requested by any such Participating Holder or counsel, confirm such advice in writing (1) when a Registration Statement has become effective, when any post-effective amendment thereto has been filed and becomes effective, when any Free Writing Prospectus has been filed or any amendment or supplement to the Prospectus or any Free Writing Prospectus has been filed, (2) of any request by the SEC or any state securities authority for amendments and supplements to a Registration Statement, Prospectus or any Free Writing Prospectus or for additional information after the Registration Statement has become effective, (3) of the issuance by the SEC or any state securities authority of any stop order suspending the effectiveness of a Registration Statement or the initiation of any proceedings for that purpose, including the receipt by the Company of any notice of objection of the SEC to the use of a Shelf Registration Statement or any post-effective amendment thereto pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) under the Securities Act, (4) if, between the applicable effective date of a Shelf Registration Statement and the closing of any sale of Registrable Securities covered thereby, the representations and warranties of the Company contained in any underwriting agreement, securities sales agreement or other similar agreement, if any, relating to an offering of such Registrable Securities cease to be true and correct in all material respects or if the Company receives any notification with respect to the suspension of the qualification of the Registrable Securities for sale in any jurisdiction or the initiation of any proceeding for such purpose, (5) of the happening of any event during the period a Registration Statement is effective that makes any statement made in such Registration Statement or the related Prospectus or any Free Writing Prospectus untrue in any material respect or that requires
 
the making of any changes in such Registration Statement or Prospectus or any Free Writing Prospectus in order to make the statements therein not misleading and (6) of any determination by the Company that a post-effective amendment to a Registration Statement (other than an amendment that does nothing more substantive than add one or more Holders to the "Selling Securityholders" table of such Registration Statement or to update any information set forth in such table) or any amendment or supplement to the Prospectus or any Free Writing Prospectus would be appropriate;
(vii) use its reasonable best efforts to obtain the withdrawal of any order suspending the effectiveness of a Registration Statement or, in the case of a Shelf Registration, the resolution of any objection of the SEC pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) under the Securities Act, including by filing an amendment to such Registration Statement on the proper form, at the earliest possible moment and provide immediate notice to each Holder or Participating Holder of the withdrawal of any such order or such resolution;
(viii) in the case of a Shelf Registration, furnish to each Participating Holder, without charge, at least one conformed copy of each Registration Statement and any post-effective amendment thereto (without any documents incorporated therein by reference or exhibits thereto, unless requested);
(ix) in the case of a Shelf Registration, cooperate with the Participating Holders to facilitate the timely preparation and delivery of certificates representing Registrable Securities to be sold and not bearing any restrictive legends and enable such Registrable Securities to be issued in such denominations and registered in such names (consistent with the provisions of the Indenture) as such Participating Holders may reasonably request at least one Business Day prior to the closing of any sale of Registrable Securities;
(x) upon the occurrence of any event contemplated by Section 3(a)(vi)(5) hereof, use its reasonable best efforts to prepare and file with the SEC a supplement or post-effective amendment to the applicable Exchange Offer Registration Statement or Shelf Registration Statement or the related Prospectus or any Free Writing Prospectus or any document incorporated therein by reference or file any other required document so that, as thereafter delivered (or, to the extent permitted by law, made available) to purchasers of the Registrable Securities, such Prospectus or Free Writing Prospectus, as the case may be, will not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; and the Company shall notify the Participating Holders (in the case of a Shelf Registration Statement) and the Initial Purchasers and any Participating Broker-Dealers known to the Company (in the case of an Exchange Offer Registration Statement) to suspend use of the Prospectus or any Free Writing Prospectus as promptly as practicable after the occurrence of such an event, and such Participating Holders, such Participating Broker-Dealers and the Initial Purchasers, as applicable, hereby agree to suspend use of the Prospectus or any Free Writing Prospectus, as the case may be, until the Company has amended or supplemented the Prospectus or the Free Writing Prospectus, as the case may be, to correct such misstatement or omission;
(xi) a reasonable time prior to the filing of any Registration Statement, any Prospectus, any Free Writing Prospectus, any amendment to a Registration Statement or
 
amendment or supplement to a Prospectus or a Free Writing Prospectus or of any document that is to be incorporated by reference into a Registration Statement, a Prospectus or a Free Writing Prospectus after initial filing of a Registration Statement, provide copies of such document to the Initial Purchasers and their counsel (and, in the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, to the Participating Holders and their counsel) and make such of the representatives of the Company as shall be reasonably requested by the Initial Purchasers or their counsel (and, in the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, the Participating Holders or their counsel) available for discussion of such document; and the Company shall not, at any time after initial filing of a Registration Statement, use or file any Prospectus, any Free Writing Prospectus, any amendment of or supplement to a Registration Statement or a Prospectus or a Free Writing Prospectus, or any document that is to be incorporated by reference into a Registration Statement (other than filings not related specifically to the Securities pursuant to the Exchange Act), a Prospectus or a Free Writing Prospectus, of which the Initial Purchasers and their counsel (and, in the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, the Participating Holders and their counsel) shall not have previously been advised and furnished a copy or to which the Initial Purchasers or their counsel (and, in the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, the Participating Holders or their counsel) shall object;
(xii) obtain a CUSIP number for all Exchange Securities or Registrable Securities, as the case may be, not later than the initial effective date of a Registration Statement;
(xii) in the case of a Shelf Registration, make available for inspection by a representative of the Participating Holders (an ""), any Underwriter participating in any disposition pursuant to such Shelf Registration Statement, any attorneys and accountants designated by a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities held by the Participating Holders and any attorneys and accountants designated by such Underwriter, at reasonable times and in a reasonable manner, all pertinent financial and other records, documents and properties of the Company and its subsidiaries, and cause the respective officers, directors and employees of the Company to supply all information reasonably requested by any such Inspector, Underwriter, attorney or accountant in connection with a Shelf Registration Statement; that if any such information is identified by the Company as being confidential or proprietary, each Person receiving such information shall take such actions as are reasonably necessary to protect the confidentiality of such information to the extent such action is otherwise not inconsistent with, an impairment of or in derogation of the rights and interests of any Inspector, Holder or Underwriter;
Inspector
provided
(xiv) in the case of a Shelf Registration, use its reasonable best efforts to cause all Registrable Securities to be listed on any securities exchange or any automated quotation system on which similar debt securities issued or guaranteed by the Company are then listed if requested by the Majority Holders, to the extent such Registrable Securities satisfy applicable listing requirements;
(xv) if reasonably requested by any Participating Holder, promptly include in a Prospectus supplement or post-effective amendment such information with respect to such Participating Holder as such Participating Holder reasonably requests to be included therein and make all required filings of such Prospectus supplement or such post-effective amendment as soon as the Company has received notification of the matters to be so included in such filing; and
 
(xvi) in the case of a Shelf Registration, enter into such customary agreements and take all such other actions in connection therewith (including those requested by the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Registrable Securities covered by the Shelf Registration Statement) in order to expedite or facilitate the disposition of such Registrable Securities including, but not limited to, an Underwritten Offering and in such connection, (1) to the extent possible, make such representations and warranties to the Participating Holders and any Underwriters of such Registrable Securities with respect to the business of the Company and its subsidiaries and the Registration Statement, Prospectus, any Free Writing Prospectus and documents incorporated by reference or deemed incorporated by reference, if any, in each case, in form, substance and scope as are customarily made by issuers to underwriters in underwritten offerings and confirm the same if and when requested, (2) obtain opinions of counsel to the Company (which counsel and opinions, in form, scope and substance, shall be reasonably satisfactory to the Participating Holders and such Underwriters and their respective counsel) addressed to each Participating Holder (to whom a "comfort" letter is addressed) and Underwriter of Registrable Securities, covering the matters customarily covered in opinions requested in underwritten offerings, (3) obtain "comfort" letters from the independent registered public accountants of the Company (and, if necessary, any other registered public accountant of any subsidiary of the Company, or of any business acquired by the Company for which financial statements and financial data are or are required to be included in the Registration Statement) addressed to each Participating Holder (to the extent permitted by applicable professional standards) and Underwriter of Registrable Securities, such letters to be in customary form and covering matters of the type customarily covered in "comfort" letters in connection with underwritten offerings, including but not limited to financial information contained in any preliminary prospectus, Prospectus or Free Writing Prospectus and (4) deliver such documents and certificates as may be reasonably requested by the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Registrable Securities being sold or the Underwriters, and which are customarily delivered in underwritten offerings, to evidence the continued validity of the representations and warranties of the Company made pursuant to clause (1) above and to evidence compliance with any customary conditions contained in an underwriting agreement.
(b) In the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, the Company may require each Holder of Registrable Securities to furnish to the Company a Notice and Questionnaire and such other information regarding such Holder and the proposed disposition by such Holder of such Registrable Securities as the Company may from time to time reasonably request in writing.
(c) Each Participating Holder agrees that, upon receipt of any notice from the Company of the happening of any event of the kind described in Section 3(a)(vi)(3) or Section 3(a)(vi)(5) hereof, such Participating Holder will forthwith discontinue disposition of Registrable Securities pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement until such Participating Holder's receipt of the copies of the supplemented or amended Prospectus and any Free Writing Prospectus contemplated by Section 3(a)(x) hereof and, if so directed by the Company, such Participating Holder will deliver to the Company all copies in its possession, other than permanent file copies then in such Participating Holder's possession, of the Prospectus and any Free Writing Prospectus covering such Registrable Securities that is current at the time of receipt of such notice.
 
(d) If the Company shall give any notice to suspend the disposition of Registrable Securities pursuant to a Registration Statement, the Company shall extend the period during which such Registration Statement shall be maintained effective pursuant to this Agreement by the number of days during the period from and including the date of the giving of such notice to and including the date when the Holders of such Registrable Securities shall have received copies of the supplemented or amended Prospectus or any Free Writing Prospectus necessary to resume such dispositions. Any such suspensions shall not exceed 45 days during any 365-day period.
4. . (a) The Staff has taken the position that any broker-dealer that receives Exchange Securities for its own account in the Exchange Offer in exchange for Securities that were acquired by such broker-dealer as a result of market-making or other trading activities (a "") may be deemed to be an "underwriter" within the meaning of the Securities Act and must deliver a prospectus meeting the requirements of the Securities Act in connection with any resale of such Exchange Securities.
Participation of Broker-Dealers in Exchange Offer
Participating Broker-Dealer
The Company understands that it is the Staff's position that if the Prospectus contained in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement includes a plan of distribution containing a statement to the above effect and the means by which Participating Broker-Dealers may resell the Exchange Securities, without naming the Participating Broker-Dealers or specifying the amount of Exchange Securities owned by them, such Prospectus may be delivered by Participating Broker-Dealers (or, to the extent permitted by law, made available to purchasers) to satisfy their prospectus delivery obligation under the Securities Act in connection with resales of Exchange Securities for their own accounts, so long as the Prospectus otherwise meets the requirements of the Securities Act.
(b) In light of the above, and notwithstanding the other provisions of this Agreement, the Company agrees to amend or supplement the Prospectus contained in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement for a period of up to 180 days after the last Exchange Date (as such period may be extended pursuant to Section 3(d) hereof), in order to expedite or facilitate the disposition of any Exchange Securities by Participating Broker-Dealers consistent with the positions of the Staff recited in Section 4(a) above. The Company further agrees that Participating Broker-Dealers shall be authorized to deliver such Prospectus (or, to the extent permitted by law, make available) during such period in connection with the resales contemplated by this Section 4.
(c) The Initial Purchasers shall have no liability to the Company or any Holder with respect to any request that they may make pursuant to Section 4(b) hereof.
5. . (a) The Company agrees to indemnify and hold harmless each Initial Purchaser and each Holder, their respective affiliates (within the meaning of Rule 405 under the Securities Act), directors and officers and each Person, if any, who controls any Initial Purchaser or any Holder within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act, from and against any and all losses, claims, damages and liabilities (including, without limitation, legal fees and other expenses incurred in connection with any suit, action or proceeding or any claim asserted, as such fees and expenses are incurred), joint or several, that arise out of, or are based upon, (1) any untrue statement or
Indemnification and Contribution
 
alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Registration Statement or any omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein not misleading, or (2) any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Prospectus, any Free Writing Prospectus or any "issuer information" ("") filed or required to be filed pursuant to Rule 433(d) under the Securities Act, or any omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, in each case except insofar as such losses, claims, damages or liabilities arise out of, or are based upon, any untrue statement or omission or alleged untrue statement or omission made in reliance upon and in conformity with any information relating to any Initial Purchaser or information relating to any Holder furnished to the Company in writing through Merrill Lynch or any selling Holder, respectively, expressly for use therein. In connection with any Underwritten Offering permitted by Section 3, the Company will also indemnify the Underwriters, if any, selling brokers, dealers and similar securities industry professionals participating in the distribution, their respective affiliates (within the meaning of Rule 405 under the Securities Act) and each Person who controls such Persons (within the meaning of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act) to the same extent as provided above with respect to the indemnification of the Holders, if requested in connection with any Registration Statement, any Prospectus, any Free Writing Prospectus or any Issuer Information.
Issuer Information
(b) Each Holder agrees, severally and not jointly, to indemnify and hold harmless the Company, the Initial Purchasers and the other selling Holders, the directors of the Company, each officer of the Company who signed the Registration Statement and each Person, if any, who controls the Company, any Initial Purchaser and any other selling Holder within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act to the same extent as the indemnity set forth in paragraph (a) above, but only with respect to any losses, claims, damages or liabilities that arise out of, or are based upon, any untrue statement or omission or alleged untrue statement or omission made in reliance upon and in conformity with any information relating to such Holder furnished to the Company in writing by such Holder expressly for use in any Registration Statement, any Prospectus and any Free Writing Prospectus.
(c) If any suit, action, proceeding (including any governmental or regulatory investigation), claim or demand shall be brought or asserted against any Person in respect of which indemnification may be sought pursuant to either paragraph (a) or (b) above, such Person (the "") shall promptly notify the Person against whom such indemnification may be sought (the "") in writing; that the failure to notify the Indemnifying Person shall not relieve it from any liability that it may have under paragraph (a) or (b) above except to the extent that it has been materially prejudiced (through the forfeiture of substantive rights or defenses) by such failure; and , , that the failure to notify the Indemnifying Person shall not relieve it from any liability that it may have to an Indemnified Person otherwise than under paragraph (a) or (b) above. If any such proceeding shall be brought or asserted against an Indemnified Person and it shall have notified the Indemnifying Person thereof, the Indemnifying Person shall retain counsel reasonably satisfactory to the Indemnified Person to represent the Indemnified Person and any others entitled to indemnification pursuant to this Section 5 that the Indemnifying Person may designate in such proceeding and shall pay the fees and expenses of such proceeding and shall pay the fees and expenses of such counsel related to
Indemnified Person
Indemnifying Person
provided
provided
further
 
such proceeding, as incurred. In any such proceeding, any Indemnified Person shall have the right to retain its own counsel, but the fees and expenses of such counsel shall be at the expense of such Indemnified Person unless (i) the Indemnifying Person and the Indemnified Person shall have mutually agreed to the contrary; (ii) the Indemnifying Person has failed within a reasonable time to retain counsel reasonably satisfactory to the Indemnified Person; (iii) the Indemnified Person shall have reasonably concluded that there may be legal defenses available to it that are different from or in addition to those available to the Indemnifying Person; or (iv) the named parties in any such proceeding (including any impleaded parties) include both the Indemnifying Person and the Indemnified Person and representation of both parties by the same counsel would be inappropriate due to actual or potential differing interests between them. It is understood and agreed that the Indemnifying Person shall not, in connection with any proceeding or related proceeding in the same jurisdiction, be liable for the fees and expenses of more than one separate firm (in addition to any local counsel) for all Indemnified Persons, and that all such fees and expenses shall be reimbursed as they are incurred. Any such separate firm (x) for any Initial Purchaser, its affiliates (within the meaning of Rule 405 under the Securities Act), directors and officers and any control Persons of such Initial Purchaser shall be designated in writing by Merrill Lynch, (y) for any Holder, its directors and officers and any control Persons of such Holder shall be designated in writing by the Majority Holders and (z) in all other cases shall be designated in writing by the Company. The Indemnifying Person shall not be liable for any settlement of any proceeding effected without its written consent, but if settled with such consent or if there be a final judgment for the plaintiff, the Indemnifying Person agrees to indemnify each Indemnified Person from and against any loss or liability by reason of such settlement or judgment. Notwithstanding the foregoing sentence, if at any time an Indemnified Person shall have requested that an Indemnifying Person reimburse the Indemnified Person for fees and expenses of counsel as contemplated by this paragraph, the Indemnifying Person shall be liable for any settlement of any proceeding effected without its written consent if (i) such settlement is entered into more than 30 days after receipt by the Indemnifying Person of such request and (ii) the Indemnifying Person shall not have reimbursed the Indemnified Person in accordance with such request prior to the date of such settlement. No Indemnifying Person shall, without the written consent of the Indemnified Person, effect any settlement of any pending or threatened proceeding in respect of which any Indemnified Person is or could have been a party and indemnification could have been sought hereunder by such Indemnified Person, unless such settlement (A) includes an unconditional release of such Indemnified Person, from all liability on claims that are the subject matter of such proceeding, provided that such unconditional release may be subject to a parallel release by a claimant or plaintiff of such indemnified party and (B) does not include any statement as to or any admission of fault, culpability or a failure to act by or on behalf of any Indemnified Person.
(d) If the indemnification provided for in paragraphs (a) and (b) above is unavailable to an Indemnified Person or insufficient in respect of any losses, claims, damages or liabilities referred to therein, then each Indemnifying Person under such paragraph, in lieu of indemnifying such Indemnified Person thereunder, shall contribute to the amount paid or payable by such Indemnified Person as a result of such losses, claims, damages or liabilities (i) in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by the Company from the offering of the Securities and the Exchange Securities, on the one hand, and by the Holders from receiving Securities or Exchange Securities registered under the Securities Act, on the other hand, or (ii) if the allocation provided by clause (i) is not permitted by applicable law, in such proportion as is
 
appropriate to reflect not only the relative benefits referred to in clause (i) but also the relative fault of the Company on the one hand and the Holders on the other in connection with the statements or omissions that resulted in such losses, claims, damages or liabilities, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. The relative fault of the Company on the one hand and the Holders on the other shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether the untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or the omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Company or by the Holders and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission.
(e) The Company and the Holders agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 5 were determined by allocation (even if the Holders were treated as one entity for such purpose) or by any other method of allocation that does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to in paragraph (d) above. The amount paid or payable by an Indemnified Person as a result of the losses, claims, damages and liabilities referred to in paragraph (d) above shall be deemed to include, subject to the limitations set forth above, any legal or other expenses incurred by such Indemnified Person in connection with any such action or claim. Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 5, in no event shall a Holder be required to contribute any amount in excess of the amount by which the total price at which the Securities or Exchange Securities sold by such Holder exceeds the amount of any damages that such Holder has otherwise been required to pay by reason of such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission. No Person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Securities Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any Person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation. The Holders' obligations to contribute pursuant to this Section 5 are several and not joint.
pro
rata
(f) The remedies provided for in this Section 5 are not exclusive and shall not limit any rights or remedies that may otherwise be available to any Indemnified Person at law or in equity.
(g) The indemnity and contribution provisions contained in this Section 5 shall remain operative and in full force and effect regardless of (i) any termination of this Agreement, (ii) any investigation made by or on behalf of the Initial Purchasers or any Holder or any Person controlling any Initial Purchaser or any Holder, or by or on behalf of the Company or the officers or directors of or any Person controlling the Company, (iii) acceptance of any of the Exchange Securities and (iv) any sale of Registrable Securities pursuant to a Shelf Registration Statement.
6. .
General
(a) The Company represents, warrants and agrees that (i) the rights granted to the Holders hereunder do not in any way conflict with and are not inconsistent with the rights granted to the holders of any other outstanding securities issued or guaranteed by the Company under any other agreement and (ii) the Company has not entered into, or on or after the date of this Agreement will enter into, any agreement that is inconsistent with the rights granted to the Holders of Registrable Securities in this Agreement or otherwise conflicts with the provisions hereof.
No Inconsistent Agreements.
 
(b) The provisions of this Agreement, including the provisions of this sentence, may not be amended, modified or supplemented, and waivers or consents to departures from the provisions hereof may not be given unless the Company has obtained the written consent of Holders of at least a majority in aggregate principal amount of the outstanding Registrable Securities affected by such amendment, modification, supplement, waiver or consent; that no amendment, modification, supplement, waiver or consent to any departure from the provisions of Section 5 hereof shall be effective as against any Holder of Registrable Securities unless consented to in writing by such Holder. Any amendments, modifications, supplements, waivers or consents pursuant to this Section 6(b) shall be by a writing executed by each of the parties hereto.
Amendments and Waivers.
provided
(c) All notices and other communications provided for or permitted hereunder shall be made in writing by hand-delivery, registered first-class mail, telecopier, or any courier guaranteeing overnight delivery (i) if to a Holder, at the most current address given by such Holder to the Company by means of a notice given in accordance with the provisions of this Section 6(c), which address initially is, with respect to the Initial Purchasers, the address set forth in the Purchase Agreement; (ii) if to the Company, initially at the Company's address set forth in the Purchase Agreement and thereafter at such other address, notice of which is given in accordance with the provisions of this Section 6(c); and (iii) to such other persons at their respective addresses as provided in the Purchase Agreement and thereafter at such other address, notice of which is given in accordance with the provisions of this Section 6(c). All such notices and communications shall be deemed to have been duly given: at the time delivered by hand, if personally delivered; five Business Days after being deposited in the mail, postage prepaid, if mailed; when receipt is acknowledged, if telecopied; and on the next Business Day if timely delivered to an air courier guaranteeing overnight delivery. Copies of all such notices, demands or other communications shall be concurrently delivered by the Person giving the same to the Trustee, at the address specified in the Indenture.
Notices.
(d) This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the successors, assigns and transferees of each of the parties, including, without limitation and without the need for an express assignment, subsequent Holders; that nothing herein shall be deemed to permit any assignment, transfer or other disposition of Registrable Securities in violation of the terms of the Purchase Agreement or the Indenture. If any transferee of any Holder shall acquire Registrable Securities in any manner, whether by operation of law or otherwise, such Registrable Securities shall be held subject to all the terms of this Agreement, and by taking and holding such Registrable Securities such Person shall be conclusively deemed to have agreed to be bound by and to perform all of the terms and provisions of this Agreement and such Person shall be entitled to receive the benefits hereof. The Initial Purchasers (in their capacity as Initial Purchasers) shall have no liability or obligation to the Company with respect to any failure by a Holder to comply with, or any breach by any Holder of, any of the obligations of such Holder under this Agreement.
Successors and Assigns.
provided
(e) Each Holder shall be a third party beneficiary to the agreements made hereunder between the Company, on the one hand, and the Initial Purchasers, on the other hand, and shall have the right to enforce such agreements directly to the extent it deems such enforcement necessary or advisable to protect its rights or the rights of other Holders hereunder.
Third Party Beneficiaries.
 
(f) This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts and by the parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement.
Counterparts.
(g) The headings in this Agreement are for convenience of reference only, are not a part of this Agreement and shall not limit or otherwise affect the meaning hereof.
Headings.
(h) This Agreement, and any claim, controversy or dispute arising under or related to this Agreement, shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
Governing Law.
(j) This Agreement contains the entire agreement between the parties relating to the subject matter hereof and supersedes all oral statements and prior writings with respect thereto. If any term, provision, covenant or restriction contained in this Agreement is held by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, void or unenforceable or against public policy, the remainder of the terms, provisions, covenants and restrictions contained herein shall remain in full force and effect and shall in no way be affected, impaired or invalidated. The Company and the Initial Purchasers shall endeavor in good faith negotiations to replace the invalid, void or unenforceable provisions with valid provisions the economic effect of which comes as close as possible to that of the invalid, void or unenforceable provisions.
Entire Agreement; Severability.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement as of the date first written above.
 
Confirmed and accepted as of the date first above written:
MERRILL LYNCH, PIERCE, FENNER & SMITH
            INCORPORATED
BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC.
CITIGROUP GLOBAL MARKETS INC.
DEUTSCHE BANK SECURITIES INC.
GOLDMAN, SACHS & CO.
J.P. MORGAN SECURITIES LLC
SCOTIA CAPITAL (USA) INC.
WELLS FARGO SECURITIES, LLC
THE WILLIAMS CAPITAL GROUP, L.P.
 
Name of Initial Purchasers
Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith
            Incorporated
Barclays Capital Inc.
Citigroup Global Markets Inc.
Deutsche Bank Securities Inc.
Goldman, Sachs & Co.
J.P. Morgan Securities LLC
Scotia Capital (USA) Inc.
Wells Fargo Securities, LLC
The Williams Capital Group, L.P.

Exhibit 99.1
 
News Release
Sprint Nextel
6200 Sprint Parkway
Overland Park, Kan. 66213
Media Contact:
Scott Sloat
240-855-0164
Scott.sloat@sprint.com
Investor Contact:
Brad Hampton or Erica Gessert
800-259-3755
investor.relations@sprint.com
 March 1, 2012  Sprint Nextel Corp. (NYSE: S) announced today the closing of its previously announced offering of $1 billion aggregate principal amount of 9.125% Notes due 2017 (the "2017 Notes") and $1 billion aggregate principal amount of 7% Guaranteed Notes due 2020 (the "2020 Notes" and, together with the 2017 Notes, the "Notes"). The 2020 Notes are guaranteed by the company's subsidiaries that guarantee its existing credit agreements.
OVERLAND PARK, Kan.
The company intends to use the net proceeds from the offering of the Notes for general corporate purposes, which may include, among other things, redemptions or service requirements of outstanding debt, network expansion and modernization and potential funding of Clearwire Corporation and its subsidiary Clearwire Communications LLC.
The Notes and the guarantees related to the 2020 Notes have not been registered under the Securities Act of 1933 (the "Act") or the securities laws of any other place and may not be offered or sold in the United States absent registration or an applicable exemption therefrom. The Notes are offered only to qualified institutional buyers under Rule 144A and to persons outside the United States under Regulation S.
This press release does not constitute an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy the Notes, and shall not constitute an offer, solicitation or sale of any Notes in any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful. This notice is being issued pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 135c under the Act.
Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
This news release includes "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the securities laws. The statements in this news release regarding Sprint Nextel's current expectations and beliefs as to the consummation of the offering of Notes and uses of proceeds thereof, as well as other statements that are not historical facts, are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are estimates and projections reflecting management's judgment based on currently
 
available information and involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested by the forward-looking statements. All information set forth in this release is as of March 1, 2012. Sprint Nextel does not intend, and undertakes no duty, to update this information to reflect future events or circumstances. Information about certain potential factors that could affect our business and financial results and cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in any forward-looking statements are included in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including Part I, Item 1A "Risk Factors" of our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011.


