FILE:CHK/CHK-8K-20050523155639.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
 
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d)
of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported)
May 23, 2005 (May 18, 2005)
CHESAPEAKE ENERGY CORPORATION
(Exact name of Registrant as specified in its Charter)
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
Section 8  Other Events
 
Item 8.01 Other Events.
 
Chesapeake Exploration Limited Partnership, Chesapeake Louisiana, L.P. and Chesapeake Zapata, L.P. (collectively, the "counterparty"), each a wholly owned subsidiary of Chesapeake Energy Corporation, entered into an international Swaps & Derivatives Association, Inc. ("ISDA") Master Agreement with J. Aron & Company on May 18, 2005. The ISDA Master Agreement, Schedule to the ISDA Master Agreement and Credit Support Annex to the Schedule to the ISDA Master Agreement are filed as Exhibits 99.1, 99.2 and 99.3 to this current report on Form 8-K.
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
SIGNATURE
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
SCHEDULE
to the
ISDA MASTER AGREEMENT
dated as of
May 18, 2005
between
J. ARON & COMPANY,
a general partnership organized under the laws of the State of New York
("Aron"),
and
EACH COUNTERPARY LISTED ON EXHIBIT A ATTACHED HERETO,
jointly and severally,
("Counterparty").
 
acting by and through
CHESAPEAKE EXPLORATION LIMITED PARTNERSHIP,
a limited partnership organized under the laws of the State of Oklahoma,
as Counterparty and as agent ("Agent")
 
For the purpose of this Agreement and any Confirmation entered into pursuant hereto, (i) "Counterparty" means each of Agent, Chesapeake Louisiana, L.P. and Chesapeake Zapata, L.P., individually or in the aggregate, either as indicated herein, or if not indicated, as the context may otherwise require, and (ii) "other party" when used in relation to Aron, means Counterparty, and when used in relation to Counterparty, means Aron.
 
Part 1. Termination Provisions
 
 
 
 
 
"Specified Transaction
" means, (a) any transaction (including an agreement with respect thereto) now existing or hereafter entered into between one party to this Agreement (or any Credit Support Provider of such party or any applicable Specified Entity of such party) and the other party to this Agreement (or any Credit Support Provider of such other party or any applicable Specified Entity of such other party) (i) which is a rate swap transaction, swap option, basis swap, forward rate transaction, commodity swap, commodity option, commodity spot transaction, equity or equity index swap, equity or equity index option, bond option, interest rate option, foreign exchange transaction, cap transaction, floor transaction, collar transaction, currency swap transaction, cross-currency rate swap transaction, currency option, weather swap, weather derivative, weather option, credit protection transaction, credit swap, credit default swap, credit default option, total return swap, credit spread transaction, repurchase transaction, reverse repurchase transaction, buy/sell-back transaction, securities lending transaction, or forward purchase or sale of a security, commodity or other financial instrument or interest (including any option with respect to any of these transactions) or (ii) which is a type of transaction that is similar to any transaction referred to in clause (i) that is currently, or in the future becomes, recurrently entered into in the financial markets (including terms and conditions incorporated by reference in such agreement) and that is a forward, swap, future, option or other derivative on one or more rates, currencies, commodities, equity securities or other equity instruments, debt securities or other debt instruments, or economic indices or measures of economic risk or value, (b) any combination of these transactions and (c) any other transaction identified as a Specified Transaction in this Agreement or the relevant confirmation."
"Specified Indebtedness"
will have the meaning specified in Section 14 of the Agreement.
"Threshold Amount"
means in relation to Aron, US$50,000,000 (or its equivalent in another currency) and in relation to Counterparty, US$50,000,000 (or its equivalent in another currency).
 
 
 
 
 
 
Part 2. Tax Representations
It is not required by any applicable law, as modified by the practice of any relevant governmental revenue authority, of any Relevant Jurisdiction to make any deduction or withholding for or on account of any Tax from any payment (other than interest under Section 2(e), 6(d)(ii), or 6(e) of this Agreement) to be made by it to the other party under this Agreement. In making this representation, it may rely on (i) the accuracy of any representations made by the other party pursuant to Section 3(f) of this Agreement, (ii) the satisfaction of the agreement contained in Section 4(a)(i) or 4(a)(iii) of this Agreement, and the accuracy and effectiveness of any document provided by the other party pursuant to Section 4(a)(i) or 4(a)(iii) of this Agreement, and (iii) the satisfaction of the agreement of the other party contained in Section 4(d) of this Agreement, provided
 
 
 
 
that it shall not be a breach of this representation where reliance is placed on clause (ii) and the other party does not deliver a form or document under Section 4(a)(iii) by reason of material prejudice to its legal or commercial position.
 
(i) It is not acting as an agent or intermediary for any foreign person with respect to the payments received or to be received by it in connection with this Agreement.
 
(ii) It is a United States person within the meaning of Section 7701(a)(30) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Part 3. Agreement to Deliver Documents
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Part 4. Miscellaneous
85 Broad Street
New York, New York 10004
 
6100 N. Western Avenue
Oklahoma City, OK 73118
 
 
 
 
ppope@chkenergy.com
Aron appoints as its Process Agent, not applicable.
Counterparty appoints as its Process Agent in the Borough of Manhattan, City, County and State of New York:
Aron is not a Multibranch Party.
Counterparty is not a Multibranch Party.
Credit Support Provider means in relation to Aron, Goldman Group.
Credit Support Provider means in relation to Counterparty, any party that at any time provides a guaranty or other form of credit support on behalf of Counterparty and each of the Persons stated to be a Credit Support Provider in Part 7 below.
 
 
 
Part 5. Other Provisions
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
"by the party making the relevant determination in any commercially reasonable manner as being required to purchase such amount of such Other Currency as at the relevant Early Termination Date, or, if the relevant amount determined in accordance with Section 6(e) is determined as of a later date, that later date, for value on the date the payment or settlement payment is due."
"(f)
   
Upon the occurrence of an Event of Default or Termination Event under Section 5(b)(iv) with respect to a party ("X"), the other party ("Y") will have the right (but not be obliged) without prior notice to X or any other person to set-off or apply any obligation of X owed to Y (or any Affiliate of Y) arising under this Agreement (whether or not matured or contingent and whether or not arising under this Agreement, and regardless of the currency, place of payment or booking office of the obligation) against any obligation of Y (or any Affiliate of Y) owed to X arising under this Agreement (whether or not matured or contingent and whether or not arising under this Agreement, and regardless of the currency, place of payment or booking office of the obligation). Y will give notice to the other party of any set-off effected under this Section 6(f).
Amounts (or the relevant portion of such amounts) subject to set-off may be converted by Y into the Termination Currency at the rate of exchange at which such party would be able, acting in a reasonable manner and in good faith, to purchase the relevant amount of such currency.
If any obligation is unascertained, Y may in good faith estimate that obligation and set-off in respect of the estimate, subject to the relevant party accounting to the other when the obligation is ascertained.
Nothing in this Section 6(f) shall be effective to create a charge or other security interest. This Section 6(f) shall be without prejudice and in addition to any right of set-off, combination of accounts, lien or other right to which any party is at any time otherwise entitled (whether by operation of law, contract or otherwise).
 
 
 
 
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 6(f), obligations owing under the Credit Agreement may not be set off hereunder against obligations owing under this Agreement."
Part 6. Terms of Transactions
 
 
 
 
normally be determinable is not available or would not produce a commercially reasonable result on any Commodity Business Day, then the Commodity Reference Price shall be calculated on the basis of the Fallback Price, if any, specified in the applicable Confirmation. If no such Fallback Price is specified, the parties shall promptly endeavor to agree on an alternative source for determination of such Commodity Reference Price for that day. If such agreement is not reached by the parties within three (3) business days, Aron shall determine such Commodity Reference Prices by taking the average of the price quotations for the relevant Commodity and the relevant Commodity Business Days obtained from at least two and no more than four internationally recognized dealers in such Commodity, as selected by Aron.
 
Part 7. Covered Transaction Provisions
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Aron and Counterparty agree not to enter into any Transaction under this Agreement that includes a swap that, evaluated in isolation from any other components of such Transaction (including options, other swaps, floors, collars and the like), is not based on "costless" swap prices prevailing at the time of such Transaction. For the avoidance of doubt, it is understood that Counterparty may from time to time request Aron to enter into one or more Transactions under this Agreement with swap prices above or below the "costless" swap prices prevailing at the time such Transaction is entered into and if such adjustment to such swap prices results from an embedded option (sold or purchased) included in such Transaction then such Transactions (and other similar transactions) are expressly permitted under this Agreement.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Termination Date Counterparty shall pay to Aron a fee (the "
Breakage Fee
") in an amount equal to U.S.$1,000,000
.
 
 
 
                
As used herein:
 
"
Daily Average Covered Transactions Mark-to-Market Amount
" means, for any Exposure Fee Accrual Period, the average, for each Local Business Day during such Exposure Fee Accrual Period, of the greater of (1) the Covered Transactions Mark-to-Market Amount for such Local Business Day and (2) zero.
 
"
Exposure Fee Accrual Period
" means each calendar quarter ending on the Quarter End Dates,
provided
that the first such period will begin on the Effective Date and the last such period will end on the Facility Termination Date.
 
"
Quarter End Date
" means the last day of March, June, September and December in each year.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The restrictions set forth in this clause (g) are referred to herein as the "
Volume Limitations
";
provided
that references to "Counterparty" in this clause (g) shall be deemed to refer to Agent, Chesapeake Louisiana, L.P. and Chesapeake Zapata, L.P. in the aggregate.
 
Agent hereby agrees to deliver to Aron, within five Local Business Days after the end of each calendar quarter ending in March, June, September and December, commencing with June 30, 2005, a report (a "
Volume Report
") setting forth in reasonable detail the volumes of natural gas covered by each Natural Gas Hedge to which each CHK Company is a party, broken out monthly and separately identifying volumes for each CHK Company for such month, volumes for Long Price Hedges, Short Price Hedges, Long Basis Hedges and Short Basis Hedges for such month (each broken out for Natural Gas Hedges under this Agreement and Natural Gas Hedges not under this Agreement) and volumes of Specified Production for such month, all in form, scope and detail satisfactory to Aron and setting forth such supporting detail as Aron may request.
 
 
"
Basis Hedge
" means each Natural Gas Hedge that hedges only basis differential risk. A Basis Hedge is referred to herein as a "
Long Basis Hedge
" if a CHK Company would benefit from an increase in natural gas basis differentials thereunder and as a "
Short Basis Hedge
" if a CHK Company would benefit from a decrease in natural gas basis differentials thereunder. For such purposes, the term "
natural gas basis differentials
" will be determined by the Calculation Agent in accordance with recognized industry practices.
 
"
Price Hedge
" means each Natural Gas Hedge (other than a Basis Hedge). A Price Hedge is referred to herein as a "
Long Price Hedge
" if a CHK Company would benefit from an increase in natural gas prices thereunder and as a "
Short Price Hedge
" if a CHK Company would benefit from a decrease in natural gas prices thereunder.
 
"
Natural Gas Hedge
" means (a) any agreement (including each confirmation entered into under a master agreement) providing for options, swaps, floors, caps, collars, forward sales or forward purchases involving natural gas or natural gas prices, volumes or basis differentials, or indexes based on any of the foregoing, (b) any natural gas option, futures or forward contract traded on an exchange, and (c) any other derivative agreement or other similar agreement or arrangement covering or referencing natural gas or natural gas prices, volumes or basis differentials.
 
 
 
 
 
"
Net Basis Position
" means, for each month as at any date of determination, an amount (which may be less than zero) equal to:
 
 
 
"
Net Contract Basis Position
" means, for each month as at any date of determination, an amount (which may be less than zero) equal to:
 
 
 
"
Net Volume
" means, for each month as at any date of determination, an amount (which may be less than zero) equal to:
 
 
 
"
Net Contract Volume
" means, for each month as at any date of determination, an amount (which may be less than zero) equal to:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
"
Adjusted SPE Projected Production
" means, for any month, the sum of:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
"
Budget Basis Projected Production
" means, at any time of determination, the projected production of natural gas (measured by volume unit or BTU equivalent, not sales price) from properties and interests owned by any CHK Company which are located in or offshore of the United States and Canada, as such production is projected in the most recent reports delivered by Counterparty pursuant to this Agreement for purposes of management planning and budgeting, determined after deducting projected production from any properties or interests sold or under contract for sale that had been included in such report and after adding projected production from any properties or interests acquired or under contract to be acquired by any CHK Company that had not been reflected in such report, all as reported by Counterparty to Aron hereunder.
 
"
SPE Basis Projected Production
" means, at any time of determination, the projected production of natural gas (measured by volume unit or BTU equivalent, not sales price) from properties and interests owned by any CHK Company which are located in or offshore of the United States and Canada attributable to the portion of the reserves categorized as Proved, as such production is projected in the most recent Reserve Reports delivered pursuant to this Agreement, after deducting projected production from any properties or interests sold or under contract for sale that had been included in such report and after adding projected production from any properties or interests acquired or under contract to be acquired by any CHK Company that had not been reflected in such report, all as reported by Counterparty to Aron hereunder.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
thereby as Aron may reasonably request (and Counterparty and each Credit Support Provider hereby instruct such counsel to deliver such opinion to Aron).
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Aron with respect to Mortgaged Properties representing not more than 50%
of the Forward Value of the Initial Reserve Collateral stating that such mortgagor has good and defensible title to such Mortgaged Properties, free and clear of all Liens other than Liens permitted by the Mortgages and subject only to such title defects as shall be acceptable to Aron).
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
terminated, abandoned or under contract for sale, transfer or termination that had been included in such report, together (in the case of completed or pending sales or transfers) with the property and sale price therefor; (II) all property purchases and pending property purchases (unless such disclosure will violate a confidentiality agreement) identifying the property and the purchase price therefor, and (III) all changes in the categories of Proved Developed Producing Reserves, Proved Developed Nonproducing Reserves and Proved Undeveloped Reserves attributable to each Mortgaged Property interest of Counterparty (to be construed in the aggregate) and the other CHK Companies.
 
 
As used herein, "
Reserve Report
" means, collectively, the Independent Reservoir Engineering Reports, the Supplemental Reserve Reports and the Updated Reservoir Engineering Reports.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Regulations S-K and S-X and to ascertain projected future production attributable to the portion of the reserves of the Mortgaged Properties categorized as Producing.
 
In determining such projected gross cash operating revenues and projected net operating income, each Reserve Report shall use price assumptions set forth in Regulations S-K and S-X,
provided
that, upon request of Aron, Agent, on behalf of itself and the other Counterparties, shall cause projected gross cash operating revenues and projected net operating income to be determined using price assumptions specified by Aron.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If the Calculation Date Collateral Notice with respect to any Calculation Date specifies a Deficiency Amount, then Counterparty shall, at its own cost and expense, promptly (and in any event within one Local Business Day after such Calculation Date) deliver to Aron Eligible Collateral or Other Eligible Support pursuant to the Credit Support Annex having an aggregate Value equal to the Cash Deficiency Amount (such Eligible Collateral or Other Eligible Support, "
Temporary Reserve Collateral
"). Within 60 days after such Calculation Date, Counterparty may (if in its sole discretion it elects to do so), at its own cost and expense, execute and deliver one or more Mortgages encumbering Eligible Properties having Proved Developed Producing Reserves attributed thereto having an aggregate Forward Value equal to such Deficiency Amount and take the related actions required under clause (o) below (whereupon Aron shall return such Temporary Reserve Collateral to Counterparty in accordance with the terms set forth in the Credit Support Annex);
provided
, however, that if Counterparty does not execute and deliver one or more Mortgages encumbering Eligible Properties having Proved Developed Producing Reserves attributed thereto having an aggregate Forward Value equal to such Deficiency Amount and take the related actions required under clause (o) below, such Temporary Reserve Collateral shall remain outstanding.
 
In addition, if the Calculation Date Collateral Notice with respect to any Calculation Date specifies an Optional Amount, then Counterparty may (if in its sole discretion it elects to do so), at its own cost and expense, on or prior to the date that is 60 days after such Calculation Date, execute and deliver one or more Mortgages encumbering Eligible Properties having Proved Developed Producing Reserves attributed thereto having an aggregate Forward Value equal to such Optional Amount and take the related actions required under clause (o) below.
 
 
 
 
 
Other Eligible Support delivered to Aron pursuant to this clause (k) are referred to as the "
Intra-Year Collateral
".
 
As used herein:
 
"
Intra-Year Determination Date
" means each date on which the conditions set forth in clauses (x) and (y) above in this clause (k) are satisfied.
 
"
Intra-Year Deficiency Amount
" means, as of any date of determination, the positive difference (if any) of:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the provisions of the Credit Agreement referred to in clause (2) above, together with related definitions and ancillary provisions and schedules and exhibits, are hereby incorporated herein by reference, as if set forth herein in full,
mutatis
mutandis
;
provided
that, as incorporated herein (unless the context otherwise requires):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein or in any other Secured Trading Line Document, if, after the Effective Date, Counterparty shall designate a Subsidiary Guarantor or any newly created or acquired Subsidiary as an Unrestricted Subsidiary under the CHK Indentures, and so long as such designation is permitted hereunder (including under the provisions of the Credit Agreement incorporated herein by reference) and a Financial Officer of Counterparty has certified in writing thereto to Aron, Aron shall release such designated Subsidiary from its guarantee obligations under the Guaranty. Notwithstanding any such release, no Subsidiary Guarantor shall be released from any of its obligations under any Mortgage as to which it is a mortgagor, nor shall any related Mortgaged Properties be released from the Lien thereof, unless such release is permitted under clause (l) or (m) of this Part 7 and, if otherwise required pursuant to the terms hereof, any related replacement or substitution of Reserve Collateral occurs simultaneously therewith.
 
 
 
 
 
of the Subsidiary Guarantors for such governmental consent, approval, recording, qualification or authorization.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As used in this clause (6), "
Continuing Directors
" and "
Specified Change of Control
" have the meanings given to them in the Credit Agreement.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(2)
 
Provisions for Letters of Credit
. The following provisions shall apply to all Letters of Credit:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
agree.  The terms of each Covered Transaction will be set forth in the applicable long form Confirmations executed in connection with each such Transaction in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.
 
(v)        
Joint and Several Liability
. The obligations and liability of each of the Agent, Chesapeake Louisiana, L.P. and Chesapeake Zapata, L.P. hereunder shall be joint and several and every agreement and undertaking contained herein shall be construed accordingly. Once an amount has been determined:
 
Similarly,
             The liability of any of Agent, Chesapeake Louisiana, L.P. and Chesapeake Zapata, L.P. under this Agreement shall not be discharged or affected in any way by reason of any invalidity, voidability or unenforceability with respect to one or more of Agent, Chesapeake Louisiana, L.P. and Chesapeake Zapata, L.P.
Each Counterparty hereby agrees, as between themselves, that if any Counterparty shall become an Excess Funding Party by reason of the payment by such Counterparty of any amounts hereunder, each other Counterparty shall, on demand of such Excess Funding Party (but subject to the next sentence), pay to such Excess Funding Party an amount equal to such Counterparty 's Pro Rata Share (as defined below and determined, for this purpose, without reference to the properties, debts and liabilities of such Excess Funding Party) of the Excess Payment (as defined below) in respect of such amounts. For purposes of this clause, (i) "
Excess Funding Party
" means, in respect of any amounts, a Counterparty that has paid an amount in excess of its Pro Rata Share of such amounts, (ii) "
Excess Payment
" means, in respect of any Counterparty, the amount paid by an Excess Funding Party in excess of its Pro Rata Share of such amounts and (iii) "
Pro Rata Share
" means, for any Counterparty, the ratio (expressed as a percentage) of (x) the Value of Reserve Collateral attributable to such Counterparty exceeds the amount of all to (y) the Value of Reserve Collateral attributable to all of the Counterparties, determined as of the date of such Excess Payment.
 
 
 
 
 
 
shall include the corresponding masculine, feminine and neuter forms. The words "include", "includes" and "including" shall be deemed to be followed by the phrase "without limitation". The word "will" shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect as the word "shall". The term "date hereof" refers to the date of this Agreement first above written. Unless the context requires otherwise (1) any definition of or reference to any agreement, instrument or other document herein shall be construed as referring to such agreement, instrument or other document as from time to time amended, restated, supplemented or otherwise modified (subject to any restrictions on such amendments, restatements, supplements or modifications set forth therein or herein), (2) references to any law, constitution, statute, treaty, regulation, rule or ordinance, including any section or other part thereof (each, for purposes of this paragraph, a "
law
"), shall refer to that law as amended from time to time and shall include any successor law, (3) any reference herein to any Person shall be construed to include such Person's successors and permitted assigns, (4) the words "herein", "hereof" and "hereunder", and words of similar import, shall be construed to refer to this Agreement in its entirety and not to any particular provision hereof and (5) all references herein to Sections, Parts, Annexes, Schedules and Exhibits shall be construed to refer to Sections and Parts of, and Annexes, Schedules and Exhibits to, this Agreement.
 
As used herein, the following terms have the meanings given to them below:
 
"
Assumption and Accession Agreement
" means an assumption and accession agreement between a Subsidiary of Chesapeake Energy Corporation and Aron in substantially the form of Exhibit A to the Guaranty.
 
"
Available Capacity
" means, as of any date of determination, the lesser of:
 
 
 
"
Calculation Date
" means (a) May 31, 2005; and (b) each anniversary thereof falling prior to the Scheduled Maturity Date (or, if any such anniversary is not a Local Business Day, the first following day that is a Local Business Day).
 
"
CHK Company
" means Chesapeake Energy Corporation and each of its Subsidiaries (including Counterparty and each other Credit Support Provider).
 
"
Collateral
" means, collectively, the Reserve Collateral, the Intra-Year Collateral and the Temporary Reserve Collateral and all other collateral pledged by Counterparty and the Credit Support Providers to Aron under the Secured Trading Line Documents.
 
"
Covered Transaction
" means, individually and in the aggregate, all Transactions which fall within the scope of this Agreement pursuant to Part 7(c).
 
"
Covered Transactions Mark-to-Market Amount
"
means the aggregate mark-to-market position of all Covered Transactions as determined by the Calculation Agent in a commercially reasonable manner at the close of each Local Business Day. If such
 
 
 
 
position is in favor of Aron, the Covered Transactions Mark-to-Market Amount will be stated as a positive number. If such position is in favor of Counterparty (to be construed in the aggregate), the Covered Transactions Mark-to-Market Amount will be stated as a negative number.
 
"
Covered Transactions PFE
" means, as of the date of determination, the peak potential future trading credit exposure to Counterparty (to be construed in the aggregate) by Aron as determined in good faith by the Calculation Agent taking into account all existing (and, if relevant, proposed) Covered Transactions. For the avoidance of doubt, the Calculation Agent's determination of Covered Transactions PFE will depend on factors including (a) changes in NYMEX natural gas futures prices, (b) NYMEX natural gas futures implied volatility levels, and (c) delivery volumes remaining at each calendar month until the Facility Termination Date.
 
"
Credit Agreement
" means the Fifth Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, dated as of January 28, 2005, among (
inter alia
) the Agent, as Borrower, Bank of America, N.A. as Co-Administrative Agent, and Union Bank of California, N.A., as Co-Administrative Agent, the co-syndication agents and co-documentation agents referred to therein and the several lenders from time to time parties thereto, as such Credit Agreement is in effect on the date hereof and without giving effect to any amendments, modifications or supplements thereto, or waiver or termination thereof, after the date hereof,
provided
that if Aron (in its sole discretion) consents to any such amendment, modification, supplement or waiver expressly for purposes this Agreement, then the term "Credit Agreement" shall refer to the Credit Agreement as so amended, modified, supplemented or waived.
 
"
Credit Support Annex
" means the Credit Support Annex hereto between Aron and Counterparty in substantially the form of Annex B hereto.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
"
Current Reserve Collateral Value
" means, for any date of determination, (a) the then-current Value of the Reserve Collateral,
plus
(b) the then-current Value of the Temporary Reserve Collateral
multiplied by
the Minimum Collateral Reserve Ratio
plus
(c) unless otherwise specified herein, the then-current Value of the Intra-Year Collateral
 
 
 
 
multiplied by
the Minimum Collateral Reserve Ratio, all as reasonably determined by the Calculation Agent.
 
 
"
Eligible Financial Institution
" means (i) Union Bank of California, N.A., so long as its long-term unsecured debt obligations then have a credit rating of "A" or better by Moody's and Standard & Poor's or (ii) at any time, a financial institution whose long-term unsecured debt obligations then have a credit rating of "A" or better by Moody's and Standard & Poor's, but only if such financial institution is otherwise acceptable to Aron in its sole discretion.
 
"
Eligible Properties
" means property interests of Counterparty (to be construed in the aggregate) and the other CHK Companies to which Proved Developed Producing Reserves are attributable and which have oil and natural gas production, diversity and other characteristics acceptable to Aron in its sole discretion.
 
 
 
 
"
Financial Officer
" means, as to Counterparty or any of the Credit Support Providers, the chief financial officer, treasurer or other officer thereof acceptable to Aron.
 
 
 
 
 
 
in each case as reasonably determined by the Calculation Agent.
 
"
Forward Value
" means, for any Eligible Property, the projected Value of such Eligible Property as of six (6) months from such date of determination.
 
"
Guaranty
" means the Guaranty Agreement dated as of the Effective Date by Chesapeake Energy Corporation and each Subsidiary Guarantor in favor of Aron in substantially the form attached as Exhibit D hereto.
 
 
 
 
 
"
Intra-Year Covered Transactions
PFE
" means, as of any date of determination, the highest Covered Transactions PFE that occurs between such date of determination and the next occurring Calculation Date (or, if such date of determination occurs after the final Calculation Date, between such date of determination and the Facility Termination Date), as determined by the Calculation Agent taking into account all existing (and, if relevant, proposed) Covered Transactions.
 
"
Letter of Credit
" means a letter of credit in substantially the form attached as Exhibit E (or otherwise in form and substance satisfactory to Aron), issued by an Eligible Financial Institution for the account of Counterparty or one of its Affiliates and for the benefit of Aron hereunder and meeting the requirements set forth herein and in the Credit Support Annex.
 
"
Letter of Credit Default
" means, with respect to any Letter of Credit, the related issuing bank (a) becomes subject to any event analogous to an event specified in Section 5(a)(vii) of this Agreement, (b) fails to comply with or perform its obligations under such Letter of Credit if such failure shall continue after the lapse of any applicable grace period, (c) shall disaffirm, disclaim, repudiate or reject, in whole or in part, or challenge the validity of such Letter of Credit or (d) suffers a material adverse change in its financial condition or prospects (the existence of any such change being determined by the beneficiary of the Letter of Credit acting in its sole discretion).
 
"
Lien
" means any mortgage, pledge, hypothecation, assignment, deposit arrangement, encumbrance, lien (statutory or other), charge or other security interest or any preference, priority or other security agreement or preferential arrangement of any kind or nature whatsoever (including any conditional sale or other title retention agreement and any capital lease having substantially the same economic effect as any of the foregoing).
 
"
Maximum Total Capacity
" means U.S.$500,000,000 in the aggregate with respect to Agent, Chesapeake Louisiana, L.P. and Chesapeake Zapata, L.P.
 
"
Minimum Reserve Collateral Ratio
" means 1.33 to 1.00.
 
 
"
Mortgage
" shall mean the Mortgage, Deed of Trust, Security Agreement, Assignment of Production, Financing Statement (Personal Properties Including Hydrocarbons) and Fixture Filing, dated as of the date of its execution and delivery and in substantially the form attached as Exhibit C hereto or otherwise in form and substance satisfactory to Aron in its sole discretion. Each Mortgage shall cover all of the relevant mortgagor's right, title and interest in and to the collateral purported to be covered thereby (including all proceeds thereof and all related accounts receivable).
 
"
Mortgaged Properties
" shall mean the "Mortgaged Properties" as defined in, and subject to the duly recorded Lien of, the Mortgages.
 
"
Person
" means an individual, corporation (including a business trust), partnership, limited liability company, limited liability partnership, joint venture, association, joint stock company, trust (including any beneficiary thereof), unincorporated association or government or any agency or political subdivision thereof.
 
 
 
 
 
 
"
Proved
", "
Proved Developed Producing Reserves
", "
Proved Reserves
", "
Proved Developed Non-Producing Reserves
", "
Proved Undeveloped Reserves
" and "
Producing
" have the respective meanings given to them in the Definitions for Oil and Gas Reserves promulgated by the Society of Petroleum Engineers (or any generally recognized successors).
 
"
Qualified Mortgaged Property
" means a Mortgaged Property (a) which is an Eligible Property; (b) as to which Counterparty shall have taken all actions and executed and delivered all documents under clauses (2), (3), (4), (5), (7), (8), (9), (10), (11), (13), (17) and (19) of clause (h) of this Part 7 or clause (o) of this Part 7; and (c) which shall be subject to a first priority perfected Lien in favor of Aron.
 
"
Regulation S-K
" and "
Regulation S-X
" mean, respectively, Regulation S-K and Regulation S-X promulgated by the SEC, as such Rules are in effect on the date hereof.
 
"
Reserve Collateral
" means the Initial Reserve Collateral and all other Mortgaged Properties pledged by Counterparty (to be construed in the aggregate) and the Credit Support Providers to Aron pursuant to the terms of this Agreement and the other Secured Trading Line Documents,
provided
that Reserve Collateral shall not include on any date any property that is not then a Qualified Mortgaged Property.
 
 
 
 
"
Scheduled Maturity Date
" means May 18, 2010,
provided
that the Scheduled Maturity Date may be extended at any time and from time to time to May 18 in any subsequent year if Aron and Counterparty so agree (it being understood that no party shall be obligated to agree to any such extension of the Scheduled Maturity Date, and may withhold its consent to any such extension in its sole discretion).
 
"
SEC
" means the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (or any governmental agency substituted therefor).
 
"
Secured Trading Line Documents
" means this Agreement (including the Schedule and Credit Support Annex and all Confirmations of Covered Transactions and the Credit Support Documents.
 
"
Solvency Certificate
" means a certificate of Counterparty or one if its Affiliates (as applicable), addressed to Aron, certifying that, as of the date of such certificate, Counterparty or such Affiliate (as applicable) is Solvent.
 
 
 
 
 
"
Solvent
" means that, as of any date of determination as to any Person, (a) the amount of the "present fair saleable value" of the assets of such Person will, as of such date, exceed the amount of all "liabilities of such Person, contingent or otherwise", as of such date, as such quoted terms are determined in accordance with applicable federal and state laws governing determinations of the insolvency of debtors, (b) the present fair saleable value of the assets of such Person will, as of such date, be greater than the amount that will be required to pay the liability of such Person on its debts as such debts become absolute and matured, (c) such Person will not have, as of such date, an unreasonably small amount of capital with which to conduct its business, and (d) such Person will be able to pay its debts as they mature. For purposes of this definition, (1) "debt" means liability on a "claim", and (2) "claim" means any (x) right to payment, whether or not such a right is reduced to judgment, liquidated, unliquidated, fixed, contingent, matured, unmatured, disputed, undisputed, legal, equitable, secured or unsecured or (y) right to an equitable remedy for breach of performance if such breach gives rise to a right to payment, whether or not such right to an equitable remedy is reduced to judgment, fixed, contingent, matured or unmatured, disputed, undisputed, secured or unsecured.
 
"
Specified Natural Gas Transaction
" means any Transaction between Aron and Counterparty that satisfies (in the good faith judgment of the Calculation Agent) each of the following conditions:
 
 
 
 
"
Standard & Poor's
" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
 
"
Subsidiary
"
: as to any Person, a corporation, partnership, limited liability company or other entity of which shares of stock or other ownership interests having ordinary voting power (other than stock or such other ownership interests having such power only by reason of the happening of a contingency) to elect a majority of the board of directors or other managers of such corporation, partnership or other entity are at the time owned, or the management of which is otherwise controlled, directly or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, or both, by such Person. Unless otherwise qualified, all references to a "Subsidiary" or to "Subsidiaries" in this Agreement shall refer to a Subsidiary or Subsidiaries of Chesapeake Energy Corporation.
 
"
Subsidiary Guarantor
" means each Subsidiary of Chesapeake Energy Corporation (other than Counterparty) that is a "Subsidiary Guarantor" under and as defined in the Guaranty.
 
 
 
 
 
"
Trading Period
" means the period from and including the Effective Date to but excluding the earlier of (a) the Scheduled Maturity Date and (b) the Voluntary Trading Period Termination Date.
 
"
Transaction Year
" means each period from and including a Calculation Date (including the Effective Date) through but excluding the next succeeding Calculation Date,
provided
that the final Transaction Year shall end on and include the Facility Termination Date.
 
"
Unrestricted Subsidiary
" means an "Unrestricted Subsidiary" as defined in the CHK Indentures.
 
 
 
 
 
 
In making its determination under clause (c) above, the Calculation Agent will determine the expected nominal future cash flows of such reserves (based on the then-most recent Reserve Reports and utilizing commodity prices based on the then-current forward market values, as determined by the Calculation Agent, net of expenses estimated by the Calculation Agent (including the Calculation Agent's estimates of operating expenses, capital costs and any environmental, remediation and other costs and expenses related to such reserves), and discount such net nominal future cash flows back to the date of determination using a discount rate of 10% per annum.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, in making its determination under clause (c) above, the Calculation Agent may, in its sole discretion, take into account (A) any information made available to the Calculation Agent under clause (p)(1) of this Part 7 pursuant to Section 6.7 of the Credit Agreement, (B) any interim information made available to the Calculation Agent since the then-most recent Reserve Report which relates to the value of (x) the reserves or future production capacity of the CHK Companies (individually or in the aggregate) or (y) the Mortgaged Property (including, without limitation, filings made with the SEC by any of the CHK Companies, press releases and other material presentations), (C) the public announcement of material accounting or financial irregularities affecting the CHK Companies (individually or in the aggregate); and (D) such other credit factors (including, without limitation, (i) the assets, liabilities, cash flow, hedged and unhedged exposure to price, agreements affecting reserves, business, properties, prospects, production history of reserves, nature of the ownership of the reserves, Liens affecting Mortgaged Properties, management
 
 
 
 
and ownership of the CHK Companies, and (ii) the Collateral) as the Calculation Agent in its discretion deems significant. It is expressly understood that (y) the Calculation Agent has no obligation to agree upon or designate the Value at any particular amount and (z) on any date of determination, the Calculation Agent may designate or redesignate the Value in accordance with the foregoing considerations.
 
[signature page follows]
 
 
 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
, the parties have executed this document on the respective dates specified below with effect from the date specified on the first page of this document.
 
 
Acknowledged and Agreed:
 
 
 
By:
/s/MARTHA A. BURGER
Name:
Martha A. Burger
Date:
 
CHESAPEAKE ZAPATA, L.P.
 
 
Title:
  
Treasurer & V.P.                                                                                                                                    
           
 
 
 
 
ANNEX A
 
Index of Certain Defined Terms
 
A
B
C
D
E
 
 
 
 
 
F
G
I
L
M
N
O
P
 
 
 
 
 
 
Q
R
S
T
U
V
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX B
 
Credit Support Annex
 
[to be provided]
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT A
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT B
 
Form of Mortgage
 
[to be attached]
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT C
 
Form of Guaranty Agreement
 
GUARANTY
dated as of May [ __], 2005, made by
CHESAPEAKE ENERGY CORPORATION
, a corporation duly organized and validly existing under the laws of the State of Oklahoma (the "
Parent Guarantor
"), and each of the Subsidiaries of the Parent Guarantor identified under the caption "SUBSIDIARY GUARANTORS" on the signature pages hereto and any other Subsidiary of the Parent Guarantor that becomes a party hereto from time to time after the date hereof (each individually, a "
Subsidiary Guarantor
" and, collectively, the "
Subsidiary Guarantors
", and together with the Parent Guarantor, the "
Guarantors
"), in favor of
J. ARON & COMPANY
, a general partnership organized under the laws of the State of New York ("
Aron
"). Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined have the meanings given to them in the Master Agreement referred to below, and definitions and other terms used herein shall be construed in the manner specified in the introductory paragraph in clause (u) of Part 7 of the Schedule to the Master Agreement.
 
Aron and the Counterparties listed on Exhibit A hereto (collectively, "
Counterparty
"), acting by and through Chesapeake Exploration Limited Partnership, a limited partnership organized under the laws of the State of Oklahoma, have entered into a Master Agreement of even date herewith (as amended, modified or supplemented from time to time, by any confirmation contemplated therein or otherwise, the "
Master Agreement
"), and it is a requirement of the Master Agreement that the Guarantors deliver this Guaranty for Counterparty's obligations to Aron under the Master Agreement and the other Secured Trading Line Documents.
 
Accordingly, in consideration of the premises set forth above and other good and valuable consideration receipt of which is hereby acknowledged, and as an inducement to Aron to enter into the Master Agreement and the Covered Transactions permitted pursuant to Part 7 thereunder, each Guarantor hereby consents and agrees as follows:
 
 
1.01.
The Guaranty
. The Guarantors unconditionally, irrevocably and jointly and severally guarantee to Aron and its successors and assigns payment when due, whether by acceleration or otherwise, of the full amount of any and all obligations and liabilities, direct or contingent, joint, several or independent, now or hereafter existing, due or to become due to, or held or to be held by, Aron, whether created directly or acquired by assignment or otherwise, of Counterparty to Aron arising from or in connection with the Master Agreement and the other Secured Trading Line Documents, together with all expenses incurred by Aron in enforcing any of such obligations and liabilities or the terms hereof, including fees and expenses of legal counsel (all of the foregoing obligations, the "
Guaranteed Obligations
"). Each of the Guarantors waives notice of acceptance of this Guaranty and of any obligation to which it applies or may apply under the terms hereof, and waives diligence, presentment, demand of payment, notice of dishonor or non-payment, protest, notice of protest, of any such obligations, suit or taking other action by Aron against, and giving any notice of default or other notice to, or making any demand on, any party liable thereon (including the Guarantors). Payment by the Guarantors is in all cases to be made in the Contractual Currency of the payment obligation of Counterparty and to the account designated for payments by Counterparty or such other account as Aron may direct.
 
 
 
 
 
- 2 -
 
 
(a) This Guaranty is a primary obligation of each of the Guarantors and is an absolute, unconditional, continuing, irrevocable and joint and several guaranty of payment and not of collectibility or performance and is in no way conditioned on or contingent upon any attempt to enforce in whole or in part the Guaranteed Obligations. If Counterparty shall fail to pay any Guaranteed Obligations to Aron as and when they are due, the Guarantors shall forthwith pay such Guaranteed Obligations in immediately available funds without Aron having any obligation to notify any of the Guarantors of such failure to pay. Each failure by Counterparty to pay any Guaranteed Obligations shall give rise to a separate cause of action herewith, and separate suits may be brought hereunder as each cause of action arises.
 
(b) Aron may, at any time and from time to time without the consent of or notice to any Guarantor, except such notice as may be required by applicable statute which cannot be waived, without incurring responsibility to any Guarantor and without impairing or releasing the obligations of the Guarantors hereunder, upon or without any terms or conditions and in whole or in part, (i) change the manner, place and terms of payment or change or extend the time of payment of, renew, or alter any Guaranteed Obligation, or any obligations and liabilities (including any of those hereunder) incurred directly or indirectly in respect thereof or hereof or in any manner modify, amend or supplement the terms of the Master Agreement, the other Secured Trading Line Documents or any documents, instruments or agreements executed in connection therewith, including with respect to security or collateral, and the Guaranty herein made shall apply to the obligations and liabilities of Counterparty, as so changed, extended, renewed, modified, amended, supplemented or altered in any manner, (ii) exercise or refrain from exercising any rights against Counterparty or others (including the Guarantors) or otherwise act or refrain from acting, including with respect to security or collateral, (iii) settle or compromise any Guaranteed Obligations and/or any obligations and liabilities (including any of those hereunder) incurred directly or indirectly in respect thereof or hereof, (iv) sell, exchange, release, surrender, realize upon or otherwise deal with in any manner or in any order any property by whomsoever pledged or mortgaged to secure or howsoever securing the Guaranteed Obligations or any liabilities or obligations incurred directly or indirectly in respect thereof or hereof and/or any offset thereagainst and (v) apply any sums by whomsoever paid or howsoever realized to any portion of the Guaranteed Obligations regardless of what other portion of the Guaranteed Obligations remain unpaid.
 
(c) No invalidity, irregularity or unenforceability of the Guaranteed Obligations, ineffectiveness of, or absence or failure of first priority status of, any security interest in property of Counterparty or any Credit Support Provider intended to secure the Guaranteed Obligations, or incapacity of Counterparty, shall affect, impair, or be a defense to this Guaranty, which is a primary obligation of each of the Guarantors.
 
(d) This Guaranty shall not be affected by the occurrence of any Event of Default, Potential Event of Default or Termination Event, by the existence of any bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or similar proceedings involving Counterparty or any Guarantor, by any change in the laws, rules or regulations of any jurisdiction or by any present or future action of any governmental authority or court amending, varying, reducing or otherwise affecting or purporting to amend, vary, reduce or otherwise affect, any of the Guaranteed Obligations or any of the obligations of any Guarantor under this Guaranty or any other Credit Support Document or by any other circumstance (other than complete, irrevocable payment) that might otherwise constitute a legal or equitable discharge or defense of a surety or a guarantor.
 
(e) Except as otherwise required by law, each payment required to be made by the Guarantors to Aron hereunder shall be made without deduction or withholding for or on account of Taxes. If such deduction or withholding is so required, the Guarantors shall (i) pay the amount required to be deducted or withheld to the appropriate authorities before penalties attach thereto or interest accrues thereon, (ii) promptly forward to Aron an official receipt evidencing such payment (or a certified copy
 
 
- 3 -
 
thereof), and (iii) in the case of any such deduction or withholding, forthwith pay to Aron such additional amount as may be necessary to ensure that the net amount actually received by Aron free and clear of such Taxes, including any Taxes on such additional amount, is equal to the amount that Aron would have received had there been no such deduction or withholding.
 
(f) The provisions of Section 8 of the Master Agreement shall apply to amounts payable under this Guaranty as fully as if they were set forth in and referred to this Guaranty.
 
1.03.
Reinstatement
. This Guaranty shall be reinstated if at any time (including any time after its termination or expiration) any payment by Counterparty or any Guarantor, in whole or in part, is rescinded or must otherwise be returned by Aron upon the insolvency, bankruptcy or reorganization of Counterparty or such Guarantor or otherwise, all as though that payment had not been made and the Guarantors jointly and severally agree that they will indemnify Aron on demand for all reasonable costs and expenses (including fees of legal counsel) incurred by Aron in connection with such rescission or restoration, including any such costs and expenses incurred in defending against any claim alleging that such payment constituted a preference, fraudulent transfer or similar payment under any bankruptcy, insolvency or similar law.
 
1.04.
Subrogation
. So long as any amount payable by Counterparty under the Master Agreement or any other Secured Trading Line Document is overdue and unpaid, no Guarantor shall (i) exercise any right of subrogation or indemnity, or similar right or remedy, against Counterparty or any of its assets or property in respect of any amount paid by such Guarantor under this Guaranty nor (ii) file a proof of claim in competition with Aron for any amount owing to the insolvency or liquidation of Counterparty. If at any time when any such amount is overdue and unpaid any Guarantor receives any amount as a result of any action against Counterparty or any of its property or assets or otherwise for or on account of any payment made by such Guarantor under this Guaranty, such Guarantor shall forthwith pay that amount received by it to Aron to be credited and applied against the amount so payable by Counterparty.
 
1.05.
Remedies
. The Guarantors jointly and severally agree that, as between the Guarantors and Aron, the Guaranteed Obligations may be declared to be forthwith due and payable, or shall be deemed to have become automatically due and payable, for purposes of Section 1.01 notwithstanding any stay, injunction or other prohibition preventing such declaration (or such Guaranteed Obligations from becoming automatically due and payable) as against Counterparty and that, in the event of such declaration (or such Guaranteed Obligations being deemed to have become automatically due and payable), such Guaranteed Obligations (whether or not due and payable by Counterparty) shall forthwith become due and payable by the Guarantors for purposes of Section 1.01. If any amount payable by any Guarantor hereunder is not paid as and when due, such Guarantor authorizes Aron to proceed, without prior notice, by right of set-off, counterclaim or otherwise, against any assets of such Guarantor that may at the time be in the possession of Aron (at any branch or office), to the full extent of all amounts payable to Aron hereunder.
 
1.06.
Instrument for the Payment of Money; Default Interest
. Each Guarantor hereby acknowledges that the guaranty in this Section 1 constitutes an instrument for the payment of money, and consents and agrees that Aron, at its sole option, in the event of a dispute by such Guarantor in the payment of any moneys due hereunder, shall have the right to proceed by motion for summary judgment in lieu of complaint pursuant to New York CPLR Section 3213. In addition, each Guarantor hereby agrees that in the event it shall fail to pay in full any amount owing by it hereunder on the date upon which the same shall become due (whether upon demand or otherwise), it shall be obligated to pay interest at the Default Rate in respect of such amount for each day during the period from and including
 
 
- 4 -
 
the due date thereof to but excluding the date the same shall be paid in full, such interest to be payable upon demand of Aron.
 
1.07.
Continuing Guaranty
. This is a continuing Guaranty and all obligations to which it applies or may apply under the terms hereof shall be conclusively presumed to have been created in reliance hereon.
 
1.08.
Rights of Contribution
. The Subsidiary Guarantors hereby agree, as between themselves, that if any Subsidiary Guarantor shall become an Excess Funding Guarantor by reason of the payment by such Subsidiary Guarantor of any Guaranteed Obligations (or as a result of application of proceeds realized on collateral pledged by such Subsidiary Guarantor to Aron), each other Subsidiary Guarantor shall, on demand of such Excess Funding Guarantor (but subject to the next sentence), pay to such Excess Funding Guarantor an amount equal to such Subsidiary Guarantor's Pro Rata Share (as defined below and determined, for this purpose, without reference to the properties, debts and liabilities of such Excess Funding Guarantor) of the Excess Payment (as defined below) in respect of such Guaranteed Obligations. The payment obligation of a Subsidiary Guarantor to any Excess Funding Guarantor under this Section 1.08 shall be subordinate and subject in right of payment to the prior payment in full of the obligations of such Subsidiary Guarantor under the other provisions of this Section 1 and such Excess Funding Guarantor shall not exercise any right or remedy with respect to such excess until payment and satisfaction in full of all of such obligations.
 
For purposes of this Section 1.08, (i) "
Excess Funding Guarantor
" means, in respect of any Guaranteed Obligations, a Subsidiary Guarantor that has paid an amount in excess of its Pro Rata Share of such Guaranteed Obligations, (ii) "
Excess Payment
" means, in respect of any Guaranteed Obligations, the amount paid by an Excess Funding Guarantor in excess of its Pro Rata Share of such Guaranteed Obligations and (iii) "
Pro Rata Share
" means, for any Subsidiary Guarantor, the ratio (expressed as a percentage) of (x) the amount by which the aggregate fair saleable value of all properties of such Subsidiary Guarantor (excluding any shares of stock of any other Subsidiary Guarantor) exceeds the amount of all the debts and liabilities of such Subsidiary Guarantor (including contingent, subordinated, unmatured and unliquidated liabilities, but excluding the obligations of such Subsidiary Guarantor hereunder and any obligations of any other Subsidiary Guarantor that have been guaranteed by such Subsidiary Guarantor) to (y) the amount by which the aggregate fair saleable value of all properties of all of the Subsidiary Guarantors exceeds the amount of all the debts and liabilities (including contingent, subordinated, unmatured and unliquidated liabilities, but excluding the obligations of Counterparty and the Guarantors hereunder) of all of the Subsidiary Guarantors, determined (A) with respect to any Subsidiary Guarantor that is a party hereto on the date hereof, as of the date hereof, and (B) with respect to any other Subsidiary Guarantor, as of the date such Subsidiary Guarantor becomes a Subsidiary Guarantor hereunder.
 
1.09.
General Limitation on Guaranty Obligations
. In any action or proceeding involving any state corporate law, or any state or Federal bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other law affecting the rights of creditors generally, if the obligations of any Subsidiary Guarantor under Section 1.01 would otherwise, taking into account the provisions of Section 1.08, be held or determined to be void, invalid or unenforceable, or subordinated to the claims of any other creditors, on account of the amount of its liability under Section 1.01, then, notwithstanding any other provision hereof to the contrary, the amount of such liability shall, without any further action by such Subsidiary Guarantor, Aron or any other Person, be automatically limited and reduced to the highest amount that is valid and enforceable and not subordinated to the claims of other creditors as determined in such action or proceeding.
 
 
 
- 5 -
 
 
Section 2.
Representations and Warranties
. Each Guarantor makes the representations and warranties set forth in subsections (a), (b), (c) and (e) of Section 3 of the Master Agreement to Aron on such basis and as if the references therein to the Master Agreement were references to this Guaranty. Each Guarantor also represents and warrants to Aron that any certificates relating to such Guarantor to be delivered pursuant to Section 4 of the Master Agreement are true, accurate and complete in every material respect as of the dates of such certificates, and that any financial information to be provided pursuant to that Section fairly presents the financial condition of such Guarantor as at the dates at which the financial information is stated to apply and the results of the operations of such Guarantor for the applicable periods. The immediately preceding representation shall be deemed repeated each time such financial information is delivered pursuant to the Master Agreement. Each Guarantor also represents and warrants to Aron that:
 
(a) Each representation and warranty set forth in Section 4 of the Credit Agreement (as incorporated by reference below), to the extent applicable to such Guarantor, is true and correct on and as of the date hereof and on each date on which a Transaction is entered into under the Master Agreement as if made as of such date. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, Section 4 of the Credit Agreement, together with related definitions and ancillary provisions and schedules and exhibits, are hereby incorporated herein by reference, as if set forth herein in full,
mutatis
mutandis
;
provided
that, as incorporated herein (unless the context otherwise requires):
 
(i) each reference therein to "this Agreement", "the Revolving Loans", "the Letters of Credit" or "the Revolving Commitments" or the like shall be deemed to be a reference to the Master Agreement and the Transactions thereunder, as the case may be;
 
(ii) each reference therein to any "Agent" or any "Lender" or the like shall be deemed to be a reference to Aron hereunder;
 
(iii) each reference therein to the "Loan Documents" or the like shall be deemed to be a reference to the Secured Trading Line Documents; and
 
(iv) each reference therein to the "Collateral" or the like shall be deemed to be a reference to the Collateral as defined in the Master Agreement.
 
(b) As of the date hereof and on each date on which a Transaction is entered into under the Master Agreement, such Guarantor is Solvent.
 
 
(a) perform all agreements set forth in Section 4 of the Master Agreement with respect to such Guarantor for the benefit of Aron as if such Guarantor were a party to the Master Agreement and references therein to the Master Agreement were references to this Guaranty; and
 
(b) comply with all covenants and undertakings (including covenants and undertakings incorporated by reference) in the Master Agreement that purport to require such Guarantor (or that require Counterparty to cause such Guarantor) to take action or to refrain from taking action, all in accordance with the terms of the Master Agreement.
 
 
 
 
- 6 -
 
 
4.01.
Notices
. Any notice or communication to Aron or any Guarantor in connection with this Guaranty shall be addressed to it at the address specified in Part 4(a) of the Schedule to the Master Agreement, at the "Address for Notices" specified beneath its name on the signature pages hereto or such other address as shall be designated by any party in a notice to each other party. The giving of notice to any Guarantor in any instance shall not entitle such Guarantor to any other or further notice in similar or other circumstances.
 
4.02.
No Waiver
. No failure on the part of Aron to exercise, and no course of dealing with respect to, and no delay in exercising, any right, power or remedy hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof; nor shall any single or partial exercise by Aron of any right, power or remedy hereunder preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right, power or remedy. The remedies herein are cumulative and are not exclusive of any remedies provided by law.
 
4.03.
Amendments, Etc.
All amendments, waivers and modifications of or to any provision of this Guaranty and any consent to departure by any Guarantor from the terms hereof shall be in writing and signed and delivered by Aron and, in the case of any such amendment or modification, by each Guarantor, and shall not otherwise be effective. Any such waiver or consent shall be effective only in the specific instance and for the purpose for which it is given. Any such amendment or waiver shall be binding upon Aron and each Guarantor.
 
4.04.
Successors and Assigns
. This Guaranty shall inure to the benefit of Aron and its successors and assigns. This Guaranty shall be binding upon each Guarantor and its successors and assigns. No Guarantor shall assign or transfer its rights or obligations hereunder to any other person or any of its other branches or offices without the written consent of Aron, and
any purported assignment in violation of this provision shall be void,
provided
that nothing contained herein will be deemed to prohibit or restrict the merger, combination or consolidation among the Subsidiary Guarantors or among any of the Subsidiary Guarantors, Counterparty and the Parent Guarantor so long as such merger, combination or consolidation is permitted under the terms of the Master Agreement.
 
4.05.
Counterparts
. This Guaranty may be executed in any number of counterparts, all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same instrument and any of the parties hereto may execute this Guaranty by signing any such counterpart.
 
4.06.
Governing Law; Submission to Jurisdiction
. This Guaranty shall be governed by and construed and interpreted in accordance with the laws of the State of New York (without reference to choice of law doctrine). Each Guarantor irrevocably submits to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the State of New York and the United States District Court located in the Borough of Manhattan in New York City for purposes of any suit, action or proceedings relating to this Guaranty ("
Proceedings
"). Each Guarantor irrevocably waives, to the fullest extent permitted by law, any defense or objection it may have that any such Proceedings in any such court have been brought in an inconvenient forum and further waives the right to object, with respect to such Proceedings, that such court does not have jurisdiction over such Guarantor. Nothing herein contained shall preclude Aron from bringing Proceedings in any other jurisdiction nor will the bringing of Proceedings in one jurisdiction preclude the bringing of Proceedings in any other jurisdiction.
 
4.07.
Waiver of Jury Trial
. Each of the Guarantors and Aron waives the right of trial by jury in any event of any litigation between any Guarantor and Aron in respect of any matter arising under this Guaranty.
 
 
 
- 7 -
 
 
4.08.
Headings
. Headings in this Guaranty are provided for convenience only and shall not affect the meaning or construction of any provision hereof.
 
4.09.
Integration of Terms
. This Guaranty contains the entire agreement between the Guarantors and Aron relating to the subject matter hereof and supersedes all oral statements and prior writing with respect hereto.
 
4.10.
Additional Subsidiary Guarantors
. The Parent Guarantor agrees that if any Subsidiary is created or acquired after the Effective Date by any CHK Company (other than any such Subsidiary that is then an Unrestricted Subsidiary under the CHK Indentures, but which, for the purposes of this Section 4.10, shall include any existing Subsidiary that ceases to be an Unrestricted Subsidiary under the CHK Indentures), the Parent Guarantor shall promptly cause such Subsidiary to become a Subsidiary Guarantor under this Guaranty (and, accordingly, a Credit Support Provider of Counterparty under the Master Agreement), and to take such actions and execute and deliver to Aron such documents with respect to such Subsidiary that are consistent with the actions taken and documents delivered with respect to Counterparty pursuant to clauses (2), (3), (4), (5), (7), (16), (17) and (19) of clause (h) of Part 7 of the Schedule to the Master Agreement on the Effective Date.
 
[signature pages follow]
 
 
 
- 8 -
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
, the parties hereto have caused this Guaranty to be duly executed and delivered as of the day and year first above written.
 
CHESAPEAKE ENERGY CORPORATION, as Parent
 
 
By ________________________
 
SUBSIDIARY GUARANTORS:
 
[_______________]
 
J. ARON & COMPANY
 
 
By ________________________
Title:
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT A to Guaranty
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT B to Guaranty
 
[Form of Assumption and Accession Agreement]
 
ASSUMPTION AND ACCESSION AGREEMENT dated as of [______] by [_____], an entity duly organized under the laws of the State of [__________] (the "
Additional Subsidiary Guarantor
").
 
Pursuant to the Guaranty dated as of May 28, 2004 (as modified and supplemented and in effect from time to time, the "
Guaranty
") among Chesapeake Energy Corporation (the "
Parent Guarantor
") and certain Subsidiaries of the Parent Guarantor (the "
Subsidiary Guarantors
", and together with the Parent Guarantor, the "
Guarantors
") pursuant to which such Guarantors have, among other things, jointly and severally guaranteed to J. Aron & Company ("
Aron
") Counterparty's obligations to Aron under the Master Agreement and the other Secured Trading Line Documents. Terms defined in the Guaranty (including terms defined therein by reference to terms in the Master Agreement) are used herein as defined therein.
 
As contemplated by Section 4.10 of the Guaranty, the Additional Subsidiary Guarantor hereby agrees that, from and after the date hereof, it shall be a "Credit Support Provider" for all purposes of the Master Agreement and each other Credit Support Document, and a "Subsidiary Guarantor" for all purposes of the Guaranty, with all the rights and obligations of a Credit Support Provider under the Master Agreement and the other Credit Support Documents and of a Subsidiary Guarantor under the Guaranty. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Additional Subsidiary Guarantor (a) hereby, jointly and severally with the other Guarantors, absolutely, unconditionally and irrevocably guarantees to Aron and its successors and assigns, as a primary obligor and not merely as a surety, the prompt and complete payment of Counterparty's obligations under the Master Agreement and the other Secured Trading Line Documents to Aron in the same manner and to the same extent as is provided in Section 1 of the Guaranty, (b) makes the representations and warranties set forth in Section 2 of the Guaranty and makes the covenants set forth in Section 3 of the Guaranty each with respect to itself and its obligations under this Assumption and Accession Agreement and the Guaranty, as if (i) each reference in said Sections to the Guarantors included a reference to the Additional Subsidiary Guarantor and (ii) each reference in said Sections to the Guaranty included a reference to this Assumption and Accession Agreement to which the Additional Subsidiary Guarantor is a Aronnd (c) submits to the jurisdiction of the courts and waives jury trial, in each case as provided in the Guaranty.
 
All notices and communications to the Additional Subsidiary Guarantor provided for in the Guaranty shall be sent to the address for such Additional Subsidiary Guarantor set forth under its name on the signature page hereof.
 
The Additional Subsidiary Guarantor hereby instructs its counsel to deliver to Aron the opinion referred to in Section 4.10 of the Guaranty.
 
This Assumption and Accession Agreement shall be governed by and construed and interpreted in accordance with the laws of the State of New York (without reference to choice of law doctrine).
 
[signature page follows]
 
 
 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
, the Additional Subsidiary Guarantor has caused this Assumption and Accession Agreement to be duly executed and delivered as of the day and year first above written.
 
 
 
 
By: ______________________
 
 
Address for Notices
:
 
 
 
ACKNOWLEDGED BY:
 
J. ARON & COMPANY
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT D
 
Form of Letter of Credit
 
[Omitted]
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
(MulticurrencyCross Border)
ISDA
International Swap Dealers Association, Inc.
MASTER AGREEMENT
 
dated as of
May 18, 2005
 
 
 
have entered and/or anticipate entering into one or more transactions (each a "Transaction") that are or will be governed by this Master Agreement, which includes the schedule (the "Schedule"), and the documents and other confirming evidence (each a "Confirmation") exchanged between the parties confirming those Transactions.
Accordingly, the parties agree as follows:
(a)         
Definitions.
The terms defined in Section 14 and in the Schedule will have the meanings therein specified for the purpose of this Master Agreement.
(b)         
Inconsistency.
In the event of any inconsistency between the provisions of the Schedule and the other provisions of this Master Agreement, the Schedule will prevail. In the event of any inconsistency between the provisions of any Confirmation and this Master Agreement (including the Schedule), such Confirmation will prevail for the purpose of the relevant Transaction.
(c)         
Single Agreement.
All Transactions are entered into in reliance on the fact that this Master Agreement and all Confirmations form a single agreement between the parties (collectively referred to as this "Agreement"), and the parties would not otherwise enter into any Transactions.
(i)
       
Each party will make each payment or delivery specified in each Confirmation to be made by it, subject to the other provisions of this Agreement.
(ii)
      
Payments under this Agreement will be made on the due date for value on that date in the place of the account specified in the relevant Confirmation or otherwise pursuant to this Agreement, in freely transferable funds and in the manner customary for payments in the required currency. Where settlement is by delivery (that is, other than by payment), such delivery will be made for receipt on the due date in the manner customary for the relevant obligation unless otherwise specified in the relevant Confirmation or elsewhere in this Agreement.
 
(iii)
     
Each obligation of each party under Section 2(a)(i) is subject to (1) the condition precedent that no Event of Default or Potential Event of Default with respect to the other party has occurred and is continuing, (2) the condition precedent that no Early Termination Date in respect of the relevant Transaction has occurred or been effectively designated and (3) each other applicable condition precedent specified in this Agreement.
Copyright  1992 by International Swap Dealers Association, Inc.
 
 
 
(b)   
Change of Account.
Either party may change its account for receiving a payment or delivery by giving notice to the other party at least five Local Business Days prior to the scheduled date for the payment or delivery to which such change applies unless such other party gives timely notice of a reasonable objection to such change.
by each party to the other, then, on such date, each party's obligation to make payment of any such amount will be automatically satisfied and discharged and, if the aggregate amount that would otherwise have been payable by one party exceeds the aggregate amount that would otherwise have been payable by the other party, replaced by an obligation upon the party by whom the larger aggregate amount would have been payable to pay to the other party the excess of the larger aggregate amount over the smaller aggregate amount.
The parties may elect in respect of two or more Transactions that a net amount will be determined in respect of all amounts payable on the same date in the same currency in respect of such Transactions, regardless of whether such amounts are payable in respect of the same Transaction. The election may be made in the Schedule or a Confirmation by specifying that subparagraph (ii) above will not apply to the Transactions identified as being subject to the election, together with the starting date (in which case subparagraph (ii) above will not, or will cease to, apply to such Transactions from such date). This election may be made separately for different groups of Transactions and will apply separately to each pairing of Offices through which the parties make and receive payments or deliveries.
(i)
       
Gross-Up.
All payments under this Agreement will be made without any deduction or withholding for or on account of any Tax unless such deduction or withholding is required by any applicable law, as modified by the practice of any relevant governmental revenue authority, then in effect. If a party is so required to deduct or withhold, then that party ("X") will:
(2)
              
pay to the relevant authorities the full amount required to be deducted or withheld (including the full amount required to be deducted or withheld from any additional amount paid by X to Y under this Section 2(d)) promptly upon the earlier of determining that such deduction or withholding is required or receiving notice that such amount has been assessed against Y;
(3)
              
promptly forward to Y an official receipt (or a certified copy), or other documentation reasonably acceptable to Y, evidencing such payment to such authorities; and
(4)
              
if such Tax is an Indemnifiable Tax, pay to Y, in addition to the payment to which Y is otherwise entitled under this Agreement, such additional amount as is necessary to ensure that the net amount actually received by Y (free and clear of Indemnifiable Taxes, whether assessed against X or Y) will equal the full amount Y would have received had no such deduction or withholding been required. However, X will not be required to pay any additional amount to Y to the extent that it would not be required to be paid but for:
(A)
              
the failure by Y to comply with or perform any agreement contained in Section 4(a)(i), 4(a)(iii) or 4(d); or
(B)
               
the failure of a representation made by Y pursuant to Section 3(f) to be accurate and true unless such failure would not have occurred but for (I) any action taken by a taxing authority, or brought in a court of competent jurisdiction, on or after the date on which a Transaction is entered into (regardless of whether such action is taken or brought with respect to a party to this Agreement) or (II) a Change in Tax Law.
 
(1)
              
X is required by any applicable law, as modified by the practice of any relevant governmental revenue authority, to make any deduction or withholding in respect of which X would not be required to pay an additional amount to Y under Section 2(d)(i)(4);
then, except to the extent Y has satisfied or then satisfies the liability resulting from such Tax, Y will promptly pay to X the amount of such liability (including any related liability for interest, but including any related liability for penalties only if Y has failed to comply with or perform any agreement contained in Section 4(a)(i), 4(a)(iii) or 4(d)).
(e)      
Default Interest; Other Amounts.
Prior to the occurrence or effective designation of an Early Termination Date in respect of the relevant Transaction, a party that defaults in the performance of any payment obligation will, to the extent permitted by law and subject to Section 6(c), be required to pay interest (before as well as after judgment) on the overdue amount to the other party on demand in the same currency as such overdue amount, for the period from (and including) the original due date for payment to (but excluding) the date of actual payment, at the Default Rate. Such interest will be calculated on the basis of daily compounding and the actual number of days elapsed. If, prior to the occurrence or effective designation of an Early Termination Date in respect of the relevant Transaction, a party defaults in the performance of any obligation required to be settled by delivery, it will compensate the other party on demand if and to the extent provided for in the relevant Confirmation or elsewhere in this Agreement.
Each party represents to the other party (which representations will be deemed to be repeated by each party on each date on which a Transaction is entered into and, in the case of the representations in Section 3(f), at all times until the termination of this Agreement) that:
(i)
           
Status
.
It is duly organised and validly existing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its organisation or incorporation and, if relevant under such laws, in good standing;
(ii)
    
Powers.
It has the power to execute this Agreement and any other documentation relating to this Agreement to which it is a party, to deliver this Agreement and any other documentation relating to this Agreement that it is required by this Agreement to deliver and to perform its obligations under this Agreement and any obligations it has under any Credit Support Document to which it is a party and has taken all necessary action to authorise such execution, delivery and performance;
(iii)
         
No Violation or Conflict
.
Such execution, delivery and performance do not violate or conflict with any law applicable to it, any provision of its constitutional documents, any order or judgment of any court or other agency of government applicable to it or any of its assets or any contractual restriction binding on or affecting it or any of its assets;
(iv)
        
Consents.
All governmental and other consents that are required to have been obtained by it with respect to this Agreement or any Credit Support Document to which it is a party have been obtained and are in full force and effect and all conditions of any such consents have been complied with; and
(v)
   
Obligations Binding.
Its obligations under this Agreement and any Credit Support Document to which it is a party constitute its legal, valid and binding obligations, enforceable in accordance with their respective terms (subject to applicable bankruptcy, reorganisation, insolvency, moratorium or similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally and subject, as to enforceability, to equitable principles of general application (regardless of whether enforcement is sought in a proceeding in equity or at law)).
(b)      
Absence of Certain Events.
No Event of Default or Potential Event of Default or, to its knowledge, Termination Event with respect to it has occurred and is continuing and no such event or circumstance would occur as a result of its entering into or performing its obligations under this Agreement or any Credit Support
 
Document to which it is a party.
(c)      
Absence of
Litigation.
There is not pending or, to its knowledge, threatened against it or any of its Affiliates any action, suit or proceeding at law or in equity or before any court, tribunal, governmental body, agency or official or any arbitrator that is likely to affect the legality, validity or enforceability against it of this Agreement or any Credit Support Document to which it is a party or its ability to perform its obligations under this Agreement or such Credit Support Document.
(d)      
Accuracy of Specified Information.
All applicable information that is furnished in writing by or on behalf of it to the other party and is identified for the purpose of this Section 3(d) in the Schedule is, as of the date of the information, true, accurate and complete in every material respect.
(e)      
Payer Tax Representation.
Each representation specified in the Schedule as being made by it for the purpose of this Section 3(e) is accurate and true.
(f)       
Payee Tax Representations.
Each representation specified in the Schedule as being made by it for the purpose of this Section 3(f) is accurate and true.
Each party agrees with the other that, so long as either party has or may have any obligation under this Agreement or under any Credit Support Document to which it is a party:
(a)      
Furnish Specified Information.
It will deliver to the other party or, in certain cases under subparagraph (iii) below, to such government or taxing authority as the other party reasonably directs:
(i)
           
any forms, documents or certificates relating to taxation specified in the Schedule or any Confirmation;
(iii)
         
upon reasonable demand by such other party, any form or document that may be required or reasonably requested in writing in order to allow such other party or its Credit Support Provider to make a payment under this Agreement or any applicable Credit Support Document without any deduction or withholding for or on account of any Tax or with such deduction or withholding at a reduced rate (so long as the completion, execution or submission of such form or document would not materially prejudice the legal or commercial position of the party in receipt of such demand), with any such form or document to be accurate and completed in a manner reasonably satisfactory to such other party and to be executed and to be delivered with any reasonably required certification,
in each case by the date specified in the Schedule or such Confirmation or, if none is specified, as soon as reasonably practicable.
(b)      
Maintain Authorisations.
It
will use all reasonable efforts to maintain in full force and effect all consents of any governmental or other authority that are required to be obtained by it with respect to this Agreement or any Credit Support Document to which it is a party and will use all reasonable efforts to obtain any that may become necessary in the future.
(c)      
Comply with Laws.
It will comply in all material respects with all applicable laws and orders to which it may be subject if failure so to comply would materially impair its ability to perform its obligations under this Agreement or any Credit Support Document to which it is a party.
(d)      
Tax Agreement.
It will give notice of any failure of a representation made by it under Section 3(f) to be accurate and true promptly upon learning of such failure.
(e)      
Payment of Stamp Tax.
Subject to Section 11, it will pay any Stamp Tax levied or imposed upon it or in respect of its execution or performance of this Agreement by a jurisdiction in which it is incorporated, organised, managed and controlled, or considered to have its seat, or in which a branch or office through which it is acting for the purpose of this Agreement is located ("Stamp Tax Jurisdiction") and will indemnify the other party against any Stamp Tax levied or imposed upon the other party or in respect of the other party's execution or performance of this Agreement by any such Stamp Tax Jurisdiction which is not also a Stamp Tax Jurisdiction with respect to the other party.
 
 
(a)      
Events of Default.
The occurrence at any time with respect to a party or, if applicable, any Credit Support Provider of such party or any Specified Entity of such party of any of the following events constitutes an event of default (an "Event of Default") with respect to such party:
(i)
           
Failure to Pay or Deliver.
Failure by the party to make, when due, any payment under this Agreement or delivery under Section 2(a)(i) or 2(e) required to be made by it if such failure is not remedied on or before the third Local Business Day after notice of such failure is given to the party;
(ii)
          
Breach of Agreement.
Failure by the party to comply with or perform any agreement or obligation (other than an obligation to make any payment under this Agreement or delivery under Section 2(a)(i) or 2(e) or to give notice of a Termination Event or any agreement or obligation under Section 4(a)(i), 4(a)(iii) or 4(d)) to be complied with or performed by the party in accordance with this Agreement if such failure is not remedied on or before the thirtieth day after notice of such failure is given to the party;
(1)
              
Failure by the party or any Credit Support Provider of such party to comply with or perform any agreement or obligation to be complied with or performed by it in accordance with any Credit Support Document if such failure is continuing after any applicable grace period has elapsed;
(2)
              
the expiration or termination of such Credit Support Document or the failing or ceasing of such Credit Support Document to be in full force and effect for the purpose of this Agreement (in either case other than in accordance with its terms) prior to the
satisfaction of all obligations of such party under each Transaction to which such Credit Support Document relates without the written consent of the other party; or
(3)
              
the party or such Credit Support Provider disaffirms, disclaims, repudiates or rejects, in whole or in part, or challenges the validity of, such Credit Support Document;
(iv)
        
Misrepresentation.
A representation (other than a representation under Section 3(e) or (f)) made or repeated or deemed to have been made or repeated by the party or any Credit Support Provider of such party in this Agreement or any Credit Support Document proves to have been incorrect or misleading in any material respect when made or repeated or deemed to have been made or repeated;
(vi)
        
Cross Default.
If "Cross Default" is specified
in the Schedule as applying to the party, the occurrence or existence of (1) a default, event of default or other similar condition or event (however described) in respect of such party, any Credit Support Provider of such party or any applicable Specified Entity of such party under one or more agreements or instruments relating to Specified Indebtedness of any of them (individually or collectively) in an aggregate amount of not less than the applicable Threshold Amount (as specified in the Schedule) which has resulted in such Specified Indebtedness becoming, or becoming capable at such time of being declared, due and payable under such agreements or instruments, before it would otherwise have been due and payable or (2) a default by such party, such Credit Support Provider or such Specified Entity (individually or collectively) in making one or more payments on the due date thereof in an aggregate amount of not less than the applicable Threshold Amount under such agreements or instruments (after giving effect to any applicable notice requirement or grace period);
(vii)
        
Bankruptcy.
The party, any Credit Support Provider of such party or any applicable Specified Entity of such party:
(1)
              
is dissolved (other than pursuant to a consolidation, amalgamation or merger); (2) becomes insolvent or is unable to pay its debts or fails or admits in writing its inability generally to pay its debts as they become due; (3) makes a general assignment, arrangement or composition with or for the benefit of its creditors; (4) institutes or has instituted against it a proceeding seeking a judgment of insolvency or bankruptcy or any other relief under any bankruptcy or insolvency law or other similar law affecting creditors' rights, or a petition is presented for its winding-up or liquidation, and, in the case of any such proceeding or petition instituted or presented against it, such proceeding or petition (A) results in a judgment of insolvency or bankruptcy or the entry of an order for relief or the making of an order for its winding-up or liquidation or (B) is not dismissed, discharged, stayed or restrained in each case within 30 days of the institution or presentation thereof; (5)
has a resolution passed for its winding-up, official management or liquidation (other than pursuant to a consolidation, amalgamation or merger); (6) seeks or becomes subject to the appointment of an administrator, provisional liquidator, conservator, receiver, trustee, custodian or other similar official for it or for all or substantially all its assets; (7) has a secured party take possession of all or substantially all its assets or has a distress, execution, attachment, sequestration or other legal process levied, enforced or sued on or against all or substantially all its assets and such secured party maintains possession, or any such process is not dismissed, discharged, stayed or restrained, in each case within 30 days thereafter; (8) causes or is subject to any event with respect to it which, under the applicable laws of any jurisdiction, has an analogous effect to any of the events specified in clauses (1) to (7) (inclusive); or (9) takes any action in furtherance of, or indicating its consent to, approval of, or acquiescence in, any of the foregoing acts; or
(viii)
       
Merger Without Assumption.
The party or any Credit Support Provider of such party consolidates or amalgamates with, or merges with or into, or transfers all or substantially all its assets to, another entity and, at the time of such consolidation, amalgamation, merger or transfer:
(1)
              
the resulting, surviving or transferee entity fails to assume all the obligations of such party or such Credit Support Provider under this Agreement or any Credit Support Document to which it or its predecessor was a party by operation of law or pursuant to an agreement reasonably satisfactory to the other party to this Agreement; or
(2)
              
the benefits of any Credit Support Document fail to extend (without the consent of the other party) to the performance by such resulting, surviving or transferee entity of its obligations under this Agreement.
(b)      
Termination Events.
The occurrence at any time with respect to a party or, if applicable, any Credit Support Provider of such party or any Specified Entity of such party of any event specified below constitutes an Illegality if the event is specified in (i) below, a Tax Event if the event is specified in (ii) below or a Tax Event Upon Merger if the event is specified in (iii) below, and, if specified to be applicable, a Credit Event Upon Merger if the event is specified pursuant to (iv) below or an Additional Termination Event if the event is specified pursuant to (v) below:
(i)
           
Illegality.
Due to the adoption of, or any change in, any applicable law after the date on which a Transaction is entered into, or due to the promulgation of, or any change in, the interpretation by any court, tribunal or regulatory authority with competent jurisdiction of any applicable law after such date, it becomes unlawful (other than as a result of a breach by the party of Section 4(b)) for such party (which will be the Affected Party):
(1)
              
to perform any absolute or contingent obligation to make a payment or delivery or to receive a payment or delivery in respect of such Transaction or to comply with any other material provision of this Agreement relating to such Transaction; or
(ii)
          
Tax Event.
Due to (x) any action taken by a taxing authority, or brought in a court of competent jurisdiction, on or after the date on which a Transaction is entered into (regardless of whether such action is taken or brought with respect to a party to this Agreement) or (y) a Change in Tax Law, the party (which will be the Affected Party) will, or there is a substantial likelihood that it will, on the next succeeding Scheduled Payment Date (1) be required to pay to the other party an additional amount in respect of an Indemnifiable Tax under Section 2(d)(i)(4) (except in respect of interest under Section 2(e), 6(d)(ii) or 6(e)) or (2) receive a payment from which an amount is required to be deducted or withheld for or on account of a Tax (except in respect of interest under Section 2(e), 6(d)(ii) or 6(e)) and no additional amount is required to be paid in respect of such Tax under Section 2(d)(i)(4) (other than by reason of Section 2(d)(i)(4)(A) or (B));
(iii)
        
Tax Event Upon Merger.
The party (the "Burdened Party") on the next succeeding Scheduled Payment Date will either (1) be required to pay an additional amount in respect of an Indemnifiable Tax under Section 2(d)(i)(4) (except in respect of interest under Section 2(e), 6(d)(ii) or 6(e)) or (2) receive a payment from which an amount has been deducted or withheld for or on account of any Indemnifiable Tax in respect of which the other party is not required to pay an additional amount (other than by reason of Section 2(d)(i)(4)(A) or (B)), in either case as a result of a party consolidating or amalgamating with, or merging with or into, or transferring all or substantially all its assets to, another entity (which will be the Affected Party) where such action does not constitute an event described in Section 5(a)(viii);
(iv)
        
Credit Event Upon Merger.
If "Credit Event Upon Merger" is specified in the Schedule as applying to the party, such party ("X"), any Credit Support Provider of X or any applicable Specified Entity of X consolidates or amalgamates with, or merges with or into, or transfers all or substantially all its assets to, another entity and such action does not constitute an event described in Section 5(a)(viii) but the creditworthiness of the resulting, surviving or transferee entity is materially weaker than that of X, such Credit Support Provider or such Specified Entity, as the case may be, immediately prior to such action (and, in such event, X or its successor or transferee, as appropriate, will be the Affected Party); or
(v)
         
Additional Termination Event.
If any "Additional Termination Event" is specified in the Schedule or any Confirmation as applying, the occurrence of such event (and, in such event, the Affected Party or Affected Parties shall be as specified for such Additional Termination Event in the Schedule or such Confirmation).
(c)       
Event of Default and Illegality.
If an event or circumstance which would otherwise constitute or give rise to an Event of Default also constitutes an Illegality, it will be treated as an Illegality and will not constitute an Event of Default.
 
(a)       
Right to Terminate Following Event of Default.
If at any time an Event of Default with respect to a party (the "Defaulting Party") has occurred and is then continuing, the other party (the "Non-defaulting Party") may, by not more than 20 days notice to the Defaulting Party specifying the relevant Event of Default, designate a day not earlier than the day such notice is effective as an Early Termination Date in respect of all outstanding Transactions. If, however, "Automatic Early Termination" is specified in the Schedule as applying to a party, then an Early Termination Date in respect of all outstanding Transactions will occur immediately upon the occurrence with respect to such party of an Event of Default specified in Section 5(a)(vii)(l), (3), (5)
,
(6) or, to the extent analogous thereto, (8), and as of the time immediately preceding the institution of the relevant proceeding or the presentation of the relevant petition upon the occurrence with respect to such party of an Event of Default specified in Section 5(a)(vii)(4) or, to the extent analogous thereto, (8).
(i)
          
Notice
.
If a Termination Event occurs, an Affected Party will, promptly upon becoming aware of it, notify the other party, specifying the nature of that Termination Event and each Affected Transaction and will also give such other information about that Termination Event as the other party may reasonably require.
(ii)
         
Transfer to Avoid Termination Event.
If either an Illegality under Section 5(b)(i)(l)
or a Tax Event occurs and there is only one Affected Party, or if a Tax Event Upon Merger occurs and the Burdened Party is the Affected Party, the Affected Party will, as a condition to its right to designate an Early Termination Date under Section 6(b)(iv), use all reasonable efforts (which will not require such party to incur a loss, excluding immaterial, incidental expenses) to transfer within 20 days after it gives notice under Section 6(b)(i) all its rights and obligations under this Agreement in respect of the Affected Transactions to another of its Offices or Affiliates so that such Termination Event ceases to exist.
If the Affected Party is not able to make such a transfer it will give notice to the other party to that effect within such 20 day period, whereupon the other party may effect such a transfer within 30 days after the notice is given under Section 6(b)(i).
Any such transfer by a party under this Section 6(b)(ii) will be subject to and conditional upon the prior written consent of the other party, which consent will not be withheld if such other party's policies in effect at such time would permit it to enter into transactions with the transferee on the terms proposed.
(iii)
        
Two Affected Parties.
If an Illegality under Section 5(b)(i)( 1) or a Tax Event occurs and there are two Affected Parties, each party will use all reasonable efforts to reach agreement within 30 days after notice thereof is given under Section 6(b)(i) on action to avoid that Termination Event.
(1)     a transfer under Section 6(b)(ii) or an agreement under Section 6(b)(iii), as the case may be, has not been effected with respect to all Affected Transactions within 30 days after an Affected Party gives notice under Section 6(b)(i); or
(2)     an Illegality under Section 5(b)(i)(2), a Credit Event Upon Merger or an Additional Termination Event occurs, or a Tax Event Upon Merger occurs and the Burdened Party is not the Affected Party, either party in the case of an Illegality, the Burdened Party in the case of a Tax Event Upon Merger, any Affected Party in the case of a Tax Event or an Additional Termination Event if there is more than one Affected Party, or the party which is not the Affected Party in the case of a Credit Event Upon Merger or an Additional Termination Event if there is only one Affected Party may, by not more than 20 days notice to the other party and provided that the relevant Termination Event is then continuing, designate a day not earlier than the day such notice is effective as an Early Termination Date in respect of all Affected Transactions.
(i)
           
If notice designating an Early Termination Date is given under Section 6(a) or (b), the Early Termination Date will occur on the date so designated, whether or not the relevant Event of Default or Termination Event is then continuing.
(ii)
          
Upon the occurrence or effective designation of an Early Termination Date, no further payments or deliveries under Section 2(a)(i) or 2(e) in respect of the Terminated Transactions will be required to be made, but without prejudice to the other provisions of this Agreement. The amount, if any, payable in respect of an Early Termination Date shall be determined pursuant to Section 6(e).
(i)
           
Statement.
On or as soon as reasonably practicable following the occurrence of an Early Termination Date, each party will make the calculations on its part, if any, contemplated by Section 6(e) and will provide to the other party a statement (1) showing, in reasonable detail, such calculations (including all relevant quotations and specifying any amount payable under Section 6(e)) and (2) giving details of the relevant account to which any amount payable to it is to be paid. In the absence of written confirmation from the source of a quotation obtained in determining a Market Quotation, the records of the party obtaining such quotation will be conclusive evidence of the existence and accuracy of such quotation.
(ii)
          
Payment Date.
An amount calculated as being due in respect of any Early Termination Date
under Section 6(e) will be payable on the day that notice of the amount payable is effective (in the case of an Early Termination Date which is designated or occurs as a result of an Event of Default) and on the day which is two Local Business Days after the day on which notice of the amount payable is effective (in the case of an Early Termination Date which is designated as a result of a Termination Event). Such amount will be paid together with (to the extent permitted under applicable law) interest thereon (before as well as after judgment) in the Termination Currency, from (and including) the relevant Early Termination Date to (but excluding) the date such amount is paid, at the Applicable Rate. Such interest will be calculated on the basis of daily compounding and the actual number of days elapsed.
(e)      
Payments on Early Termination.
If an Early Termination Date occurs, the following provisions
shall apply based on the parties' election in the Schedule of a payment measure, either "Market Quotation" or "Loss", and a payment method, either the "First Method" or the "Second Method". If the parties fail to designate a payment measure or payment method in the Schedule, it will be deemed that "Market Quotation" or the "Second Method", as the case may be, shall apply. The amount, if any, payable in respect of an Early Termination Date and determined pursuant to this Section will be subject to any Set-off.
(1)
              
First Method and Market Quotation.
If the First Method and Market Quotation apply, the Defaulting Party will pay to the Non-defaulting Party the excess, if a positive number, of (A) the sum of the Settlement Amount (determined by the Non-defaulting Party) in respect of the Terminated Transactions and the Termination Currency Equivalent of the Unpaid Amounts owing to the Non-defaulting Party over (B) the Termination Currency Equivalent of the Unpaid Amounts owing to the Defaulting Party.
(2)
              
First Method and Loss.
If the First Method and Loss apply, the Defaulting Party will pay to the Non-defaulting Party, if a positive number, the Non-defaulting Party's Loss in respect of this Agreement.
(3)
              
Second Method and Market Quotation.
If the Second Method and Market Quotation apply, an amount will be payable equal to (A) the sum of the Settlement Amount (determined by the Non-defaulting Party) in respect of the Terminated Transactions and the Termination Currency Equivalent of the Unpaid Amounts owing to the Non-defaulting Party less (B) the Termination Currency Equivalent of the Unpaid Amounts owing to the Defaulting Party. If that amount is a positive number, the Defaulting Party will pay it to the Non-defaulting Party; if it is a negative number, the Non-defaulting Party will pay the absolute value of that amount to the Defaulting Party.
(4)
              
Second Method and Loss.
If the Second Method and Loss apply, an amount will be payable equal to the Non-defaulting Party's Loss in respect of this Agreement. If that amount is a positive number, the Defaulting Party will pay it to the Non-defaulting Party; if it is a negative number, the Non-defaulting Party will pay the absolute value of that amount to the Defaulting Party.
(1)
              
One Affected Party.
If there is one Affected Party, the amount payable will be determined in accordance with Section 6(e)(i)(3), if Market Quotation applies, or Section 6(e)(i)(4), if Loss applies, except that, in either case, references to the Defaulting Party and to the Non-defaulting Party will be deemed to be references to the Affected Party and the party which is not the Affected Party, respectively, and, if Loss applies and fewer than all the Transactions are being terminated, Loss shall be calculated in respect of all Terminated Transactions.
(A)
                
if Market Quotation applies, each party will determine a Settlement Amount in respect of the Terminated Transactions, and an amount will be payable equal to (I) the sum of (a) one-half of the difference between the Settlement Amount of the party with the higher Settlement Amount ("X") and the Settlement Amount of the party with the lower Settlement Amount ("Y") and (b) the Termination Currency Equivalent of the Unpaid Amounts owing to X less (II) the Termination Currency Equivalent of the Unpaid Amounts owing to Y; and
(B)
                 
if Loss applies, each party will determine its Loss in respect of this Agreement (or, if fewer than all the Transactions are being terminated, in respect of all Terminated Transactions) and an amount will be payable equal to one-half of the difference between the Loss of the party with the higher Loss ("X") and the Loss of the party with the lower Loss ("Y").
If the amount payable is a positive number, Y will pay it to X; if it is a negative number, X will pay the absolute value of that amount to Y.
(iii)
         
Adjustment for Bankruptcy.
In circumstances where an Early Termination Date occurs because "Automatic Early Termination" applies in respect of a party, the amount determined under this Section 6(e) will be subject to such adjustments as are appropriate and permitted by law to reflect any payments or deliveries made by one party to the other under this Agreement (and retained by such other party) during the period from the relevant Early Termination Date to the date for payment determined under Section 6(d)(ii).
(iv)
        
Pre-Estimate.
The parties agree that if Market Quotation applies an amount recoverable under this Section 6(e) is a reasonable pre-estimate of loss and not a penalty. Such amount is payable for the loss of bargain and the loss of protection against future risks and except as otherwise provided in this Agreement neither party will be entitled to recover any additional damages as a consequence of such losses.
 
Subject to Section 6(b)(ii), neither this Agreement nor any interest or obligation in or under this Agreement may be transferred (whether by way of security or otherwise) by either party without the prior written consent of the other party, except that: 
(a)       a party may make such a transfer of this Agreement pursuant to a consolidation or amalgamation with, or merger with or into, or transfer of all or substantially all its assets to, another entity (but without prejudice to any other right or remedy under this Agreement); and
(b)       a party may make such a transfer of all or any part of its interest in any amount payable to it from a Defaulting Party under Section 6(e).
Any purported transfer that is not in compliance with this Section will be void.
 
(a)       
Payment in the Contractual Currency.
Each payment under this Agreement will be made in the relevant currency specified in this Agreement for that payment (the "Contractual Currency"). To the extent permitted by applicable law, any obligation to make payments under this Agreement in the Contractual Currency will not be discharged or satisfied by any tender in any currency other than the Contractual Currency, except to the extent such tender results in the actual receipt by the party to which payment is owed, acting in a reasonable manner and in good faith in converting the currency so tendered into the Contractual Currency, of the full amount in the Contractual Currency of all amounts payable in respect of this Agreement. If for any reason the amount in the Contractual Currency so received falls short of the amount in the Contractual Currency payable in respect of this Agreement, the party required to make the payment will, to the extent permitted by applicable law, immediately pay such additional amount in the Contractual Currency as may be necessary to compensate for the shortfall. If for any reason the amount in the Contractual Currency so received exceeds the amount in the Contractual Currency payable in respect of this Agreement, the party receiving the payment will refund promptly the amount of such excess.
 
 
(b)       
Judgments.
To the extent permitted by applicable law, if any judgment or order expressed in a currency other than the Contractual Currency is rendered (i) for the payment of any amount owing in respect of this Agreement, (ii) for the payment of any amount relating to any early termination in respect of this Agreement or (iii) in respect of a judgment or order of another court for the payment of any amount described in (i) or (ii) above, the party seeking recovery, after recovery in full of the aggregate amount to which such party is entitled pursuant to the judgment or order, will be entitled to receive immediately from the other party the amount of any shortfall of the Contractual Currency received by such party as a consequence of sums paid in such other currency and will refund promptly to the other party any excess of the Contractual Currency received by such party as a consequence of sums paid in such other currency if such shortfall or such excess arises or results from any variation between the rate of exchange at which the Contractual Currency is converted into the currency of the judgment or order for the purposes of such judgment or order and the rate of exchange at which such party is able, acting in a reasonable manner and in good faith in converting the currency received into the Contractual Currency, to purchase the Contractual Currency with the amount of the currency of the judgment or order actually received by such party. The term "rate of exchange" includes, without limitation, any premiums and costs of exchange payable in connection with the purchase of or conversion into the Contractual Currency.
(c)       
Separate Indemnities
.
To the extent permitted by applicable law, these indemnities constitute separate and independent obligations from the other obligations in this Agreement, will be enforceable as separate and independent causes of action, will apply notwithstanding any indulgence granted by the party to which any payment is owed and will not be affected by judgment being obtained or claim or proof being made for any other sums payable in respect of this Agreement.
(d)       
Evidence of Loss.
For the purpose of this Section 8, it will be sufficient for a party to demonstrate that it would have suffered a loss had an actual exchange or purchase been made.
 
(a)      
Entire Agreement
.
This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement and understanding of the parties with respect to its subject matter and supersedes all oral communication and prior writings with respect thereto.
(b)      
Amendments
.
No amendment, modification or waiver in respect of this Agreement will be effective unless in writing (including a writing evidenced by a facsimile transmission) and executed by each of the parties or confirmed by an exchange of telexes or electronic messages on an electronic messaging system.
(c)      
Survival of Obligations.
Without prejudice to Sections 2(a)(iii) and 6(c)(ii), the obligations of the parties under this Agreement will survive the termination of any Transaction.
(d)      
Remedies Cumulative.
Except as provided in this Agreement, the rights, powers, remedies and privileges provided in this Agreement are cumulative and not exclusive of any rights, powers, remedies and privileges provided by law.
(i)
             
This Agreement (and each amendment, modification and waiver in respect of it) may be executed and delivered in counterparts (including by facsimile transmission), each of which will be deemed an original.
(ii)
            
The parties intend that they are legally bound by the terms of each Transaction from the moment they agree to those terms (whether orally or otherwise). A Confirmation shall be entered into as soon as practicable and may be executed and delivered in counterparts (including by facsimile transmission) or be created by an exchange of telexes or by an exchange of electronic messages on an electronic messaging system, which in each case will be sufficient for all purposes to evidence a binding supplement to this Agreement. The parties will specify therein or through another effective means that any such counterpart, telex or electronic message constitutes a Confirmation.
(f)       
No Waiver of Rights
.
A failure or delay in exercising any right, power or privilege in respect of this Agreement will not be presumed to operate as a waiver, and a single or partial exercise of any right, power or privilege will not be presumed to preclude any subsequent or further exercise, of that right, power or
 
privilege or the exercise of any other right, power or privilege.
(g)      
Headings
.
The headings used in this Agreement are for convenience of reference only and are not to affect the construction of or to be taken into consideration in interpreting this Agreement.
 
(a)      If Section 10(a) is specified in the Schedule as applying, each party that enters into a Transaction through an Office other than its head or home office represents to the other party that, notwithstanding the place of booking office or jurisdiction of incorporation or organisation of such party, the obligations of such party are the same as if it had entered into the Transaction through its head or home office. This representation will be deemed to be repeated by such party on each date on which a Transaction is entered into.
(b)      Neither party may change the Office through which it makes and receives payments or deliveries for the purpose of a Transaction without the prior written consent of the other party.
(c)      If a party is specified as a Multibranch Party in the Schedule, such Multibranch Party may make and receive payments or deliveries under any Transaction through any Office listed in the Schedule, and the Office through which it makes and receives payments or deliveries with respect to a Transaction will be specified in the relevant Confirmation.
 
A Defaulting Party will, on demand, indemnify and hold harmless the other party for and against all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses, including legal fees and Stamp Tax, incurred by such other party by reason of the enforcement and protection of its rights under this Agreement or any Credit Support Document to which the Defaulting Party is a party or by reason of the early termination of any Transaction, including, but not limited to, costs of collection.
 
(a)      
Effectiveness.
Any notice or other communication in respect of this Agreement may be given in any manner set forth below (except that a notice or other communication under Section 5 or 6 may not be given by facsimile transmission or electronic messaging system) to the address or number or in accordance with the electronic messaging system details provided (see the Schedule) and will be deemed effective as indicated:
(iii)
         
if sent by facsimile transmission, on the date that transmission is received by a responsible employee of the recipient in legible form (it being agreed that the burden of proving receipt will be on the sender and will not be met by a transmission report generated by the sender's facsimile machine);
(iv)
        
if sent by certified or registered mail (airmail, if overseas) or the equivalent (return receipt requested), on the date that mail is delivered or its delivery is attempted; or
unless the date of that delivery (or attempted delivery) or that receipt, as applicable, is not a Local Business Day or that communication is delivered (or attempted) or received, as applicable, after the close of business on a Local Business Day, in which case that communication shall be deemed given and effective on the first following day that is a Local Business Day.
(b)      
Change of Addresses
.
Either party may by notice to the other change the address, telex or facsimile number or electronic messaging system details at which notices or other communications are to be given to it.
 
(a)      
Governing Law.
This Agreement will be governed by and construed in accordance with the law specified in the Schedule.
(b)      
Jurisdiction.
With respect to any suit, action or proceedings relating to this Agreement ("Proceedings"), each party irrevocably:
(i)
           
submits to the jurisdiction of the English courts, if this Agreement is expressed to be governed by English law, or to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of the State of New York and the United States District Court located in the Borough of Manhattan in New York City, if this Agreement is expressed to be governed by the laws of the State of New York; and
(ii)
          
waives any objection which it may have at any time to the laying of venue of any Proceedings brought in any such court, waives any claim that such Proceedings have been brought in an inconvenient forum and further waives the right to object, with respect to such Proceedings, that such court does not have any jurisdiction over such party.
Nothing in this Agreement precludes either party from bringing Proceedings in any other jurisdiction (outside, if this Agreement is expressed to be governed by English law, the Contracting States, as defined in Section 1(3) of the Civil Jurisdiction and Judgments Act 1982 or any modification, extension or re-enactment thereof for the time being in force) nor will the bringing of Proceedings in any one or more jurisdictions preclude the bringing of Proceedings in any other jurisdiction.
(c)      
Service of Process.
Each party irrevocably appoints the Process Agent (if any) specified opposite its name in the Schedule to receive, for it and on its behalf, service of process in any Proceedings. If for any reason any party's Process Agent is unable to act as such, such party will promptly notify the other party and within 30 days appoint a substitute process agent acceptable to the other party. The parties irrevocably consent to service of process given in the manner provided for notices in Section 12. Nothing in this Agreement will affect the right of either party to serve process in any other manner permitted by law.
(d)      
Waiver of Immunities.
Each party irrevocably waives, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, with respect to
itself and its revenues and assets (irrespective of their use or intended use), all immunity on the grounds of sovereignty or other similar grounds from (i) suit, (ii) jurisdiction of any court, (iii) relief by way of injunction, order for specific performance or for recovery of property, (iv) attachment of its assets (whether before or after judgment) and (v) execution or enforcement of any judgment to which it or its revenues or assets might otherwise be entitled in any Proceedings in the courts of any jurisdiction and irrevocably agrees, to the extent permitted by applicable law, that it will not claim any such immunity in any Proceedings.
 
As used in this Agreement:
"Additional Termination Event"
has the meaning specified in Section 5(b).
"Affected Party"
has the meaning specified in Section 5(b).
"Affected Transactions"
means (a) with respect to any Termination Event consisting of an Illegality, Tax Event or Tax Event Upon Merger, all Transactions affected by the occurrence of such Termination Event and (b) with respect to any other Termination Event, all Transactions.
"Affiliate"
means, subject to the Schedule, in relation to any person, any entity controlled, directly or indirectly, by the person, any entity that controls, directly or indirectly, the person or any entity directly or indirectly under common control with the person. For this purpose, "control" of any entity or person means ownership of a majority of the voting power of the entity or person.
"Applicable Rate"
means:
(b)      in respect of an obligation to pay an amount under Section 6(e) of either party from and after the date (determined in accordance with Section 6(d)(ii)) on which that amount is payable, the Default Rate;
(c)      in respect of all other obligations payable or deliverable (or which would have been but for Section 2(a)(iii)) by a Non-defaulting Party, the Non-default Rate; and
"Burdened Party"
has the meaning specified in Section 5(b)
.
"Change in Tax Law"
means the enactment, promulgation, execution or ratification of, or any change in or amendment to, any law (or in the application or official interpretation of any law) that occurs on or after the date on which the relevant Transaction is entered into.
"consent"
includes a consent, approval, action, authorisation, exemption, notice, filing, registration or exchange control consent.
"Credit Event Upon Merger"
has the meaning specified in Section 5(b)
.
"Credit Support Document"
means any agreement or instrument that is specified as such in this Agreement.
"Credit Support Provider"
has the meaning specified in the Schedule.
"Default Rate"
means a rate per annum equal to the cost (without proof or evidence of any actual cost) to the relevant payee (as certified by it) if it were to fund or of funding the relevant amount plus 1% per annum.
Defaulting Party"
has the meaning specified in Section 6(a).
"Early Termination Date"
means the date determined in accordance with Section 6(a) or 6(b)(iv).
"Event of Default"
has the meaning specified in Section 5(a)
and, if applicable, in the Schedule.
"Illegality"
has the meaning specified in Section 5(b).
"Indemnifiable
Tax
"
means any Tax other than a Tax that would not be imposed in respect of a payment under this Agreement but for a present or former connection between the jurisdiction of the government or taxation authority imposing such Tax and the recipient of such payment or a person related to such recipient (including, without limitation, a connection arising from such recipient or related person being or having been a citizen or resident of such jurisdiction, or being or having been organised, present or engaged in a trade or business in such jurisdiction, or having or having had a permanent establishment or fixed place of business in such jurisdiction, but excluding a connection arising solely from such recipient or related person having executed, delivered, performed its obligations or received a payment under, or enforced, this Agreement or a Credit Support Document).
"law"
includes any treaty, law, rule or regulation (as modified, in the case of tax matters, by the practice of any relevant governmental revenue authority) and
"lawful"
and
"unlawful"
will be construed accordingly.
"Local Business Day"
means, subject to the Schedule, a day on which commercial banks are open for business (including dealings in foreign exchange and foreign currency deposits) (a) in relation to any obligation under Section 2(a)(i), in the place(s) specified in the relevant Confirmation or, if not so specified, as otherwise agreed by the parties in writing or determined pursuant to provisions contained, or incorporated by reference, in this Agreement, (b) in relation to any other payment, in the place where the relevant account is located and, if different, in the principal financial centre, if any, of the currency of such payment, (c) in relation to any notice or other communication, including notice contemplated under Section 5(a)(i)
,
in the city specified in the address for notice provided by the recipient and, in the case of a notice contemplated by Section 2(b), in the place where the relevant new account is to be located and (d) in relation to Section 5(a)(v)(2)
,
in the relevant locations for performance with respect to such Specified Transaction.
"Loss"
means, with respect to this Agreement or one or more Terminated Transactions, as the case may be, and a party, the Termination Currency Equivalent of an amount that party reasonably determines in good faith to be its total losses and costs (or gain, in which case expressed as a negative number) in connection with this Agreement or that Terminated Transaction or group of Terminated Transactions, as the case may be, including any loss of bargain, cost of funding or, at the election of such party but without duplication, loss or cost incurred as a result of its terminating, liquidating, obtaining or reestablishing any hedge or related trading position (or any gain resulting from any of them). Loss includes losses and costs (or gains) in respect of any payment or delivery required to have been made (assuming satisfaction of each applicable condition precedent) on or before the relevant Early Termination Date and not made, except, so as to avoid duplication, if Section 6(e)(i)(1) or (3) or 6(e)(ii)(2)(A) applies. Loss does not include a party's legal fees and out-of-pocket expenses referred to under Section 11. A party will determine its Loss as of the relevant Early Termination Date, or, if that is not reasonably practicable, as of the earliest date thereafter as is reasonably practicable. A party may (but need not) determine its Loss by reference to quotations of relevant rates or prices from one or more leading dealers in the relevant markets.
"Market Quotation"
means, with respect to one or more Terminated Transactions and a party making the determination, an amount determined on the basis of quotations from Reference Market-makers. Each quotation will be for an amount, if any, that would be paid to such party (expressed as a negative number) or by such party (expressed as a positive number) in consideration of an agreement between such party (taking into account any existing Credit Support Document with respect to the obligations of such party) and the quoting Reference Market-maker to enter into a transaction (the "Replacement Transaction") that would have the effect of preserving for such party the economic equivalent of any payment or delivery (whether the underlying obligation was absolute or contingent and assuming the satisfaction of each applicable condition precedent) by the parties under Section 2(a)(i) in respect of such Terminated Transaction or group of Terminated Transactions that would, but for the occurrence of the relevant Early Termination Date, have been required after that date. For this purpose, Unpaid Amounts in respect of the Terminated Transaction or group of Terminated Transactions are to be excluded but, without limitation, any payment or delivery that would, but for the relevant Early Termination Date, have been required (assuming satisfaction of each applicable condition precedent) after that Early Termination Date is to be included. The Replacement Transaction would be subject to such documentation as such party and the Reference Market-maker may, in good faith, agree. The party making the determination (or its agent) will request each Reference Market-maker to provide its quotation to the extent reasonably practicable as of the same day and time (without regard to different time zones) on or as soon as reasonably practicable after the relevant Early Termination Date . The day and time as of which those quotations are to be obtained will be selected in good faith by the party obliged to make a determination under Section 6(e), and, if each party is so obliged, after consultation with the other. If more than three quotations are provided, the Market Quotation will be the arithmetic mean of the quotations, without regard to the quotations having the highest and lowest values. If exactly three such quotations are provided, the Market Quotation will be the quotation remaining after disregarding the highest and lowest quotations. For this purpose, if more than one quotation has the same highest value or lowest value, then one of such quotations shall be disregarded. If fewer than three quotations are provided, it will be deemed that the Market Quotation in respect of such Terminated Transaction or group of Terminated Transactions cannot be determined.
"Non-default Rate"
means a rate per annum equal to the cost (without proof or evidence of any actual cost) to the Non-defaulting Party (as certified by it) if it were to fund the relevant amount.
"Non-defaulting Party"
has the meaning specified in Section 6(a).
"Office"
means a branch or office of a party, which may be such party's head or home office.
"Potential Event of Default"
means any event which, with the giving of notice or the lapse of time or both, would constitute an Event of Default.
"Reference Market-makers"
means four leading dealers in the relevant market selected by the party determining a Market Quotation in good faith (a) from among dealers of the highest credit standing which satisfy all the criteria that such party applies generally at the time in deciding whether to offer or to make an extension of credit and (b) to the extent practicable, from among such dealers having an office in the same city.
"Relevant Jurisdiction"
means, with respect to a party, the jurisdictions (a) in which the party is incorporated, organised, managed and controlled or considered to have its seat, (b) where an Office through which the party is acting for purposes of this Agreement is located, (c) in which the party executes this Agreement and (d) in relation to any payment, from or through which such payment is made.
"Scheduled Payment Date"
means a date on which a payment or delivery is to be made under Section 2(a)(i) with respect to a Transaction.
"Set-off"
means set-off, offset, combination of accounts, right of retention or withholding or similar right or requirement to which the payer of an
amount under Section 6 is entitled or subject (whether arising under this Agreement, another contract, applicable law or otherwise) that is exercised by, or imposed on, such payer.
"Settlement Amount"
means, with respect to a party and any Early Termination Date, the sum of:
(a)      the Termination Currency Equivalent of the Market Quotations (whether positive or negative) for each Terminated Transaction or group of Terminated Transactions for which a Market Quotation is determined; and
(b)      such party's Loss (whether positive or negative and without reference to any Unpaid Amounts) for each Terminated Transaction or group of Terminated Transactions for which a Market Quotation cannot be determined or would not (in the reasonable belief of the party making the determination) produce a commercially reasonable result.
"Specified Entity"
has the meaning specified in the Schedule.
"Specified Indebtedness"
means, subject to the Schedule, any obligation (whether present or future, contingent or otherwise, as principal or surety or otherwise) in respect of borrowed money.
"Specified Transaction"
means
,
subject to the Schedule, (a) any transaction (including an agreement with respect thereto) now existing or hereafter entered into between one party to this Agreement (or any Credit Support Provider of such party or any applicable Specified Entity of such party) and the other party to this Agreement (or any Credit Support Provider of such other party or any applicable Specified Entity of such other party) which is a rate swap transaction, basis swap, forward rate transaction, commodity swap, commodity option, equity or equity index swap, equity or equity index option, bond option, interest rate option, foreign exchange transaction, cap transaction, floor transaction, collar transaction, currency swap transaction, cross-currency rate swap transaction, currency option or any other similar trans action (including any option with respect to any of these transactions), (b) any combination of these transactions and (c) any other transaction identified as a Specified Transaction in this Agreement or the relevant confirmation.
"Stamp Tax"
means any stamp, registration, documentation or similar tax.
"Tax"
means any present or future tax, levy, impost, duty, charge, assessment or fee of any nature (including interest, penalties and additions thereto) that is imposed by any government or other taxing authority in respect of any payment under this Agreement other than a stamp, registration, documentation or similar tax.
"Tax Event"
has the meaning specified in Section 5(b)
.
"Tax Event Upon Merger"
has the meaning specified in Section 5(b)
.
"Terminated Transactions"
means with respect to any Early Termination Date (a) if resulting from a Termination Event, all Affected Transactions and (b) if resulting from an Event of Default, all Transactions (in either case) in effect immediately before the effectiveness of the notice designating that Early Termination Date (or, if "Automatic Early Termination" applies, immediately before that Early Termination Date).
"Termination Currency"
has the meaning specified in the Schedule.
"Termination Currency Equivalent"
means, in respect of any amount denominated in the Termination Currency, such Termination Currency amount and, in respect of any amount denominated in a currency other than the Termination Currency (the "Other Currency"), the amount in the Termination Currency determined by the party making the relevant determination as being required to purchase such amount of such Other Currency as at the relevant Early Termination Date, or, if the relevant Market Quotation or Loss (as the case may be), is determined as of a later date, that later date, with the Termination Currency at the rate equal to the spot exchange rate of the foreign exchange agent (selected as provided below) for the purchase of such Other Currency with the Termination Currency at or about 11:00 a.m. (in the city in which such foreign exchange agent is located) on such date as would be customary for the determination of such a rate for the purchase of such Other Currency for value on the relevant Early Termination Date or that later date. The foreign exchange agent will, if only one party is obliged to make a determination under Section 6(e), be selected in good faith by that party and otherwise will be agreed by the parties.
"Termination Event"
means an Illegality, a Tax Event or a Tax Event Upon Merger or, if specified to be applicable, a Credit Event Upon Merger or an Additional Termination Event.
"Termination Rate"
means a rate per annum equal to the arithmetic mean of the cost (without proof or evidence of any actual cost) to each party (as certified by such party) if it were to fund or of funding such amounts.
"Unpaid Amounts"
owing to any party means, with respect to an Early Termination Date, the aggregate of (a) in respect of all Terminated Transactions, the amounts that became payable (or that would have become payable but for Section 2(a)(iii)) to such party under Section 2(a)(i) on or prior to such Early Termination Date and which remain unpaid as at such Early Termination Date and (b) in respect of each Terminated Transaction, for each obligation under Section 2(a)(i) which was (or would have been but for Section 2(a) (iii)) required to be settled by delivery to such party on or prior to such Early Termination Date and which has not been so settled as at such Early Termination Date, an amount equal to the fair market value of that which was (or would have been) required to be delivered as of the originally scheduled date for delivery, in each case together with (to the extent permitted under applicable law) interest, in the currency of such amounts, from (and including) the date such amounts or obligations were or would have been required to have been paid or performed to (but excluding) such Early Termination Date, at the Applicable Rate. Such amounts of interest will be calculated on the basis of daily compounding and the actual number of days elapsed. The fair market value of any obligation referred to in clause (b) above shall be reasonably determined by the party obliged to make the determination under Section 6(e) or, if each party is so obliged, it shall be the average of the Termination Currency Equivalents of the fair market values reasonably determined by both parties.
 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties have executed this document on the respective dates specified below with effect from the date specified on the first page of this document.
 
 
 
 
 
ISDA
1992
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.3
Execution Copy
 
CREDIT SUPPORT ANNEX
 
to the Schedule to the
Master Agreement
dated as of May 18, 2005
 
between
 
J. ARON & COMPANY ("Aron")
 
and
 
EACH COUNTERPARY LISTED ON EXHIBIT A ATTACHED HERETO,
jointly and severally,
("Counterparty").
 
acting by and through
CHESAPEAKE EXPLORATION LIMITED PARTNERSHIP,
a limited partnership organized under the laws of the State of Oklahoma,
as a Counterparty and as agent ("Agent")
 
Paragraph 13. Elections and Variables
 
As used in this Paragraph 13, "
Part 7
" means Part 7 of the Schedule to this Agreement
 
(a)        
Security Interest for "Obligations"
. The term "Obligations" as used in this Annex includes the following additional obligations:
 
With respect to Aron: Not applicable.
 
With respect to Counterparty: "Obligations" means any and all present and future obligations of Counterparty under or in connection with this Agreement and the other Secured Trading Line Documents.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Paragraphs 4 and 5, upon a demand made by Aron on or promptly following a Calculation Date, if the Cash Deficiency Amount for such Calculation Date specified in the related Calculation Date Collateral Notice delivered pursuant to clause (j)(2) of Part 7 equals or exceeds Counterparty's Minimum Transfer Amount, then Counterparty will Transfer to Aron Eligible Collateral or Other Eligible Support (collectively, "Eligible Credit Support") having a Value as of the date of Transfer at least equal to such Cash Deficiency Amount (for such purposes, a
"Delivery Amount"
), rounded pursuant to Paragraph 13.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
With respect to Counterparty, the following items will qualify as
"Eligible Collateral"
:
 
 
 
 
Letters of Credit issued in favor of Counterparty on the terms set forth in Part 7 and this Annex.
 
 
 
"Independent Amount"
means with respect to Counterparty: Not applicable.
 
 
"Threshold"
means with respect to Counterparty: Not applicable.
 
 
 
 
Termination Event or Specified Condition with respect to such party.
 
"Minimum Transfer Amount"
means with respect to Counterparty: (i) except with respect to Part 7, USD0, and (ii) with respect to Part 7, U.S.$250,000; provided that the Minimum Transfer Amount for Counterparty shall be zero upon the occurrence and during the continuance of an Event of Default, Potential Event of Default, Termination Event or Specified Condition with respect to such party.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A notice of the Valuation Agent's calculations may be combined with a demand for a Delivery Amount or a Return Amount.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the Pledgor Posted Credit Support except on the dates and in the amounts required pursuant to the terms of Part 7.
 
 
"All calculations of Delivery Amounts and Return Amounts for purposes of Intra-Year Collateral and Paragraph 6(d) will be made by the Valuation Agent as of the Valuation Time. The Valuation Agent will notify each party (or the other party, if the Valuation Agent is a party) of its calculations not later than the Notification Time on the Local Business Day following the applicable Valuation Date (or in the case of Paragraph 6(d), following the date of calculation)."
 
(d)        
Conditions Precedent and Secured Party's Rights and Remedies
. The following Termination Event(s) will be a "Specified Condition" for the party specified (that party being the Affected Party if the Termination Event occurs with respect to that party):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
will be calculated in accordance with the requirements of Part 7. The Value will be the arithmetic mean of the quotes received by the Valuation Agent.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
be entitled to hold Posted Collateral pursuant to Paragraph 6(b); provided that the following conditions applicable to it are satisfied:
 
(1)
 
Counterparty is not a Defaulting Party and there is no Specified Condition that has occurred or is continuing with respect to Counterparty.
 
 
Initially, the Custodian for Counterparty is Aron.
 
 
 
 
 
 
(i)         
Additional Representations
. Counterparty represents to Aron (which representation(s) will be deemed to be repeated as of each date on which it, as the Pledgor, Transfers Eligible Collateral) that the necessary action to authorize referred to in Section 3(a)(ii) of this Agreement includes all authorizations required under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act as amended (including amendments effected by the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery and Enforcement Act of 1989) and under any agreement, writ, decree or order entered into with the Pledgor's supervisory authorities; and at all times during the term of this Agreement, the Pledgor will continuously include and maintain as part of its official written books and records this Agreement, and all exhibits, supplements and attachments hereto and documents incorporated by reference herein, and evidence of all necessary authorizations. This Agreement and any other documentation relating to this Agreement to which Counterparty is a party or that Counterparty is required to deliver will be executed and delivered by a duly appointed or elected and authorized officer of the Pledgor of the level of vice-president or higher. The Pledgor and the Secured Party agree that each Transaction and the Agreement are a "swap agreement" and a "qualified financial contract" and that the Agreement is a "master agreement" for purposes of Section 11(e)(8) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act or any successor provisions.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
by Counterparty to Aron at the address specified in this Annex or delivery of an executed amendment to such Letter of Credit, in form and substance satisfactory to Aron, by Counterparty to Aron at the address specified in this Annex; and
 
 
(k)        
Demands and Notices
. All demands, specifications and notices under this Annex will be made pursuant to the Notices Section of this Agreement, unless otherwise specified here:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Paragraph 9, (d) only Counterparty will be required to make Transfers of Eligible Credit Support hereunder (it being understood that Aron will be required to make Transfers of Posted Credit Support at the times and to the extent required hereunder) and (e) Paragraph 7 shall apply to Counterparty only and shall not apply to Aron.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Accepted and agreed:
 
EXHIBIT A HERETO,
 
jointly and severally
 
 
LIMITED PARTNERSHIP, as a Counterparty
and as Agent for each other Counterparty
 
By: Chesapeake Operating, Inc.,
 
 
 
solely in its capacity as an agent and securities intermediary of J. Aron & Company with respect to Paragraph 13(m)(x) hereof
 
 
 
 
Acknowledged and Agreed:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT A
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


