FILE:CHK/CHK-8K-20051101162243.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
On September 30, 2005, Chesapeake Energy Corporation entered into an agreement to acquire Columbia Energy Resources, LLC and its related subsidiaries including Columbia Natural Resources, LLC ("CER"), for $2.2 billion in cash, subject to closing adjustments. Through this transaction, we anticipate acquiring properties and assets principally located in the Appalachian Basin in West Virginia, Kentucky, Ohio, Pennsylvania and New York, including:
 
 
 
 
Based upon the estimated fair value of the probable and possible reserves and other associated leasehold, we estimate the fair value of unevaluated properties to be approximately $500 million and we estimate the fair value of the mid-stream assets to be $175 million. In addition, gas sold from the properties generally receives a $0.50 per mmbtu premium to NYMEX gas prices, compared to basis differential discounts that have recently ranged up to $3.00 per mmbtu in various southwestern and western U.S. natural gas supply basins. Adjusting further for the favorable BTU content, CER's natural gas has recently received wellhead prices of up to $4.00 per mcfe more than typical southwestern and western U.S. natural gas production.
 
CER's current daily net production is approximately 125 million cubic feet of natural gas equivalent (mmcfe), indicating a proved developed reserves-to-production index of 16.0 years, or about 9% of our current daily net production, giving pro forma effect to the acquisition. In addition to the significant number of undeveloped drilling locations with proved reserves, we believe the unevaluated properties offer considerable additional drilling and development potential for adding proved reserves. We intend to spend at least $200 million per year for the foreseeable future in further developing the CER properties with a goal of growing CER production by 5% to 10% per year.
 
We will acquire CER subject to liabilities, including an estimated $75 million working capital deficit and its prepaid sales agreement and hedging arrangements. As part of the acquisition, we expect to record a mark-to-market liability on the prepaid sales and hedging obligations when the transaction closes. The amount of the mark-to-market liability will be dependent on gas prices on the day of the closing. For example, using a flat $7.00 NYMEX gas strip through December 2008, the prepaid sales and hedging liabilities would be approximately $325 million. Using gas prices as of September 30, 2005, the prepaid sales and hedging liabilities would be approximately $775 million.
 
We expect to close the CER acquisition by December 1, 2005, subject to satisfaction of customary closing conditions. We are currently in the process of completing title and environmental review and resolving certain third party rights of first refusal on a minor portion of the CER assets, the outcome of some of which could have the effect of adjusting the purchase price and eliminating some of the properties. There is no assurance, however, that the CER acquisition will close, or close without material adjustment.
 
We intend to finance a portion of the CER acquisition cash purchase price from the net proceeds from three concurrent private placement offerings. The completion of each private placement offering is not conditioned on the completion of either of the concurrent offerings. We expect the remainder of the purchase price will be paid from available bank borrowings or, if needed, a bridge loan we have received commitments for.
 
We are filing herewith the following historical financial statements of CER and pro forma financial information:
 
 
 
 
 
 
The audited consolidated financial statements of CER for the year ended December 31, 2004 and the four months ended December 31, 2003 and the unaudited interim consolidated financial statements of CER for the nine months ended September 30, 2005 and 2004 are filed as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively, to this report and incorporated herein by this reference.
 
 
The pro forma financial information with respect to the CER acquisition is filed as Exhibit 99.3 to this report and incorporated herein by this reference.
 
 
The exhibits listed below are filed with this report.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Dated: November 1, 2005
 
 
 

Exhibit 2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
AGREEMENT dated as of September 30, 2005 between Chesapeake Energy Corporation, an Oklahoma corporation (""), and Triana Energy Holdings, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company ("").
Buyer
Seller
 
 
WHEREAS, Columbia Energy Resources, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, through its subsidiaries, owns and conducts, as a going concern, a natural gas exploration and production business in the Appalachian Basin; and
 
WHEREAS, Seller is the record and beneficial owner of one hundred percent (100%) of the Interests and desires to sell the Interests to Buyer, and Buyer desires to purchase the Interests from Seller, upon the terms and subject to the conditions hereinafter set forth.
 
The parties hereto agree as follows:
 
 
Section 1.01. . (a) The following terms, as used herein, have the following meanings:
Definitions
 
"" means, with respect to any Person, any other Person directly or indirectly controlling, controlled by, or under common control with such Person; that neither the Company nor any Subsidiary shall be considered an Affiliate of Seller.
Affiliate
provided
 
"" means the unaudited consolidated balance sheet of the Company and the Subsidiaries as of the Balance Sheet Date.
Balance Sheet
 
"" means June 30, 2005.
Balance Sheet Date
 
"" means a day, other than Saturday, Sunday or other day on which commercial banks in New York, New York are authorized or required by law to close.
Business Day
 
"" means cash and cash equivalents of the Company and the Subsidiaries as of immediately prior to the Closing.
Closing Cash
"" means the date of the Closing.
Closing Date
 
"" means (i) the Debt Repayment Amount (ii) Closing Cash.
Closing Net Debt
minus
 
"" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Code
 
"" means the Company and the Subsidiaries, collectively.
Columbia Entities
 
"" means Columbia Energy Resources, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company.
Company
 
"" means all Intellectual Property Rights owned by the Company or any Subsidiary.
Company Intellectual Property Rights
 
"" means the Credit Agreement dated as of January 19, 2005 among Columbia Natural Resources, LLC, the Company and the lenders party thereto, as amended, supplemented, renewed or replaced from time to time.
Credit Facility
 
"" means, with respect to an Oil and Gas Property, such title that is:
Defensible Title
 
(i) with respect to each recorded ownership interest, evidenced by an instrument or instruments filed of record in accordance with the conveyance and recording laws of the applicable jurisdiction to the extent necessary to entitle the Columbia Entities to receive, throughout the productive life of the Well associated with such Oil and Gas Property, not less than the Net Revenue Interest set forth in Schedule 3.13(a)(iii) in and to all Hydrocarbons produced from or allocated to such Well, and obligate the Columbia Entities to bear, throughout the productive life of such Well, not greater than the Working Interest set forth in Schedule 3.13(a)(iii) of such Well, except increases in such Working Interest that result in at least a proportionate increase in the Net Revenue Interest for such Well; and
 
(ii) free and clear of all Liens (other than Permitted Liens).
 
"" means a Subsidiary that is treated as a disregarded entity for U.S. federal income tax purposes.
Disregarded Subsidiary
 
"" means, with respect to any Well, that portion of a Lease which comprises the minimum area prescribed by the then applicable well spacing regulations for the granting of a permit to drill such Well and, if no well spacing regulations apply, then that area which is occupied by the wellhead of such Well.
Drill Site Location
 
"" means any and all statutes, laws, regulations, rules, ordinances or common law of any Governmental Authority, as well as any order, decree, permit, judgment or injunction issued, promulgated, approved or entered thereunder relating to the environment, hazardous materials (including the use, handling, transportation, production, disposal, discharge or storage thereof), or the reporting or remediation of environmental contamination, in each case as in effect on the date hereof.
Environmental Laws
 
"" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended.
ERISA
 
"" means any other entity which, together with the Company, would be treated as a single employer under Section 414 of the Code.
ERISA Affiliate
 
"" means generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, as recognized by the U.S. Financial Accounting Standards Board, applied on a basis consistent with past practice.
GAAP
 
"" means any national, state, county or municipal government, domestic or foreign, any agency, board, bureau, commission, court, department or other instrumentality of any such government, or any arbitrator in any case that has jurisdiction over any of the Columbia Entities, any of the parties hereto or any of their respective properties or assets, as applicable.
Governmental Authority
 
"" means the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended.
HSR Act
 
"" means oil, condensate, gas, casinghead gas and other liquid or gaseous hydrocarbons.
Hydrocarbons
 
"" means any trademark, service mark, trade name, invention, patent, trade secret, copyright, know-how (including any registrations or applications for registration of any of the foregoing) or any other similar type of proprietary intellectual property right.
Intellectual Property Right
 
"" means all of the outstanding membership interests of the Company.
Interests
 
"" means (i) the ISDA Master Agreement dated as of September 3, 2003 between Columbia Natural Resources, LLC and Bank One, (ii) the ISDA Master Agreement dated as of November 1, 2003 between Columbia Natural Resources, LLC and BNP Paribas and (iii) the letter agreements in the form of long-form confirmations between Columbia Natural
ISDA Master Agreements
 
Resources, LLC and Bank of Montreal, in each case together with any amendments and schedules thereto.
 
"", "" or any other similar knowledge qualification in this Agreement means to the actual knowledge after reasonable inquiry of W. Henry Harmon, Mark Chandler, Michael John or Jo Ellen Yeary.
Knowledge of Seller
Seller's knowledge
 
"" means, with respect to any property or asset, any mortgage, lien, pledge, charge, security interest or encumbrance in respect of such property or asset.
Lien
 
"" means the Natural Gas Advance Sale Contract dated as of December 1, 1999, as amended as of March 30, 2001, between Columbia Natural Resources, LLC (as successor to Columbia Natural Resources, Inc.) and Mahonia II Limited, and the Natural Gas Advance Sale Contract dated as of August 24, 2000, as amended as of March 30, 2001, between Columbia Natural Resources, LLC (as successor to Columbia Natural Resources, Inc.) and Mahonia II Limited.
Mahonia Contracts
 
"" means a material adverse effect on (a) the business, assets, operations, results of operations or condition, financial or otherwise, of the Columbia Entities, taken as a whole, (b) the ability of the Columbia Entities, taken as a whole, to own, hold, develop and operate their assets, or (c) Seller's ability to perform its obligations under this Agreement or to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, except in each case to the extent resulting from or arising in connection with (i) this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby, (ii) changes or conditions affecting the natural gas exploration and production industry generally (including, without limitation, changes in world, national or regional market prices for Hydrocarbons or any suspension of or limitations in world, national or regional markets for Hydrocarbons), (iii) changes in economic, regulatory or political conditions generally, (iv) any matter set forth in the Schedules hereto, (v) the failure or non-availability of third party pipeline deliverability or (vi) depletion of oil, condensate or natural gas reserves in the ordinary course of business.
Material Adverse Effect
 
"" means the percentage of production from an Oil and Gas Property that any of the Columbia Entities is entitled to receive as a result of its interest in a Lease that pertains to such Oil and Gas Property, net of royalties, overriding royalties, nonparticipating royalties, net profits interests or other similar burdens on or measured by the production of Hydrocarbons.
Net Revenue Interest
 
"" means (i) in the case of Trenton/Black River Wells, a Well and the Drill Site Location on which such Well is located and (ii) in the case of all other Wells, a Well and the Lease on which the Well is located.
Oil and Gas Property
 
"" means (i) Liens for taxes, assessments and similar charges that are not yet due or delinquent or are being contested in good faith and as to which adequate reserves have been established to the extent required by GAAP, (ii) operator's, mechanic's, materialman's, carrier's, repairer's and other similar Liens arising or incurred in the ordinary course of business for sums not yet due and payable or being contested in good faith and as to which adequate reserves have been established to the extent required by GAAP, (iii) easements, rights of way, servitudes or other similar rights or interests in land, including all rights of way and servitudes for highways, railways, sewers, drains, gas and oil pipelines, gas and water mains, electric light, power, telephone or cable television conduits, poles, wires or cables and other similar easements and rights-of-way on, over or in respect of any property (the "") and the easements, leases, licenses, right-of-way agreements and other agreements creating such Easements and leaseholds, in each case which do not materially restrict the present use of the property to which such Easements relate, (iv) zoning, municipal planning, building codes or other applicable laws, rules, regulations, permits or ordinances regulating the use, development or occupancy of property, (v) recorded building and use restrictions and covenants, (vi) preferential or other preemptive rights of purchase or requisite consents or approvals vested in any third parties applicable to any property and contained in any Material Contract or any other written instruments made available to Buyer by Seller; (vii) production sale contracts, farmouts and farmins, unitization and pooling declarations, seismic agreements, area of mutual interest agreements and any operating agreements and other agreements, that the effect thereof does not reduce the Columbia Entities' Net Revenue Interest, or increase the Columbia Entities' Working Interest, in any Well associated with an Oil and Gas Property from that set forth on Schedule 3.13(a)(iii); and (viii) agreements relating to the processing, treating or transmission of oil or gas or other Hydrocarbons or the operation of oil or gas wells by contract field operators, royalty, overriding royalty, sales and similar agreements relating to the exploration or development of, or production from, Hydrocarbon properties, entered into in the ordinary course of business, the effect thereof on the Net Revenue Interest and Working Interest of the Columbia Entities has been reflected in all material respects in Schedule 3.13(a)(iii).
Permitted Liens
Easements
provided
provided
 
"" means an individual, corporation, partnership, limited liability company, association, trust or other entity or organization, including a government or political subdivision or an agency or instrumentality thereof.
Person
 
"" means any entity of which membership interests, securities or other ownership interests having the power to designate the managing member or ordinary voting power to elect a majority of the board of directors or other persons performing similar functions are directly or indirectly owned by the Company, including the entities listed in Schedule 3.07(b).
Subsidiary
 
"" means any condition that causes the title of any of the Columbia Entities to one or more of its Oil and Gas Properties to be less than Defensible Title.
Title Defect
 
"" means the cost of curing a Title Defect, or if such Title Defect cannot be cured, any damage, loss, diminution in value or expense directly resulting from the existence of such Title Defect.
Title Defect Amount
 
"" means the Columbia Entities' percent of all costs of drilling, equipping, operating, plugging, abandoning and salvaging a Well.
Working Interest
 
(b) Each of the following terms is defined in the Section set forth opposite such term:
 
 
Section 1.02 The words "hereof", "herein" and "hereunder" and words of like import used in this Agreement shall refer to this Agreement as a whole and not to any particular provision of this Agreement. The captions herein are included for convenience of reference only and shall be ignored in the construction or interpretation hereof. References to Articles, Sections, Exhibits and Schedules are to Articles, Sections, Exhibits and Schedules of this Agreement unless otherwise specified. All Exhibits and Schedules annexed hereto or referred to herein are hereby incorporated in and made a part of this Agreement as if set forth in full herein. Any capitalized terms used in any Schedule but not otherwise defined therein, shall have the meaning as defined in this Agreement. Any singular term in this Agreement shall be deemed to include the plural, and any plural term the singular. Whenever the words "include", "includes" or "including" are used in this Agreement, they shall be deemed to be followed by the words "without limitation", whether or not they are in fact followed by those words or words of like import. "Writing", "written" and comparable terms refer to printing, typing and other means of reproducing words (including electronic media) in a visible form. References to any agreement or contract are to that agreement or contract as amended, modified or supplemented from time to time in accordance with the terms hereof and thereof. References to any Person include the successors and permitted assigns of that Person. References from or through any date mean, unless otherwise specified, from and including or through and including, respectively.
. Other Definitional and Interpretative Provisions.
 
 
Section 2.01. . (a) Upon the terms and subject to the conditions of this Agreement, Seller agrees to sell to Buyer, and Buyer agrees to purchase from Seller, the Interests at the Closing. The purchase price for all of the Interests is $2,200,000,000 in cash (the ""). The Purchase Price shall be paid as provided in Section 2.02 and shall be subject to adjustment as provided in Section 2.01(b), Section 2.03 and Section 2.04.
Purchase and Sale
Purchase Price
 
(b) No later than three Business Days prior to the Closing Date, Seller shall deliver to Buyer a statement setting forth the Company's good faith estimate of Closing Net Debt (""), accompanied by a reasonably detailed computation of such amount. The Purchase Price payable at the Closing shall be (i) increased by the amount, if any, by which Estimated Closing Net Debt exceeds $713,845,725, (ii) decreased by the amount, if any, by which $713,845,725 exceeds Estimated Closing Net Debt, (iii) decreased by the amount, if any, by which the aggregate amount of all Agreed-Upon Title Defect Amounts as of the Closing exceeds $10,000,000 ( that, in the case of this clause (iii), such decrease shall not exceed $50,000,000) and (iv) increased by an amount of interest on $1,486,154,275 for the period from the date on which all of the conditions set forth in Article 10 have been satisfied (other than conditions that, by their terms, will be satisfied at the Closing) to and including the Closing Date at a rate of 6.75% per annum, calculated on the basis of a year of 365 days and the actual number of days elapsed.
Estimated Closing Net Debt
provided
 
Section 2.02. . The closing (the "") of the purchase and sale of the Interests hereunder shall take place at the offices of Davis Polk & Wardwell, 450 Lexington Avenue, New York, New York, as promptly as practicable, but in no event after the later of (i) five Business Days after satisfaction of the conditions set forth in Article 10 and (ii) December 9, 2005, or at such other time or place as Buyer and Seller may agree. At the Closing:
Closing
Closing
 
(a) Buyer shall deliver to Seller: (i) the Purchase Price (as adjusted pursuant to Section 2.01(b)) in immediately available funds by wire transfer to an account of Seller with a bank designated by Seller, by notice to Buyer, which notice shall be delivered not later than two Business Days prior to the Closing Date (or if not so designated, then by certified or official bank check payable in immediately available funds to the order of Seller in such amount) and (ii) such documents customary in similar transactions as might be reasonably requested by Seller to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
 
(b) Seller shall repay, and shall cause the Company and the Subsidiaries to repay, in full all amounts outstanding under the Credit Facility as of the Closing (the amount of such repayment, the ""). The Debt Repayment Amount shall be paid using the Closing Cash (to the extent readily available) and a portion of the Purchase Price paid to Seller pursuant to Section 2.02(a).
Debt Repayment Amount
 
(c) Seller shall deliver to Buyer: (i) an agreement of assignment assigning to Buyer or its designee all of Seller's right, title and interest to the Interests in form and substance that is reasonably acceptable to Buyer and Seller; (ii) such resolutions, certificates of good standing, incumbency certificates and other evidence of authority with respect to Seller as might be reasonably
 
requested by Buyer; (iii) resignations of all directors or equivalent persons of the Columbia Entities (in their capacity as such, and not as employees of the Columbia Entities) and removals of such officers, managers, directors and employees as designated signatories for each bank or other depository account maintained by the Columbia Entities, in each case to the extent designated by Buyer in writing prior to the Closing; (iv) releases of all Liens covering any portion of the assets of the Columbia Entities securing payment of the Credit Facility (except to the extent securing obligations under the ISDA Master Agreements); (v) releases of all Liens covering any of the Interests; and (vi) such additional documents customary in similar transactions as might be reasonably requested by Buyer to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
 
Section 2.03. (a) If Estimated Closing Net Debt exceeds Closing Net Debt, Seller shall pay to Buyer, as an adjustment to the Purchase Price, in the manner provided in Section 2.03(b), the amount of such excess. If Closing Net Debt exceeds Estimated Closing Net Debt, then Buyer shall pay to Seller, as an adjustment to the Purchase Price, in the manner provided in Section 2.03(b), the amount of such excess. The parties agree that, for purposes of this Section 2.03, Closing Net Debt shall be determined assuming that (i) the Debt Repayment Amount is equal to the amount actually paid at the Closing pursuant to Section 2.02(b) and (ii) Closing Cash is equal to the amount of cash and cash equivalents of the Company and the Subsidiaries actually used to pay a portion of the Debt Repayment Amount at the Closing pursuant to Section 2.02(b).
Closing Net Debt; Purchase Price Adjustment.
 
(b) Any payment pursuant to Section 2.03(a) shall be made within five Business Days after the Closing (x) in the case of payments made by Buyer, by delivery to Seller of immediately available funds to an account previously designated by Seller or (y) in the case of payments made by Seller, by delivery to Buyer of immediately available funds to an account previously designated by Buyer.
 
Section 2.04(a) As soon as reasonably practicable following the date of this Agreement, and in no event later than the Closing Date, Buyer shall deliver to Seller written notices identifying each matter that it believes in good faith to be a Title Defect, together with a good faith estimate of the associated Title Defect Amount for each such alleged Title Defect, and reasonable written documentation to support Buyer's claims of each such Title Defect and Title Defect Amount (the ""). In order for Seller to review the alleged Title Defects listed in the Title Defect Notice, Buyer will provide to Seller and its representatives copies of any documents used to determine the existence of each Title Defect and the amount of the estimated Title Defect Amount associated with such Title Defect. Buyer shall include in the
. Title Defects; Purchase Price Adjustment.
Title Defect Notice
 
Title Defect Notice only Title Defects with Title Defect Amounts that are reasonably believed, in good faith, to individually exceed $40,000.
 
(b) If Seller disagrees with the existence of a Title Defect or the associated Title Defect Amount, then Seller shall notify Buyer of such disagreement in writing (a "") within 60 days after its receipt of the applicable Title Defect Notice. Such Notice of Disagreement shall specify in reasonable detail Seller's grounds for such disagreement and the Title Defect Amount estimated by Seller therefor, as applicable. To the extent Seller does not contest a Title Defect or a Title Defect Amount in a Notice of Disagreement within 60 days of its receipt of the applicable Title Defect Notice, Seller shall be deemed to have accepted the existence of such Title Defect or Title Defect Amount, which shall be final, binding and conclusive for all purposes hereunder.
Notice of Disagreement
 
(c) If a Notice of Disagreement is timely provided by Seller, Buyer and Seller shall use commercially reasonable efforts for a period of 30 days after delivery of such Notice of Disagreement (or such longer period as they may mutually agree) to resolve any disagreements with respect to the existence of any Title Defect or the amount of any Title Defect Amount contested in the Notice of Disagreement. If, at the end of such period, they are unable to resolve such disagreements, then, upon the written request of either party, Seller and Buyer agree that within a further 15 day period, they will jointly select an arbitrator who is an attorney experienced in the natural gas and gas exploration and production industry in the United States as well as in real estate and title insurance matters, or as otherwise mutually agreed upon by Seller and Buyer (the ""), to resolve any remaining disagreements. If Seller and Buyer are unable to agree upon the designation of a Person as a Title Defect Arbitrator, they shall request the American Arbitration Association to appoint the Title Defect Arbitrator and such Title Defect Arbitrator shall hear all matters submitted under this Section 2.04(c).
Title Defect Arbitrator
 
(d) The Title Defect Arbitrator shall determine as promptly as practicable (but in any event within 60 days) following the date on which such dispute is referred to the Title Defect Arbitrator the existence of any alleged Title Defect or the amount of any disputed Title Defect Amount, as the case may require, identified in the Notice of Disagreement and not previously resolved by the parties. Each party shall set forth in writing its position regarding the existence of each alleged Title Defect and the amount of each Title Defect Amount referred to the Title Defect Arbitrator for resolution, and the Title Defect Arbitrator shall be required to select the position of either one party or the other with respect to each such Title Defect or Title Defect Amount, as the case may require. Each party shall bear its own expenses and the fees and expenses of its own representatives and experts in connection with the preparation, review,
 
dispute (if any) and final determination of any alleged Title Defects. Buyer, on the one hand, and Seller, on the other hand, shall share equally the costs, expenses and fees of the Title Defect Arbitrator. The determination of the Title Defect Arbitrator shall be final, conclusive and binding on the parties and shall be enforceable in any court having jurisdiction.
 
(e) As used in this Agreement, an "" shall mean any of (i) a Title Defect Amount that is not contested under any Notice of Disagreement within the time period set forth in Section 2.04(b), (ii) a Title Defect Amount that is mutually agreed upon by Buyer and Seller, or (iii) a Title Defect Amount resulting from a determination of the Title Defect Arbitrator pursuant to Section 2.04(d).
Agreed-Upon Title Defect Amount
 
(f) As set forth in Section 2.01(b), the Purchase Price payable at the Closing shall be decreased by the amount, if any, by which the aggregate amount of all Agreed-Upon Title Defect Amounts as of Closing exceeds $10,000,000 ( that such decrease shall not exceed $50,000,000). After Closing, Seller shall promptly pay to Buyer any Agreed-Upon Title Defect Amounts finalized after Closing to the extent that such amounts, together with all other Agreed-Upon Title Defect Amounts, exceed $10,000,000 in the aggregate ( that the aggregate amount of such payments, together with the amount of any decrease in the Purchase Price payable at the Closing pursuant to Section 2.01(b) in respect of any Agreed-Upon Title Defect Amounts, shall not exceed $50,000,000). Buyer understands and agrees that the adjustment to the Purchase Price and the payments provided for in this Section 2.04 constitute the sole and exclusive remedy with respect to any Title Defect, and no claim may be made by Buyer or its Affiliates in respect of any such Title Defect pursuant to any representation or warranty made by Seller or any of its affiliates or representatives.
provided
provided
 
Section 2.05. (a) As soon as practicable after the Closing, Buyer shall deliver to Seller a statement (the ""), allocating the Purchase Price (as adjusted pursuant to Section 2.01(b)) , plus the liabilities of the Company and the Disregarded Subsidiaries to the extent properly taken into account under Section 1060 of the Code, among the assets of the Company and the Subsidiaries in accordance with Section 1060 of the Code. If within 10 days after the delivery of the Allocation Statement, Seller notifies Buyer in writing that Seller objects to the allocation set forth in the Allocation Statement, Buyer and Seller shall use commercially reasonable efforts to resolve such dispute within 20 days. In the event that Buyer and Seller are unable to resolve such dispute within 20 days, Buyer and Seller shall jointly retain independent accountants of nationally recognized standing reasonably satisfactory to Buyer and Seller (who shall not have any material relationship with Buyer or Seller) (the "") to resolve the disputed items. Upon resolution of the disputed items, the allocation reflected on the Allocation
Allocation of Purchase Price.
Allocation Statement
Accounting Referee
 
Statement shall be adjusted to reflect such resolution. The costs, fees and expenses of the Accounting Referee shall be borne equally by Buyer and Seller.
 
(b) Seller and Buyer agree to (i) be bound by the Allocation Statement and (ii) act in accordance with the Allocation Statement in the preparation, filing and audit of any Tax return (including filing Form 8594 with its federal income Tax return for the taxable year that includes the date of the Closing).
 
(c) If an adjustment is made with respect to the Purchase Price pursuant to Section 2.03 or Section 2.04, the Allocation Statement shall be adjusted in accordance with Section 1060 of the Code and as mutually agreed by Buyer and Seller. In the event that an agreement is not reached within 30 days after the Closing (in the case of Closing Net Debt) or the amount of any Title Defect (in the case of any Title Defect), any disputed items shall be resolved in the manner described in Section 2.05(a) (in the case of Closing Net Debt) or Section 2.04(c) (in the case of any Title Defect). Buyer and Seller agree to file any additional information return required to be filed pursuant to Section 1060 of the Code and to treat the Allocation Statement as adjusted in the manner described in Section 2.03 or Section 2.04, as applicable. Not later than 30 days prior to the filing of their respective Forms 8594 relating to this transaction, each party shall deliver to the other party a copy of its Form 8594.
 
 
As an inducement to Buyer to enter into this Agreement, Seller hereby represents and warrants to Buyer as follows:
 
Section 3.01. . Each of Seller and the Company is a limited liability company duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of Delaware and has all powers and all governmental licenses, authorizations, permits, consents and approvals required to carry on its business as now conducted, except for those licenses, authorizations, permits, consents and approvals the absence of which would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. The Company is duly qualified to do business as a foreign Person and is in good standing in each jurisdiction where such qualification is necessary, except those jurisdictions where failure to be so qualified would not reasonably be expected to be material to the Columbia Entities, taken as a whole. All material actions taken by each of the Columbia Entities since September 1, 2003 through the date hereof have been duly authorized or subsequently ratified as necessary. None of the Columbia Entities is in material default under or in material violation of any provision of its certificate or articles of formation or other governance documents.
Existence and Power
 
Section 3.02. . Seller has taken all necessary action to authorize the execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement and has adequate power, authority and legal right to enter into, execute, deliver and perform this Agreement and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby. This Agreement is legal, valid and binding with respect to Seller and is enforceable against Seller in accordance with its terms, except as the enforceability thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency or similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally or general principles of equity. At the Closing, Buyer will receive good title to one hundred percent (100%) of the membership interests in the Company free and clear of all Liens.
Seller Authorization
 
Section 3.03. . The execution, delivery and performance by Seller of this Agreement and the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby require no action by or in respect of, or filing with, any governmental body, agency or official other than (i) compliance with any applicable requirements of the HSR Act and (ii) any such action or filing as to which the failure to make or obtain would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Governmental Authorization
 
Section 3.04. . The execution, delivery and performance by Seller of this Agreement and the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby do not and will not (i) violate the certificate of organization, limited liability company operating agreement or other organizational documents of Seller or the Company or any Subsidiary, (ii) assuming compliance with the matters referred to in Section 3.03, violate any applicable law, rule, regulation, judgment, injunction, order or decree, (iii) except as disclosed in Schedule 3.04, require any consent or other action by any Person under, constitute a default under, or give rise to any right of termination, cancellation or acceleration of any right or obligation of Seller or the Company or any Subsidiary or to a loss of any benefit to which Seller or the Company or any Subsidiary is entitled under any provision of any agreement or other instrument binding upon Seller or the Company or any Subsidiary or (iv) result in the creation or imposition of any material Lien on any asset of the Company or any Subsidiary, except, in the case of each of clauses (ii) and (iii), as would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Noncontravention
 
Section 3.05. . (a) The Interests constitute all of the outstanding membership interests of the Company.
Capitalization
 
(b) All outstanding Interests of the Company have been duly authorized and validly issued and are fully paid and non-assessable. Except as set forth in this Section 3.05, there are no outstanding (i) interests or voting securities of the Company, (ii) securities of the Company convertible into or exchangeable for Interests or voting securities of the Company or (iii) options or other rights to
 
acquire from the Company, or other obligation of the Company to issue, any capital stock, voting securities or securities convertible into or exchangeable for capital stock or voting securities of the Company (the items in clauses 3.05(b)(i), 3.05(b)(ii) and 3.05(b)(iii) being referred to collectively as the ""). There are no outstanding obligations of the Company or any Subsidiary to repurchase, redeem or otherwise acquire any Company Securities.
Company Securities
 
Section 3.06. . Seller is the record and beneficial owner of the Interests, free and clear of any Lien, and will transfer and deliver to Buyer at the Closing valid title to the Interests free and clear of any Lien.
Ownership of Interests
 
Section 3.07. . (a) Each Subsidiary other than Triana Energy Leases, Inc. and Columbia Natural Resources Canada, Ltd. is a Delaware limited liability company; Triana Energy Leases, Inc. is a Delaware corporation; and Columbia Natural Resources Canada, Ltd. is an Alberta business corporation. Each Subsidiary is duly organized, validly existing and, where applicable, in good standing under the laws of its jurisdiction of organization and has all powers and all governmental licenses, authorizations, permits, consents and approvals required to carry on its business as now conducted, except for those licenses, authorizations, consents and approvals the absence of which would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Subsidiaries
 
(b) Except as set forth on Schedule 3.07(b), all of the outstanding membership interests and shares of capital stock of each Subsidiary are owned by the Company, directly or indirectly, free and clear of any Lien. There are no outstanding (i) securities of the Company or any Subsidiary convertible into or exchangeable for membership interests or voting securities of any Subsidiary or (ii) options or other rights to acquire from the Company or any Subsidiary, or other obligation of the Company or any Subsidiary to issue, any membership interests or voting securities of any Subsidiary, or securities convertible into or exchangeable for membership interests or voting securities of any Subsidiary (the items in clauses 3.07(b)(i) and 3.07(b)(ii) being referred to collectively as the ""). There are no outstanding obligations of the Company or any Subsidiary to repurchase, redeem or otherwise acquire any outstanding Subsidiary Securities.
Subsidiary Securities
 
Section 3.08. . The audited consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2004 and the related audited consolidated statements of income and cash flows for the year ended December 31, 2004 of the Company and the Subsidiaries fairly present, in conformity with GAAP (except as may be indicated in the notes thereto), the consolidated financial position of the Company and the Subsidiaries as of the date thereof and their consolidated results of operations and cash flows for the period then ended. The Balance Sheet and the related unaudited interim consolidated statements of income and cash flows for
Financial Statements
 
the six months ended June 30, 2005 of the Company and the Subsidiaries fairly present, in conformity with GAAP, the consolidated financial position of the Company and the Subsidiaries as of the date thereof and their consolidated results of operations and cash flows for the period then ended (except for the absence of notes and normal year-end adjustments).
 
Section 3.09. . Except as disclosed in Schedule 3.09 or as expressly contemplated by this Agreement, since the Balance Sheet Date, the business of the Company and the Subsidiaries has been conducted in the ordinary course consistent with past practices and there has not been:
Absence of Certain Changes
 
(a) any event, occurrence or development which has had or which would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect;
 
(b) any repurchase, redemption or other acquisition by the Company or any Subsidiary of any outstanding Interests or other securities of the Company or any Subsidiary;
 
(c) any amendment of any material term of any outstanding security of the Company or any Subsidiary;
 
(d) any incurrence, assumption or guarantee by the Company or any Subsidiary of any indebtedness for borrowed money, or any swap, hedging, financial derivatives or similar transaction, or the granting of any Lien (other than any Permitted Lien) securing any indebtedness or obligation of the Company or any Subsidiary, other than in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practices;
 
(e) any making of any loan, advance or capital contribution to or investment in any Person other than loans, advances or capital contributions to or investments made in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practices;
 
(f) any transaction or commitment made, or any contract or agreement entered into, by the Company or any Subsidiary relating to its assets or business, in either case, material to the Company and the Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, other than transactions and commitments in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practices and those contemplated by this Agreement;
 
(g) any material change in any method of accounting or accounting practice by the Company or any Subsidiary except for any such change required by reason of a concurrent change in GAAP;
 
(h) any (i) employment, deferred compensation, severance, retirement or other similar agreement entered into with any director or officer of the
 
Company or any Subsidiary (or any amendment to any such existing agreement), (ii) grant of any severance or termination pay to any director or officer of the Company or any Subsidiary, or (iii) change in compensation or other benefits payable to any director or officer of the Company or any Subsidiary, in each case other than in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practices;
 
(i) any declaration, setting aside or payment of any dividend or distribution with respect to the Interests; or
 
(j) any contract or agreement entered into with Seller or any of its Affiliates.
 
Section 3.10. . (a) Except as disclosed in Schedule 3.10, neither the Company nor any Subsidiary is a party to or bound by:
Material Contracts
 
(i) any lease (whether of real or personal property) providing for annual rentals (not including any royalties) of $100,000 or more that cannot be terminated on not more than 90 days' notice without payment by the Company or any Subsidiary of any material penalty;
 
(ii) any agreement for the purchase of materials, supplies, goods, services (including transportation services), equipment or other assets or for the purchase, sale, transporting, gathering, processing, or storing of natural gas, condensate or other liquid or gaseous hydrocarbons or the products therefrom providing for either (A) annual payments by the Company and the Subsidiaries of $250,000 or more or (B) aggregate payments by the Company and the Subsidiaries of $1,000,000 or more, in each case that cannot be terminated on not more than 90 days' notice without payment by the Company or any Subsidiary of any material penalty;
 
(iii) any sales, distribution or other similar agreement providing for the sale by the Company or any Subsidiary of materials, supplies, goods, services (including gathering services), equipment or other assets that provides for annual payments to the Company and the Subsidiaries of $250,000 or more;
 
(iv) any agreement for the sale of any assets of the Company and the Subsidiaries which involves payment to the Company or any Subsidiary in excess of $250,000, in the aggregate, or involves any material payment to the Company or any Subsidiary of less than the fair market value of such assets;
 
(v) any material partnership, joint venture or other similar agreement or arrangement;
 
(vi) any agreement relating to the acquisition or disposition of any material business (whether by merger, sale of stock, sale of assets or otherwise), except for sales of commercially unproductive wells or sales in connection with third-party coal mining activity;
 
(vii) any agreement relating to indebtedness for borrowed money or the deferred purchase price of property (in either case, whether incurred, assumed, guaranteed or secured by any asset), except any such agreement with an aggregate outstanding principal amount not exceeding $250,000;
 
(viii) any material agreement that limits the freedom of the Company or any Subsidiary to compete in any line of business or with any Person or in any area; or
 
(ix) any material agreement with Seller or any of its Affiliates or any director or officer of Seller or any of its Affiliates.
 
(b) In addition, Schedule 3.10 accurately describes: (i) all material farmout and farmin agreements; (ii) all material seismic contracts; (iii) all material product hedging contracts and material disposal or injection contracts; (iv) all agreements pursuant to which third parties have preferential rights or similar rights to acquire any material portion of the assets of the Columbia Entities upon the sale of the Interests as contemplated by this Agreement, if any; and (v) all production payments or net profits interests materially burdening any Oil and Gas Property. Each agreement, contract, plan, lease, arrangement or commitment required to be disclosed pursuant to this Section (each, a "") is a valid and binding agreement of the Company or a Subsidiary, as the case may be, and is in full force and effect, and none of the Company, any Subsidiary or, to the knowledge of Seller, any other party thereto is in default or breach in any respect under the terms of any such agreement, contract, plan, lease, arrangement or commitment, except for any such defaults or breaches which would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Material Contract
 
Section 3.11. . Except as set forth in Schedule 3.11, there is no action, suit, investigation or proceeding pending against, or to the knowledge of Seller, threatened against or affecting, Seller, the Company or any Subsidiary or any of their respective properties before any court or arbitrator or any governmental body, agency or official and no proceeding, investigation, charge, audit or inquiry is pending or, to the knowledge of Seller, threatened before or by any federal, state, municipal or other governmental court, department,
Litigation
 
commission, board, bureau, agency or instrumentality against Seller, the Company or any Subsidiary or any of their respective properties, in each case, which would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
 
Section 3.12. . Neither the Company nor any Subsidiary is in violation of any applicable law, rule, regulation, judgment, injunction, order or decree, except for violations that would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Compliance with Laws and Court Orders
 
Section 3.13. . (a) Schedule 3.13 correctly describes (i) all real property which the Company or any Subsidiary owns, leases, operates or subleases, (ii) all oil and gas leases and fee interests in oil and gas in which the Company or any Subsidiary has an interest (each a "") and (iii) all oil and gas wells in which the Company or any Subsidiary has an interest (each a "").
Properties
Lease
Well
 
(b) Except as would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, the Company and each Subsidiary (i) has, as of the date hereof, title to or rights or interests in its assets sufficient to allow such Person to conduct its business, as currently being conducted, without adverse interference and (ii) will have, as of the Closing Date, title to or rights or interests in its assets sufficient to allow such Person to conduct its business, as such business is expected to be conducted immediately after the Closing, without adverse interference.
 
Section 3.14. . (a) Schedule 3.14(a) contains a list of all registrations and applications for registration and other material Intellectual Property Rights included in the Company Intellectual Property Rights.
Intellectual Property
 
(b) Schedule 3.14(b) sets forth a list of all agreements as to which the Company or any Subsidiary is a party and pursuant to which any Person is authorized to use any material Company Intellectual Property Right.
 
(c) No Company Intellectual Property Right is subject to any outstanding judgment, injunction, order, decree or agreement restricting the use thereof by the Company or any Subsidiary or restricting the licensing thereof by the Company or any Subsidiary to any Person, except for any judgment, injunction, order, decree or agreement which would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
 
Section 3.15. . Seller has made available to Buyer a list of, and true and complete copies of, all insurance policies and fidelity bonds relating to the assets, business, operations, employees, officers or directors of the Company and the Subsidiaries. Such policies have been maintained and will be
Insurance Coverage
 
maintained through the Closing Date, in each case, in all material respects. There are no material claims by the Company or any Subsidiary pending under any of such policies or bonds as to which coverage has been questioned, denied or disputed by the underwriters of such policies or bonds or in respect of which such underwriters have reserved their rights.
 
Section 3.16. . Other than Morgan Stanley & Co., Incorporated, Credit Suisse First Boston LLC, Lehman Brothers and Goldman Sachs & Co., the fees and expenses of which shall be paid entirely by Seller, there is no investment banker, broker, finder or other intermediary which has been retained by or is authorized to act on behalf of Seller or the Company or any Subsidiary who might be entitled to any fee or commission in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
Finders' Fees
 
Section 3.17. (a) Schedule 3.17 lists each material "employee benefit plan", as defined in Section 3(3) of ERISA, employment, severance or similar contract, plan arrangement or policy and other plan or arrangement providing for compensation, bonuses, profit-sharing, stock option or other stock related rights or other forms of incentive or deferred compensation, vacation benefits, insurance (including any self-insured arrangements), health or medical benefits, employee assistance program, disability or sick leave benefits, supplemental unemployment benefits and post-employment or retirement benefits which is maintained, administered or contributed to by the Company or any ERISA Affiliate and covers any employee or former employee. Copies of the plans and all amendments thereto have been furnished to Buyer together with the most recent annual report (Form 5500 including, if applicable, Schedule B thereto), prepared in connection with any such plan. Such plans are referred to collectively herein as the "".
Employee Benefit Plans.
Employee Plans
 
(b) None of the Company, any ERISA Affiliate or any predecessor thereof sponsors, maintains or contributes to, or has in the past sponsored, maintained or contributed to, any Employee Plan subject to Title IV of ERISA.
 
(c) None of the Company, any ERISA Affiliate or any predecessor thereof contributes to, or has in the past contributed to, any multiemployer plan, as defined in Section 3(37) of ERISA.
 
(d) Each Employee Plan which is intended to be qualified under Section 401(a) of the Code has received a favorable determination letter, or has pending or has time remaining in which to file, an application for such determination from the Internal Revenue Service, and the Company is not aware of any reason why any such determination letter should be revoked or not be reissued. The Company has made available to Buyer copies of the most recent
 
Internal Revenue Service determination letters with respect to each such Employee Plan. Each Employee Plan has been maintained in compliance with its terms and with the requirements prescribed by any applicable law, rule, regulation, judgment, injunction, order or decree, except for violations that would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. No events have occurred with respect to any Employee Plan that could result in payment or assessment by or against the Company of any excise taxes, except for any such tax that would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
 
(e) Except as set forth in Schedule 3.17(e), neither the Company nor any Subsidiary has any current or projected liability in respect of post-employment or post-retirement health or medical or life insurance benefits for retired, former or current employees of the Company or any Subsidiary, except as required to avoid excise tax under Section 4980B of the Code.
 
Section 3.18. .Except as set forth on Schedule 3.18, neither the Company nor any Subsidiary is (i) subject to regulation under the Natural Gas Act of 1938, as amended, or (ii) a gas utility in any state in which any material property or facility is located.
Gas Regulatory Matters
 
Section 3.19. . Except as disclosed on Schedule 3.19 and except as to matters that would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect:
Environmental Matters
 
(a) (i) no written and pending notice, order, request for information, complaint or penalty has been received by Seller, the Company or any Subsidiary, and (ii) there are no judicial, administrative or other third party claims, suits or proceedings pending or, to the knowledge of Seller, threatened, in the case of each of (i) and (ii), which allege a violation of any Environmental Law by the Company or any Subsidiary;
 
(b) the Company and each Subsidiary are in compliance with applicable Environmental Laws, have all environmental permits necessary for their operations to comply with all applicable Environmental Laws and are in compliance with the terms of such permits and with all other applicable Environmental Laws; and
 
(c) there has been no written environmental investigation, study or audit conducted within the past five years by, and in the possession of, Seller, the Company or any Subsidiary of any property currently owned or leased by the Company or any Subsidiary which has not been delivered or made available to Buyer prior to the date hereof.
 
Section 3.20. There are no outstanding powers of attorney relating to or affecting the Company or Subsidiaries or any of their respective material assets.
Powers of Attorney.
 
Section 3.21. Except as set forth in Schedule 3.21, all Leases are in full force and effect, and none of the Columbia Entities is in default thereunder, in each case, except as would not be material to the Columbia Entities, taken as a whole. Except for revenues which are properly being suspended in accordance with applicable law and except as set forth in Schedule 3.21, all oil and gas production proceeds payable by the Columbia Entities to others under the Leases, including all royalties, overriding royalties and net profits interests, have been disbursed in accordance with all of the terms and conditions of the applicable Leases, other contracts and applicable law and all deductions from such oil and gas production proceeds have been deducted in compliance with all of the terms and conditions of the applicable Leases, other contracts and applicable law, in each case, except as would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. Each of the Columbia Entities is in compliance with all applicable laws, rules, regulations and orders applicable to the Leases to the extent pertaining to escheatment, except where the failure to so comply would not, singly or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect.
Leases in Good Standing.
 
Section 3.22. Except as disclosed on Schedule 5.01(l) , none of the Columbia Entities is legally obligated for any capital expenditure in excess of $100,000 individually.
Planned Future Commitments.
 
Section 3.23. All Wells on the Oil and Gas Properties that have been permanently plugged and abandoned have been so plugged and abandoned in accordance with all then applicable requirements of each Governmental Authority having jurisdiction over the Columbia Entities and the Oil and Gas Properties, except as would not reasonably be expected to be material to the Columbia Entities, taken as a whole.
Plugging Status.
 
Section 3.24. To the knowledge of Seller, except as is reflected on Schedule 3.24: (a) there are no production, transportation or processing imbalances existing with respect to the Columbia Entities or the Properties and (b) none of the Columbia Entities has received any deficiency payments under gas contracts for which any party has a right to take deficiency gas from the Columbia Entities, nor has any of the Columbia Entities received any payments for production which are subject to refund or recoupment out of future production, in each case as would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Gas Imbalances and Take or Pay.
 
 
As an inducement to Seller to enter into this Agreement, Buyer hereby represents and warrants to Seller as follows:
 
Section 4.01. . Buyer is a corporation duly incorporated, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of Oklahoma and has all corporate powers and all material governmental licenses, authorizations, permits, consents and approvals required to carry on its business as now conducted.
Corporate Existence and Power
 
Section 4.02. . Buyer has taken all necessary action to authorize the execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement and has adequate power, authority and legal right to enter into, execute, deliver and perform this Agreement and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby. This Agreement is legal, valid and binding with respect to Buyer and is enforceable in accordance with its terms, except as the enforceability thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency or similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally or general principles of equity.
Corporate Authorization
 
Section 4.03. . The execution, delivery and performance by Buyer of this Agreement and the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby require no material action by or in respect of, or material filing with, any governmental body, agency or official other than compliance with (i) any applicable requirements of the HSR Act and (ii) any applicable requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
Governmental Authorization
 
Section 4.04. . The execution, delivery and performance by Buyer of this Agreement and the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby do not and will not (i) violate the organizational documents of Buyer, (ii) assuming compliance with the matters referred to in Section 4.03, violate any applicable law, rule, regulation, judgment, injunction, order or decree, (iii) require any consent or other action by any Person under, constitute a default under, or give rise to any right of termination, cancellation or acceleration of any right or obligation of Buyer or to a loss of any benefit to which Buyer is entitled under any provision of any agreement or other instrument binding upon Buyer or (iv) result in the creation or imposition of any material Lien on any asset of Buyer.
Noncontravention
 
Section 4.05. . At the Closing, Buyer will have sufficient cash, available lines of credit or other sources of immediately available funds to enable
Financing
 
it to pay the Purchase Price and to pay any other amounts to be paid by it hereunder.
 
Section 4.06. . Buyer is purchasing the Interests for investment for its own account and not with a view to, or for sale in connection with, any distribution thereof. Buyer (either alone or together with its advisors) has sufficient knowledge and experience in financial and business matters so as to be capable of evaluating the merits and risks of its investment in the Interests and is capable of bearing the economic risks of such investment.
Purchase for Investment
 
Section 4.07. . There is no action, suit, investigation or proceeding pending against, or to the knowledge of Buyer threatened against or affecting, Buyer before any court or arbitrator or any governmental body, agency or official which in any manner challenges or seeks to prevent, enjoin, alter or materially delay the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
Litigation
 
Section 4.08. . There is no investment banker, broker, finder or other intermediary which has been retained by or is authorized to act on behalf of Buyer who might be entitled to any fee or commission from Seller or any of its Affiliates upon consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
Finders' Fees
 
Section 4.09. . Buyer is an informed and sophisticated purchaser, and has engaged expert advisors, experienced in the evaluation and purchase of companies such as the Company and the Subsidiaries as contemplated hereunder. Buyer acknowledges that Seller makes no representation or warranty with respect to any projections, estimates or budgets delivered to or made available to Buyer of future revenues, future results of operations (or any component thereof), future cash flows or future financial condition (or any component thereof) of the Company and the Subsidiaries or the future business and operations of the Company and the Subsidiaries.
Inspections; No Other Representations
 
 
Seller agrees that:
 
Section 5.01. . From the date hereof until the Closing Date, Seller shall cause the Company and each Subsidiary to conduct its business in the ordinary course, including by making capital expenditures in the ordinary course, and to use its commercially reasonable efforts to preserve intact its business organizations and relationships with third parties and to keep available the services of its present officers and employees. Without limiting the
Conduct of the Company
 
generality of the foregoing, from the date hereof until the Closing Date, except as disclosed on Schedule 5.01, Seller will not permit the Company or any Subsidiary to:
 
(a) adopt or propose any change in its limited liability company operating agreement or other organizational documents;
 
(b) merge or consolidate with any other Person or acquire a material amount of assets from any other Person;
 
(c) incur any material indebtedness for borrowed money, other than in the ordinary course of business;
 
(d) sell, lease, license or otherwise dispose of any material assets or property except. (i) pursuant to existing contracts or commitments which, if required to be disclosed pursuant to Section 3.10, have been disclosed to Buyer, or (ii) otherwise in the ordinary course consistent with past practices;
 
(e) (i) declare, set aside or pay any dividend or other distribution with respect to any Company Securities or Subsidiary Securities (other than dividends or other distributions of any wholly-owned Subsidiary payable to the Company or any other wholly-owned Subsidiary), (ii) split, combine or reclassify any class or series of the Company Securities or Subsidiary Securities or (iii) redeem, purchase or otherwise acquire directly or indirectly any shares of any class or series of the Company Securities or Subsidiary Securities;
 
(f) adopt a plan of complete or partial liquidation, dissolution, restructuring, recapitalization or other reorganization;
 
(g) adopt any Employee Plans, other than in the ordinary course of business;
 
(h) grant any increase in the compensation payable or to become payable to any officer, director, manager or employee, other than in the ordinary course of business;
 
(i) except in the ordinary course of business, enter into any agreement, contract or commitment which, if entered into prior to the date of this Agreement, would be a Material Contract, or materially amend or change the terms of any Material Contract;
 
(j) settle any litigation for an amount in excess of $100,000 payable by the Columbia Entities, or make any material adjustments or settlements with respect to any gas imbalances, joint interest billings, audits or oil or gas receivables other than in the ordinary course of business;
 
(k) take any action or omit to take any action which would result in any of its representations or warranties set forth in this Agreement becoming untrue in any material respect;
 
(l) make any capital expenditure in excess of $100,000 individually, other than those capital expenditures disclosed on Schedule 5.01(l); or
 
(m) agree or commit to do any of the foregoing.
 
Section 5.02. . (a) From the date hereof until the Closing Date, Seller shall (i) give, and shall cause the Company and each Subsidiary to give, Buyer, its counsel, financial advisors, auditors and other authorized representatives reasonable access to the offices, properties, books and records of the Company and the Subsidiaries and to the books and records of Seller relating to the Company and the Subsidiaries, (ii) furnish, and shall cause the Company and each Subsidiary to furnish, to Buyer, its counsel, financial advisors, auditors and other authorized representatives such financial and operating data and other information relating to the Company, any Subsidiary and the assets of the Columbia Entities as such Persons may reasonably request and (iii) instruct the employees, counsel and financial advisors of Seller or the Company or any Subsidiary to cooperate with Buyer in its investigation of the Company or any Subsidiary. Any investigation pursuant to this Section shall be conducted in such manner as not to interfere unreasonably with the conduct of the business of Seller or the Company. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Buyer shall not (i) have access to personnel records of the Company and the Subsidiaries relating to individual performance or evaluation records, medical histories or other information which in Seller's good faith opinion is sensitive or the disclosure of which could subject the Company or any Subsidiary to risk of liability or (ii) be entitled to perform any intrusive or subsurface investigation or other sampling of, on or under any of the properties of the Columbia Entities without the prior written consent of Seller.
Access to Information
 
(b) On and after the Closing Date, Seller shall afford promptly to Buyer and its agents reasonable access to its books of account, financial and other records (including accountant's work papers), information, employees and auditors to the extent necessary or useful for Buyer in connection with any audit, investigation, dispute or litigation or any other reasonable business purpose relating to the Company or any Subsidiary; that any such access by Buyer shall not unreasonably interfere with the conduct of the business of Seller. Buyer shall bear all of the out-of-pocket costs and expenses (including attorneys' fees, but excluding reimbursement for general overhead, salaries and employee benefits) reasonably incurred in connection with the foregoing.
provided
 
Section 5.03. . Seller shall promptly notify Buyer of:
Notices of Certain Events
 
(a) any notice or other communication from any Person alleging that the consent of such Person is or may be required in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement;
 
(b) any notice or other communication from any governmental or regulatory agency or authority in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement; and
 
(c) any actions, suits, claims, investigations or proceedings commenced relating to Seller or the Company or any Subsidiary that, if pending on the date of this Agreement, would have been required to have been disclosed pursuant to Section 3.11.
 
Section 5.04. . Seller shall deliver to Buyer the resignations of all officers and directors of the Company and each Subsidiary who will be officers, directors or employees of Seller or any of its Affiliates after the Closing Date from their positions with the Company or any Subsidiary at or prior to the Closing Date.
Resignations
 
Section 5.05. Until the earlier of the consummation of the transaction contemplated hereby or the termination of this Agreement, and except as otherwise permitted by this Agreement, Seller will not, and will cause its officers, directors, employees and the Columbia Entities not to: (a) enter into any agreement, arrangement or understanding involving the sale, transfer, assignment, redemption or other disposition of, or grant a security interest in or optional rights to purchase or otherwise acquire any of the Interests or any material portion of the assets of the Columbia Entities other than in the ordinary course of business; or (b) directly or indirectly, solicit, initiate or encourage any inquiries or proposals from, negotiate with or provide any non-public information to, any person other than Buyer relating to any transaction involving the sale of the Interests or any merger, consolidation, business combination, share exchange or similar transaction involving the Company or the business of the Company.
Standstill.
 
 
Buyer agrees that:
 
Section 6.01. . Prior to the Closing Date and after any termination of this Agreement, Buyer and its Affiliates will hold, and shall use
Confidentiality
 
their reasonable best efforts to cause their respective officers, directors, employees, accountants, counsel, consultants, advisors and agents to hold, in confidence all confidential documents and information concerning the Company or any Subsidiary furnished to Buyer or its Affiliates in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement as and to the extent provided in the Confidentiality Agreement dated April 4, 2005 between Seller and Buyer (the "").
Confidentiality Agreement
 
Section 6.02. . Buyer shall cause the Company and each Subsidiary, on and after the Closing Date, to afford promptly to Seller and its agents reasonable access to their properties, books, records, employees and auditors to the extent necessary to permit Seller to determine any matter relating to its rights and obligations hereunder or to any period ending on or before the Closing Date; that any such access by Seller shall not unreasonably interfere with the conduct of the business of Buyer.
Access
provided
 
Section 6.03. . Buyer hereby waives, on its own behalf, and agrees to cause the Company and the Subsidiaries to waive, any conflicts that may arise in connection with any legal counsel that represents the Company and/or any of the Subsidiaries in connection with this Agreement undertaking after the Closing the representation of any current stockholder, officer, employee or director of Company or any Subsidiary.
Waiver of Conflicts
 
Section 6.04. . Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement to the contrary, Buyer agrees that the Company and the Subsidiaries shall retain and assume all of the obligations of the Company and the Subsidiaries under the ISDA Master Agreements and the Mahonia Contracts from and after the Closing (including, in the case of the ISDA Master Agreements, any such obligations triggered by the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby).
Hedging Agreements and Mahonia Contracts
 
 
Buyer and Seller agree that:
 
Section 7.01. . (a) Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, Buyer and Seller will use their reasonable best efforts to take, or cause to be taken, all actions and to do, or cause to be done, all things necessary or desirable under applicable laws and regulations to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement. Seller and Buyer agree, and Seller, prior to the Closing, and Buyer, after the Closing, agree to cause the Company and each Subsidiary, to execute and deliver such other
Reasonable Best Efforts; Further Assurances
 
documents, certificates, agreements and other writings and to take such other actions as may be necessary or desirable in order to consummate or implement expeditiously the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
 
(b) In furtherance and not in limitation of the foregoing, each of Buyer and Seller shall make an appropriate filing of a Notification and Report Form pursuant to the HSR Act with respect to the transactions contemplated hereby as promptly as practicable and in any event within ten Business Days of the date hereof and to supply as promptly as practicable any additional information and documentary material that may be requested pursuant to the HSR Act and to take all other actions necessary to cause the expiration or termination of the applicable waiting periods under the HSR Act as soon as practicable.
 
Section 7.02. . Seller and Buyer shall cooperate with one another (i) in determining whether any action by or in respect of, or filing with, any governmental body, agency, official or authority is required, or any actions, consents, approvals or waivers are required to be obtained from parties to any material contracts, in connection with the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and (ii) in taking such actions or making any such filings, furnishing information required in connection therewith and seeking timely to obtain any such actions, consents, approvals or waivers.
Certain Filings
 
Section 7.03. . The parties agree to consult with each other before issuing any press release or making any public statement with respect to this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby and, except for any press releases and public announcements the making of which may be required by applicable law or any listing agreement with any national securities exchange, will not issue any such press release or make any such public statement prior to such consultation.
Public Announcements
 
Section 7.04. . Buyer shall assume all obligations and liabilities for the provision of notice or payment in lieu of notice or any applicable penalties under the Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act (the "") or any similar state or local law arising as a result of the termination of employment of employees of the Columbia Entities by Buyer after the Closing Date to the extent such terminations fall within the scope and purposes of the WARN Act. Seller agrees to cooperate with Buyer prior to the Closing in determining whether the WARN Act provisions will be applicable based on the parties' understandings with respect to future employment of employees of the Columbia Entities. Buyer hereby indemnifies Seller against and agrees to hold Seller harmless from any and all damage, loss or expense (including, without limitation, reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses) incurred or suffered by Seller with respect to the WARN Act or any similar state or local law arising as a result of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
WARN Act
WARN Act
 
 
Section 8.01. . The following terms, as used herein, have the following meanings:
Definitions
 
"" means (i) any Tax period commencing on or after August 29, 2003 and ending on or before the Closing Date, (ii) with respect to any Tax period that began before and ends on or after August 29, 2003, the portion of such period beginning on August 29, 2003 and ending on or before the Closing Date, and, (iii) with respect to a Tax period that begins on or before the Closing Date and ends thereafter, the portion of such Tax period ending on the Closing Date.
Pre-Closing Tax Period
 
"" means any Tax period beginning after the Closing Date; and, with respect to a Tax period that begins on or before the Closing Date and ends thereafter, the portion of such Tax period beginning after the Closing Date.
Post-Closing Tax Period
 
"" means any tax, governmental fee or other like assessment or charge of any kind whatsoever (including, but not limited to, withholding on amounts paid to or by any Person), together with any interest, penalty, addition to tax or additional amount imposed by any governmental authority (domestic or foreign) responsible for the imposition of any such tax (a "").
Tax
Taxing Authority
 
Section 8.02. . All material Tax returns, statements, reports and forms (collectively, the "") required to be filed with any Taxing Authority on or before the date hereof by, or with respect to, the Company or any Subsidiary have been timely filed on or before the Closing Date, and, as of the time of filing, all such Returns were true, correct and complete in all material respects. The Company and the Subsidiaries have timely paid all Taxes shown as due and payable on the Returns that have been filed. The charges, accruals and reserves for Taxes with respect to the Company and the Subsidiaries reflected on the books of Company and the Subsidiaries are adequate, under GAAP, to cover material Tax liabilities accruing through the end of the last period for which Company and the Subsidiaries ordinarily record items on their respective books. There are no Liens on any of the assets of the Company or any of the Subsidiaries that arose in connection with any failure to pay any Tax. There is no action, suit, proceeding, investigation, audit or claim now proposed or pending against or with respect to Company or any Subsidiary in respect of any material Tax. Except as set forth in Schedule 8.02, each of the Company and the Subsidiaries is "disregarded as an entity separate from its owner" within the meaning of Treasury Regulations Section  301.7701-3.
Tax Representations
Returns
 
Section 8.03. . (a) Buyer covenants that, without the written consent of Seller, it will not cause or permit the Company, any Subsidiary or any Affiliate of Buyer (i) to take any action on the Closing Date other than in the ordinary course of business, including but not limited to the distribution of any dividend or the effectuation of any redemption, that could give rise to any Tax liability of Seller, or (ii) to make any election or deemed election under Section 338 of the Code or any comparable provision under applicable law with respect to the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
Tax Covenants
 
(b) Buyer shall promptly pay or cause to be paid to Seller all refunds of Taxes and interest thereon received by the Company or any Subsidiary attributable to Taxes paid by the Company or any Subsidiary (or any predecessor) with respect to any Pre-Closing Tax Period. If, in lieu of receiving any such refund, the Company or any Subsidiary reduces a Tax liability with respect to a Post-Closing Tax Period, Buyer shall promptly pay or cause to be paid to Seller the amount of such reduction in Tax liability attributable to the Pre-Closing Tax Period.
 
(c) All transfer, documentary, sales, use, stamp, registration and other such Taxes and fees (including any penalties and interest) incurred in connection with transactions contemplated by this Agreement (including any real property transfer Tax and any similar Tax) shall be borne and paid by Buyer, and Buyer shall, at its own expense, file all necessary Returns and other documentation with respect to all such Taxes and fees, and, if required by applicable law, Seller shall, and shall cause its Affiliates to, join in the execution of any such Returns and other documentation.
 
(d) Buyer shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, all Returns required to be filed by the Company or any Subsidiary after the Closing Date with respect to any Pre-Closing Tax Period. Buyer shall timely file, or cause to be timely filed, all such Returns. Any such Return shall be prepared in a manner consistent with past practice and without a change of any election or any accounting method and shall be submitted by Buyer to Seller (together with schedules, statements and, to the extent requested by Seller, supporting documentation) at least 45 days prior to the due date (including extensions) of such Return. If Seller, within 10 business days after delivery of any such Return, notifies Buyer in writing that it objects to any items in such Return, the disputed items shall be resolved by mutual agreement by Buyer and Seller. If Buyer and Seller cannot resolve the disputed items within a reasonable period of time, taking into account the deadline for filing such Return, the disputed items shall be resolved by an Accounting Referee in the manner described in Section 2.05. Upon resolution of all such items, the relevant Return shall be adjusted to reflect such resolution and shall be binding upon the parties without further adjustment. The costs, fees and expenses of such accounting firm shall be borne equally by Buyer and Seller.
 
Section 8.04. . Buyer and Seller agree to furnish or cause to be furnished to each other, upon request, as promptly as practicable, such information (including access to books and records) and assistance relating to the Company and the Subsidiaries as is reasonably necessary for the filing of any Return (including any report required pursuant to Section 6043A of the Code and all Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder), for the preparation for any audit, and for the prosecution or defense of any claim, suit or proceeding relating to any proposed adjustment. Buyer and Seller agree to retain or cause to be retained all books and records pertinent to the Company and the Subsidiaries until the applicable period for assessment under applicable law (giving effect to any and all extensions or waivers) has expired, and to abide by or cause the abidance with all record retention agreements entered into with any Taxing Authority. Buyer and Seller shall cooperate with each other in the conduct of any audit or other proceedings involving the Company or any Subsidiary for any Tax purposes and each shall execute and deliver such powers of attorney and other documents as are necessary to carry out the intent of this subsection.
Cooperation on Tax Matters
 
Section 8.05. . Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, the covenants and agreements contained in this Article 8 shall survive for the full period of all statutes of limitations (giving effect to any waiver, mitigation or extension thereof) and the representations and warranties contained in this Article 8 shall survive until the Closing.
Survival
 
 
Section 9.01. (a) Buyer shall continue the employment after Closing of each employee of the Company or any Subsidiary on the terms set forth in this Article 9 (collectively, the "").
Employees; Maintenance of Employee Benefits.
Transferred Employees
 
(b)
 
(i) For a period of twelve months from the Closing Date, Buyer agrees that it will cause the Company and the Subsidiaries to provide the Transferred Employees with compensation, benefits and responsibilities that, in the aggregate (i.e., not plan by plan), are substantially comparable to the compensation, benefits and responsibilities provided to such Transferred Employees prior to the Closing Date or provided to similarly situated employees of Buyer.
 
(ii) Buyer further agrees that it will provide reasonable relocation benefits within the bounds of Buyer's relocation policy for any Transferred Employee who is offered and accepts employment at a location greater than fifty (50) miles from their present employment location.
 
(iii) Buyer shall include each Transferred Employee in its bonus pool, plan or other arrangement for the first year of employment with Buyer and then thereafter shall include such Transferred Employees pursuant to its policies then in effect for similarly situated employees of Buyer and its subsidiaries.
 
(iv)
 
(A) With respect to the 401(k) retirement plan in which employees of the Company and the Subsidiaries participate (""), immediately prior to the Closing Date, the Company shall fully vest all Transferred Employees under the Company 401(k) Plan.
Company 401(k) Plan
 
(B) As of the Closing Date, Buyer shall cause the Company to (i) continue the Company 401(k) Plan or (ii) cover, or cause its subsidiaries to cover, each Transferred Employee under one or more other defined contribution plans and trusts intended to qualify under Section 401(k) of the Code (collectively, "") on the same basis as similarly situated Buyer employees and on terms that reflect the service credit provisions of Section 9.01(b)(v).
Buyer DC Plans
 
(v) Buyer shall grant each Transferred Employee credit for years of uninterrupted prior service with the Company or any of the Subsidiaries or their respective predecessors (, Columbia Energy Group and its subsidiaries, NiSource Inc. and its subsidiaries, Triana Energy, LLC and Triana Energy, Inc.) for all purposes except with respect to the Buyer's existing non-qualified deferred compensation plans, including Buyer's 401(k) Make-Up Plan or for benefit accrual under a defined benefit plan.
i.e.
 
(vi) Buyer will, and will cause its subsidiaries to:
 
(A) where reasonably possible, waive all limitations as to pre-existing conditions, exclusions and waiting periods with respect to participation and coverage requirements applicable to the Transferred Employees under any health and welfare plans in
 
which such Transferred Employees are eligible to participate after the Closing Date to the extent that the Transferred Employee was an active participant in such health and welfare plan and that such limitations were waived under the applicable Employee Plan;
 
(B) where reasonably possible, provide each Transferred Employee with credit for any co-payments and deductibles paid prior to the Closing Date in satisfying any applicable deductible or out-of-pocket requirements under any health and welfare plans that such Transferred Employees are eligible to participate in after the Closing Date;
 
(C) to the extent and for the maximum period required by applicable law, take action as may be necessary so that if any Transferred Employee is terminated on or after the Closing Date, pursuant to the provisions of the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1985, as amended (""), Sections 601 et seq. of ERISA and Section 4980B of the Code, such Transferred Employee may continue coverage under the group health and dental insurance plan (including any dependent coverage) that such Transferred Employee had in effect prior to such termination. From and after the closing date, such terminated employee will be fully responsible for all of such costs; and
COBRA
 
(D) honor any accrued but unused vacation as of the Closing Date.
 
(c) Any Transferred Employee who (A) accepts an offer of employment from Buyer at Closing and is subsequently terminated other than for cause within one (1) year of the Closing Date, or (B) rejects an offer of employment from Buyer at Closing (which offer of employment did not meet the requirements of Section 9.01(b)(i) or required that the Transferred Employee relocate employment to a location greater than fifty (50) miles from his or her present employment location) and does not otherwise accept another offer of employment from Buyer at Closing shall be entitled to severance from Buyer in an amount equal to the product of 2 weeks of base pay his or her years of uninterrupted prior service (as determined in the first sentence of Section 9.01(b)(v) and taking into account any post-Closing service with Buyer or any of its subsidiaries), with a minimum of 12 weeks of base pay and a maximum of 52 weeks of base pay. Thereafter, remaining Transferred Employees shall be covered by the severance plan or policy, if any, then in effect for similarly situated employees of Buyer and its subsidiaries.
multiplied by
 
(d) Buyer and Seller acknowledge and agree that nothing contained in this Section 9.01 shall be construed to limit in any way the ability of Buyer or its subsidiaries to terminate the employment of any Transferred Employee from and after the Closing Date; that such termination is in accordance with applicable law.
provided
 
(e) This Article 9 is expressly not intended to provide any employee of Seller a separate cause of action against Buyer or Seller, and the duties and obligations of Seller and Buyer to each other are intended to be enforceable only between them, and do not grant any benefits, duties or obligations to any third party, including but not limited to the employees of Buyer or the employees of Seller or their respective beneficiaries.
 
 
Section 10.01. . The obligations of Buyer and Seller to consummate the Closing are subject to the satisfaction of the following conditions:
Conditions to Obligations of Buyer and Seller
 
(a) Any applicable waiting period under the HSR Act relating to the transactions contemplated hereby shall have expired or been terminated.
 
(b) No provision of any applicable law or regulation and no judgment, injunction, order or decree shall prohibit the consummation of the Closing.
 
(c) No action will have been commenced or threatened by any Governmental Authority against Seller, Buyer or the Company or any of their respective Affiliates, associates, officers or directors specifically seeking to prevent or challenge the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and no preliminary or permanent injunction or other order will have been issued by any court of competent jurisdiction or any regulatory body preventing consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
 
Section 10.02. . The obligation of Buyer to consummate the Closing is subject to the satisfaction of the following further conditions:
Conditions to Obligation of Buyer
 
(a) (i) Seller shall have performed in all material respects all of its obligations hereunder required to be performed by it on or prior to the Closing Date, (ii) the representations and warranties of Seller contained in this Agreement shall be true (without regard to any qualifications as to materiality or Material Adverse Effect) at and as of the Closing Date as if made at and as of such date
 
(except for representations and warranties that are made as of a specific date, which shall be true at and as of such specific date), with only such exceptions as would not in the aggregate reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, and Buyer shall have received a certificate signed by an officer of Seller to the foregoing effect.
 
(b) Seller shall have delivered to Buyer releases of all Liens against the assets of the Company and the Subsidiaries created under or pursuant to the Credit Facility.
 
(c) Buyer shall have received all documents it may reasonably request relating to the existence of Seller, the Company and the Subsidiaries and the authority of Seller for this Agreement, all in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to Buyer.
 
(d) Seller shall have delivered a certification to the effect that Seller is not a "foreign person" for purposes of Section 1445 of the Code and the Treasury Regulations thereunder.
 
Section 10.03. . The obligation of Seller to consummate the Closing is subject to the satisfaction of the following further conditions:
Conditions to Obligation of Seller
 
(a) (i) Buyer shall have performed in all material respects all of its obligations hereunder required to be performed by it at or prior to the Closing Date, (ii) the representations and warranties of Buyer contained in this Agreement and in any certificate or other writing delivered by Buyer pursuant hereto shall be true in all material respects at and as of the Closing Date as if made at and as of such date (except for representations and warranties that are made as of a specific date, which shall be true at and as of such specific date), and (iii) Seller shall have received a certificate signed by an officer of Buyer to the foregoing effect.
 
(b) Seller shall have received all documents it may reasonably request relating to the existence of Buyer and the authority of Buyer for this Agreement, all in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to Seller.
 
 
Section 11.01. . This Agreement may be terminated at any time prior to the Closing:
Grounds for Termination
 
(a) by mutual written agreement of Seller and Buyer;
 
(b) by either Seller or Buyer if the Closing shall not have been consummated on or before December 31, 2005; or
 
(c) by either Seller or Buyer if consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby would violate any nonappealable final order, decree or judgment of any court or governmental body having competent jurisdiction.
 
The party desiring to terminate this Agreement pursuant to clauses 11.01(b) or 11.01(c) shall give notice of such termination to the other party.
 
Section 11.02. . If this Agreement is terminated as permitted by Section 11.01, such termination shall be without liability of either party (or any stockholder, director, officer, employee, agent, consultant or representative of such party) to the other party to this Agreement; that if such termination shall result from the willful (i) failure of either party to fulfill a condition to the performance of the obligations of the other party, (ii) failure to perform a covenant of this Agreement or (iii) breach by either party hereto of any representation or warranty or agreement contained herein, such party shall be fully liable for any and all damage, loss and expense (including, without limitation, reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses) incurred or suffered by the other party as a result of such failure or breach. The provisions of Sections 6.01, 12.04, 12.06, 12.07 and 12.08 shall survive any termination hereof pursuant to Section 11.01.
Effect of Termination
provided
 
 
Section 12.01. No representations, warranties or agreements of Buyer or Seller contained herein shall survive beyond the Closing, except that the agreements contained in Sections 2.03, 2.04, 2.05, 5.02, 6.02, 6.03, 6.04, 7.01, 7.04, 8.03, 8.04, 8.05 and 9.01 and Article 12 hereof shall survive beyond the Closing.
Survival of Representations, Warranties and Agreements.
 
Section 12.02All notices, requests and other communications to any party hereunder shall be in writing (including facsimile transmission and electronic mail ("") transmission, so long as a receipt of such e-mail is requested and received) and shall be given,
. Notices.
e-mail
 
if to Buyer, to:
 
Chesapeake Energy Corporation
6100 North Western Avenue
Oklahoma City, Oklahoma 73118
Attention: Douglas J. Jacobson
Facsimile No.: (405) 879-9546
E-mail: djacobson@chkenergy.com
 
with a copy to:
 
Commercial Law Group, P.C.
210 Park Avenue, Suite 2725
Oklahoma City, Oklahoma 73102
Attention: Ray Lees
Facsimile No.: (405) 606-3013
E-mail: rlees@clgroup.org
 
if to Seller, to:
 
Triana Energy Holdings, LLC
900 Pennsylvania Avenue
Charleston, West Virginia 25302
Attention: W. Henry Harmon
Facsimile No.: (304) 353-5249
E-mail: whharmon@trianaenergy.com
 
with a copy to:
 
Metalmark Management LLC
1177 Avenue of the Americas, 40
th
Floor
New York, New York 10036
Attention: John Moon
Facsimile No.: (212) 823-1921
E-mail: john.moon@metalmarkcapital.com
 
with a copy to:
 
Davis Polk & Wardwell
450 Lexington Avenue
New York, New York 10017
Attention: John A. Bick
Facsimile No.: (212) 450-3800
E-mail: john.bick@dpw.com
 
or such other address or facsimile number as such party may hereafter specify for the purpose by notice to the other parties hereto. All such notices, requests and other communications shall be deemed received on the date of receipt by the recipient thereof if received prior to 5 p.m. in the place of receipt and such day is a Business Day in the place of receipt. Otherwise, any such notice, request or communication shall be deemed not to have been received until the next succeeding Business Day in the place of receipt.
 
Section 12.03. . (a) Any provision of this Agreement may be amended or waived if, but only if, such amendment or waiver is in writing and is signed, in the case of an amendment, by each party to this Agreement, or in the case of a waiver, by the party against whom the waiver is to be effective.
Amendments and Waivers
 
(b) No failure or delay by any party in exercising any right, power or privilege hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof nor shall any single or partial exercise thereof preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right, power or privilege. The rights and remedies herein provided shall be cumulative and not exclusive of any rights or remedies provided by law.
 
Section 12.04. . Except as otherwise provided herein, all costs and expenses incurred in connection with this Agreement shall be paid by the party incurring such cost or expense; that any financial advisor or legal counsel fees incurred by the Company and the Subsidiaries in connection with this transaction shall be paid by Seller.
Expenses
provided
 
Section 12.05. . The provisions of this Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns. No party may assign, delegate or otherwise transfer any of its rights or obligations under this Agreement without the consent of each other party hereto; that Buyer may assign all of its rights and obligations hereunder to a wholly-owned subsidiary of Buyer without the consent of Seller; that any such assignment shall not release Buyer from any of its obligations hereunder.
Successors and Assigns
provided
provided further
 
Section 12.06. . This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the law of the State of New York, without regard to the conflicts of law rules of such state.
Governing Law
 
Section 12.07. . The parties hereto agree that any suit, action or proceeding seeking to enforce any provision of, or based on any matter arising out of or in connection with, this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby shall be brought in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York or any New York State court sitting in New York City, so
Jurisdiction
 
long as one of such courts shall have subject matter jurisdiction over such suit, action or proceeding, and that any cause of action arising out of this Agreement shall be deemed to have arisen from a transaction of business in the State of New York, and each of the parties hereby irrevocably consents to the jurisdiction of such courts (and of the appropriate appellate courts therefrom) in any such suit, action or proceeding and irrevocably waives, to the fullest extent permitted by law, any objection that it may now or hereafter have to the laying of the venue of any such suit, action or proceeding in any such court or that any such suit, action or proceeding brought in any such court has been brought in an inconvenient forum. Process in any such suit, action or proceeding may be served on any party anywhere in the world, whether within or without the jurisdiction of any such court. Without limiting the foregoing, each party agrees that service of process on such party as provided in Section 12.02 shall be deemed effective service of process on such party.
 
Section 12.08. . EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES ANY AND ALL RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATED TO THIS AGREEMENT OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY.
WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL
 
Section 12.09. . This Agreement may be signed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be an original, with the same effect as if the signatures thereto and hereto were upon the same instrument. This Agreement shall become effective when each party hereto shall have received a counterpart hereof signed by the other party hereto. Until and unless each party has received a counterpart hereof signed by the other party hereto, this Agreement shall have no effect and no party shall have any right or obligation hereunder (whether by virtue of any other oral or written agreement or other communication). Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, no provision of this Agreement is intended to confer any rights, benefits, remedies, obligations, or liabilities hereunder upon any Person other than the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns.
Counterparts; Effectiveness; Third Party Beneficiaries
 
Section 12.10. . This Agreement and the Confidentiality Agreement constitute the entire agreement between the parties with respect to the subject matter of this Agreement and supersede all prior agreements and understandings, both oral and written, between the parties with respect to the subject matter of this Agreement.
Entire Agreement
 
Section 12.11.If any term, provision, covenant or restriction of this Agreement is held by a court of competent jurisdiction or other authority to be invalid, void or unenforceable, the remainder of the terms, provisions, covenants and restrictions of this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect
Severability.
 
and shall in no way be affected, impaired or invalidated so long as the economic or legal substance of the transactions contemplated hereby is not affected in any manner materially adverse to any party. Upon such a determination, the parties shall negotiate in good faith to modify this Agreement so as to effect the original intent of the parties as closely as possible in an acceptable manner in order that the transactions contemplated hereby be consummated as originally contemplated to the fullest extent possible.
 
Section 12.12. . The Company has or may have set forth information on a Schedule in a section thereof that corresponds to the section of this Agreement to which it relates. A matter set forth in one section of a Schedule need not be set forth in any other Schedule so long as its relevance to such other section of the Schedule or section of the Agreement is reasonably apparent on the face of the information disclosed therein to the Person to which such disclosure is being made. The parties acknowledge and agree that (a) the Schedules to this Agreement may include certain items and information solely for informational purposes for the convenience of Buyer and (b) the disclosure by Seller of any matter in the Schedules shall not be deemed to constitute an acknowledgment by Seller that the matter is required to be disclosed by the terms of this Agreement or that the matter is material.
Disclosure Schedules
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed by their respective authorized officers as of the day and year first above written.
 
 
The Seller's disclosure schedules and exhibits referenced in the Purchase Agreement and listed below have been omitted pursuant to Item 601(b)(2) of Regulation S-K. Chesapeake will furnish supplementally a copy of any omitted schedule or exhibit to the Commission upon request.
 
 

Exhibit 23.1
 
 
We consent to the use of our report dated March 15, 2005 with respect to the financial statements of Columbia Energy Resources, LLC (a wholly owned subsidiary of Triana Energy Holdings, LLC) for the year ended December 31, 2004 included in this Current Report on Form 8-K of Chesapeake Energy Corporation.
 
/s/ Ernst & Young LLP
 
 
Charleston, West Virginia
October 31, 2005

Exhibit 23.2
 
 
As independent oil and gas consultants, Schlumberger Data & Consulting Services hereby consents to the incorporation by reference in this Registration Statement on Form 8-K, to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on or about November 1, 2005, of information from our reserve report dated February 12, 2005, entitled "Reserve and Economic Audit of Proved Reserves of Certain Columbia Natural Resources, LLC Oil & Gas Properties" as of December 31, 2004.
 
Sincerely,
 
/s/ Joseph H. Frantz Jr.
 
 
Consulting Services Operations Manager, P.E.
USLand East
 
October 31, 2005

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
Board of Directors
Columbia Energy Resources, LLC
Charleston, West Virginia
 
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Columbia Energy Resources, LLC (the Company), a wholly owned subsidiary of Triana Energy Holdings, LLC, as of December 31, 2004 and 2003, and the related consolidated statements of operations, members' (deficit) equity, comprehensive (loss) income, and cash flows for the year ended December 31, 2004, and the four months ended December 31, 2003. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.
 
We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. We were not engaged to perform an audit of the Company's internal control over financial reporting. Our audit included consideration of internal control over financial reporting as a basis for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly, we express no such opinion. An audit also includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of the Company at December 31, 2004 and 2003, and the consolidated results of its operations and cash flows for the year ended December 31, 2004, and the four months ended December 31, 2003, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
 
/s/ Ernst & Young LLP
March 15, 2005
 
 
 
 
 
See accompanying notes.
 
 
 
 
See accompanying notes.
 
 
 
 
See accompanying notes.
 
 
 
 
See accompanying notes.
 
 
 
 
See accompanying notes.
 
 
 
 
1. Organization
 
Columbia Energy Resources, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (CER or the Company), was formed on August 27, 2003, and is a wholly owned subsidiary of Triana Energy Holdings, LLC (TEH). On September 1, 2003, TEH acquired Columbia Energy Resources, Inc. through a separate LLC (Acquisition LLC) formed to facilitate the acquisition of Columbia Energy Resources, Inc., previously a wholly owned subsidiary of Columbia Energy Group, a registered holding company under the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935 and a wholly owned subsidiary of Nisource, Inc. Simultaneously, TEH caused the net assets acquired to be contributed to the Company by merging Acquisition LLC with the Company.
 
Columbia owns Columbia Natural Resources, LLC (CNR), the primary exploration and production subsidiary in the United States, Columbia Natural Resources Canada, Ltd. (CNRC), with holdings in Canada, Hawg Hauling and Disposal, LLC (Hawg), which conducts brine hauling and disposal services, Alamco-Delaware, LLC (Aladel), an entity formed to participate in monetization of investment tax credits, and Triana Energy Leases, Inc. (TEL), an entity formed to participate in operations on government leases.
 
Description of Business
 
The Company's principal business is the exploration and production of natural gas and oil. Our operations primarily include the acquisition, exploration, development, production, gathering, and sale of natural gas and oil. The Company's primary operations are located in the geographical regions known as the Appalachian Basin and the Trenton/Black River formation extending from New York throughout the Appalachians and into Kentucky. The Company's natural gas and oil reserves are located entirely within these regions. Information relating to the Company's estimates of natural gas and oil reserves and future net cash flows is provided in Note 13 (unaudited) of these consolidated financial statements.
 
Business Risks and Uncertainties
 
The oil and gas industry within the Appalachian basin is highly competitive. We compete with other energy companies, independent oil and gas producers and other individuals for mineral rights, drilling rig usage, transportation and line capacity, materials and services, gas marketing, and other items.
 
 
 
2. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates
 
Principles of Consolidation
 
The consolidated financial statements of Columbia include the accounts of Columbia Energy Resources, LLC and its wholly owned subsidiaries; CNR, CNRC, Hawg, Aladel, and TEL. The Company records its proportionate share of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses in wells in which it has a partial working interest. All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
 
Estimates
 
The preparation of the financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Estimates and assumptions that are significant to the underlying amounts in the financial statements include, but are not limited to, revenue and expense accruals, depreciation and amortization, asset impairment, valuation of prepaid gas forward sale contracts, valuation of derivative contracts, and asset retirement obligations.
 
Foreign Currency Exchange Rates
 
The conversion of the functional currency of Columbia Natural Resources Canada, Ltd. (a Canadian company) in Canadian dollars to the reporting currency of U.S. dollars is based upon the exchange rates in effect at the reporting date while the statements of operations are translated at average rates. The exchange rates in effect at December 31, 2004 and 2003, were $1.20 and $1.29 Canadian dollars to the U.S. dollar, respectively. Exchange gains and losses are included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).
 
Cash and Cash Equivalents
 
The Company considers all highly liquid investments purchased with an original maturity of three months or less to be cash equivalents. These investments are accounted for at cost. Interest earned on cash equivalents is included in interest income in the statement of operations.
 
 
 
2. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates (continued)
 
Accounts Receivable
 
Accounts receivable recorded in the financial statements represents valid claims against debtors for sales or other charges arising on or before the balance sheet date and have been reduced to their net estimated realizable value. When deemed necessary, an allowance for doubtful accounts is estimated based upon existing economic conditions, the financial conditions of the customer, the amount and age of the accounts, and the prior history of collection, among other factors. Accounts receivable are generally not collateralized.
 
Joint Interest Receivables
 
Amounts due from joint interest partners represent drilling and operating costs incurred by the Company on behalf of its joint interest drilling partners. Such receivables are recorded as the drilling and operating costs are incurred in accordance with the joint interest agreement and are billed to the partners on a monthly basis.
 
Inventories
 
The Company's inventory balance consists of materials and supplies, primarily related to materials used in gathering operations and the drilling for oil and natural gas. Inventory is presented at the lower of cost or market value.
 
Fixed Assets
 
Fixed assets are carried at cost. Depreciation is calculated using the straight-line method based on estimated service lives, ranging from 5 to 30 years, except for oil and gas production properties as explained below. The depreciable life for general plant ranges from 5 to 30 years and for gathering assets from 20 to 30 years. The cost of minor repairs and replacements is charged to maintenance expense as incurred.
 
 
 
2. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates (continued)
 
Long-Lived Assets
 
Long-lived assets to be held and used or disposed of other than by sale are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. When required, impairment losses on assets to be held and used or disposed of other than by sale are recognized based on the fair value of the asset. Long-lived assets to be disposed of by sale are reported at the lower of their carrying amount or estimated fair value less cost to sell.
 
Oil and Gas Properties
 
The accounting for oil and gas producing activities requires the Company's management to choose between generally acceptable accounting alternatives and to make judgments about estimates of future uncertainties.
 
The Company uses the "successful efforts" method of accounting for oil and gas production activities as opposed to the alternate acceptable "full cost" method. Under the successful efforts method, the cost of productive wells, including mineral interests, wells and related equipment, interest during construction, and development dry holes are capitalized. Nonproductive exploration cost, which include certain geological and geophysical costs, exploratory dry holes, delay rentals, and other property carrying costs are charged to expense.
 
Capitalized oil and gas properties are depleted on the unit-of-production method. Depletion expense on evaluated properties is calculated on a field-by-field basis, based upon production multiplied by the depletion rate per unit that is derived by allocating the lease, well equipment, and intangible drilling costs capitalized, as well as the future abandonment costs, net of salvage, in that field over the number of units expected to be extracted over the life of the proved developed reserves. Unevaluated costs are excluded from the depletion calculationAs of December 31, 2004 and 2003, accumulated depletion associated with these assets totaled $46.3 million and $12.8 million respectively.
.
 
The majority of the Company's oil and gas properties are classified as proved properties. Proved properties including developed and undeveloped costs associated with probable reserves are assessed for impairment using estimated future cash flows. Estimating future cash flows involves the use of complex judgments such as the estimation of proved and probable gas reserve
 
 
 
2. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates (continued)
 
quantities, timing of development and production, expected future commodity prices, capital expenditures and production costs. Information relating to the Company's estimates of natural gas and oil reserves and future net cash flows is provided in Note 13 (unaudited) of the consolidated financial statements. The Company's proved reserve information is based on estimates prepared by independent petroleum engineers. Estimates prepared by others may be higher or lower than these estimates. The carrying values of the Company's proved gas properties are reviewed on a field-by-field basis for indications of impairment on an annual basis, or whenever events or circumstances indicate that the remaining carrying values may not be recoverable. Proved gas properties that have carrying amounts in excess of estimated undiscounted future cash flows are deemed impaired. Those properties are then written down to fair value. For the periods ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, the Company incurred no impairment charges on gas properties. The costs of unproved gas properties (mineral interests) are periodically assessed on a field-by-field basis. If unproved properties are determined to be productive, the related costs are transferred to proved gas properties. If unproved properties are determined not to be productive or if the value has been otherwise impaired, the excess of carrying value over the estimated fair value is charged to expense. Unproved properties are impaired at 10.5% annually. The unimpaired balance of leases surrendered is charged to expense.
 
On the sale or retirement of a complete unit (group of properties in a geographical area) of a proved property, the cost and related accumulated depreciation, depletion, and amortization are eliminated from the property accounts, and the resultant gain or loss is recognized. On the retirement or sale of a partial unit of proved property, the cost is charged to accumulated depreciation, depletion, and amortization with a resulting gain or loss recognized in income.
 
On the sale of an entire interest in an unproved property for cash or cash equivalent, gain or loss on the sale is recognized, taking into consideration the amount of any recorded impairment if the property had been assessed individually. If a partial interest in an unproved property is sold, the amount received is treated as a reduction of the cost of the interest retained.
 
Capitalized Internal Cost
 
The Company capitalizes specific internal cost associated with leasehold acquisition, geological and engineering work performed in the exploration and development of oil and gas properties. The amount of internal cost capitalized for the periods ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, was $2.9 million and $0, respectively.
 
 
 
2. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates (continued)
 
Capitalized Interest During Construction
 
The Company capitalizes interest on expenditures for significant exploration and development projects during construction (IDC), while activities are in progress to bring the assets to their intended use. The IDC rate was 4.6% and 4.2% for the periods ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The amount of interest capitalized for the periods ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, was $237,087 and $17,224, respectively.
 
Revenue Recognition
 
Revenue from production activities is generally recognized when deliveries are made and legal title has passed. Gas imbalances are incurred in the ordinary course of business. As of December 31, 2004 and 2003, the Company had recorded a liability of $7.7 million and $0.2 million, respectively, related to estimated gas imbalances with Columbia Gas Transmission, Inc.
 
Delivery Commitments
 
In December 2004, the Company entered into an agreement with the University of Charleston whereby the Company committed to deliver 500 dth of natural gas per day until such time as the Company has assigned and transferred to the University of Charleston a sufficient amount of gas to pay in full a term loan from United Bank, Incorporated to the University of Charleston in the principal amount of $6.0 million. In consideration for the assignment and delivery of the gas by the Company, the University of Charleston agreed to provide up to 80 four-year, full-tuition scholarships to qualified dependents of employees of the Company for undergraduate education and up to one hundred qualified full-time Company employees, one undergraduate class per semester beginning with the spring 2004-2005 academic year and ending with the fall term of the 2014-2015 academic year, among other benefits. The scholarship asset is recognized as gas deliveries are made and is amortized to employee benefits as the scholarships become available over 11 years.
 
 
 
2. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates (continued)
 
Prepaid Forward Gas Sales
 
In connection with the acquisition of CER in August 2003, the Company assumed an obligation under forward gas sales agreements with Mahonia II Limited (Mahonia) to deliver a total of 86.7 Bcf of natural gas to Mahonia through 2006. The obligation, for which no future compensation will be forthcoming, was adjusted to its estimated fair value at the date of acquisition based upon the cost expected to be incurred to satisfy the obligations under the contract, as determined by an outside valuation firm. These contracts are recorded as a prepaid forward gas sales liability, with the related income recognized at time of delivery. During 2004 and 2003, 41.2 and 14.6 Bcf of natural gas were delivered, representing approximately $138.1 and $52.5 million in revenues, respectively. The following is a summary of scheduled future deliveries and revenues to be recognized under the contract:
 
 
Distribution to Members
 
Member distributions are recognized in the period declared. Distributions declared for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, were $350 million and $0, respectively.
 
Concentration of Credit Risk
 
Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to concentrations of credit risk consist principally of cash equivalents, trade accounts receivable, derivatives, and certain other short-term financial instruments. The fair value of financial instruments approximates carrying value.
 
 
 
2. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates (continued)
 
The Company's accounts receivable are generated primarily from the sale and transportation of natural gas within the Appalachian basin. The Company is exposed to credit loss in the event of non-collection of accounts receivable. The Company manages these risks by limiting the sale of natural gas to marketers who meet the Company's credit requirements and by actively monitoring all accounts receivable.
 
The Company is exposed to credit loss in the event of nonperformance on derivative instruments. The Company manages this risk by limiting our pool of counterparties to only those financial institutions that are part of the Company's syndicated borrowing agreement. As of December 31, 2004 and 2003, the Company's exposure to credit risk related to derivative instruments was $678,606 and $0, respectively, based on the estimated fair market value of the derivative instruments at the respective date.
 
Derivative Instruments
 
Derivatives are held as part of a formally documented risk management program. The Company's risk management activities are subject to the management, direction and control of the Company's Corporate Risk Management Committee (CRMC). The CRMC reports to the Company's Board of Directors.
 
The Company's risk management program includes the use of Over the Counter (OTC) swaps, options, collars, and exchange-traded natural gas future contracts to hedge exposures to fluctuations in natural gas prices. The Company's risk management program also includes the use of interest rate swap agreements to hedge exposure to fluctuations in interest rates. At contract inception, the Company designates its derivative instruments as cash flow hedges. The Company recognizes all derivative instruments either as assets or liabilities and measures the instruments at fair value. The measurement of fair value is based upon actively quoted market prices and independent valuations. An effectiveness test is performed at inception of each hedge and periodically thereafter throughout the life of the hedge.
 
The Company considers a hedge to be highly effective if the effectiveness ratio falls between .80 and 1.25. Every hedging relationship is measured by this standard and the measurement is performed on no less than a quarterly basis. To the extent that a derivative instrument has been designated and qualifies as a cash flow hedge, the effective portion of the change in fair value of the derivative instrument is reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive
 
 
 
2. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates (continued)
 
income and is reclassified into earnings in the same period or periods during which the hedged forecasted transaction affects earnings. The ineffective portion of the cash flow hedge is immediately recognized in operating revenues. Ineffectiveness recognized for the year ended December 31, 2004, was income of $949,990 compared to a loss of $1,615,622 for the four months ended December 31, 2003. If a cash flow hedge were to be terminated before the settlement date of the hedged item, the amount of accumulated other comprehensive income recorded up to that date would remain accrued provided that the forecasted transaction remains probable of occurring.
 
Asset Retirement Obligations
 
The Company records the estimated discounted fair value of a liability for an asset retirement obligation, net of salvage value, in the period in which it is incurred. The Company's asset retirement obligation primarily relates to the plugging of wells and land restoration at the end of oil and gas production activities. Upon initial recognition of a liability for an asset retirement obligation, the Company capitalizes the cost, thereby increasing the carrying amount of the related long-lived asset by the same amount as the liability. Over time, the liability is accreted, and the capitalized cost is depleted over the useful life of the related asset.
 
Inherent to the discounted value calculation are numerous assumptions and estimates, including the estimated future plugging cost, inflation factors, credit-adjusted discount rates, timing of settlement, and changes in legal, environmental and regulatory environments. To the extent future revisions to these assumptions impact the present value of the existing asset retirement obligation liability, a corresponding adjustment is made to the capitalized long-lived asset balance.
 
Income Taxes
 
The Company and its largest subsidiary, CNR, were each established as a Single Member Limited Liability Company (LLC), thus the LLC is not recognized for federal and, if applicable, state and local income tax purposes. As such, the Company is not subject to federal and state income taxes. Two subsidiaries, CNRC and TEL, are subject to federal income tax and, if applicable, state and local income tax. There were no significant deferred tax assets or liabilities as of December 31, 2004 or 2003. Income tax expense reported on the consolidated statements of operations for the year ended December 31, 2004, represented income tax expense for TEL from
 
 
 
2. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates (continued)
 
earnings. Income tax expense for the four months ended December 31, 2003, included $26,000 of income tax expense for TEL from earnings and approximately $85,000 of alternative minimum tax related to the dissolution of Triana Energy, Inc.
 
3. Accounting for Risk Management Activities
 
The Company is concerned with managing specific risks associated with natural gas price volatility and interest rate movement on floating-rate debt. Authorized personnel, who have appropriate experience, skill level and degree of specialization, participate in the Company's risk management activities. The Company enters into contracts with counterparties deemed by management and the Board of Representatives to be credit worthy, minimizing credit risk exposure.
 
Commodity Risk
 
The Company is primarily in the business of exploration and production of natural gas and oil within Appalachian Basin of North America. The Company utilizes both fixed price and index-related contracts to market its gas. These contracts qualify as "normal purchases and normal sales" of natural gas. A substantial risk lies within the inherent price volatility of the natural gas market, which is driven by economic factors such as, but not limited to, levels of regional supply and demand pressures. The Company's risk management energy portfolio includes the use of Over the Counter (OTC) swaps, options, collars and traditional fixed price sales contracts to hedge exposure to fluctuations in natural gas prices. The energy portfolio is managed to complement the Company's expected future production and sales levels, reducing overall risks within policy limits. Although the use of such derivative products may restrict levels of upside revenue during periods of favorable market prices, the hedging strategies employed by the Company offer a reasonable level of risk management assurance by reducing exposure to price risk during unfavorable market turns. Other risks associated with derivative utilization include counterparty creditworthiness, non-hedged production exposed to natural gas price fluctuations, and ineffectiveness within the derivative contracts to fully offset the change in market price.
 
The Company's energy derivatives are currently held for purposes other than trading (hedging activities). As of December 31, 2004, the Company's energy portfolio contains derivative instruments and fixed price contracts maturing from January 2005 through December 2009 covering 199,017,000 Mmbtu. The fair market value of the Company's derivative commodity
 
 
 
3. Accounting for Risk Management Activities (continued)
 
instruments at December 31, 2004 and 2003, was a liability of $140.0 million and $8.3 million, respectively. A decrease of 10% in the market price of natural gas would decrease the fair value of the Company's hedging liability by approximately $86.5 million at December 31, 2004. An increase of 10% in the market price of natural gas would increase the fair value of the liability by approximately the same amount. For the periods ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, the Company reduced revenues by approximately $3.3 million and $1.0 million, respectively, as a result of hedging activities. At December 31, 2004, the estimated net amount of existing losses expected to be reclassified into earnings within the next 12 months is approximately $20.9 million.
 
Interest Rate Risk
 
In connection with the acquisition, merger, and subsequent operation of the surviving entity known as Columbia Energy Resources, LLC, a combination of capital resources consisting of debt and equity contributions were secured. Specifically, a syndicated borrowing instrument of a $500 million commitment to the Company for a period of five years was secured. Through December 31, 2004, $350 million has been borrowed against this line of credit. A variable rate component is attached to the Company's borrowings, based on the London Inter-Bank Offered Rate (LIBOR).
 
Due to the structure of the Company's financing arrangements, exposure to interest rate fluctuation is a significant concern. This risk is managed through the Company's Risk Management Committee, which provides analysis and recommendations focused on factors known traditionally to influence interest rates. As of December 31, 2004, the Company had entered into three interest swap agreements with a cumulative notional amount of $100 million, under which CER will pay the weighted-average fixed rate ranging from 2.9% to 3.0%, and receive the floating USD three-month LIBOR. The floating rates settle and reset on staggered quarters based on each contract's respective transaction date, and changes in the cash flows of these floating to fixed interest rate swap agreements are expected to be highly effective in hedging exposure to the variability in the LIBOR interest rate debt. Accordingly, the interest rate swap agreements have been accounted for as cash flow hedges. For the year ended December 31, 2004, the Company recognized expense related to the settlement of its interest swap hedge contracts of $1.8 million. For the four months ended December 31, 2003, no income or expense was recognized. The estimated net amount of existing losses at December 31, 2004, that is
 
 
 
3. Accounting for Risk Management Activities (continued)
 
expected to be reclassified to earnings within the next 12 months is approximately $0.01 million. The fair value of the Company's interest rate swaps at December 31, 2004, is an asset of $0.67 million.
 
4. Recent Accounting Pronouncements
 
 In April 2004, the FASB issued Staff Position Nos. FAS 141-1 and FAS 142-1, "Interaction of FASB Statements No. 141, , and No. 142, ." This FSP amended Statement 141 and Statement 142 to address an inconsistency between the original pronouncements and the consensus of EITF Issue No. 04-2, , that mineral rights are a tangible asset. SFAS Statements 141 and 142 have been amended to exclude mineral rights as examples of intangible assets. Historically, the Company has included the cost of mineral rights as tangible assets, which is consistent with the EITF's consensus. Accordingly, the adoption of Staff Position Nos. FAS 141-1 and FAS 142-1 did not impact our financial statements.
FAS 141-1 and FAS 142-1
Business Combinations
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets
Whether Mineral Rights Are Tangible or Intangible Assets
 
 In September 2004, the FASB issued Staff Position No. FAS 142-2, "Application of FASB Statement No. 142, to Oil and Gas Producing Entities." This Staff Position provided clarification for the balance sheet classification and disclosures for drilling and mineral rights of oil and gas producing entities that are within the scope of FASB Statement No. 19, . Mineral rights of oil and gas producing entities that are within the scope of FASB Statement No. 19 are to be classified and disclosed as tangible assets. The adoption of Staff Position Nos. FAS 141-1 and FAS 142-1 did not impact our financial statements.
FAS 142-2
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,
Financial Accounting and Reporting by Oil and Gas Producing Companies
 
In January 2003, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 46 (FIN 46), . FIN 46, as revised in December 2003, clarifies the application of Accounting Research Bulletin No. 51, , to certain entities in which equity investors do not have the characteristics of a controlling financial interest or do not have sufficient equity at risk for the entity to finance its activities without additional subordinated financial support. This interpretation requires existing unconsolidated variable interest entities to be consolidated by their primary beneficiaries if the entities do not effectively disperse risks among parties involved. As a nonpublic enterprise, CER applied this interpretation to all applicable entities beginning January 1, 2005. The adoption of FIN 46 did not materially impact our financial statements.
FIN No. 46
Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities
Consolidated Financial Statements
 
 
 
4. Recent Accounting Pronouncements (continued)
 
In July 2003, the EITF reached consensus on Issue 03-11, . The consensus stated that determining whether realized gains and losses on physically settled derivative contracts "held for trading purposes" should be reported in the income statement on a gross or net basis is a matter of judgment that depends on the relevant facts and circumstances. The consideration of the facts and circumstances, including economic substance, should be made in the context of the various activities of the entity rather than based solely on the terms of the individual contracts. The statement did not have a material effect on the Company's financial condition or results of operations.
EITF Issue 03-11
Reporting Realized Gains and Losses on Derivative Instruments that are Subject to FASB Statement No. 133 and not "Held for Trading Purposes" as Defined in Issue No. 02-3
 
5. Asset Retirement Obligations
 
The Company has legal retirement obligations for wells, well lines, compressor stations, gathering lines, treatment and injection facilities, and disposal wells. An asset retirement obligation has been recognized for all asset classes where a reasonable estimate of fair value can be made. Most of the retirement obligations are related to wells, well lines, and other exploration and production assets. Compressor stations and gathering lines presently have indeterminate lives; therefore, an estimate of the liability for the associated retirement obligations is not calculable. The following table summarizes the progression of the asset retirement obligation for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003:
 
 
 
 
6. Debt and Commitments
 
In August 2003, The Company obtained funding through a syndicated borrowing instrument managed by Fleet Bank (Fleet) to finance the acquisition, merger, and subsequent operation of Columbia Energy Resources. Under the terms of the debt instrument, the Company obtained authorization to borrow up to $500 million for a period of five years. In the initial year, $225 million was drawn and was outstanding at December 31, 2003. It was projected at acquisition that additional draws would be required over the subsequent 18 months to support operating expenses and capital expenditure investments during the course of satisfying the Company's forward gas sale agreement (see note 2). During 2004, additional borrowings totaling $125 million were drawn. No principal amounts have been paid on the amount borrowed. Under the provisions of the Fleet debt instrument, interest is determined according to a LIBOR-indexed rate, plus 300 basis points. The loan is collateralized with virtually all of the Company's assets. The initial term of the debt instrument was five years although there is no specified time period for debt repayment. As of December 31, 2004 and 2003, the Company had $350 million and $225 million outstanding, respectively, the total of which was classified as long-term debt. The average daily balance of the Company's Fleet debt was approximately $288.4 million over the course of 2004 and $225.0 million during the four months ending December 2003.
 
In January 2005, the Company entered into a new syndicated loan managed by Bank of America and refinanced the debt previously held with Fleet Bank. Under the terms of the new debt instrument, the Company obtained a credit facility of $1.25 billion with a borrowing base of $850 million for a period of five years. Interest is to be determined according to a market-indexed rate at time of draw, plus 225 basis points and payment is due January 2010. The loan is collateralized with virtually all of the Company's assets. As of March 15, 2005, $715 million had been borrowed against this line. In January 2005, the Company wrote off $9.3 million of unamortized financing cost related to the previous Fleet debt instrument.
 
Interest paid was $15.1 million and $2.8 million during the periods ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively.
 
7. Benefit Plan
 
Columbia offers a Deferred Salary 401(k) Plan (the Plan) for all employees who are eligible to participate. Employees are immediately eligible to participate upon becoming a full-time employee with the Company. The Plan allows for the deferral of all or part of a participant's base salary and incentive compensation bonuses. Participants may elect to have their deferred
 
 
 
7. Benefit Plan (continued)
 
compensation invested in several investment alternatives. Employer matching and profit sharing contributions are discretionary. Employer contributions to the plan for the periods ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, were $1.3 million and $0.4 million, respectively.
 
Columbia also provides medical coverage and life insurance coverage for current employees. Essentially all active employees are eligible for these benefits, which cease upon separation from employment with the Company. The cost of these benefits, net of employee contributions, was $2.3 million and $0.9 million for the periods ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively.
 
8. Leases
 
The Company leases office space, compressors, computers, and other equipment under various operating lease agreements. Payments made in connection with operating leases are charged to lease operating expense as incurred. Rental expense for operating leases was $8,867,668 and $2,953,148 for the periods ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Future minimum lease payments required under the noncancelable operating leases that have initial or remaining terms in excess of one year are as follows:
 
 
In aggregate, the future minimum rentals to be received under noncancelable subleases as of December 31, 2004, are $123,000.
 
 
 
9. Related Party Transactions
 
The Company has entered into contractual arrangements with Union Drilling, Inc., which drills natural gas wells for the Company. Columbia's President and Chief Executive Officer currently is the Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors for Union Drilling, Inc. At December 31, 2004 and 2003, the Company had no amounts payable to Union Drilling, Inc. During the periods ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, the Company utilized services from Union Drilling, Inc. totaling approximately $7.3 million and $3.6 million, respectively.
 
10. Commitments and Contingencies
 
Capital Expenditures
 
The estimated gross construction program for 2005 is $135.5 million (Unaudited).
 
Forward Gas Sale
 
As part of the acquisition agreement with Columbia Energy Group, the Company assumed a forward gas sales obligation with Mahonia II Limited (Mahonia). Under the terms of the agreement, the Company is required to sell and deliver certain quantities of natural gas during the term of the contract, which continues through February 2006. As such, this contract is recorded as forward gas sale at its estimated fair value at the date of acquisition less amounts delivered through December 31, 2004. Deliveries, sales prices, and revenue to be recognized by year have been included in the summary of significant accounting policies in Note 2.
 
Legal Matters
 
A grievance has been filed by the Paper, Allied-Industrial, Chemical and Energy Workers International Union (PACE) under its Collective Bargaining Agreement (CBA) with CNR alleging that, as a result of the acquisition, CNR is required to provide a defined (retirement) benefit plan. PACE and CNR are in the process of moving toward arbitration as provided for in the CBA. Approximately 141 employees, or 39% of the Company's workforce, are covered by the current CBA, which is scheduled to expire in December 2006. The Company is unable to determine the potential exposure, if any, to increased benefit costs should it be required to modify its current defined contribution plan.
Collective Bargaining Agreement.
 
 
 
10. Commitments and Contingencies (continued)
 
Pursuant to its Stock Purchase Agreement dated July 3, 2003 (the SPA), the Company is indemnified by Columbia Energy Group (CEG) for certain royalty claims made by royalty owners, provided that the Company does not alter the methodology of royalty payment calculation. Pursuant to a letter from CEG dated November 29, 2004, CEG has advised CNR that it believes it is relieved of its indemnification obligations concerning those certain royalty claims because CEG believes that the Company has altered its methodology. The Company has not altered the methodology, and the Company believes it has fully complied with the provisions of the SPA. The Company is unable to determine the ultimate impact any resolution of this matter may have on its financial statements.
Indemnification of Royalty Claims.
 
In addition to the above matters, the Company is involved in various other legal actions and claims arising in the ordinary course of business. Management does not expect these matters to have a material effect on the Company's financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.
 
For each of our outstanding legal matters, we evaluate the merits of the case, our exposure to the matter, possible legal or settlement strategies and the likelihood of an unfavorable outcome. If we determine that an unfavorable outcome is probable and can be estimated, we record the estimated liability. As new information becomes available, or other relevant developments occur, we adjust our estimates accordingly. While there are still uncertainties related to the ultimate outcome of pending litigation, no liabilities for estimated losses were established at December 31, 2004 and 2003.
 
Environmental Matters
 
The Company is subject to extensive federal, state, and local environmental laws and regulations, which are constantly changing. Governmental authorities may enforce these laws and regulations with a variety of civil and criminal enforcement measures, including monetary penalties, assessment, remediation requirements, and injunctions as to future activities. The Company has established procedures for ongoing evaluation of its operations to identify potential environmental exposures and assure compliance with regulatory policies and procedures. Changes in environmental laws and regulations occur frequently, and any changes that result in more stringent and costly waste handling, disposal, or other environmental requirements could adversely affect the Company's operations and financial position, as well as the industry in general. Management believes that the Company is in substantial compliance with current applicable environmental laws and regulations, and the Company has not experienced any material adverse effect from compliance with these environmental requirements. However, there is no assurance that this will continue in the future.
 
 
 
11. Significant Customer
 
Currently, approximately 80% of the Company's natural gas production is transported through transmission lines owned by Columbia Gas Transmission, Inc. From time to time the Company has experienced production constraints due to transmission line shut-ins or scheduled outages imposed by Columbia Gas Transmission. Historically, these delivery constraints have been infrequent and the effect on revenues has been minimal. There can be no guarantee that future constraints, if any, will not have a material impact on the financial position or results of operations of the Company.
 
12. Future Operations
 
As shown in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets, the Company has a deficiency in members' equity of approximately $209 million at December 31, 2004. This deficit was the result of a $350 million distribution to members declared in December 2004 and paid in January 2005.
 
As more fully described in Note 2 and in connection with the acquisition of CER in August 2003, the Company assumed an obligation under forward gas sales agreements with Mahonia II Limited to deliver 72.1 Bcf of natural gas to Mahonia through 2006, for which no future compensation was forthcoming. The Company was required to utilize additional borrowings totaling $125 million during 2004 under the Company's then existing $500 million credit facility financed through a syndicated borrowing instrument managed by Fleet Bank (Fleet). As expected prior to the acquisition, this forward gas sales commitment significantly impacts the Company's cash flows from operations during the life of the delivery commitment. During 2004 and 2003, the Company used approximately $50.0 million and $20.2 million, respectively, of cash for operations.
 
The daily natural gas deliveries required under the forward gas sales agreements declined in October 2004, and will continue to decline throughout 2005 until final deliveries scheduled for the first quarter 2006, improving the Company's overall cash flow position. Due largely to the reduction in 2005 of the Company's contractual delivery obligations associated with the forward gas sales contract, the Company's financial plan has forecasted improved cash flows from operations for 2005. The level of the Company's future cash flow will depend on a number of factors including the price received for oil and natural gas, the scope and success of drilling activities, ability to acquire additional producing properties, and fluctuations in interest rates.
 
 
 
12. Future Operations (continued)
 
In January 2005, the Company entered into a new syndicated loan managed by Bank of America and refinanced the debt previously held with Fleet Bank. Under the terms of the new debt instrument, the Company obtained a credit facility of $1.25 billion with an initial borrowing base of $850 million for a period of five years. As of March 15, 2005, $715 million had been borrowed against this line.
 
13. Natural Gas Producing Activities (Unaudited)
 
The supplementary information summarized below presents the results of natural gas activities for Columbia in accordance with SFAS No. 69, . Reserve information contained in the following tables is management's estimate, which was reviewed by the independent consulting firm of Schlumberger Data and Consulting Services. Reserves are reported as net revenue interest. Gross revenues are reported after deduction of royalty interest payments.
Disclosures about Oil and Gas Producing Activities
 
 
 
 
 
 
13. Natural Gas Producing Activities (Unaudited) (continued)
 
 
 
 
13. Natural Gas Producing Activities (Unaudited) (continued)
 
Results of operations for exploration and production activities exclude administrative and general costs, corporate overhead and interest expense.
 
 
Future cash inflows are computed by applying year-end prices to estimated future production of proved gas and oil reserves. Future expenditures (based on year-end costs) represent those costs to be incurred in developing and producing the reserves. Discounted future net cash flows are derived by applying a 10% discount rate, as required by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, to the future net cash flows. This data is not intended to reflect the actual economic value of the Columbia gas and oil producing properties or the true present value of estimated future cash flows since many arbitrary assumptions are used. The data does provide a means of comparison among companies through the use of standardized measurement techniques.
 
 
 
13. Natural Gas Producing Activities (Unaudited) (continued)
 
A reconciliation of the components resulting in changes in the standardized measure of discounted cash flows attributable to proved gas and oil reserves for the three years ending December 31 follows:
 
 
Acreage and Wells
 
The following table details the Company's gross and net interest in developed and undeveloped lease and mineral acreage at December 31, 2004.
 
 
 
 
13. Natural Gas Producing Activities (Unaudited) (continued)
 
The following table details the Company's gross and net interest in productive natural gas and oil wells as of December 31, 2004, all of which are located within the Appalachian Basin.
 
 
During 2004, the Company sold approximately 19 gross wells, all located within the Appalachian basin. Of the above stated productive natural gas wells, 645 wells (gross) are completed to multiple zones.
 
The following table details our net exploratory and development wells drilled for the year ended December 31, 2004, and four months ended December 31, 2003.
 
 
The information above should not be considered indicative of future performance, nor should it be assumed that there is a direct correlation between the number of productive wells drilled and the amount of natural gas and oil that may be ultimately recovered.
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
See accompanying notes.
 
 
 
 
See accompanying notes.
 
 
 
 
See accompanying notes.
 
 
 
 
See accompanying notes.
 
 
 
 
See accompanying notes.
 
 
 
 
1. Organization
 
Columbia Energy Resources, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (CER or the Company), was formed on August 27, 2003, and is a wholly owned subsidiary of Triana Energy Holdings, LLC (TEH). CER owns Columbia Natural Resources, LLC (CNR), the primary exploration and production subsidiary in the United States, Columbia Natural Resources Canada, Ltd. (CNRC), with holdings in Canada, Hawg Hauling and Disposal, LLC (Hawg), which conducts brine hauling and disposal services, Triana Energy Leases, Inc. (TEL), an entity formed to participate in operations on government leases, and the former Alamco-Delaware, LLC (Aladel), an entity formed to participate in monetization of investment tax credits.
 
Description of Business
 
The Company's principal business is the exploration and production of natural gas and oil. Our operations primarily include the acquisition, exploration, development, production, gathering, and sale of natural gas and oil. The Company's primary operations are located in the geographical regions known as the Appalachian Basin and the Trenton/Black River formation extending from New York throughout the Appalachians and into Kentucky. The Company's natural gas and oil reserves are located entirely within these regions.
 
2. Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
 
Principles of Consolidation
 
The accompanying financial statements are unaudited. However, in our opinion, the accompanying financial statements reflect all adjustments, consisting of only normal recurring accruals, necessary for the fair presentation of the results of the interim periods. Reference is hereby made to the Company's December 31, 2004, consolidated financial statements that contain a summary of significant accounting policies followed in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. These policies were followed in preparing the unaudited financial statements included herein. The results for the nine months ended September 30, 2005 and 2004, are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for a full year.
 
Certain amounts in the financial statements of prior periods have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation.
 
 
 
3. Financial Instruments and Hedging Activities
 
Commodity Risk
 
The Company is primarily in the business of exploration and production of natural gas and oil within Appalachian Basin of North America. A substantial risk lies within the inherent price volatility of the natural gas market, which is driven by economic factors such as, but not limited to, levels of regional supply and demand pressures. As of September 30, 2005 the Company's risk management energy portfolio includes the use of swaps, collars and traditional fixed price sales contracts to hedge exposure to fluctuations in natural gas prices. The Company's energy derivatives are currently classified as cash flow hedges. As of September 30, 2005 the company's energy portfolio contains derivative instruments and fixed price contracts maturing from October 2005 through December 2009 covering 160,219,000 Mmbtu. The fair market value of the Company's derivative commodity instruments at September 30, 2005 and December 31, 2004 was a liability of $679.0 million and $140.1 million respectively. For the nine months ended September 30, 2005 and September 30, 2004, realized (losses) gains included in oil and gas sales were $(29.5) million and $0.2 million, respectively, as a result of hedging activities. No additional commodity derivative instruments were entered into during the nine-month period ended September 30, 2005.
 
The estimated net discounted amount of existing losses at September 30, 2005 that are expected to be reclassified into earnings within the next twelve months is approximately $240.0 million.
 
Interest Rate Risk
 
As of September 30, 2005 the Company had entered into three interest swap agreements with a cumulative notional amount of $100 million, under which CER will pay the weighted average fixed rate ranging from 2.9% to 3.0%, and receive the floating USD three month LIBOR. The floating rates settle and reset on staggered quarters based on each contract's respective transaction date, and changes in the cash flows of these floating to fixed interest rate swap agreements are expected to be highly effective in hedging exposure to the variability in the LIBOR interest rate debt. Accordingly, the interest rate swap agreements are held for purposes other than trading (hedging activities).
 
For the nine months ended September 30, 2005 the Company recognized gains related to the settlement of its interest swap hedge contracts of $0.1 million compared to a loss of $1.5 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2004. The estimated net amount of existing gains at September 30, 2005 that are expected to be reclassified to earnings within the next twelve months is approximately $1.4 million. The fair value of the Company's interest rate swaps at September 30, 2005 is an asset of $1.7 million.
 
 
 
4. Commitments and Contingencies
 
Forward Gas Sale
 
In connection with the acquisition of CER in August 2003, the Company assumed an obligation under forward gas sales agreements with Mahonia II Limited (Mahonia) to deliver a total of 86.7 Bcf of natural gas to Mahonia through 2006. The obligation, for which no future compensation will be forthcoming, was adjusted to its estimated fair value at the date of acquisition based upon the cost expected to be incurred to satisfy the obligations under the contract, as determined by an outside valuation firm. These contracts are recorded as a prepaid forward gas sales liability, with the related income recognized at time of delivery. During the nine-month period ended September 30, 2005 and 2004, 19.3 and 32.6 Bcf of natural gas were delivered, representing approximately $58.4 and $110.7 million in revenues respectively. As of September 30, 2005, 11.1 Bcf of natural gas remains to be delivered.
 
Legal Matters
 
For each of our outstanding legal matters, we evaluate the merits of the case, our exposure to the matter, possible legal or settlement strategies and the likelihood of an unfavorable outcome. If we determine that an unfavorable outcome is probable and can be estimated, we record the estimated liability. As new information becomes available, or other relevant developments occur, we adjust our estimates accordingly.
 
In 2003, a class action complaint was filed in the Circuit Court of Roane County, West Virginia by a number of gas royalty owners against Columbia Natural Resources, Inc. (now known as Columbia Natural Resources, LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of Columbia Energy Resources, LLC), NiSource Inc., and Columbia Energy Group. The complaint alleges, among other claims, that CNR wrongfully deducted post-production expenses from the plaintiffs' royalty payments. CNR filed a Motion for Partial Summary Judgment on the plaintiffs' claim that CNR wrongfully deducted post-production expenses from the plaintiffs' royalty payments. By Order entered on October 14, 2005, the Court denied CNR's motion, but ruled that the issues were either undecided or partially decided in West Virginia and, thus, certified to the Supreme Court of Appeals two questions of law. The plaintiffs filed a Petition in Support of the Certified Questions on October 17, 2005, and CNR is in the process of filing a response. CNR is indemnified for any liability associated with this claim for periods prior to September 1, 2003. This matter is scheduled for trial on January 9, 2006. The parties are actively involved in discovery in this case as to other issues.
 
 
 
Pursuant to its Stock Purchase Agreement dated July 3, 2003 (the SPA), the Company and its Affiliates are indemnified by Columbia Energy Group (CEG) for certain royalty claims made by royalty owners, provided that the Company does not alter the methodology of royalty payment calculation. Pursuant to a letter from CEG dated November 29, 2004, CEG has advised CNR that it believes it is relieved of its indemnification obligations concerning those certain royalty claims because CEG believes that CNR has altered its methodology. CNR has not altered the methodology and believes it has fully complied with the provisions of the SPA. Accordingly, we dispute these allegations and intend to vigorously defend ourselves in this matter.
Indemnification of Royalty Claims.
 
In addition to the above matters, the Company is involved in various other legal actions and claims arising in the ordinary course of business. Management believes it has established sufficient reserves where a probable liability exists. Depending on the amount and the timing, an unfavorable resolution of some or all of these matters could materially affect our business, future results of operations, financial position, or cash flows in a particular period.
 
Environmental Matters
 
The Company is subject to extensive federal, state, and local environmental laws and regulations, which are constantly changing. Governmental authorities may enforce these laws and regulations with a variety of civil and criminal enforcement measures, including monetary penalties, assessment, remediation requirements, and injunctions as to future activities. The Company has established procedures for ongoing evaluation of its operations to identify potential environmental exposures and assure compliance with regulatory policies and procedures. Changes in environmental laws and regulations occur frequently, and any changes that result in more stringent and costly waste handling, disposal, or other environmental requirements could adversely affect the Company's operations and financial position, as well as the industry in general. Management believes that the Company is in substantial compliance with current applicable environmental laws and regulations, and the Company has not experienced any material adverse effect from compliance with these environmental requirements. However, there is no assurance that this will continue in the future.
 
 
 
5. Significant Customer
 
Currently, approximately 80% of the Company's natural gas production is transported through transmission lines owned by Columbia Gas Transmission, Inc. From time to time the Company has experienced production constraints due to transmission line shut-ins or scheduled outages imposed by Columbia Gas Transmission. Historically these delivery constraints have been infrequent and the effect on revenues has been minimal. There can be no guarantee that future constraints, if any, will not have a material impact on the financial position or results of operations of the Company.
 
6. Debt
 
In January 2005 the Company entered into a new syndicated loan managed by Bank of America and refinanced the debt previously held with Fleet Bank. Under the terms of the new debt instrument, the Company obtained a credit facility of $1.25 billion with a borrowing base of $850 million for a period of five years. Under the provisions of the new debt instrument, interest is to be determined according to a market-indexed rate at time of draw, plus 225 basis points. The loan is collateralized with virtually all of the Company's assets. As of September 30, 2005, $775 million had been borrowed against this line. In conjunction with the debt refinancing, the Company wrote off in January 2005, $9.2 million of unamortized financing cost related to the previous Fleet debt instrument.
 
7. Recent Accounting Pronouncements
 
On March 30, 2005, the FASB issued Interpretation (FIN) No. 47, . The FASB issued FIN 47 to address the accounting treatment for conditional asset retirement obligations under the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 143. FIN 47 is effective no later than the end of the fiscal year ending after December 15, 2005. The adoption of FIN 47 is not expected to have a material effect on our financial statements.
Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations - An Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 143
 
8. Subsequent Events
 
On September 30, 2005, Chesapeake Energy Corporation and Triana Energy Holdings, LLC entered into a purchase agreement pursuant to which Chesapeake will acquire Columbia Energy Resources, LLC and its subsidiaries, including Columbia Natural Resources, LLC (CNR), for $2.2 billion in cash, the assumption of an estimated $75 million working capital deficit and liabilities related to CNR's prepaid sales agreement and hedging positions.
 
 
 
The acquisition is conditioned upon, among other things, the expiration or termination of the waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976 and other customary closing conditions. Either the buyer or the seller may terminate the purchase agreement if the closing has not occurred by December 31, 2005.
 

Exhibit 99.3
 
 
 
The following unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements are derived from the historical financial statements of Chesapeake Energy Corporation and Columbia Energy Resources, LLC ("Columbia"). The pro forma combined statements of operations for the nine months ended September 30, 2005 and for the year ended December 31, 2004 reflect the Columbia acquisition as if the acquisition occurred on January 1, 2004. The pro forma combined balance sheet at September 30, 2005 reflects the consummation of the Columbia acquisition as if it occurred on September 30, 2005. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial data should be read in conjunction with the notes thereto and the historical financial statements of Chesapeake and Columbia, including the notes thereto.
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements do not purport to be indicative of the results of operations that would actually have occurred if the transaction described had occurred as presented in such statements or that may occur in the future. In addition, future results may vary significantly from the results reflected in such statements due to general economic conditions, oil and gas commodity prices, Chesapeake's ability to successfully integrate the operations of Columbia with its current business and several other factors, many of which are beyond Chesapeake's control.
 
The Columbia acquisition will be accounted for using the purchase method of accounting. The purchase cost will be allocated to the identifiable Columbia tangible and intangible assets and liabilities based on their respective fair values, including derivatives whose valuation will be dependent upon gas prices at the time of closing. The final allocation of the actual purchase price is subject to the final valuation of the acquired assets, but that allocation is not expected to differ materially from the preliminary allocation presented in these pro forma condensed combined financial statements.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
After deducting the estimated fees and expenses associated with these offerings of $35 million, we anticipate that the net cash proceeds would be approximately $1,465 million. For purposes of these pro forma financial statements, it is assumed that the remainder ($796.5 million) of the purchase price will be funded using borrowings under our revolving credit facility. We intend to finance the Columbia acquisition utilizing the proceeds from the three offerings described above, although none of the offerings are conditioned on the others, and the acquisition is not conditional on the offerings. Should any of the offerings described above be unsuccessful, we will finance a portion of the acquisition with borrowings from a new bridge loan commitment, which loan currently would have an interest rate of 6.75%. If our convertible preferred offering is unsuccessful, we will finance the acquisition entirely with debt. In such case, our total long-term debt as of the closing date would be $6.4 billion.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following table sets forth summary pro forma information with respect to Chesapeake's and Columbia's combined estimated net proved oil and gas reserves as of December 31, 2004. Since Columbia elected to be treated as a partnership, it did not include the effect of future income taxes in the information below. The pro forma adjustments below reflect the estimated impact of future income tax on future net cash flows.
 
 


