FILE:CHK/CHK-8K-20060615164219.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
 
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d)
of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported)
June 15, 2006 (June 9, 2006)
CHESAPEAKE ENERGY CORPORATION
(Exact name of Registrant as specified in its Charter)
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
(17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
(17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Section 1  Registrant's Business and Operations
 
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
 
Based on its annual review of director compensation, on June 9, 2006, Chesapeake Energy Corporation's Board of Directors approved the annual compensation of its non-employee directors effective July 1, 2006 as follows: (1) $50,000 annual retainer to be paid in quarterly installments on the first business day of each calendar quarter; (2) $12,500 and $3,000 payable for each board meeting attended in person and telephonically, respectively, not to exceed $75,000 per year for board meetings attended; and (3) 12,500 restricted shares of Chesapeake's common stock to be issued on the first business day in July of each year. One-quarter (1/4) of each restricted stock award will vest immediately upon award with the remaining three-quarters (3/4) of the award to vest ratably over the next three years following the date of the award.
 
In addition, on June 9, 2006, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors set the annual base salaries of, and awarded cash bonuses to, Chesapeake's named executive officers and its chief operating officer, effective July 1, 2006. The base salaries and the cash bonuses, respectively, are as follows: Aubrey K. McClendon $975,000 and $750,000; Marcus C. Rowland $725,000 and $500,000; Steven C. Dixon $725,000 and $500,000; Martha A. Burger $550,000 and $325,000; and Michael A. Johnson $400,000 and $175,000.
 
On June 9, 2006, at the Company's annual meeting of shareholders, the Company's shareholders voted to adopt an amendment to the Long Term Incentive Plan (the "LTIP"). The Amended and Restated LTIP appears as Exhibit A to the definitive proxy statement for the meeting, which was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 28, 2006. The description of the LTIP under the caption "Plan Features" on pages 10-15 of the proxy statement, a part of the discussion of Voting Item 3Proposal to Amend Long Term Incentive Plan, is incorporated by reference herein.
 
Also on June 9, 2006, the Board of Directors approved an amendment to the existing employment agreement between the Company and Aubrey K. McClendon, the chairman and chief executive officer, and authorized the Company to execute and deliver the Fifth Amended and Restated Employment Agreement with Mr. McClendon. A copy of the agreement is filed herewith as Exhibit 10.2.1. The amendments effected include the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
SIGNATURE
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
4
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 10.2.1
 
FIFTH AMENDED AND RESTATED
EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT
 
THIS AGREEMENT is made effective July 1, 2006, between CHESAPEAKE ENERGY CORPORATION, an Oklahoma corporation (the "Company"), and AUBREY K. McCLENDON, an individual (the "Executive").
 
W I T N E S S E T H:
 
WHEREAS, the Company and the Executive entered into that certain Amended and Restated Employment Agreement dated effective July 1, 1998 as amended by the First Amendment to Amended and Restated Employment Agreement dated December 31, 1998, as further amended by the Second Amended and Restated Employment Agreement dated January 1, 2001, as further amended by the Third Amended and Restated Employment Agreement dated January 1, 2004 and as further amended by the Fourth Amended and Restated Employment Agreement dated July 1, 2005 (together the "Prior Agreements");
 
WHEREAS, the Company and the Executive desire to amend and restate the Prior Agreements in their entirety to reflect the foregoing and other changes to the arrangement between the Company and the Executive.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual promises herein contained, the Company and the Executive agree as follows:
 
1.
          
Employment
. The Company hereby employs the Executive and the Executive hereby accepts such employment subject to the terms and conditions contained in this Agreement. The Executive is engaged as an employee of the Company and the Executive and the Company do not intend to create a joint venture, partnership or other relationship that might impose a fiduciary obligation on the Executive or the Company in the performance of this Agreement.
 
2.
          
Executive's Duties
. The Executive is employed on a full-time basis. Throughout the term of this Agreement, the Executive will use the Executive's best efforts and due diligence to assist the Company in the objective of achieving the most profitable operation of the Company and the Company's affiliated entities consistent with developing and maintaining a quality business operation.
 
 
 
 
 
 
market value of the common stock on the date the option was exercised, the stock was issued or the stock was acquired through the conversion of preferred stock, or the date such stock was otherwise acquired; and (c) for shares acquired prior to the date of this Agreement, the closing price for the Company's stock on the New York Stock Exchange (the "NYSE") on the date of this Agreement adjusted for subsequent stock splits. This paragraph will become null and void if the Company's common stock ceases to be listed on the NYSE, the National Association of Securities Dealers Automated Quotation System or other national exchange. The Company has no obligation to sell or to purchase from the Executive any of the Company's stock in connection with this paragraph 2.4 and has made no representations or warranties regarding the Company's stock, operations or financial condition.
 
3.
          
Other Activities
. Except for the activities (the "Permitted Activities") permitted under paragraphs 3.1, 3.2 and 3.3 of this Agreement or approved by the Board of Directors, the Executive will not: (a) engage in activities which require such substantial services on the part of the Executive that the Executive is unable to perform the duties assigned to the Executive in accordance with this Agreement; (b) serve as an officer or director of any publicly held entity; or (c) directly or indirectly invest in, participate in or acquire an interest in any oil and gas business, including, without limitation, (i) producing oil and gas, (ii) drilling, owning or operating oil and gas leases or wells, (iii) providing services or materials to the oil and gas industry, (iv) marketing or refining oil or gas, or (v) owning any interest in any corporation, partnership, company or entity which conducts any of the foregoing activities. The limitations in this paragraph 3 will not prohibit an investment by the Executive in publicly traded securities. The Executive is not restricted from maintaining or making investments, or engaging in other businesses, enterprises or civic, charitable or public service functions if such activities, investments, businesses or enterprises do not result in a violation of clauses (a) through (c) of this paragraph 3. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Executive will be permitted to participate in the following activities that will be deemed to be approved by the Company, if such activities are undertaken in strict compliance with this Agreement.
 
 
-2-
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.
          
Executive's Compensation
. The Company agrees to compensate the Executive as follows:
 
 
 
-3-
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-4-
 
 
 
cost of using the Company's aircraft means the variable costs directly identifiable with each use (including fuel, pilot charges, landing fees, hourly charges under co-ownership arrangements and other such costs), but specifically excluding any fixed costs of the aircraft (including acquisition costs and depreciation). The Executive will: (a) not owe any additional amounts to the Company under this paragraph for guests or family members traveling with the Executive; and (b) pay all personal income taxes accruing as a result of the personal use of the Company's aircraft by the Executive under this paragraph.
 
 
 
-5-
 
 
 
 
 
 
-6-
 
 
 
notifies the Company (or such shorter period ending on the date that any payment of taxes with respect to such claim is due). If the Company notifies the Executive in writing prior to the expiration of such thirty (30) day period that the Company desires to contest such claim, the Executive will: (a) provide to the Company any information reasonably requested by the Company relating to such claim; (b) take such action in connection with contesting such claim as the Company reasonably requests in writing including, without limitation, accepting legal representation with respect to such claim by an attorney reasonably selected by the Company; (c) cooperate with the Company in good faith as necessary to effectively contest such claim; and (d) permit the Company to participate in any proceedings relating to such claim. The Company will bear and pay directly all costs and expenses (including additional interest and penalties) incurred in connection with the contest of the claim and agrees to indemnify and hold the Executive harmless, on an after-tax basis, for any Excise Tax or income tax (including interest and penalties with respect thereto) imposed as a result of such protest (including payment of costs and expenses as provided hereunder). Without limitation on the foregoing provisions, the Company will control all proceedings related to such contested claim, may at its sole option pursue or forgo any and all administrative appeals, proceedings, hearings and conferences with the taxing authority in respect of such claim and may at its sole option either direct the Executive to pay the tax claimed and sue for a refund or contest the claim in any permissible manner. The Executive agrees to prosecute such contest to a determination before any administrative tribunal, in a court of initial jurisdiction and in one or more appellate courts, as the Company reasonably determines. If the Company directs the Executive to pay a claim and sue for a refund, the Company will be required to advance the amount of such payment to the Executive on an interest-free basis and agrees to indemnify and hold the Executive harmless, on an after-tax basis, from any Excise Tax or income tax (including interest or penalties with respect thereto) imposed with respect to such advance or with respect to any imputed income with respect to such advance, provided that any extension of the statute of limitations relating to payment of taxes for the taxable year of the Executive with respect to which such contested amount is claimed to be due is limited solely to such contested amount. Furthermore, the Company's control of the contested claim will be limited to issues with respect to which a Gross-Up Payment would be payable hereunder and the Executive will be entitled to settle or contest, as the case may be, any other issue raised by the Internal Revenue Service or any other taxing authority.
 
-7-
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.
          
Term
. In the absence of termination as set forth in paragraph 6 below, this Agreement will extend for a term of five (5) years commencing on July 1, 2006, and ending on June 30, 2011 (the "Expiration Date") as extended from time to time. Unless the Company provides thirty (30) days prior written notice of non-extension to the Executive, on each January 31 during the term of this Agreement, the term and the Expiration Date will be automatically extended for one (1) additional year so that the remaining term on this Agreement will be not less than four (4) and not more than five (5) years.
 
6.
          
Termination
. This Agreement will continue in effect until the expiration of the term set forth in paragraph 5 of this Agreement unless earlier terminated pursuant to this paragraph 6.
 
-8-
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-9-
 
 
 
adopted by the Board of Directors or based on the advice of counsel for the Company will be conclusively presumed to be done, or omitted to be done, by the Executive in good faith and in the best interests of the Company. In the event this Agreement is terminated for Cause, the Company will not have any obligation to provide any further payments or benefits to the Executive after the effective date of such termination. This Agreement will not be deemed to have terminated for Cause unless a written determination specifying the reasons for such termination is made, approved by a majority of the independent and disinterested members of the Board of Directors of the Company and delivered to the Executive. Thereafter, the Executive will have the right for a period of thirty (30) days to request a Board of Directors meeting to be held at a mutually agreeable time and location to be attended by the members of the Board of Directors in person within the following thirty (30) days, at which meeting the Executive will have an opportunity to be heard. Failing such determination and opportunity for hearing, any termination of this Agreement will be deemed to have occurred without Cause.
 
 
 
-10-
 
 
 
 
 
(a) The acquisition by any individual, entity or group (within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act")) (a "Person") of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act) of 20% or more of either (i) the then outstanding shares of common stock of the Company (the "Outstanding Company Common Stock") or (ii) the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of the Company entitled to vote generally in the election of directors (the "Outstanding Company Voting Securities"). For purposes of this paragraph (a) the following acquisitions by a Person will not constitute a Change of Control: (i) any acquisition directly from the Company; (ii) any acquisition by the Company; (iii) any acquisition by any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company or any corporation controlled by the Company; or (iv) any acquisition by any corporation pursuant to a transaction which complies with clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) of paragraph (c) of this paragraph 6.3.1.
 
(b) The individuals who, as of the date hereof, constitute the Board of Directors (the "Incumbent Board") cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board of Directors. Any individual becoming a director subsequent to the date hereof whose election, or nomination for election by the Company's shareholders, is approved by a vote of at least a majority of the directors then comprising the Incumbent Board will be considered a member of the Incumbent Board as of the date hereof, but any such individual whose initial assumption of office occurs as a result of an actual or threatened election contest with respect to the election or removal of directors or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a Person other than the Incumbent Board will not be deemed a member of the Incumbent Board as of the date hereof.
 
-11-
 
 
 
 
(c) The consummation of a reorganization, merger, consolidation or sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company (a "Business Combination"), unless following such Business Combination: (i) all or substantially all of the individuals and entities who were the beneficial owners, respectively, of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and Outstanding Company Voting Securities immediately prior to such Business Combination beneficially own, directly or indirectly, more than 60% of, respectively, the then outstanding shares of common stock and the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, as the case may be, of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination (including, without limitation, a corporation which as a result of such transaction owns the Company or all or substantially all of the Company's assets either directly or through one or more subsidiaries) in substantially the same proportions as their ownership, immediately prior to such Business Combination of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and Outstanding Company Voting Securities, as the case may be, (ii) no Person (excluding any corporation resulting from such Business Combination or any employee benefit plan (or related trust) of the Company or such corporation resulting from such Business Combination) beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, 20% or more of, respectively, the then outstanding shares of common stock of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination or the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of such corporation except to the extent that such ownership existed prior to the Business Combination and (iii) at least a majority of the members of the board of directors of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination were members of the Incumbent Board at the time of the execution of the initial agreement, or of the action of the Board, providing for such Business Combination.
 
(d)
   
The approval by the shareholders of the Company of a complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company.
 
 
-12-
 
 
 
from the Executive's then current place of employment or a default by the Company under this Agreement; (e) the failure by the Company after a Change of Control to obtain the assumption of this Agreement, without limitation or reduction, by any successor to the Company or any parent corporation of the Company; or (f) after a Change of Control has occurred, the Executive agrees to remain employed by the Company for a period of three (3) months to assist in the transition and thereafter resigns.
 
 
 
 
-13-
 
 
 
financial information, furniture, furnishings, equipment, supplies and other items relating to the Company will remain the property of the Company. The Executive will have the right to retain and remove all personal property and effects that are owned by the Executive and located in the offices of the Company. All such personal items will be removed from such offices no later than ten (10) days after the effective date of termination, and the Company is hereby authorized to discard any items remaining and to reassign the Executive's office space after such date. Prior to the effective date of termination, the Executive will cooperate with the Company to provide for the orderly termination of the Executive's employment.
 
 
7.
          
Confidentiality
. The Executive recognizes that the nature of the Executive's services are such that the Executive will have access to information which constitutes trade secrets, is of a confidential nature, is of great value to the Company or is the foundation on which the business of the Company is predicated. The Executive agrees not to disclose to any person other than the Company's employees or the Company's legal counsel nor use for any purpose, other than the performance of this Agreement, any confidential information ("Confidential Information"). Confidential Information includes data or material (regardless of form) which is: (a) a trade secret; (b) provided,
 
-14-
 
 
 
disclosed or delivered to Executive by the Company, any officer, director, employee, agent, attorney, accountant, consultant, or other person or entity employed by the Company in any capacity, any customer, borrower or business associate of the Company or any public authority having jurisdiction over the Company of any business activity conducted by the Company; or (c) produced, developed, obtained or prepared by or on behalf of Executive or the Company (whether or not such information was developed in the performance of this Agreement) with respect to the Company or any assets oil and gas prospects, business activities, officers, directors, employees, borrowers or customers of the foregoing. However, Confidential Information will not include any information, data or material which at the time of disclosure or use was generally available to the public other than by a breach of this Agreement, was available to the party to whom disclosed on a non-confidential basis by disclosure or access provided by the Company or a third party, or was otherwise developed or obtained independently by the person to whom disclosed without a breach of this Agreement. On request by the Company, the Company will be entitled to a copy of any Confidential Information in the possession of the Executive. The Executive also agrees that the provisions of this paragraph 7 will survive the termination, expiration or cancellation of this Agreement for a period of one (1) year. The Executive will deliver to the Company all originals and copies of the documents or materials containing Confidential Information. For purposes of paragraphs 7, 8, and 9 of this Agreement, the Company expressly includes any of the Company Entities.
 
8.
          
Non-competition
. During the Executive's employment hereunder and for the period ending six months after the Executive's termination in accordance with this Agreement, the Executive will not: (a) acquire, attempt to acquire or aid another in the acquisition or attempted acquisition of an interest in oil and gas assets, oil and gas production, oil and gas leases, minerals interests, oil and gas wells or other such oil and gas exploration, development or production activities within any spacing unit in which the Company owns an oil an gas interest on the date of the resignation or termination of the Executive; (b) solicit, induce, entice or attempt to entice any employee, contractor, customer, vendor or subcontractor to terminate or breach any relationship with the Company or the Company's affiliates for the Executive's own account or for the benefit of another party; and (c) circumvent or attempt to circumvent the foregoing agreements by any future arrangement or through the actions of a third party. The foregoing will not prohibit the activities which are expressly permitted by paragraph 3 of this Agreement.
 
9.
          
Proprietary Matters
. The Executive expressly understands and agrees that any and all improvements, inventions, discoveries, processes or know-how that are generated or conceived by the Executive during the term of this Agreement, whether generated or conceived during the Executive's regular working hours or otherwise, will be the sole and exclusive property of the Company. Whenever requested by the Company (either during the term of this Agreement or thereafter), the Executive will assign or execute any and all applications, assignments and or other instruments and do all things which the Company deems necessary or appropriate in order to permit the Company to: (a) assign and convey or otherwise make available to the Company the
 
-15-
 
 
 
sole and exclusive right, title, and interest in and to said improvements, inventions, discoveries, processes, know-how, applications, patents, copyrights, trade names or trademarks; or (b) apply for, obtain, maintain, enforce and defend patents, copyrights, trade names, or trademarks of the United States or of foreign countries for said improvements, inventions, discoveries, processes or know-how. However, the improvements, inventions, discoveries, processes or know-how generated or conceived by the Executive and referred to above (except as they may be included in the patents, copyrights or registered trade names or trademarks of the Company, or corporations, partnerships or other entities which may be affiliated with the Company) will not be exclusive property of the Company at any time after having been disclosed or revealed or have otherwise become available to the public or to a third party on a non-confidential basis other than by a breach of this Agreement, or after they have been independently developed or discussed without a breach of this Agreement by a third party who has no obligation to the Company or the Company Entities.
 
10.
        
Arbitration
. The parties will attempt to promptly resolve any dispute or controversy arising out of or relating to this Agreement or termination of the Executive by the Company. Any negotiations pursuant to this paragraph 10 are confidential and will be treated as compromise and settlement negotiations for all purposes. If the parties are unable to reach a settlement amicably, the dispute will be submitted to binding arbitration before a single arbitrator in accordance with the Employment Dispute Resolution Rules of the American Arbitration Association. The arbitrator will be instructed and empowered to take reasonable steps to expedite the arbitration and the arbitrator's judgment will be final and binding upon the parties subject solely to challenge on the grounds of fraud or gross misconduct. Except for damages arising out of a breach of paragraphs 6, 7, 8 or 9 of this Agreement, the arbitrator is not empowered to award total damages (including compensatory damages) that exceed 300% of compensatory damages and each party hereby irrevocably waives any damages in excess of that amount. The arbitration will be held in Oklahoma County, Oklahoma. Judgment upon any verdict in arbitration may be entered in any court of competent jurisdiction and the parties hereby consent to the jurisdiction of, and proper venue in, the federal and state courts located in Oklahoma County, Oklahoma. The Company will pay the costs and expenses of the arbitration including, without implied limitation, the fees for the arbitrators. Unless otherwise expressly set forth in this Agreement, the procedures specified in this paragraph 10 will be the sole and exclusive procedures for the resolution of disputes and controversies between the parties arising out of or relating to this Agreement. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a party may seek a preliminary injunction or other provisional judicial relief if in such party's judgment such action is necessary to avoid irreparable damage or to preserve the status quo.
 
 
 
 
-16-
 
 
 
 
 
Post Office Box 18496
Attn: Marcus C. Rowland
 
6902 Avondale Drive
Oklahoma City, Oklahoma   73116
 
 
 
 
 
-17-
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-18-
 
 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned have executed this Agreement effective the date first above written.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-19-
 
 
 
 


