FILE:CHK/CHK-8K-20061026185859.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 2 - Financial Information
Item 2.02 - Results of Operations and Financial Condition
We issued a press release on October 26, 2006, which includes information regarding our consolidated results of operations and financial condition as of and for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2006. It also includes updated information on our 2006, 2007 and 2008 outlook. The text of that press release is attached to this Report as Exhibit 99.1.
 
 
 
2
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: 
October 26, 2006
 
3
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
OKLAHOMA CITY, OKLAHOMA, OCTOBER 26, 2006 - Chesapeake Energy Corporation (NYSE:CHK) today reported strong financial and operating results for the third quarter of 2006. For the quarter, Chesapeake generated net income available to common shareholders of $523 million ($1.13 per fully diluted common share), operating cash flow of $989 million (defined as cash flow from operating activities before changes in assets and liabilities) and ebitda of $1.329 billion (defined as net income before income taxes, interest expense, and depreciation, depletion and amortization expense) on revenue of $1.929 billion and production of 147 billion cubic feet of natural gas equivalent (bcfe). For the quarter, ebitda and net income per fully diluted common share increased 129% and 163%, respectively, over the 2005 third quarter.
 
 
 
The companys 2006 third quarter net income available to common shareholders and ebitda include an after-tax unrealized mark-to-market gain of $150 million resulting from the companys oil and natural gas and interest rate hedging programs that is typically not included in published estimates of the companys financial results by certain securities analysts. Excluding this item, Chesapeakes net income to common shareholders in the 2006 third quarter would have been $373 million ($0.83 per fully diluted common share) and ebitda would have been $1.091 billion. The foregoing item does not affect the calculation of operating cash flow. For the quarter, adjusted ebitda and adjusted net income per fully diluted common share increased 59% and 28%, respectively, over the 2005 third quarter. A reconciliation of operating cash flow, ebitda, adjusted ebitda and adjusted net income to comparable financial measures calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles is presented on pages 21-24 of this release.
The table below summarizes Chesapeakes key results during the 2006 third quarter and compares them to the 2006 second quarter and the 2005 third quarter.
 
 
 
Daily production for the 2006 third quarter averaged 1.597 bcfe, an increase of 289 million cubic feet of natural gas equivalent (mmcfe), or 22%, over the 1.308 bcfe of daily production in the 2005 third quarter and an increase of 29 mmcfe, or 2%, over the 1.568 bcfe produced per day in the 2006 second quarter. Chesapeakes production in the 2006 third quarter did not meet the companys expectations primarily because of delays in Fort Worth Barnett Shale well completions caused by a new drilling program that favors utilizing multi-well drilling pads over single well drilling locations. The company believes this new approach will lead to more efficient field development and may ultimately result in greater per well reserve recoveries. However, it also creates a large backlog of uncompleted wells (currently approximately 30 wells) as all drilling from a pad must be completed before completion and production operations may commence.
The companys current rate of production is approximately 1.66 bcfe per day, which includes approximately 0.1 bcfe per day of previously curtailed production that is now back on line. Based on the companys projected drilling levels and anticipated results, Chesapeake is forecasting production growth of 23-24% for 2006 and is raising its production growth forecasts in 2007 and 2008 to ranges of 14-18% and 10-14%, from previous forecasts of 10-12% and 5-7%, respectively.
Chesapeakes 2006 third quarter production of 146.9 bcfe was comprised of 133.8 billion cubic feet of natural gas (bcf) (91% on a natural gas equivalent basis) and 2.18 million barrels of oil and natural gas liquids (mmbbls) (9% on a natural gas equivalent basis). Chesapeakes average daily production for the quarter of 1.597 bcfe consisted of 1.455 bcf of natural gas and 23,674 barrels (bbls) of oil. The 2006 third quarter was Chesapeakes 21st consecutive quarter of sequential U.S. production growth. Over these 21 quarters, Chesapeakes U.S. production has increased 308%, for an average compound quarterly growth rate of 6.9% and an average compound annual growth rate of 30.5%.
Chesapeake began 2006 with estimated proved reserves of 7.521 trillion cubic feet of natural gas equivalent (tcfe) and ended the third quarter with 8.433 tcfe, an increase of 912 bcfe, or 12%. During the first three quarters of 2006, Chesapeake replaced its 426 bcfe of production with an estimated 1.339 tcfe of new proved reserves, for a reserve replacement rate of 314%. Reserve replacement through the drillbit was 825 bcfe, or 194% of production (including 541 bcfe of positive performance revisions and 387 bcfe of downward revisions resulting from natural gas price declines between December 31, 2005 and September 30, 2006) and 62% of the total increase. Reserve replacement through the acquisition of proved reserves was 514 bcfe, or 120% of production and 38% of the total increase.
 
 
On a per thousand cubic feet of natural gas equivalent (mcfe) basis, the companys total drilling and acquisition costs were $1.89 (excluding costs of $2.6 billion for leasehold and unproved properties acquired during the period and $181 million relating primarily to tax basis step-up and asset retirement obligations, as well as downward revisions of proved reserves from lower natural gas prices). Excluding these items described above, Chesapeakes exploration and development costs through the drillbit were $1.76 per mcfe during the first three quarters of 2006 while reserve replacement costs through acquisitions of proved reserves were $1.99 per mcfe. A complete reconciliation of finding and acquisition costs and a roll-forward of proved reserves are presented on page 19 of this release.
During the first three quarters of 2006, Chesapeake continued the industrys most active drilling program and drilled 1,024 gross (845 net) operated wells and participated in another 1,154 gross (141 net) wells operated by other companies. The companys drilling success rate was 98% for company-operated and non-operated wells. Also during the first three quarters of 2006, Chesapeake invested $1.769 billion in operated wells (using an average of 89 operated rigs), $363 million in non-operated wells (using an average of 74 non-operated rigs), $456 million to acquire new leasehold (exclusive of $2.1 billion in unproved leasehold acquired through acquisitions) and $102 million to acquire 3-D seismic data.
As of September 30, 2006, the estimated future net cash flows of Chesapeakes proved reserves, before income taxes and discounted at 10% (PV-10), were $9.7 billion using field differential adjusted prices of $58.12 per barrel of oil (bbl) (based on a NYMEX quarter-end price of $62.82 per bbl) and $3.96 per thousand cubic feet of natural gas (mcf) (based on a NYMEX quarter-end price of $4.18 per mcf). By comparison, as of June 30, 2006 the PV-10 of Chesapeakes proved reserves was $15.0 billion using field differential adjusted prices of $69.10 per bbl (based on a NYMEX quarter-end price of $73.86 per bbl) and $5.72 per mcf (based on a NYMEX quarter-end price of $6.09 per mcf). In addition to the PV-10 value of its proved reserves, the net book value of the companys other assets (including drilling rigs, land and buildings, investments in securities, long-term derivative instruments and other non-current assets) was $2.8 billion as of September 30, 2006 and $1.8 billion as of June 30, 2006.
Chesapeakes September 30, 2006 PV-10 changes by approximately $329 million for every $0.10 per mcf change in natural gas prices and approximately $50 million for every $1.00 per bbl change in oil prices. The company calculates the standardized measure of future net cash flows in accordance with SFAS 69 only at year-end because applicable income tax information on properties, including recently acquired oil and natural gas interests, is not readily available at other times during the year. As a result, the company is not able to reconcile the interim period-end values to the standardized measure at such dates. The only difference between the two measures is that PV-10 is calculated before considering the impact of future income tax expenses, while the standardized measure includes such effects.
Average prices realized during the 2006 third quarter (including realized gains or losses from oil and natural gas derivatives, but excluding unrealized gains or losses on such derivatives) were $60.62 per bbl and $8.39 per mcf, for a realized natural gas equivalent price of $8.54 per mcfe. Chesapeakes average realized pricing differentials to NYMEX during the third quarter were a negative $5.43 per bbl and a negative $0.52 per mcf. Realized gains and losses from oil and natural gas hedging activities during the quarter generated a $4.43 loss per bbl and a $2.33 gain per mcf, for a 2006 third quarter realized hedging gain of $301 million, or $2.05 per mcfe.
Through the third quarter of 2006, the company realized hedging gains of approximately $807 million from its 2006 hedges, or $1.89 per mcfe. Recently, Chesapeake lifted a portion of its fourth quarter 2006 and full-year 2007, 2008 and 2009 hedges and, as a result, has secured gains of $540 million (including $407 million that has been received in cash from the companys hedging counterparties). Together with the current $672 million mark-to-market value of our open hedges, $2.019 billion of value has been created for shareholders from Chesapeakes recent hedging activities. This further demonstrates Chesapeakes ability to secure premium price realizations and achieve substantial risk mitigation through its hedging programs.
 
The following tables compare Chesapeakes hedged production volumes (including only swaps and also including the hedges assumed in the CNR acquisition in November 2005) as of October 26, 2006 to those previously announced as of July 27, 2006. Additionally, we are presenting our gains from lifted natural gas hedges as of October 26, 2006. Depending on changes in oil and natural gas futures markets and managements view of underlying oil and natural gas supply and demand trends, Chesapeake may either increase or decrease its hedging positions at any time in the future without notice.
 
The companys updated forecasts for 2006 and 2007 and its initial 2008 forecast are attached to this release in an Outlook dated October 26, 2006 labeled as Schedule A, which begins on page 25. This Outlook has been changed from the Outlook dated July 27, 2006 (attached as Schedule B, which begins on page 29) to reflect various updated information.
 
 
Chesapeake has acquired or has agreed to acquire from four private companies natural gas assets located in its South Texas, Fort Worth Barnett Shale and Northwest Oklahoma plays for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $660 million in cash. Through these transactions, Chesapeake is acquiring an internally estimated 490 bcfe of reserves, which are comprised of 160 bcfe of proved reserves and 330 bcfe of unproved reserves.
 
 
 
After allocating $324 million of the $660 million purchase price to unproved reserves and $45 million to midstream assets, Chesapeakes acquisition cost for the 160 bcfe of internally estimated proved reserves will be approximately $1.82 per mcfe. Based on the companys projected development plan, which includes $750 million of anticipated future drilling and development costs, Chesapeake estimates that its all-in cost of acquiring and developing the 490 bcfe of proved and unproved reserves will be approximately $2.80 per mcfe. As a percentage of the combined purchase price, the acquisitions are located 47% in South Texas, 45% in the Fort Worth Barnett Shale and 8% in Northwest Oklahoma.
 
To further hedge its exposure to oilfield service costs and achieve greater operational efficiencies, Chesapeake recently invested approximately $250 million to acquire a 19.9% interest in a rapidly growing privately-held provider of well stimulation and high pressure pumping services, with operations currently focused in Texas (principally in the Fort Worth Barnett Shale) and the Rocky Mountains. This service company also has expansion efforts underway in other key regions in which Chesapeake operates.
 
This investment complements Chesapeakes direct and indirect drilling rig investments that have served as an effective hedge to higher service costs and have also provided competitive advantages in making acquisitions and in developing the companys own leasehold on a more timely and efficient basis. To date, Chesapeake has invested approximately $254 million to build or acquire 42 drilling rigs and is building 22 additional rigs. During the 2006 third quarter, the company entered into a sale/leaseback transaction to monetize its investment in 18 rigs in exchange for cash proceeds of $188 million. These rigs are under lease to Chesapeake through 2014, at which time the company has the option to reacquire them.
 
In total, the companys drilling rig fleet should reach 82 rigs by mid-year 2007, which would rank Chesapeake as the sixth largest drilling rig contractor in the U.S. Additionally, the company has a $69 million investment in two private drilling rig contractors, DHS Drilling Company and Mountain Drilling Company, in which Chesapeakes equity ownership is approximately 45% and 49%, respectively. DHS owns 16 rigs and Mountain is operating two rigs and has another eight rigs under construction or on order for delivery in 2006 and 2007.
 
During the third quarter, Chesapeake significantly expanded its holdings in the Fort Worth Barnett Shale play through acquisitions totaling approximately 55,400 net acres primarily in Johnson, Tarrant and western Dallas counties. These transactions included 26,500 net acres acquired from Four Sevens Oil Co. Ltd. and Sinclair Oil Corporation, 16,600 net acres acquired from the Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport Board and the cities of Dallas and Fort Worth and 12,300 net acres acquired in two transactions with Dale Resources, LLC, et al. In addition, Chesapeake has continued its ongoing off-the-ground leasing efforts in the play through numerous transactions with various municipalities, school districts and industrial and commercial property owners.
 
 
Chesapeakes Tier 1 leasehold position now totals approximately 150,000 net acres and is concentrated in the sweet spot of Johnson, Tarrant and western Dallas counties. On this acreage, the company believes it has the ability to drill approximately 2,100 additional net horizontal wells with lateral lengths of approximately 3,000 feet on 500 foot average well spacing. The companys expected results for wells drilled on its Tier 1 acreage are $2.7 million to develop 2.45 gross bcfe (1.8 net bcfe after royalties and other burdens). From its Fort Worth Barnett Shale acreage position, Chesapeake is now producing approximately 240 gross mmcfe per day (168 net mmcfe) from 347 gross operated wells, of which Chesapeake has drilled 213 and has acquired 134.
Chesapeake is currently utilizing 17 operated drilling rigs to develop its Fort Worth Barnett Shale acreage and by the end of 2006 should have approximately 24 operated rigs drilling in the play. For 2007 and 2008, Chesapeake is budgeting an average operated drilling rig count of 30-35 rigs in the play. From a program of this scale, the company believes that it should be able to drill 450-500 wells per year and should be able to replace 125-150% of the companys total production from its Fort Worth Barnett Shale drilling program alone. This would leave approximately 100 additional operated rigs to deliver further growth in production and proved reserves elsewhere.
Looking forward, Chesapeake expects to continue acquiring more acreage in the Forth Worth Barnett Shale, primarily in Johnson, Tarrant and western Dallas counties, with a special focus on the urban areas of Tarrant and western Dallas counties. In these areas, Chesapeake has acquired more than 100 urban drillsite pads from which it can drill multiple wells, in some cases up to 12 wells per pad. The ownership of these urban pads and its ongoing land services agreement with Dale Resources provide the company with distinctive advantages in acquiring additional leases in halo areas surrounding these pads.
Chesapeake has previously stated its goal of establishing a top three presence in every major shale play east of the Rockies. The company believes it has largely accomplished this goal through a focused series of innovative transactions. For example, in the Fayetteville Shale play in Arkansas, Chesapeake now owns approximately 1,040,000 net acres, of which approximately 340,000 net acres are in the highly prospective core area in the central and western portions of the play. The company has drilled 12 horizontal wells to date, is in the process of acquiring several large 3-D seismic surveys and is increasing its operated rig count from two to seven rigs in the play by year-end 2006.
 
 
 
In the Barnett and Woodford Shale plays of the Delaware Basin in far West Texas, the company has entered into four joint venture agreements with one large public independent and three private companies to pursue the development of these shales and other conventional and unconventional plays. In Culberson, Reeves, Pecos and Brewster counties, Chesapeake now owns the right to develop approximately 700,000 net acres (1.3 million gross acres), the largest such leasehold position in the Delaware Shale play. The company currently has two operated rigs drilling on this acreage and plans to further explore the area in 2007 and 2008 with aggressive 3-D seismic and exploratory drilling programs.
 
Located in the Arkoma Basin of southeastern Oklahoma, the Woodford Shale is a play of increasing importance to Chesapeake. The company recently completed two transactions that increased its leasehold inventory in the play to approximately 100,000 net acres. In 2007, the company plans to shoot two 3-D seismic surveys and currently has one operated rig drilling in the play. To date, Chesapeake has drilled one successful vertical well and one successful horizontal well in the Woodford Shale play.
 
Earlier this month, Chesapeake announced that it has entered into a 50/50 statewide area of mutual interest covering all of Alabama with Energen Resources Corporation of Birmingham, Alabama. Chesapeake acquired 100,000 net acres from Energen to augment the approximate 10,000 net acres Chesapeake had previously acquired in Alabama. The two companies plan to initiate 3-D seismic and exploratory drilling programs in 2007.
 
Since 2000, Chesapeake has invested $5.7 billion in new leasehold and 3-D seismic acquisitions and now owns what it believes to be the largest inventories of onshore leasehold (10.5 million net acres) and 3-D seismic (14.7 million acres) in the U.S. On this leasehold, the company has an estimated 25,000 net drilling locations, representing an approximate 10-year inventory of drilling projects, on which it believes it can develop approximately 3.2 tcfe of proved undeveloped reserves and approximately 16.4 tcfe of risked unproved reserves (68 tcfe of unrisked unproved reserves). Chesapeakes 8.4 tcfe of proved reserves and its risked unproved reserves together total approximately 24.8 tcfe.
To develop these assets more aggressively, Chesapeake has continued to significantly strengthen its technical capabilities by increasing its land, geoscience and engineering staff to approximately 800 employees. Today, the company has approximately 4,600 employees, of which approximately 65% work in the companys E&P operations and approximately 35% work in the companys oilfield service operations.
 
 
 
Chesapeake characterizes its drilling activity by one of four play types: conventional gas resource, unconventional gas resource, emerging unconventional gas resource and Appalachian Basin gas resource. In these plays, Chesapeake uses a probability-weighted statistical approach to estimate the potential number of drillsites and unproved reserves associated with such drillsites. The following summarizes Chesapeakes position and activity in each gas resource play type and highlights notable projects in each play.
Conventional Gas Resource Plays
- In its traditional conventional areas (i.e., portions of the Mid-Continent, Permian, Gulf Coast and South Texas regions), where exploration targets are typically deep and defined using 3-D seismic data, Chesapeake believes it has a meaningful competitive advantage due to its operating scale, deep drilling expertise and over 11.9 million acres of 3-D seismic data. In these plays, Chesapeake owns 3.1 million net acres on which it has an estimated 1.0 tcfe of proved undeveloped reserves and an estimated 2.9 tcfe of risked unproved reserves and is currently utilizing 39 operated drilling rigs (up to 40 rigs by year-end) to further develop its inventory of approximately 3,200 drillsites. Three of Chesapeakes most important conventional gas resource plays are described below.
 
 
Unconventional Gas Resource Plays
- In its unconventional gas resource areas, Chesapeake owns 1.3 million net acres on which it has an estimated 1.6 tcfe of proved undeveloped reserves and an estimated 6.5 tcfe of risked unproved reserves and is currently utilizing 53 operated drilling rigs (up to 62 rigs by year-end) to further develop its inventory of approximately 9,800 net drillsites. Four of Chesapeakes most important unconventional gas resource plays are described below.
 
 
Emerging Unconventional Gas Resource Plays
- In its emerging unconventional gas resource areas where commercial production has only recently been established but the future reserve potential could be substantial, Chesapeake owns 2.6 million net acres on which it has an estimated 140 bcfe of proved undeveloped reserves and an estimated 5.1 tcfe of risked unproved reserves and is currently utilizing 14 operated drilling rigs (up to 21 rigs by year-end) to further develop its inventory of approximately 3,100 net drillsites. Five of Chesapeakes most important emerging unconventional gas resource plays are described below.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Appalachian Basin Gas Resource Plays
- In this core area of the companys operations, play types include conventional, unconventional and emerging unconventional in the Devonian Shale and other formations. Chesapeake is the largest leasehold owner in the region with 3.5 million net acres. The company is currently producing approximately 130 mmcfe per day and is currently utilizing 14 rigs (10 rigs at year-end) to further develop its extensive leasehold position. In Appalachia, Chesapeake has an estimated 500 bcfe of proved undeveloped reserves and its risked unproved reserves are an estimated 1.9 tcfe after applying a 35% risk factor and assuming an additional 8,700 net wells are drilled in the years ahead. The companys expected results for vertical conventional Devonian Shale wells are $0.425 million to develop 0.3 bcfe on 160 acre spacing.
In addition, Chesapeake continues to actively generate new prospects and acquire additional leasehold throughout the companys operations in various conventional, unconventional and emerging unconventional plays not described above.
Aubrey K. McClendon, Chesapeakes Chief Executive Officer, commented We are pleased to report outstanding financial and operational results for the 2006 third quarter. The company delivered attractive production and reserve growth and generated impressive profit margins that were enhanced by the companys timely and well-executed hedging strategy. Our focused business strategy, value-added growth, tremendous inventory of undrilled locations and valuable hedge positions clearly differentiate Chesapeake in the industry.
In light of continued strong returns available through the drillbit on our extensive prospect inventory, we continue to increase our industry-leading U.S. drilling activity to accelerate development of our substantial proved undeveloped and unproved reserve base. We currently have 120 operated rigs working, up from an average of 73 operated rigs in 2005 and an average of 89 operated rigs to date in 2006. We anticipate increasing our drilling activity to approximately 133 operated rigs by year-end 2006 and up to 150 operated rigs in 2007.
We are clearly transitioning from the past six years of resource inventory capture to many more years of resource inventory conversion. We believe the result of this transition will be significant increases in proved reserves and production levels in 2007 and beyond. This shift in focus is best evidenced by the increases in future production growth rate ranges that we are announcing today, 14-18% for 2007 and 10-14% for 2008.
Our business strategy continues to feature delivering growth through a balance of acquisitions and organic drilling, focusing on clean-burning, domestically-produced natural gas to take advantage of strong long-term natural gas supply and demand fundamentals, building dominant regional scale to achieve low operating costs and high returns on capital and mitigating financial and operational risks through opportunistic hedging. We believe Chesapeakes management team can continue the successful execution of the companys distinctive business strategy and continue to deliver significant value to the companys investors for years to come.
 
 
 
 
 
A conference call to discuss this release has been scheduled for Friday morning, October 27, 2006 at 9:00 a.m. EDT. The telephone number to access the conference call is
913-981-5543
and the confirmation code is
3952942
. We encourage those who would like to participate in the call to dial the access number between 8:50 and 8:55 am EDT. For those unable to participate in the conference call, a replay will be available for audio playback from noon EDT, October 27, 2006 through midnight EST on November 10, 2006. The number to access the conference call replay is
719-457-0820
and the passcode for the replay is
3952942
. The conference call will also be webcast live on the Internet and can be accessed by going to Chesapeakes website
at
www.chkenergy.com
and selecting
the News & Events section. The webcast of the conference call will be available on our website indefinitely.
This press release and the accompanying Outlooks include forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements give our current expectations or forecasts of future events. They include estimates of oil and natural gas reserves, expected oil and natural gas production and future expenses, projections of future oil and natural gas prices, planned capital expenditures for drilling, leasehold acquisitions and seismic data, and statements concerning anticipated cash flow and liquidity, business strategy and other plans and objectives for future operations. Disclosures concerning the fair value of derivative contracts and their estimated contribution to our future results of operations are based upon market information as of a specific date. These market prices are subject to significant volatility. We caution you not to place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this press release, and we undertake no obligation to update this information.
Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from expected results are described under Risk Factors in the Prospectus dated June 27, 2006 for our offering of 7.625% Senior Notes due 2013 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on June 29, 2006. They include the volatility of oil and natural gas prices; the limitations our level of indebtedness may have on our financial flexibility; our ability to compete effectively against strong independent oil and natural gas companies and majors; the availability of capital on an economic basis to fund reserve replacement costs; our ability to replace reserves and sustain production; uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of oil and natural gas reserves and projecting future rates of production and the timing of development expenditures; uncertainties in evaluating oil and natural gas reserves of acquired properties and associated potential liabilities; our ability to effectively consolidate and integrate acquired properties and operations; unsuccessful exploration and development drilling; declines in the values of our oil and natural gas properties resulting in ceiling test write-downs; lower prices realized on oil and natural gas sales and collateral required to secure hedging liabilities resulting from our commodity price risk management activities; the negative impact lower oil and natural gas prices could have on our ability to borrow; and drilling and operating risks.
Our production forecasts are dependent upon many assumptions, including estimates of production decline rates from existing wells and the outcome of future drilling activity. Also, our internal estimates of reserves, particularly those in the properties recently acquired or proposed to be acquired where we may have limited review of data or experience with the reserves, may be subject to revision and may be different from estimates by our external reservoir engineers at year-end.
 
Although we believe the expectations and forecasts reflected in these and other forward-looking statements are reasonable, we can give no assurance they will prove to have been correct. They can be affected by inaccurate assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties.
The SEC has generally permitted oil and natural gas companies, in filings made with the SEC, to disclose only proved reserves that a company has demonstrated by actual production or conclusive formation tests to be economically and legally producible under existing economic and operating conditions. We use the term unproved to describe volumes of reserves potentially recoverable through additional drilling or recovery techniques that the SEC's guidelines may prohibit us from including in filings with the SEC. These estimates are by their nature more speculative than estimates of proved reserves and accordingly are subject to substantially greater risk of being actually realized by the company. While we believe our calculations of unproved drillsites and estimation of unproved reserves have been appropriately risked and are reasonable, such calculations and estimates have not been reviewed by third party engineers or appraisers.
 
Chesapeake Energy Corporation is the third largest independent producer of natural gas in the U.S. Headquartered in Oklahoma City, the company's operations are focused on exploratory and developmental drilling and corporate and property acquisitions in the Mid-Continent, Permian Basin, South Texas, Texas Gulf Coast, Barnett Shale, Ark-La-Tex and Appalachian Basin regions of the United States. The companys Internet address is
www.chkenergy.com
.
 
 
 
17
 
 
 
18
 
 
 
 
19
 
 
 
 
 
20
*Operating cash flow represents net cash provided by operating activities before changes in assets and liabilities. Operating cash flow is presented because management believes it is a useful adjunct to net cash provided by operating activities under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP). Operating cash flow is widely accepted as a financial indicator of an oil and natural gas company's ability to generate cash which is used to internally fund exploration and development activities and to service debt. This measure is widely used by investors and rating agencies in the valuation, comparison, rating and investment recommendations of companies within the oil and natural gas exploration and production industry. Operating cash flow is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to cash flows from operating, investing, or financing activities as an indicator of cash flows, or as a measure of liquidity.
 
**Ebitda represents net income before income tax expense, interest expense, and depreciation, depletion and amortization expense. Ebitda is presented as a supplemental financial measurement in the evaluation of our business. We believe that it provides additional information regarding our ability to meet our future debt service, capital expenditures and working capital requirements. This measure is widely used by investors and rating agencies in the valuation, comparison, rating and investment recommendations of companies. Ebitda is also a financial measurement that, with certain negotiated adjustments, is reported to our lenders pursuant to our bank credit agreement and is used in the financial covenants in our bank credit agreement and our senior note indentures. Ebitda is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP. Accordingly, it should not be considered as a substitute for net income, income from operations, or cash flow provided by operating activities prepared in accordance with GAAP. Ebitda is reconciled to cash provided by operating activities as follows:
21
*Operating cash flow represents net cash provided by operating activities before changes in assets and liabilities. Operating cash flow is presented because management believes it is a useful adjunct to net cash provided by operating activities under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP). Operating cash flow is widely accepted as a financial indicator of an oil and natural gas company's ability to generate cash which is used to internally fund exploration and development activities and to service debt. This measure is widely used by investors and rating agencies in the valuation, comparison, rating and investment recommendations of companies within the oil and natural gas exploration and production industry. Operating cash flow is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to cash flows from operating, investing, or financing activities as an indicator of cash flows, or as a measure of liquidity.
**Ebitda represents net income before income tax expense, interest expense, and depreciation, depletion and amortization expense. Ebitda is presented as a supplemental financial measurement in the evaluation of our business. We believe that it provides additional information regarding our ability to meet our future debt service, capital expenditures and working capital requirements. This measure is widely used by investors and rating agencies in the valuation, comparison, rating and investment recommendations of companies. Ebitda is also a financial measurement that, with certain negotiated adjustments, is reported to our lenders pursuant to our bank credit agreement and is used in the financial covenants in our bank credit agreement and our senior note indentures. Ebitda is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP. Accordingly, it should not be considered as a substitute for net income, income from operations, or cash flow provided by operating activities prepared in accordance with GAAP. Ebitda is reconciled to cash provided by operating activities as follows:
22
 
*Adjusted net income available to common and adjusted earnings per share assuming dilution exclude certain items that management believes affect the comparability of operating results. The company discloses these non-GAAP financial measures as a useful adjunct to GAAP earnings because:
**Weighted average fully diluted shares outstanding includes shares that were considered antidilutive for calculating earnings per share in accordance with GAAP.
 
*Adjusted
EBITDA excludes certain items that management believes affect the comparability of operating results. The company discloses these non-GAAP financial measures as a useful adjunct to EBITDA because:
 
23
 
*Adjusted net income available to common and adjusted earnings per share assuming dilution exclude certain items that management believes affect the comparability of operating results. The company discloses these non-GAAP financial measures as a useful adjunct to GAAP earnings because:
**Weighted average fully diluted shares outstanding includes shares that were considered antidilutive for calculating earnings per share in accordance with GAAP.
 
*Adjusted
EBITDA excludes certain items that management believes affect the comparability of operating results. The company discloses these non-GAAP financial measures as a useful adjunct to EBITDA because:
 
24
Quarter Ending December 31, 2006; Year Ending December 31, 2006; Year Ending December 31, 2007; and Year Ending December 31, 2008.
We have adopted a policy of periodically providing investors with guidance on certain factors that affect our future financial performance. As of October 26, 2006, we are using the following key assumptions in our projections for the fourth quarter of 2006, the full-year 2006, the full-year 2007 and the full-year 2008.
The primary changes from our July 27, 2006 Outlook are in italicized bold in the table and are explained as follows:
 
25
 
Commodity Hedging Activities
The company utilizes hedging strategies to hedge the price of a portion of its future oil and natural gas production. These strategies include:
Commodity markets are volatile, and as a result, Chesapeakes hedging activity is dynamic. As market conditions warrant, the company may elect to settle a hedging transaction prior to its scheduled maturity date and lock in the gain or loss on the transaction.
Chesapeake enters into oil and natural gas derivative transactions in order to mitigate a portion of its exposure to adverse market changes in oil and natural gas prices. Accordingly, associated gains or loses from the derivative transactions are reflected as adjustments to oil and natural gas sales. All realized gains and losses from oil and natural gas derivatives are included in oil and natural gas sales in the month of related production. Pursuant to SFAS 133, certain derivatives do not qualify for designation as cash flow hedges. Changes in the fair value of these non-qualifying derivatives that occur prior to their maturity (i.e., because of temporary fluctuations in value) are reported currently in the consolidated statement of operations as unrealized gains (losses) within oil and natural gas sales.
Following provisions of SFAS 133, changes in the fair value of derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges, to the extent effective in offsetting cash flows attributable to hedged risk, are recorded in other comprehensive income until the hedged item is recognized in earnings. Any change in fair value resulting from ineffectiveness is recognized currently in oil and natural gas sales.
 
26
 
Excluding the swaps assumed in connection with the acquisition of CNR which are described below, the company currently has the following open
natural gas swaps
in place and also has the following gains from
lifted natural gas swaps
:
 
Note: Not shown above are call options covering 1.8 bcf of production in 2006 at a weighted average price of $12.50, 7.3 bcf of production in 2007 at a weighted average price of $12.50 and 7.3 bcf of production in 2008 at a weighed average price of $12.50.
The company has the following
natural gas basis protection swaps
in place:
 
* weighted average
We assumed certain liabilities related to open derivative positions in connection with the CNR acquisition in November 2005. In accordance with SFAS 141, these derivative positions were recorded at fair value in the purchase price allocation as a liability of $592 million ($415 million as of September 30, 2006). The recognition of the derivative liability and other assumed liabilities resulted in an increase in the total purchase price which was allocated to the assets acquired. Because of this accounting treatment, only cash settlements for changes in fair value subsequent to the acquisition date for the derivative positions assumed result in adjustments to our oil and natural gas revenues upon settlement. For example, if the fair value of the derivative positions assumed does not change, then upon the sale of the underlying production and corresponding settlement of the derivative positions, cash would be paid to the counterparties and there would be no adjustment to oil and natural gas revenues related to the derivative positions. If, however, the actual sales price is different from the price assumed in the original fair value calculation, the difference would be reflected as either a decrease or increase in oil and natural gas revenues, depending upon whether the sales price was higher or lower, respectively, than the prices assumed in the original fair value calculation. For accounting purposes, the net effect of these acquired hedges is that we hedged the production volumes listed below at their fair values on the date of our acquisition of CNR.
Pursuant to SFAS 149 Amendment of SFAS 133 on Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, the derivative instruments assumed in connection with the CNR acquisition are deemed to contain a significant financing element and all cash flows associated with these positions are reported as financing activity in the statement of cash flows.
 
27
 
The following details the
CNR derivatives (natural gas swaps) we have assumed
:
 
Note: Not shown above are collars covering 3.7 bcf of production in 2009 at an average floor and ceiling of $4.50 and $6.00, respectively.
 
The company also has the following
crude oil swaps
in place:
 
28
 
Quarter Ending September 30, 2006; Year Ending December 31, 2006; Year Ending December 31, 2007.
We have adopted a policy of periodically providing investors with guidance on certain factors that affect our future financial performance. As of July 27, 2006, we are using the following key assumptions in our projections for the third quarter of 2006, the full-year 2006 and the full-year 2007.
The primary changes from our June 5, 2006 Outlook are in italicized bold in the table and are explained as follows:
 
29
 
Commodity Hedging Activities
The company utilizes hedging strategies to hedge the price of a portion of its future oil and natural gas production. These strategies include:
Commodity markets are volatile, and as a result, Chesapeakes hedging activity is dynamic. As market conditions warrant, the company may elect to settle a hedging transaction prior to its scheduled maturity date and lock in the gain or loss on the transaction.
Chesapeake enters into oil and natural gas derivative transactions in order to mitigate a portion of its exposure to adverse market changes in oil and natural gas prices. Accordingly, associated gains or loses from the derivative transactions are reflected as adjustments to oil and natural gas sales. All realized gains and losses from oil and natural gas derivatives are included in oil and natural gas sales in the month of related production. Pursuant to SFAS 133, certain derivatives do not qualify for designation as cash flow hedges. Changes in the fair value of these non-qualifying derivatives that occur prior to their maturity (i.e. because of temporary fluctuations in value) are reported currently in the consolidated statement of operations as unrealized gains (losses) within oil and natural gas sales.
Following provisions of SFAS 133, changes in the fair value of derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges, to the extent effective in offsetting cash flows attributable to hedged risk, are recorded in other comprehensive income until the hedged item is recognized in earnings. Any change in fair value resulting from ineffectiveness is recognized currently in oil and natural gas sales.
 
30
 
Excluding the swaps assumed in connection with the acquisition of CNR which are described below, the company currently has the following
natural gas swaps
in place:
 
 
 
* weighted average
 
31
 
The following details the
CNR derivatives (natural gas swaps) we have assumed
:
 
Note: Not shown above are collars covering 3.7 bcf of production in 2009 at an average floor and ceiling of $4.50 and $6.00, respectively.
The company also has the following
crude oil swaps
in place:
 


