FILE:CHK/CHK-8K-20060728060806.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Section 2  Financial Information
Item 2.02  Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
We issued a press release on July 27, 2006, which includes information regarding our consolidated results of operations and financial condition as of and for the quarter and six months ended June 30, 2006. It also includes updated information on our 2006 and 2007 outlook. The text of that press release is attached to this Report as Exhibit 99.1.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01 Final Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: July 28, 2006
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
OKLAHOMA CITY, OKLAHOMA, JULY 27, 2006  Chesapeake Energy Corporation (NYSE:CHK) today reported financial and operating results for the second quarter of 2006. For the quarter, Chesapeake generated net income available to common shareholders of $332.1 million ($0.82 per fully diluted common share), operating cash flow of $914.2 million (defined as cash flow from operating activities before changes in assets and liabilities) and ebitda of $1.029 billion (defined as net income before income taxes, interest expense, and depreciation, depletion and amortization expense) on revenue of $1.584 billion and production of 142.7 billion cubic feet of natural gas equivalent (bcfe). For the quarter, ebitda and net income per fully diluted common share increased 77% and 58% over the 2005 second quarter, respectively.
 
The company's 2006 second quarter net income available to common shareholders and ebitda include various items that are typically not included in published estimates of the company's financial results by certain securities analysts. Such items and their after-tax effects on 2006 second quarter reported results are described as follows:
 
 
 
 
Excluding the above-mentioned items and giving effect to common shares issued for preferred shares during the quarter, Chesapeake's net income to common shareholders in the second quarter of 2006 would have been $339.8 million ($0.82 per fully diluted common share) and ebitda would have been $1.001 billion. The foregoing items do not affect the calculation of operating cash flow. For the quarter, adjusted ebitda and adjusted net income per fully diluted common share increased 77% and 64% over the 2005 second quarter. A reconciliation of operating cash flow, ebitda, adjusted ebitda and adjusted net income to comparable financial measures calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles is presented on pages 18-21 of this release.
The table below summarizes Chesapeake's key results during the 2006 second quarter and compares them to the 2006 first quarter and the 2005 second quarter.
 
 
Daily production for the 2006 second quarter averaged 1.568 bcfe, an increase of 324 million cubic feet of natural gas equivalent (mmcfe), or 26%, over the 1.244 bcfe of daily production in the 2005 second quarter and an increase of 49 mmcfe, or 3.2%, over the 1.519 bcfe produced per day in the 2006 first quarter. Of the 324 mmcfe increase in daily production from the year ago quarter, 45% was generated from organic drillbit growth and 55% was generated from acquisitions, with the company's trailing 12-month organic production growth rate calculated as 12.0%.
Of the 49 mmcfe daily increase in sequential quarterly production, 95% was generated from organic drillbit growth and 5% was generated from acquisitions, with the company's sequential quarterly organic production growth rate calculated as 3.1%. Chesapeake is anticipating total production growth of at least 25% in 2006 and 11% in 2007, including organic growth rates of at least 10% each year. Please note that the company's production forecast for 2006 excludes any provision for possible production curtailments that the industry and Chesapeake may experience as a result of high pipeline pressures and/or early filling of U.S. natural gas storage facilities.
Chesapeake's 2006 second quarter production of 142.7 bcfe was comprised of 129.8 billion cubic feet of natural gas (bcf) (91% on a natural gas equivalent basis) and 2.14 million barrels of oil and natural gas liquids (mmbbls) (9% on a natural gas equivalent basis). Chesapeake's average daily production for the quarter of 1.568 bcfe consisted of 1.427 bcf of natural gas and 23,549 barrels (bbls) of oil. The 2006 second quarter was Chesapeake's 20th consecutive quarter of sequential U.S. production growth. Over these 20 quarters, Chesapeake's U.S. production has increased 296%, for an average compound quarterly growth rate of 7.1% and an average compound annual growth rate of 31.7%.
 
Chesapeake's exploratory and development drilling programs and production enhancement operations on its existing and acquired properties continue to produce operational results that distinguish the company among its peers. During the 2006 first half, Chesapeake continued the industry's most active drilling program and drilled 613 gross (496 net) operated wells and participated in another 801 gross (88 net) wells operated by other companies. The company's drilling success rate was 97% for company-operated wells and 99% for non-operated wells. During the 2006 first half, Chesapeake invested $1.097 billion in operated wells (using an average of 82 operated rigs), $241 million in non-operated wells (using an average of 75 non-operated rigs), $324 million to acquire new leasehold (exclusive of leases acquired through acquisitions) and $72 million to acquire new 3-D seismic data.
Chesapeake began 2006 with estimated proved reserves of 7.521 trillion cubic feet of natural gas equivalent (tcfe) and ended the second quarter with 8.101 tcfe, an increase of 580 bcfe, or 7.7%. During the 2006 first half, Chesapeake replaced its 279 bcfe of production with an estimated 860 bcfe of new proved reserves, for a reserve replacement rate of 308%. Reserve replacement through the drillbit was 590 bcfe, or 211% of production (including 352 bcfe of positive performance revisions and 196 bcfe of downward revisions resulting from natural gas price declines between December 31, 2005 and June 30, 2006) and 69% of the total increase. Reserve replacement through the acquisition of proved reserves was 269 bcfe, or 97% of production and 31% of the total increase.
Total costs incurred during the 2006 first half, including drilling, completion, acquisition, seismic, leasehold, capitalized internal costs, non-cash tax basis step-up from corporate acquisitions, asset retirement obligations and all other miscellaneous costs capitalized to oil and natural gas properties, were $3.6 billion. The company's total drilling and acquisition costs were $1.80 per thousand cubic feet of natural gas equivalent (mcfe), excluding costs of $1.6 billion for leasehold and unproved properties acquired during the period and $93 million relating primarily to tax basis step-up and asset retirement obligations, as well as downward revisions of proved reserves from lower natural gas prices. Excluding the same costs as described above, Chesapeake's exploration and development costs through the drillbit were $1.70 per mcfe during the 2006 first half while reserve replacement costs through acquisitions of proved reserves were $1.84 per mcfe. A complete reconciliation of finding and acquisition costs and a roll-forward of proved reserves is presented on page 16 of this release.
 
As of June 30, 2006, the estimated future net cash flows of Chesapeake's proved reserves, before income taxes and discounted at 10% (PV-10), were $15.0 billion using field differential adjusted prices of $69.10 per barrel of oil (bbl) (based on a NYMEX quarter-ending price of $73.86 per bbl) and $5.72 per thousand cubic feet of natural gas (mcf) (based on a NYMEX quarter-ending price of $6.09 per mcf). In addition to the PV-10 value of its proved reserves, the net book value of the company's other assets (including drilling rigs, land and buildings, investments in securities and other non-current assets) was $1.8 billion as of June 30, 2006.
Chesapeake's PV-10 changes by approximately $310 million for every $0.10 per mcf change in natural gas prices and approximately $49 million for every $1.00 per bbl change in oil prices. The company calculates the standardized measure of future net cash flows in accordance with SFAS 69 only at year-end because applicable income tax information on properties, including recently acquired oil and natural gas interests, is not readily available at other times during the year. As a result, the company is not able to reconcile the June 30, 2006 PV-10 value to the standardized measure at such date. The only difference between the two measures is that PV-10 is calculated before considering the impact of future income tax expenses, while the standardized measure includes such effects.
Average prices realized during the 2006 second quarter (including realized gains or losses from oil and natural gas derivatives, but excluding unrealized gains or losses on such derivatives) were $58.80 per bbl and $8.04 per mcf, for a realized natural gas equivalent price of $8.20 per mcfe. Chesapeake's average realized pricing differentials to NYMEX during the second quarter were a negative $6.19 per bbl and a negative $0.84 per mcf. Realized gains and losses from oil and natural gas hedging activities during the quarter generated a $5.71 loss per bbl and a $2.08 gain per mcf, for a 2006 second quarter realized hedging gain of $257.4 million, or $1.80 per mcfe. Chesapeake's total realized hedging gains in the first half of 2006 were $505.6 million, or $1.81 per mcfe.
Chesapeake has hedged a substantial level of its production through 2008 in order to capture attractive returns from recent acquisitions and to help secure strong margins and profitability on the company's drilling program. The following tables compare Chesapeake's hedged production volumes (including only swaps and also including the hedges assumed in the CNR acquisition) as of July 27, 2006 to those as of June 5, 2006.
 
 
 
Depending on changes in oil and natural gas futures markets and management's view of underlying oil and natural gas supply and demand trends, Chesapeake may either increase or decrease its hedging positions at any time in the future without notice.
The company's updated 2006 and 2007 forecasts are attached to this release in an Outlook dated July 27, 2006 labeled as Schedule "A", which begins on page 22. This Outlook has been changed from the Outlook dated June 5, 2006 (attached as Schedule "B", which begins on page 26) to reflect various updated information.
Chesapeake recently agreed to purchase one of the leading drilling contractors in the Appalachian Basin. The company is currently utilizing two of the contractor's 15 rigs and through this acquisition will gain enhanced operational flexibility in expanding activity levels in the basin. This acquisition bolsters the scale and operating capabilities of the company's 100% owned drilling rig subsidiary, Nomac Drilling Corporation. To date, Chesapeake has invested approximately $400 million to build or acquire 57 drilling rigs (including the pending acquisition of the Appalachian Basin drilling contractor) and is building 22 additional rigs. In total, Chesapeake's drilling rig fleet should reach 79 rigs by the end of the 2007 first quarter, which would rank Nomac as one of the six largest drilling rig contractors in the U.S.
 
Chesapeake's direct rig ownership is complemented by its $63 million in investments in two private drilling rig contractors, DHS Drilling Company and Mountain Drilling Company, in which Chesapeake owns approximately 45% and 49%, respectively. DHS owns 16 rigs and Mountain owns four rigs and has ordered another six rigs for delivery later in 2006 and 2007. Chesapeake's rig investments have served as an effective hedge to rising service costs and have also provided competitive advantages in making acquisitions and in developing its own leasehold on a more timely and efficient basis.
Chesapeake attributes its strong drilling results and organic growth rates during 2006 (and in this decade) to management's early recognition that oil and natural gas prices were undergoing structural change and its subsequent decision to invest aggressively in the building blocks of value creation in the E&P industry  people, land and science. During the past five years, Chesapeake has significantly strengthened its technical capabilities by increasing its land, geoscience and engineering staff by over 450% to nearly 800 employees. Today, the company has more than 4,100 employees, of which approximately 70% work in the company's E&P operations and approximately 30% work in the company's oilfield service operations.
Since 2000, Chesapeake has invested $4.7 billion in new leasehold and 3-D seismic acquisitions and now owns what it believes to be one of the largest inventories of onshore leasehold (9.7 million net acres) and 3-D seismic (12.9 million acres) in the U.S. On this leasehold, the company has an estimated 24,000 net drilling locations, representing an approximate 10-year inventory of drilling projects, on which it believes it can develop approximately 3.3 tcfe of proved undeveloped reserves and approximately 14.0 tcfe of unproved reserves. Adding the company's total proved reserves of 8.1 tcfe to its estimated 14.0 tcfe of unproved reserves brings Chesapeake's estimated total reserves to 22.1 tcfe.
Chesapeake characterizes its drilling activity by one of four play types: conventional gas resource, unconventional gas resource, emerging unconventional gas resource and Appalachian Basin gas resource. In these plays, Chesapeake uses a probability-weighted statistical approach to estimate the potential number of drillsites and unproved reserves associated with such drillsites. The following summarizes Chesapeake's position and activity in each gas resource play type and highlights notable projects in each play.
- In its traditional conventional areas (i.e., portions of the Mid-Continent, Permian, Gulf Coast, South Texas regions), where exploration targets are typically deep and defined using 3-D seismic data, Chesapeake believes it has a meaningful competitive advantage due to its operating scale, deep drilling
Conventional Gas Resource Plays
 
expertise and over 10.0 million acres of 3-D seismic data. In these plays, Chesapeake owns 3.0 million net acres on which it has an estimated 1.0 tcfe of proved undeveloped reserves, an estimated 2.4 tcfe of risked unproved reserves and is currently utilizing 31 operated drilling rigs (up to 32 by year-end) to further develop its inventory of approximately 2,800 drillsites. Two of Chesapeake's most important conventional gas resource plays are described below.
 
 
- In its unconventional gas resource areas, Chesapeake owns 1.1 million net acres on which it has an estimated 1.7 tcfe of proved undeveloped reserves, an estimated 6.0 tcfe of risked unproved reserves and is currently utilizing 51 operated drilling rigs (up to 69 by year-end) to further develop its inventory of approximately 9,000 net drillsites. Four of Chesapeake's most important unconventional gas resource plays are described below.
Unconventional Gas Resource Plays
 
 
The company's expected economics for horizontal Barnett Shale wells are $2.7 million to develop 2.4 bcfe on 55 acre spacing.
 
 
 
 
- In its emerging unconventional gas resource areas where commercial production has only recently been established but the future reserve potential could be substantial, Chesapeake owns 2.2 million net acres on which it has an estimated 100 bcfe of proved undeveloped reserves, an estimated 3.8 tcfe of risked unproved reserves and is currently utilizing 10 operated drilling rigs (up to 23 rigs by year-end) to further develop its inventory of approximately 2,600 net drillsites. Five of Chesapeake's most important emerging unconventional gas resource plays are described below.
Emerging Unconventional Gas Resource Plays
 
 
 
 
company's expected economics for Delaware Basin vertical Barnett and Woodford Shale wells are $4.5 million to develop 3.0 bcfe on 160 acre spacing.
 
 
- In this core area of the company's operations, play types range from conventional to unconventional to emerging gas resource in various Devonian Shale and other formations. Chesapeake is the largest leasehold owner in the region with 3.4 million net acres that were primarily acquired from CNR in November 2005. The company is currently producing approximately 120 mmcfe per day and is currently utilizing nine rigs (up to 11 rigs by year-end) to further develop its extensive leasehold position. In Appalachia, Chesapeake has an estimated 468 bcfe of proved undeveloped reserves and its risked unproved reserves are an estimated 1.8 tcfe after applying a 35% risk factor and assuming an additional 9,100 net wells are drilled in the years ahead. The company's expected economics for vertical Devonian Shale wells are $0.425 million to develop 0.3 bcfe on 160 acre spacing.
Appalachian Basin Gas Resource Plays
In addition, Chesapeake continues to actively develop various conventional, unconventional and emerging unconventional plays not described above. These areas are located throughout the company's operations and in which the company continues to actively generate new prospects and acquire additional leasehold.
 
Aubrey K. McClendon, Chesapeake's Chief Executive Officer, commented, "We are pleased to again report outstanding financial and operational results for the 2006 second quarter. The company delivered top-tier organic production growth and impressive profit margins as strong oil and natural gas price realizations far exceeded modest cost inflation. We have also opportunistically hedged service costs and a substantial portion of our anticipated production through 2008 at exceptional prices in order to ensure strong profitability. This position differentiates Chesapeake among many companies in the industry that may face margin compression as natural gas markets digest short-term excess natural gas supplies caused in large part by limited storage capacity and exceptionally warm weather last winter.
In light of continued strong returns available through the drillbit on our extensive prospect inventory, we continue to increase our industry-leading U.S. drilling activity to accelerate development of our substantial unproved reserve base. We currently have 101 operated rigs working, up from an average of 73 operated rigs in 2005, and we anticipate increasing our drilling activity to approximately 135 operated rigs by year-end 2006. This increase in drilling activity creates the potential for increased proved reserves and production levels in 2006 and 2007.
Our business strategy continues to feature delivering growth through a balance of acquisitions and organic drilling, focusing on clean-burning, domestically-produced natural gas to take advantage of strong long-term natural gas supply and demand fundamentals, building dominant regional scale to achieve low operating costs and high returns on capital and mitigating financial and operational risks through hedging. We believe Chesapeake's management team can continue the successful execution of the company's distinctive business strategy and continue to deliver significant value to the company's investors for years to come."
A conference call to discuss this release has been scheduled for Friday morning, July 28, 2006 at 9:00 a.m. EDT. The telephone number to access the conference call is and the confirmation code is . We encourage those who would like to participate in the call to dial the access number between 8:50 and 8:55 am EDT. For those unable to participate in the conference call, a replay will be available for audio playback from noon EDT, July 28, 2006 through midnight EDT on August 10, 2006. The number to access the conference call replay is and the passcode for the replay is . The conference call will also be webcast live on the Internet and can be accessed by going to Chesapeake's website at and selecting the "News & Events" section. The webcast of the conference call will be available on our website indefinitely.
913-981-5543
4119635
719-457-0820
4119635
www.chkenergy.com
This press release and the accompanying Outlooks include "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements give our current expectations or forecasts of future events. They include estimates of oil and natural gas reserves, expected oil and natural gas production and future expenses, projections of future oil and natural gas prices, planned capital expenditures for drilling, leasehold
 
acquisitions and seismic data, and statements concerning anticipated cash flow and liquidity, business strategy and other plans and objectives for future operations. Disclosures concerning the fair value of derivative contracts and their estimated contribution to our future results of operations are based upon market information as of a specific date. These market prices are subject to significant volatility.
Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from expected results are described under "Risk Factors" in the Prospectus dated June 27, 2006 for our offering of 7.625% Senior Notes due 2013 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on June 29, 2006. They include the volatility of oil and natural gas prices; the limitations our level of indebtedness may have on our financial flexibility; our ability to compete effectively against strong independent oil and natural gas companies and majors; the availability of capital on an economic basis to fund reserve replacement costs; our ability to replace reserves and sustain production; uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of oil and natural gas reserves and projecting future rates of production and the timing of development expenditures; uncertainties in evaluating oil and natural gas reserves of acquired properties and associated potential liabilities; our ability to effectively consolidate and integrate acquired properties and operations; unsuccessful exploration and development drilling; declines in the values of our oil and natural gas properties resulting in ceiling test write-downs; lower prices realized on oil and natural gas sales and collateral required to secure hedging liabilities resulting from our commodity price risk management activities; the negative impact lower oil and natural gas prices could have on our ability to borrow; and drilling and operating risks. We caution you not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this press release, and we undertake no obligation to update this information.
Our production forecasts are dependent upon many assumptions, including estimates of production decline rates from existing wells and the outcome of future drilling activity. Our production forecasts exclude provisions for possible production curtailments that the industry and Chesapeake may experience as a result of high pipeline pressures and/or early filling of U.S. natural gas storage facilities. Also, our internal estimates of reserves, particularly those in the properties recently acquired or proposed to be acquired where we may have limited review of data or experience with the reserves, may be subject to revision and may be different from estimates by our external reservoir engineers at year-end. Although we believe the expectations and forecasts reflected in these and other forward-looking statements are reasonable, we can give no assurance they will prove to have been correct. They can be affected by inaccurate assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties.
The SEC has generally permitted oil and natural gas companies, in filings made with the SEC, to disclose only proved reserves that a company has demonstrated by actual production or conclusive formation tests to be economically and legally producible under existing economic and operating conditions. We use the terms "probable", "possible" or "unproved" to describe volumes of reserves potentially recoverable through additional drilling or recovery techniques that the SEC's guidelines may prohibit us from including in filings with the SEC. These estimates are by their nature more speculative than estimates of proved reserves and accordingly are subject to substantially greater risk of being actually realized by the company. While we believe our calculations of unproved drillsites and estimation of unproved reserves have been appropriately risked and are reasonable, such calculations and estimates have not been reviewed by third party engineers or appraisers.
Chesapeake Energy Corporation is the second largest independent producer of natural gas in the U.S. Headquartered in Oklahoma City, the company's operations are focused on exploratory and developmental drilling and corporate and property acquisitions in the Mid-Continent, Permian Basin, South Texas, Texas Gulf Coast, Barnett Shale, Ark-La-Tex and Appalachian Basin regions of the United States. The company's Internet address is .
www.chkenergy.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Quarter Ending September 30, 2006; Year Ending December 31, 2006; Year Ending December 31, 2007.
We have adopted a policy of periodically providing investors with guidance on certain factors that affect our future financial performance. As of July 27, 2006, we are using the following key assumptions in our projections for the third quarter of 2006, the full-year 2006 and the full-year 2007.
The primary changes from our June 5, 2006 Outlook are in italicized bold in the table and are explained as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Commodity Hedging Activities
The company utilizes hedging strategies to hedge the price of a portion of its future oil and natural gas production. These strategies include:
 
 
 
Commodity markets are volatile, and as a result, Chesapeake's hedging activity is dynamic. As market conditions warrant, the company may elect to settle a hedging transaction prior to its scheduled maturity date and lock in the gain or loss on the transaction.
Chesapeake enters into oil and natural gas derivative transactions in order to mitigate a portion of its exposure to adverse market changes in oil and natural gas prices. Accordingly, associated gains or loses from the derivative transactions are reflected as adjustments to oil and natural gas sales. All realized gains and losses from oil and natural gas derivatives are included in oil and natural gas sales in the month of related production. Pursuant to SFAS 133, certain derivatives do not qualify for designation as cash flow hedges. Changes in the fair value of these non-qualifying derivatives that occur prior to their maturity (i.e. because of temporary fluctuations in value) are reported currently in the consolidated statement of operations as unrealized gains (losses) within oil and natural gas sales.
Following provisions of SFAS 133, changes in the fair value of derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges, to the extent effective in offsetting cash flows attributable to hedged risk, are recorded in other comprehensive income until the hedged item is recognized in earnings. Any change in fair value resulting from ineffectiveness is recognized currently in oil and natural gas sales.
 
Excluding the swaps assumed in connection with the acquisition of CNR which are described below, the company currently has the following in place:
natural gas swaps
 
Note: Not shown above are collars covering 0.2 bcf of production in 2006 at a weighted average floor and ceiling of $6.00 and $9.70 and call options covering 7.3 bcf of production in 2006 at a weighted average price of $12.50, 25.6 bcf of production in 2007 at a weighted average price of $10.53 and 7.3 bcf of production in 2008 at a weighed average price of $12.50.
The company has the following in place:
natural gas basis protection swaps
 
We assumed certain liabilities related to open derivative positions in connection with the CNR acquisition in November 2005. In accordance with SFAS 141, these derivative positions were recorded at fair value in the purchase price allocation as a liability of $592 million ($469 million as of June 30, 2006). The recognition of the derivative liability and other assumed liabilities resulted in an increase in the total purchase price which was allocated to the assets acquired. Because of this accounting treatment, only cash settlements for changes in fair value subsequent to the acquisition date for the derivative positions assumed result in adjustments to our oil and natural gas revenues upon settlement. For example, if the fair value of the derivative positions assumed does not change, then upon the sale of the underlying production and corresponding settlement of the derivative positions, cash would be paid to the counterparties and there would be no adjustment to oil and natural gas revenues related to the derivative positions. If, however, the actual sales price is different from the price assumed in the original fair value calculation, the difference would be reflected as either a decrease or increase in oil and natural gas revenues, depending upon whether the sales price was higher or lower, respectively, than the prices assumed in the original fair value calculation. For accounting purposes, the net effect of these acquired hedges is that we hedged the production volumes listed below at their fair values on the date of our acquisition of CNR.
Pursuant to SFAS 149 "Amendment of SFAS 133 on Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities", the derivative instruments assumed in connection with the CNR acquisition are deemed to contain a significant financing element and all cash flows associated with these positions are reported as financing activity in the statement of cash flows.
 
The following details the
CNR derivatives (natural gas swaps) we have assumed:
 
Note: Not shown above are collars covering 3.7 bcf of production in 2009 at an average floor and ceiling of $4.50 and $6.00, respectively.
The company also has the following in place:
crude oil swaps
 
 
Quarter Ending June 30, 2006; Year Ending December 31, 2006; Year Ending December 31, 2007.
We have adopted a policy of periodically providing investors with guidance on certain factors that affect our future financial performance. As of June 5, 2006, we are using the following key assumptions in our projections for the second quarter of 2006, the full-year 2006 and the full-year 2007.
The primary changes from our May 1, 2006 Outlook are in italicized bold in the table and are explained as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
Commodity Hedging Activities
The company utilizes hedging strategies to hedge the price of a portion of its future oil and natural gas production. These strategies include:
 
 
 
Commodity markets are volatile, and as a result, Chesapeake's hedging activity is dynamic. As market conditions warrant, the company may elect to settle a hedging transaction prior to its scheduled maturity date and lock in the gain or loss on the transaction.
Chesapeake enters into oil and natural gas derivative transactions in order to mitigate a portion of its exposure to adverse market changes in oil and natural gas prices. Accordingly, associated gains or loses from the derivative transactions are reflected as adjustments to oil and natural gas sales. All realized gains and losses from oil and natural gas derivatives are included in oil and natural gas sales in the month of related production. Pursuant to SFAS 133, certain derivatives do not qualify for designation as cash flow hedges. Changes in the fair value of these non-qualifying derivatives that occur prior to their maturity (i.e. because of temporary fluctuations in value) are reported currently in the consolidated statement of operations as unrealized gains (losses) within oil and natural gas sales.
Following provisions of SFAS 133, changes in the fair value of derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges, to the extent effective in offsetting cash flows attributable to hedged risk, are recorded in other comprehensive income until the hedged item is recognized in earnings. Any change in fair value resulting from ineffectiveness is recognized currently in oil and natural gas sales.
Excluding the swaps assumed in connection with the acquisition of CNR which are described below, the company currently has the following natural gas swaps in place:
 
Note: Not shown above are collars covering 0.2 bcf of production in 2006 at a weighted average floor and ceiling of $6.00 and $9.70 and call options covering 7.3 bcf of production in 2006 at a weighted average price of $12.50, 25.6 bcf of production in 2007 at a weighted average price of $10.53 and 7.3 bcf of production in 2008 at a weighed average price of $12.50.
The company has the following natural gas basis protection swaps in place:
 
We assumed certain liabilities related to open derivative positions in connection with the CNR acquisition. In accordance with SFAS 141, these derivative positions were recorded at fair value in the purchase price allocation as a liability of $592 million ($523 million as of March 31, 2006). The recognition of the derivative liability and other assumed liabilities resulted in an increase in the total purchase price which was allocated to the assets acquired. Because of this accounting treatment, only cash settlements for changes in fair value subsequent to the acquisition date for the derivative positions assumed result in adjustments to our oil and natural gas revenues upon settlement. For example, if the fair value of the derivative positions assumed does not change, then upon the sale of the underlying production and corresponding settlement of the derivative positions, cash would be paid to the counterparties and there would be no adjustment to oil and natural gas revenues related to the derivative positions. If, however, the actual sales price is different from the price assumed in the original fair value calculation, the difference would be reflected as either a decrease or increase in oil and natural gas revenues, depending upon whether the sales price was higher or lower, respectively, than the prices assumed in the original fair value calculation. For accounting purposes, the net effect of these acquired hedges is that we hedged the production volumes listed below at their fair values on the date of our acquisition of CNR.
Pursuant to SFAS 149 "Amendment of SFAS 133 on Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities", the derivative instruments assumed in connection with the CNR acquisition are deemed to contain a significant financing element and all cash flows associated with these positions are reported as financing activity in the statement of cash flows.
 
The following details the CNR derivatives (natural gas swaps) we have assumed:
 
Note: Not shown above are collars covering 3.7 bcf of production in 2009 at an average floor and ceiling of $4.50 and $6.00, respectively.
The company also has the following crude oil swaps in place:
 
 


