FILE:CHK/CHK-8K-20060215172645.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
 
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d)
of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported)
February 15, 2006 (February 10, 2006)
CHESAPEAKE ENERGY CORPORATION
(Exact name of Registrant as specified in its Charter)
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
(17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
(17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Section 1  Registrant's Business and Operations
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
Effective with the resignation of Tom L. Ward, as discussed below in Item 5.02, and in consideration and recognition of Mr. Ward's long-standing service and significant contributions to Chesapeake Energy Corporation ("Chesapeake"), Chesapeake and Mr. Ward entered into a Resignation Agreement dated February 10, 2006. The Resignation Agreement is attached hereto as exhibit 10.2.5.
The Resignation Agreement provides for Mr. Ward's resignation from his employment and directorship with Chesapeake and his positions as an officer, director and/or manager of any Chesapeake subsidiary. In addition, Mr. Ward agrees to act as a consultant to Chesapeake for a period of six months from the effective date of the Resignation Agreement (the "Consulting Period") to assist in the transition of his responsibilities.
During the Consulting Period, Mr. Ward will receive no cash compensation but will be provided support staff for personal administrative and accounting services together with access to the company's aircraft in accordance with historical practices. The compensation value attributable to these benefits for the Consulting Period is estimated not to exceed $400,000 in the aggregate. Mr. Ward is permitted by the Resignation Agreement to employ support staff personnel that report directly to Mr. Ward.
The Resignation Agreement further provides for the immediate vesting of all of Mr. Ward's unvested stock options and restricted stock on February 10, 2006. As a result of such vesting, options to purchase 724,615 shares of Chesapeake's common stock at an average exercise price of $8.01 per share and 1,291,875 shares of restricted common stock became immediately vested. The estimated Black-Scholes value of these stock options was approximately $15.7 million and the fair market value of the previously restricted common stock was approximately $38.3 million as of February 10, 2006. Mr. Ward will have until May 10, 2006 to exercise these and all other stock options granted to him by the company.
On February 15, 2006, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors set Steven C. Dixon's annual salary at $625,000 effective February 15, 2006. Mr. Dixon's appointment as Executive Vice President  Operations and Chief Operating Officer of the company is discussed below in Item 5.02.
Item 1.02 Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement.
Effective with the resignation of Tom L. Ward, as discussed below in Item 5.02, the Fourth Amended and Restated Employment Agreement dated July 1, 2005 between Tom L. Ward and Chesapeake Energy Corporation was terminated on February 10, 2006. The agreement provided for Mr. Ward's full-time employment as Chesapeake's President and Chief Operating Officer of the company. In accordance with the terms of the agreement, upon Mr. Ward's resignation, neither Chesapeake nor Mr. Ward has any further obligations thereunder including, without limitation, any obligation of Chesapeake to provide any further payments or benefits to Mr. Ward after the effective date of such resignation. See, however, Item 1.01 above which describes benefits (support staff and aircraft usage) extended during the Consulting Period pursuant to the Resignation Agreement.
Under the non-competition provisions of his employment agreement, Mr. Ward is prohibited from competing with the company in certain respects. For a period of six months, Mr. Ward is not permitted to directly or indirectly acquire or attempt to acquire (or aid another person in such activities) any oil and gas interests within any spacing unit in which Chesapeake owns an oil and gas interest on the date of Mr. Ward's resignation. The foregoing restriction does not apply to certain activities described in Mr. Ward's employment agreement, including existing interests, interests acquired under the FWPP (as defined below) and mineral interests acquired in connection with the acquisition of the surface estate. In addition, except as provided in the Resignation Agreement with respect to his direct support staff, Mr. Ward will not solicit, induce, entice or attempt to entice any employee, contractor, customer, vendor or subcontractor to terminate or breach any relationship with Chesapeake or its affiliates for Mr. Ward's own account or for the benefit of another party.
 
2
 
 
 
The Chesapeake Energy Corporation Founder Well Participation Program (the "FWPP") currently permits Mr. Ward to acquire an interest in the governmental, spacing or production unit for each grass roots well in which any of Chesapeake's subsidiaries participates as a working interest owner. Under the terms of the FWPP, Mr. Ward's right to participate in the FWPP will terminate at the same time the non-competition covenants in his employment agreement expire, which is six months after his resignation or August 10, 2006. Mr. Ward will retain all working interests he has acquired pursuant to the FWPP and under participation provisions in prior employment agreements. Mr. McClendon's right to participate in the FWPP is independent of Mr. Ward's and will reamin in effect after Mr. Ward's participation rights have terminated.
During his employment with Chesapeake, Mr. Ward participated in Chesapeake's 401(k) profit sharing plan and its 401(k) make-up plan pursuant to which he elected to defer receipt of compensation previously earned and reported in Chesapeake's respective proxy statements for the applicable periods. As a result of his compensation deferrals and company matching contributions, Mr. Ward is currently entitled to (i) 49,203 shares of Chesapeake common stock with a fair market value of approximately $1.5 million pursuant to the Chesapeake 401(k) profit sharing plan and (ii) a lump sum payment of approximately $1.8 million, $452,000 of which represents the fair market value of 15,255 shares of Chesapeake common stock, pursuant to the Chesapeake 401(k) make-up plan as of his resignation date.
The benefits to which Mr. Ward is entitled upon termination of employment are subject to the terms of the applicable plan. This summary of benefits is qualified in its entirety by reference to such plans, copies of which are filed as exhibits to this report and incorporated herein by reference.
 
Section 5  Corporate Governance and Management
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
 
Effective February 10, 2006, Tom L. Ward, Chesapeake's President, Chief Operating Officer and a director resigned pursuant to the Resignation Agreement described above under Item 1.01 in order to devote more time to other interests, including advocacy for neglected children, and various business ventures. Mr. Ward has been Chesapeake's President, Chief Operating Officer and a director since 1989 when he and Aubrey K. McClendon, Chesapeake's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, founded the company's predecessors.
 
In conjunction with Mr. Ward's resignation, Chesapeake's Board of Directors has appointed Steven C. Dixon, 47, as Executive Vice President  Operations and Chief Operating Officer effective February 13, 2006. Mr. Dixon has been Chesapeake's Senior Vice President  Production since 1995 and served as Vice President  Exploration from 1991 to 1995. Mr. Dixon was a self-employed geological consultant in Wichita, Kansas from 1983 through 1990. He was employed by Beren Corporation in Wichita, Kansas from 1980 to 1983 as a geologist. Mr. Dixon graduated from the University of Kansas in 1980.
 
Mr. Dixon's current employment agreement, dated July 1, 2003, is attached hereto as exhibit 10.2.4 and is effective through September 30, 2006. Such agreement provides for Mr. Dixon to receive an annual base salary of not less than $325,000 and requires him to hold not less than 10,000 shares of Chesapeake's common stock throughout the term of the agreement. His annual base salary as of the date of his appointment was $600,000. As discussed in Item 1.01 above, effective February 15, 2006, Mr. Dixon's annual salary is $625,000. Mr. Dixon's employment agreement further provides him eligibility for bonuses, stock-based compensation and other benefits. The Company may terminate its employment agreement with Mr. Dixon at any time without cause; however, upon such termination he is entitled to continue to receive base compensation (defined as his base salary on the date of termination) and benefits for 180 days. Mr. Dixon's employment agreement further provides that if, during the term of the agreement, there is a change of control, he will be entitled to a severance payment in an amount equal to 200% of the sum of (i) his base salary as of the date of the change of control and (ii) annual bonus compensation paid to him during the twelve month period immediately prior to the change of control. The
 
3
 
 
right to such compensation is subject to his continued compliance with the terms of the employment agreement.
 
The press release announcing Mr. Ward's resignation and Mr. Dixon's appointment is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
4
 
 
 
 
 
 
5
 
 
SIGNATURE
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
6
 
 
 
 
 
7
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.2.4
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT
 
 
between
 
STEVEN C. DIXON
 
and
 
CHESAPEAKE ENERGY CORPORATION
 
 
 
Effective
July 1, 2003
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT
 
THIS AGREEMENT is made effective July 1, 2003, between CHESAPEAKE ENERGY CORPORATION, an Oklahoma corporation (the "Company"), and STEVEN C. DIXON, an individual (the "Executive").
 
W I T N E S S E T H:
 
WHEREAS, the Company desires to retain the services of the Executive and the Executive desires to make the Executive's services available to the Company.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual promises herein contained, the Company and the Executive agree as follows:
 
1.
           
Employment
. The Company hereby employs the Executive and the Executive hereby accepts such employment subject to the terms and conditions contained in this Agreement. The Executive is engaged as an employee of the Company, and the Executive and the Company do not intend to create a joint venture, partnership or other relationship which might impose a fiduciary obligation on the Executive or the Company in the performance of this Agreement.
 
2.
           
Executive's Duties
. The Executive is employed on a full-time basis. Throughout the term of this Agreement, the Executive will use the Executive's best efforts and due diligence to assist the Company in achieving the most profitable operation of the Company and the Company's affiliated entities consistent with developing and maintaining a quality business operation.
 
 
 
1
 
 
 
 
3.
           
Other Activities
. Except as provided in this Agreement or approved by the Board, the Executive agrees not to: (a) engage in other business activities independent of the Company which individually or in the aggregate require a substantial portion of the Executive's time; (b) except for passive investments which do not violate this Agreement, serve as a general partner, officer, employee, director or member of any corporation, partnership, company or firm; or (c) directly or indirectly invest, participate or engage in the Oil and Gas Business. For purposes of this Agreement the term "Oil and Gas Business" means: (i) producing oil and gas; (ii) drilling, owning or operating an interest in oil and gas leases or wells; (iii) providing material or services to the Oil and Gas Business; (iv) refining, processing or marketing oil or gas; or (v) owning an interest in or assisting any corporation, partnership, company, entity or person in any of the foregoing. The foregoing will not prohibit: (w) ownership of publicly traded securities; (x) ownership of royalty interests where the Executive owns the surface of the land covered by the royalty interest and the ownership of the royalty interest is incidental to the ownership of such surface estate; (y) ownership of royalty interests, overriding royalty interests, working interests or other interests in oil and gas owned prior to the Executive's date of first employment with the company and disclosed to the Company in writing; or (z) ownership of royalty interests, overriding royalty interests, working interests or other interests in oil and gas acquired by the Executive through a bona fide gift or inheritance.
 
4.
           
Executive's Compensation
. The Company agrees to compensate the Executive as follows:
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
(a)
   
the acquisition by any individual, entity or group (within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act")) (a "Person") of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act) of twenty percent (20%) or more of either (i) the then outstanding shares of common stock of the Company (the "Outstanding Company Common Stock") or (ii) the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of the Company entitled to vote generally in the election of directors (the "Outstanding Company Voting Securities"). For purposes of this paragraph, the following acquisitions by a Person will not constitute a Change of Control: (i) any acquisition directly from the Company; (ii) any acquisition by the Company; (iii) any acquisition by or sponsored by Mssrs. Aubrey K. McClendon and/or Tom L. Ward; (iv) any acquisition by any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company or any corporation controlled by the Company; or (v) any acquisition by any corporation pursuant to a transaction which complies with clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) of paragraph (c) below;
 
(b)
   
the individuals who, as of June 15, 2003, constitute the board of directors (the "Incumbent Board") cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the board of directors. Any individual becoming a director subsequent to the date hereof whose election, or nomination for election by the Company's shareholders, is approved by a vote of at least a majority of the directors then comprising the Incumbent Board will be considered a member of the Incumbent Board as of the date hereof, but any such individual whose initial assumption of office occurs as a result of an actual or threatened election contest with respect to the election or removal of directors or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a Person other than the Incumbent Board will not be deemed a member of the Incumbent Board as of the date hereof;
 
(c)
   
the consummation of a reorganization, merger, consolidation or sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company (a "Business Combination"), unless following such Business Combination: (i) all or substantially all of the individuals and entities who were the beneficial owners, respectively, of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and Outstanding Company Voting Securities immediately prior to such Business Combination beneficially own, directly or indirectly, more than sixty percent (60%) of, respectively, the then outstanding shares of common stock and the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, as the case may be, of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination (including, without limitation,
 
4
 
 
a corporation which as a result of such transaction owns the Company or all or substantially all of the Company's assets either directly or through one or more subsidiaries) in substantially the same proportions as their ownership, immediately prior to such Business Combination of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and Outstanding Company Voting Securities, as the case may be, (ii) no Person (excluding any corporation resulting from such Business Combination or any employee benefit plan (or related trust) of the Company or such corporation resulting from such Business Combination) beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, twenty percent (20%) or more of, respectively, the then outstanding shares of common stock of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination or the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of such corporation except to the extent that such ownership existed prior to the Business Combination and (iii) at least a majority of the members of the board of directors of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination were members of the Incumbent Board at the time of the execution of the initial agreement, or of the action of the Board, providing for such Business Combination; or,
 
(d)
   
the approval by the shareholders of the Company of a complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company.
 
 
5.
           
Term.
The employment relationship evidenced by this Agreement is an "at will" employment relationship and the Company reserves the right to terminate the Executive at any time with or without cause as provided herein. In the absence of such termination, this Agreement will extend for a term of three (3) years and three (3) months commencing on July 1, 2003, and ending on September 30, 2006 (the "Expiration Date").
 
6.
           
Termination
. This Agreement will continue in effect until the expiration of the term stated at paragraph 5 of this Agreement unless earlier terminated pursuant to this paragraph 6.
 
 
 
5
 
 
as termination compensation: (a) Base Salary for a period of one hundred eighty (180) days; (b) any benefits payable by operation of paragraph 4.4 of this Agreement; and (c) any vacation pay accrued through the Termination Date. The right to the foregoing termination compensation under clause (a) above: (i) is subject to the Executive's execution of the Company's standard termination agreement releasing all legally waivable claims against the Company and the Executive's compliance with each of the provisions of this Agreement; and (ii) will be reduced by the number of days remaining in the one year period after any change of control payment under paragraph 4.5 of this Agreement.
 
 
6.2
Termination by Executive
. The Executive may voluntarily terminate this Agreement with or without cause by the service of written notice of such termination to the Company specifying a Termination Date no sooner than thirty (30) days after the date of such notice. In the event this Agreement is terminated by the Executive, neither the Company nor the Executive will have any further obligations hereunder including, without limitation, any obligation of the Company to provide any further payments or benefits to the Executive after the Termination Date.
 
 
6
 
 
Executive's legal representative of the Company's standard termination agreement releasing all legally waivable claims against the Company.
 
 
 
7.
           
Confidentiality
. The Executive recognizes that the nature of the Executive's services are such that the Executive will have access to information which constitutes trade secrets, is of a confidential nature, is of great value to the Company or is the foundation on which the business of the Company is predicated. The Executive agrees not to disclose to any person other than the Company's employees or the Company's legal counsel nor use for any purpose, other than the performance of this Agreement, any
 
7
 
 
confidential information ("Confidential Information"). Confidential Information includes data or material (regardless of form) which is: (a) a trade secret; (b) provided, disclosed or delivered to Executive by the Company, any officer, director, employee, agent, attorney, accountant, consultant, or other person or entity employed by the Company in any capacity, any customer, borrower or business associate of the Company or any public authority having jurisdiction over the Company of any business activity conducted by the Company; or (c) produced, developed, obtained or prepared by or on behalf of Executive or the Company (whether or not such information was developed in the performance of this Agreement) with respect to the Company or any assets oil and gas prospects, business activities, officers, directors, employees, borrowers or customers of the foregoing. However, Confidential Information shall not include any information, data or material which at the time of disclosure or use was generally available to the public other than by a breach of this Agreement, was available to the party to whom disclosed on a non-confidential basis by disclosure or access provided by the Company or a third party, or was otherwise developed or obtained independently by the person to whom disclosed without a breach of this Agreement. On request by the Company, the Company will be entitled to the return of any Confidential Information in the possession of the Executive. The Executive also agrees that the provisions of this paragraph 7 will survive the termination, expiration or cancellation of this Agreement for a period of three (3) years. The Executive will deliver to the Company all originals and copies of the documents or materials containing Confidential Information. For purposes of paragraphs 7, 8, and 9 of this Agreement, the Company expressly includes any of the Company's affiliated corporations, partnerships or entities.
 
8.
           
Noncompetition
. For a period of six (6) months after the Executive is no longer employed by the Company as a result of either the termination of or resignation by the Executive, the Executive will not acquire, attempt to acquire or aid another in the acquisition or attempted acquisition of an interest in oil and gas assets, oil and gas production, oil and gas leases, mineral interests, oil and gas wells or other such oil and gas exploration, development or production activities within any spacing unit in which the Company owns an oil and gas interest on the date of the resignation or termination of the Executive. In addition, the Executive will not solicit, induce, entice or attempt to entice any employee, contractor, customer, vendor or subcontractor to terminate or breach any relationship with the Company or the Company's affiliates for the Executive's own account or for the benefit of another party. The Executive further agrees that the Executive will not circumvent or attempt to circumvent the foregoing agreements by any future arrangement or through the actions of a third party. The foregoing will not prohibit the activities which are expressly permitted by the last sentence of paragraph 3 of this Agreement.
 
9.
           
Proprietary Matters
. The Executive expressly understands and agrees that any and all improvements, inventions, discoveries, processes, know-how or intellectual property that are generated or conceived by the Executive during the term of this Agreement, whether generated or conceived during the Executive's regular working hours or otherwise, will be the sole and exclusive property of the Company. Whenever requested by the Company (either during the term of this Agreement or thereafter), the Executive will
 
8
 
 
assign or execute any and all applications, assignments and or other instruments and do all things which the Company deems necessary or appropriate in order to permit the Company to: (a) assign and convey or otherwise make available to the Company the sole and exclusive right, title, and interest in and to said improvements, inventions, discoveries, processes, know-how, applications, patents, copyrights, trade names or trademarks; or (b) apply for, obtain, maintain, enforce and defend patents, copyrights, trade names, or trademarks of the United States or of foreign countries for said improvements, inventions, discoveries, processes or know-how. However, the improvements, inventions, discoveries, processes or know-how generated or conceived by the Executive and referred to above (except as they may be included in the patents, copyrights or registered trade names or trademarks of the Company, or corporations, partnerships or other entities which may be affiliated with the Company) shall not be exclusive property of the Company at any time after having been disclosed or revealed or have otherwise become available to the public or to a third party on a non-confidential basis other than by a breach of this Agreement, or after they have been independently developed or discussed without a breach of this Agreement by a third party who has no obligation to the Company or its affiliates. The foregoing will not prohibit any activities which are expressly permitted by the last sentence of paragraph 3 of this Agreement during the term of this Agreement.
 
10.
        
Arbitration
. The parties will attempt to promptly resolve any dispute or controversy arising out of or relating to this Agreement or termination of the Executive by the Company. Any negotiations pursuant to this paragraph 10 are confidential and will be treated as compromise and settlement negotiations for all purposes. If the parties are unable to reach a settlement amicably, the dispute will be submitted to binding arbitration before a single arbitrator in accordance with the Employment Dispute Resolution Rules of the American Arbitration Association. The arbitrator will be instructed and empowered to take reasonable steps to expedite the arbitration and the arbitrator's judgment will be final and binding upon the parties subject solely to challenge on the grounds of fraud or gross misconduct. Except for damages arising out of a breach of paragraphs 7, 8 or 9 of this Agreement, the arbitrator is not empowered to award total damages (including compensatory damages) which exceed two hundred percent (200%) of compensatory damages and each party hereby irrevocably waives any damages in excess of that amount. The arbitration will be held in Oklahoma County, Oklahoma. Judgment upon any verdict in arbitration may be entered in any court of competent jurisdiction and the parties hereby consent to the jurisdiction of, and proper venue in, the federal and state courts located in Oklahoma County, Oklahoma. Each party will bear its own costs in connection with the arbitration and the costs of the arbitrator will be borne by the party who the arbitrator determines did not prevail in the matter. Unless otherwise expressly set forth in this Agreement, the procedures specified in this paragraph 10 will be the sole and exclusive procedures for the resolution of disputes and controversies between the parties arising out of or relating to this Agreement. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a party may seek a preliminary injunction or other provisional judicial relief if in such party's judgment such action is necessary to avoid irreparable damage or to preserve the status quo.
 
 
 
9
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10
 
 
 
 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned have executed this Agreement effective the date first above written.
 
 
 
 
 
 
11
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 10.2.5
 
 
 
 
February 10, 2006
 
VIA HAND DELIVERY
PERSONAL AND CONFIDENTIAL
 
Mr. Tom L. Ward
19200 North Rockwell Avenue
Edmond, Oklahoma 73003
 
 
Dear Tom:
 
The purpose of this letter is to memorialize the agreement between you and Chesapeake Energy Corporation, an Oklahoma corporation ("Chesapeake Energy"), regarding your resignation from Chesapeake Energy and all affiliated entities (collectively "Chesapeake"). We have agreed that the terms of such separation are as follows:
 
1.
             
Resignation
. Pursuant to paragraph 6.2 of your Fourth Amended and Restated Employment Agreement (the "Employment Agreement") dated effective July 1, 2005, you hereby resign without cause from all of your positions at Chesapeake. The foregoing resignation is effective February 10, 2006 (the "Effective Date") and includes, without implied limitation, resignation from: (a) any employment by Chesapeake, (b) each directorship or similar position with Chesapeake and (c) any position as an officer, manager, partner or similar position with Chesapeake. Neither Chesapeake nor any Chesapeake subsidiary, parent company, affiliate or their respective shareholders, partners, directors, officers, employees, attorneys or agents (collectively, the "Chesapeake Parties") have any obligation to rehire, reemploy, recall, hire or continue to employ you in the future. Except as expressly modified herein you agree to comply with each of the provisions of your Employment Agreement including, without implied limitation, any provisions regarding covenants not to compete, confidentiality and interest in proprietary matters. The parties further agree that if you acquire in any manner (including through a merger or directly or indirectly through another entity) a company or package of properties that includes interests prohibited by the non-competition provisions of the Employment Agreement (the "Restricted Properties") and the allocated value of the Restricted Properties are less than 25% of the total purchase price for such package or company, then Chesapeake's sole remedy under the Employment Agreement for such inadvertent breach will be the right to purchase the Restricted Properties at your cost after you provide written notice to Chesapeake of the purchase of Restricted Properties. You agree to notify Chesapeake if you acquire
 
 
 
Mr. Tom L. Ward
February 10, 2006
Page 2
 
 
or enter into an agreement to acquire, directly or indirectly, any oil and gas interest or business that violates the provisions of the Employment Agreement.
 
2.
             
Consultant
. For the six (6) month period (the "NC Period") after the Effective Date you agree to act as a consultant for Chesapeake and use your best efforts to assist in the transition of your responsibilities to the designated employees of Chesapeake. The services required under this Agreement will be those reasonably requested by Chesapeake but will not require you to expend more than 20 hours per week to provide such services during the NC Period. Except as expressly provided herein you will receive no compensation for the services provided under this paragraph 2, but Chesapeake will reimburse you for approved reasonable out of pocket costs incurred in providing such services. The parties acknowledge that the right to participate in the Founder's Well Participation Program will terminate at the end of the NC Period in accordance with the Founder's Well Participation Program.
 
3.
             
Compensation
. You will receive compensation and benefits in accordance with your Employment Agreement through the Effective Date. The amounts paid in accordance with this paragraph 3 are gross amounts, subject to lawful deductions, including taxes and any deductions you have previously authorized. After the Effective Date, you are entitled to continue your group health insurance coverage in accordance with applicable law. Please complete the COBRA election form and return it to Chesapeake in accordance with Chesapeake's policies if you elect to continue such insurance coverage. Chesapeake agrees to settle promptly all authorized reimbursable business expenses, if any, when you submit appropriate expense reports along with the required receipts and documentation. The expense reports must be submitted to Chesapeake by the close of business on February 28, 2006. Except as expressly set forth in this Agreement, you have been paid in full and waive all claims for all overtime pay, back pay, future pay, unpaid vacation, unpaid sick leave or any other form of compensation or payments.
 
4.
             
Facilities and Support
. During the NC Period you will be entitled to use your current support staff in accordance with historical practices and have access to Chesapeake's aircraft in accordance with your historical usage. The cost and expenses of the foregoing will be paid by Chesapeake subject to any reimbursement obligations which would normally be due under your Employment Agreement. You will also be entitled to use your office for up to 60 days after the Effective Date. You will be entitled to hire Debbie Richardson, Cheryl Hamilton and/or April McKnight at any time after the Effective Date without violating the provisions of the Employment Agreement, any other agreement or any policy of Chesapeake In the event that Ms. Richardson, Ms. Hamilton or Ms. McKnight ceases to be employed by Chesapeake other than termination by Chesapeake for cause and is permanently employed by you on or before 15 days after the end of the NC Period, any such party's stock options and restricted stock will vest immediately.
 
5.
             
Equity Compensation
. A schedule of your equity compensation is at Schedule "A" attached as a part hereof, including all vested and unvested stock options and restricted stock. You acknowledge agree that you have no other equity compensation, stock options or restricted stock (or the right to receive any of the foregoing). As consideration for your performance of this Agreement Chesapeake Energy hereby agrees that the unvested equity compensation on Schedule "A" will immediately vest on the execution and delivery of this Agreement by both parties. The Chesapeake
 
Mr. Tom L. Ward
February 10, 2006
Page 3
 
 
Energy Board of Directors has approved the foregoing acceleration of your unvested equity compensation.
 
6.
             
Litigation
. You represent and warrant that you: (a) have not suffered any work related injury during your employment; and (b) have not filed and will not file any claims, complaints, charges or lawsuits against the Chesapeake Parties with any governmental agency or any court for any matter, claim or incident known or unknown which occurred or arose out of occurrences in any way connected to the Chesapeake Parties, your employment with Chesapeake or your separation from employment with Chesapeake. In addition, you agree to cooperate with the Chesapeake Parties if you are subpoenaed to testify in any deposition, hearing, trial or other judicial or administrative proceeding regarding your activities or knowledge of any of the Chesapeake Parties' activities while in the employment of Chesapeake. You agree to appear and testify in connection with such matters without compensation from the Chesapeake Parties other than reimbursement for travel and other reasonable out-of-pocket expenses. You agree not to disclose any attorney/client communications occurring during your employment without the prior written authorization of Chesapeake Energy's Board of Directors.
 
7.
             
Return of Property
. You agree to timely return to Chesapeake all documents, reports, copies, summaries, files, memoranda, records, credit cards and cardkey passes, door and file keys, computer software, Company Information (as hereinafter defined) and other personal property which you received, prepared or assisted in the preparation of in connection with your employment. The term "Company Information" means confidential information relating to the Chesapeake Parties and other technical, business or financial information relating to the Chesapeake Parties received in the course of your employment by Chesapeake, including, without limitation, any procedures, policies and information (in whatever form) received by you from the Chesapeake Parties' investors, partners, participants, agents or business associates. You will remove from Chesapeake's premises any personal property within 10 days after you no longer occupy your office in accordance with this Agreement.
 
8.
             
Release
. This Agreement constitutes a full, final and complete good faith settlement of your employment relationship with Chesapeake and any and all economic or business relationships or transactions with the Chesapeake Parties. This Agreement is not and will not in any way be considered or interpreted as an admission of any type by Chesapeake or you. You hereby, on your own behalf and on behalf of your spouse, family members, heirs, successors and assigns (the "Ward Parties") irrevocably and unconditionally release, acquit and forever discharge the Chesapeake Parties from any and all causes of actions, suits, claims, demands, losses, liabilities or damages whatsoever, whether now existing or hereafter to accrue, by reason of, growing out of or in any way connected with your employment with Chesapeake, your separation from employment with Chesapeake or any relationship with any of the Chesapeake Parties, including, without limitation, any claims under any federal, state or local laws. You hereby warrant neither you nor any person acting on your behalf, has or will file, charge, claim, sue or cause any action for damages or other relief against any of the Chesapeake Parties involving any matter occurring through the Effective Date. The provisions of this paragraph 8 do not limit any party's right to enforce such party's rights under this Agreement.
 
 
Mr. Tom L. Ward
February 10, 2006
Page 4
 
 
 
9.
             
Chesapeake Release
. Chesapeake Energy hereby, on its own behalf and on behalf of each Chesapeake entity, irrevocably and unconditionally releases, acquits and forever discharges you from any and all causes of actions, suits, claims, demands, losses, liabilities or damages whatsoever, whether now existing or hereafter to accrue, by reason of, growing out of or in any way connected with the ordinary course of performance of your employment with Chesapeake. The release in this paragraph 9 is intended to include negligent acts or omissions by you in the ordinary course of your employment but does not apply to or affect fraud or intentional misconduct by you. The provisions of this paragraph 9 do not limit any party's right to enforce such party's rights under this Agreement or the Employment Agreement.
 
10.
          
Indemnification
. As a material inducement to enter into this Agreement, you hereby irrevocably agree to indemnify and hold harmless the Chesapeake Parties from and against any loss, damage, claim, liability, debt or expense (including legal fees, interest and expenses of litigation) arising directly or indirectly from claims by the Ward Parties, your employment by Chesapeake, any relationship with the Chesapeake Parties, this Agreement or any breach of this Agreement.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mr. Tom L. Ward
February 10, 2006
Page 5
 
 
 
 
 
If the foregoing accurately represents the terms of our agreement, please sign and date the enclosed original of this letter, and return the original to Chesapeake.
 
Best regards,
 
 
AGREED TO AND ACCEPTED on this 9 day of February, 2006.
th
 
 
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
FEBRUARY 13, 2006
 
 
CHESAPEAKE ENERGY CORPORATION ANNOUNCES RESIGNATION OF PRESIDENT AND CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER
 
OKLAHOMA CITY, OKLAHOMA, FEBRUARY 13, 2006  Chesapeake Energy Corporation (NYSE:CHK) today announced that its President and Chief Operating Officer, Tom L. Ward, has resigned as a director, officer and employee of the company effective February 10, 2006. Mr. Ward will serve as a consultant to Chesapeake for the next six months.
 
"Chesapeake has been my passion for more than 20 years," said Mr. Ward. "The company has achieved great success and is now the second largest independent producer of U.S. natural gas. I am happy that our investors have shared in our accomplishments, and as a co-founder of the company, I am proud of my leadership role at Chesapeake and know that I am leaving the company in good hands and in a very favorable competitive position. I now look forward to devoting more time and energy to my other interests, including advocacy for neglected children, and various business ventures.
 
Aubrey K. McClendon, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, commented, "Tom has been my good friend and partner for 23 years. Through the various ups and downs associated with starting from a $50,000 investment and building it into a $20 billion company, we grew up together and remained partners through thick and thin. Tom is an exceptionally talented entrepreneur and that has enabled him to build very talented exploration, development and operations teams at Chesapeake. He will continue to be a great friend and we will miss him. We wish him well in his future endeavors."
 
The company also announced that Steven C. Dixon has been promoted to the position of Executive Vice President of Operations and Chief Operating Officer of Chesapeake, effective February 13, 2006. Mr. Dixon, 47, has been Senior Vice President of Production since 1995 and served as Vice President of Exploration from 1991 to 1995.
 
 
 
 
"During the past 15 years, Steve Dixon has been an integral part of our operations team and has worked closely with all members of senior management. He has a thorough knowledge of Chesapeake and our industry," added Mr. McClendon. "His appointment as Chief Operating Officer is well deserved and he will be a successful and capable leader as Chesapeake continues to grow in the years ahead."
 
Chesapeake Energy Corporation is the second largest independent producer of natural gas in the U.S. Headquartered in Oklahoma City, the company's operations are focused on exploratory and developmental drilling and property acquisitions in the Mid-Continent, Permian Basin, South Texas, Texas Gulf Coast, Barnett Shale, Ark-La-Tex and Appalachian Basin regions of the United States. The company's Internet address is
www.chkenergy.com
.
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
 


