FILE:CHK/CHK-8K-20061211144904.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
 
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d)
of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported)
December 11, 2006 (December 7, 2006)
CHESAPEAKE ENERGY CORPORATION
(Exact name of Registrant as specified in its Charter)
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
(17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
(17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Section 8  Other Events
Item 8.01 Other Events.
 
On December 7, 2006, the Company issued a press release to announce the offering of 30 million shares of Common Stock. The press release is attached hereto as exhibits 99.1.
 
On December 8, 2006, the Company issued a press release to announce the pricing of the offering of 30 million shares of Common Stock. The press release is attached hereto as exhibits 99.2.
 
 
 
 
2
SIGNATURE
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
4
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
DECEMBER 7, 2006
 
CONTACTS:
 
CHESAPEAKE ENERGY CORPORATION
ANNOUNCES OFFERING OF COMMON STOCK
 
OKLAHOMA CITY, OKLAHOMA, DECEMBER 7, 2006  Chesapeake Energy Corporation (NYSE:CHK) today announced that it is commencing a public offering of 30 million shares of its common stock after the market closing today. Deutsche Bank Securities is acting as underwriter for the offering. Chesapeake has granted Deutsche Bank Securities a 30-day option to purchase up to 4.5 million additional shares to cover any over-allotments. The final terms of the offering, including the amount of the net proceeds to be received by Chesapeake, will be disclosed in the final prospectus to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Chesapeake intends to use the net proceeds from the offering to repay outstanding indebtedness under its revolving credit facility. The common stock is offered pursuant to an effective registration statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Copies of the prospectus supplement, when available, may be obtained from the offices of Deutsche Bank Securities, Attn: Prospectus Department, 1251 Avenue of Americas, New York, NY 10019, or by telephone at (800) 503-4611, or by email at prospectusrequest@list.db.com. An electronic copy of the prospectus will be available on the website of the Securities and Exchange Commission at www.sec.gov.
 
This press release shall not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy nor shall there be any sale of these securities in any state or country in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any state or country.
 
Chesapeake Energy Corporation is the third largest independent producer of natural gas in the U.S. Headquartered in Oklahoma City, the company's operations are focused on exploratory and developmental drilling and corporate and property acquisitions in the Mid-Continent, Permian Basin, South Texas, Texas Gulf Coast, Barnett Shale, Ark-La-Tex and Appalachian Basin regions of the United States.
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.2
 
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
DECEMBER 8, 2006
 
CONTACTS:
 
CHESAPEAKE ENERGY CORPORATION
PRICES OFFERING OF COMMON STOCK
 
OKLAHOMA CITY, OKLAHOMA, DECEMBER 8, 2006  Chesapeake Energy Corporation (NYSE:CHK) today announced that it has priced its public offering of 30 million shares of its common stock. The offering results in net proceeds to Chesapeake of approximately $1 billion. Deutsche Bank Securities acted as underwriter for the offering. Chesapeake has granted Deutsche Bank Securities a 30-day option to purchase up to 4.5 million additional shares to cover any over-allotments. The final terms of the offering will be disclosed in the final prospectus to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Chesapeake intends to use the net proceeds from the offering to repay outstanding indebtedness under its revolving credit facility. The common stock is offered pursuant to an effective registration statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Copies of the prospectus supplement may be obtained from the offices of Deutsche Bank Securities, Attn: Prospectus Department, 1251 Avenue of Americas, New York, NY 10019, or by telephone at (800) 503-4611, or by email at prospectusrequest@list.db.com. An electronic copy of the prospectus will be available on the website of the Securities and Exchange Commission at www.sec.gov.
 
This press release shall not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy nor shall there be any sale of these securities in any state or country in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any state or country.
 
Chesapeake Energy Corporation is the third largest independent producer of natural gas in the U.S. Headquartered in Oklahoma City, the company's operations are focused on exploratory and developmental drilling and corporate and property acquisitions in the Mid-Continent, Permian Basin, South Texas, Texas Gulf Coast, Barnett Shale, Ark-La-Tex and Appalachian Basin regions of the United States.
 
 


