FILE:CHK/CHK-8K-20070802191552.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 2  Financial Information
Item 2.02  Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On August 2, 2007, Chesapeake Energy Corporation issued a press release which included information regarding our consolidated results of operations and financial condition as of and for the quarterly period ended June 30, 2007.  This press release also included updated information on our 2007 and 2008 outlook.  The text of that press release is attached to this report as exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date:  August 2, 2007
 
 
3
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
AUGUST 2, 2007
 
 
 
OKLAHOMA CITY, OKLAHOMA, AUGUST 2, 2007  Chesapeake Energy Corporation (NYSE:CHK) today reported strong financial and operating results for the second quarter of 2007.  For the quarter, Chesapeake generated net income available to common shareholders of $492 million ($1.01 per fully diluted common share), operating cash flow of $1.076 billion (defined as cash flow from operating activities before changes in assets and liabilities) and ebitda of $1.401 billion (defined as net income before income taxes, interest expense, and depreciation, depletion and amortization expense) on revenue of $2.105 billion and production of 170 billion cubic feet of natural gas equivalent (bcfe).
 
 
The companys 2007 second quarter net income available to common shareholders and ebitda include various items that are typically not included in published estimates of the companys financial results by certain securities analysts. Such items and their after-tax effects on 2007 second quarter reported results are described as follows:
Excluding the above-mentioned items, Chesapeake generated adjusted net income to common shareholders in the 2007 second quarter of $342 million ($0.71 per fully diluted common share) and adjusted ebitda of $1.167 billion.  The excluded items do not affect the calculation of operating cash flow.  A reconciliation of operating cash flow, ebitda, adjusted ebitda and adjusted net income to comparable financial measures calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles is presented on pages 21 - 24 of this release.
The table below summarizes Chesapeakes key results during the 2007 second quarter and compares them to the 2007 first quarter and the 2006 second quarter.
 
 
 
2
 
Daily production for the 2007 second quarter averaged 1.868 bcfe, an increase of 300 million cubic feet of natural gas equivalent (mmcfe), or 19%, over the 1.568 bcfe of daily production in the 2006 second quarter and an increase of 161 mmcfe, or 9%, over the 1.707 bcfe produced per day in the 2007 first quarter.
Chesapeakes 2007 second quarter production of 170.0 bcfe was comprised of 156.1 billion cubic feet of natural gas (bcf) (92% on a natural gas equivalent basis) and 2.324 million barrels of oil and natural gas liquids (mmbbls) (8% on a natural gas equivalent basis).  Chesapeakes average daily production for the quarter of 1.868 bcfe consisted of 1.715 bcf of natural gas and 25,538 barrels (bbls) of oil.  Based on 2007 second quarter reported production from continuing operations reported by other public U.S. natural gas producers, Chesapeake believes it has recently become the largest independent and third-largest overall producer of U.S. natural gas.
The 2007 second quarter was Chesapeakes 24th consecutive quarter of sequential U.S. production growth.  Over these 24 quarters, Chesapeakes U.S. production has increased 372%, for an average compound quarterly growth rate of 7% and an average compound annual growth rate of 30%.
As a result of better than expected performance from the companys accelerated drilling program and the addition of approximately 40 mmcfe per day of production from its July 2007 transaction with Anadarko Petroleum Corporation (NYSE:APC) in Deep Haley, Chesapeake is raising its previous forecasts for total production growth for 2007 to 18-22% from 14-18% and for 2008 to 14-18% from 10-14%.  The companys rate of production has recently exceeded 1.975 bcfe per day and based on projected drilling levels and anticipated results, Chesapeake expects its 2007 production exit rate to be at least 2.05-2.10 bcfe per day.
Chesapeake began 2007 with estimated proved reserves of 8.956 trillion cubic feet of natural gas equivalent (tcfe) and ended the second quarter with 9.979 tcfe, an increase of 1.023 tcfe, or 11%.  During the 2007 first half, Chesapeake replaced its 324 bcfe of production with an estimated 1.347 tcfe of new proved reserves for a reserve replacement rate of 416%.  Reserve replacement through the drillbit was 1.145 tcfe, or 354% of production (including 510 bcfe of positive performance revisions and 95 bcfe of positive revisions resulting from oil and natural gas price increases between December 31, 2006 and June 30, 2007) and 85% of the total increase.  Reserve replacement through the acquisition of proved reserves completed during the 2007 first half was 202 bcfe, or 62% of production and 15% of the total increase.
 
3
 
On a per thousand cubic feet of natural gas equivalent (mcfe) basis, the companys total drilling and acquisition costs for the first half of 2007 were $2.11 per mcfe (excluding costs of $134 million for seismic, $1.075 billion for unproved properties, leasehold acquired and related capitalized interest, and $110 million relating to tax basis step-up and asset retirement obligations, as well as positive revisions of proved reserves from higher oil and natural gas prices).  Excluding these same items, Chesapeakes exploration and development costs through the drillbit were $2.14 per mcfe during the 2007 first half while reserve replacement costs through acquisitions of proved reserves were $1.97 per mcfe.  Total costs incurred in oil and natural gas acquisition, exploration and development activities during the 2007 first half, including seismic, leasehold, unproved properties, capitalized interest and internal costs, non-cash tax basis step-up from corporate acquisitions and asset retirement obligations, were $3.962 billion.  A complete reconciliation of finding and acquisition costs and a roll-forward of proved reserves are presented on page 19 of this release.
During the 2007 first half, Chesapeake continued the industrys most active drilling program and drilled 977 gross (835 net) operated wells and participated in another 826 gross (115 net) wells operated by other companies.  The companys drilling success rate was 99% for company-operated wells and 97% for non-operated wells.  Also during the 2007 first half, Chesapeake invested $1.932 billion in operated wells (using an average of 131 operated rigs), $314 million in non-operated wells (using an average of 102 non-operated rigs), $410 million to acquire new leasehold (exclusive of $665 million in unproved leasehold obtained through corporate and asset acquisitions, as well as other leasehold fees and related capitalized interest) and $134 million to acquire seismic data.
As of June 30, 2007, Chesapeakes estimated future net cash flows from proved reserves, discounted at an annual rate of 10% before income taxes (PV-10) were $18.8 billion using field differential adjusted prices of $65.41 per bbl (based on a NYMEX quarter-end price of $70.33 per bbl) and $6.25 per thousand cubic feet of natural gas (mcf) (based on a NYMEX quarter-end price of $6.80 per mcf).
By comparison, the December 31, 2006 PV-10 of the companys proved reserves was $13.6 billion using field differential adjusted prices of $56.25 per bbl (based on a NYMEX year-end price of $61.15 per bbl) and $5.41 per mcf (based on a NYMEX year-end price of $5.64 per mcf).  Including the effect of income taxes, the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows from proved reserves at year-end 2006 was $10.0 billion.  By further comparison, the June 30, 2006 PV-10 of the companys proved reserves was $15.0 billion using field differential adjusted prices of $69.10 per bbl (based on a NYMEX quarter-end price of $73.86 per bbl) and $5.72 per mcf (based on a NYMEX quarter-end price of $6.09 per mcf).
 
4
 
Chesapeakes current PV-10 changes by approximately $365 million for every $0.10 per mcf change in natural gas prices and approximately $53 million for every $1.00 per bbl change in oil prices.  The company calculates the standardized measure of future net cash flows in accordance with SFAS 69 only at year-end because applicable income tax information on properties, including recently acquired oil and natural gas interests, is not readily available at other times during the year.  As a result, the company is not able to reconcile the interim period-end values to the standardized measure at such dates.  The only difference between the two measures is that PV-10 is calculated before considering the impact of future income tax expenses, while the standardized measure includes such effects.
In addition to the PV-10 value of its proved reserves, the net book value of the companys other assets (including drilling rigs, gathering systems, compressors, land and buildings, investments, long-term derivative instruments and other non-current assets) was $2.8 billion as of June 30, 2007, $2.8 billion as of December 31, 2006 and $1.8 billion as of June 30, 2006.
Average prices realized during the 2007 second quarter (including realized gains or losses from oil and natural gas derivatives, but excluding unrealized gains or losses on such derivatives) were $65.37 per bbl of oil and $7.97 per mcf of natural gas, for a realized natural gas equivalent price of $8.21 per mcfe.  Chesapeakes average realized pricing differentials to NYMEX during the second quarter were a negative $4.93 per bbl and a negative $0.77 per mcf.  Realized gains from oil and natural gas hedging activities during the quarter generated a $5.27 gain per bbl and a $1.19 gain per mcf, for a 2007 second quarter realized hedging gain of $198 million, or $1.16 per mcfe.
The following tables compare Chesapeakes open hedge position through swaps and collars as well as gains from lifted hedges as of August 2, 2007 to those previously announced as of May 3, 2007.  Depending on changes in oil and natural gas futures markets and managements view of underlying oil and natural gas supply and demand trends, Chesapeake may either increase or decrease its hedging positions at any time in the future without notice.
 
 
5
 
Additionally, the company has lifted a portion of its oil hedges securing gains of $4.2 million and $4.8 million for the last half of 2007 and for the full year 2008, respectively.
 
6
 
 
Certain open natural gas swap positions include knockout swaps with knockout provisions at prices ranging from $5.25 to $6.50 covering 116 bcf in 2007, $5.75 to $6.50 covering 222 bcf in 2008 and $5.90 to $6.50 covering 116 bcf in 2009.  Certain open natural gas collar positions include three-way collars that include written put options with strike prices ranging from $5.00 to $6.00 covering 33 bcf in 2007, $5.00 to $6.00 covering 11 bcf in 2008 and $6.00 covering 18 bcf in 2009.  Also, certain open oil swap positions include cap-swaps and knockout swaps with provisions limiting the counterpartys exposure below prices ranging from $45.00 to $60.00 covering 1 mmbbls in 2007 and 3 mmbbls in 2008, and from $52.50 to $60.00 covering 3 mmbbls in 2009.
 
The companys updated forecasts for 2007 and 2008 are attached to this release in an Outlook dated August 2, 2007 labeled as Schedule A, which begins on page 25.  This Outlook has been changed from the Outlook dated May 3, 2007 (attached as Schedule B, which begins on page 29) to reflect various updated information.
 
7
 
Since 2000, Chesapeake has invested $7.8 billion in new leasehold and 3-D seismic acquisitions and now owns the largest combined inventories of onshore leasehold (12.2 million net acres) and 3-D seismic (17.7 million acres) in the U.S.  On this leasehold, the company has approximately 28,500 net drilling locations, representing an approximate 10-year inventory of drilling projects, on which it believes it can develop an estimated 3.8 tcfe of proved undeveloped reserves and approximately 20.8 tcfe of risked unproved reserves (82 tcfe of unrisked unproved reserves).  Pro forma for its July 2007 transaction with Anadarko in Deep Haley, Chesapeakes 10.1 tcfe of estimated proved reserves and its 20.8 tcfe of estimated risked unproved reserves total approximately 30.9 tcfe.
To aggressively develop these assets, Chesapeake has continued to significantly strengthen its technical capabilities by increasing its land, geoscience and engineering staff to over 1,200 employees.  Today, the company has approximately 5,800 employees, of which approximately 60% work in the companys E&P operations and approximately 40% work in the companys oilfield service operations.
Chesapeake characterizes its drilling activity by one of four play types: .  In these plays, Chesapeake uses a probability-weighted statistical approach to estimate the potential number of drillsites and unproved reserves associated with such drillsites.  The following summarizes Chesapeakes ownership and activity in each gas resource play type and highlights notable projects in each play.
conventional gas resource, unconventional gas resource, emerging unconventional gas resource and Appalachian Basin gas resource
- In its traditional conventional areas (i.e., portions of the Mid-Continent, Permian, Gulf Coast and South Texas regions), where exploration targets are typically deep and defined using 3-D seismic data, Chesapeake believes it has a meaningful competitive advantage due to its operating scale, deep drilling expertise and over 13.7 million acres of 3-D seismic data.  Chesapeake is producing approximately 985 mmcfe net per day in conventional gas resource plays and owns 3.4 million net acres on which it has an estimated 3.0 tcfe of proved developed reserves, 1.0 tcfe of proved undeveloped reserves and approximately 3.1 tcfe of estimated risked unproved reserves.  In these plays the company is currently using 36 operated drilling rigs to further develop its inventory of approximately 3,500 drillsites.  Three of Chesapeakes most important conventional gas resource plays are described below:
Conventional Gas Resource Plays
 
8
 
 
- In its unconventional gas resource plays, the company is producing approximately 830 mmcfe net per day.  Pro forma for its transaction with Anadarko in Deep Haley, Chesapeake owns 3.2 million net acres in unconventional gas resource plays on which it has an estimated 2.2 tcfe of proved developed reserves, 2.3 tcfe of proved undeveloped reserves and approximately 12.8 tcfe of estimated risked unproved reserves and is currently using 95 operated drilling rigs to further develop its inventory of approximately 14,700 net drillsites.  Six of Chesapeakes most important unconventional gas resource plays are described below:
Unconventional Gas Resource Plays
 
9
 
 
10
 
 
11
- In its emerging unconventional gas resource plays, commercial production has only recently been established but the company believes future reserve potential could be substantial.  Chesapeake is producing approximately 25 mmcfe net per day in these plays and owns 1.8 million net acres on which it has an estimated 66 bcfe of proved developed reserves, 51 bcfe of proved undeveloped reserves and approximately 2.4 tcfe of estimated risked unproved reserves.  In these plays, the company is currently using 11 operated drilling rigs to further develop its inventory of approximately 1,200 net drillsites. Three of Chesapeakes most important emerging unconventional gas resource plays are described below:
Emerging Unconventional Gas Resource Plays
 
12
 
- Chesapeakes Appalachian play types include conventional, unconventional and emerging unconventional in the Devonian Shale and other formations.  Chesapeake is the largest leasehold owner in the region with 3.7 million net acres and is producing approximately 135 mmcfe net per day.  The company is currently using 11 operated rigs in the region and plans to increase its operated rig count to 13 rigs by year-end 2007 to further develop its extensive leasehold position.  In Appalachia, Chesapeake has an estimated 989 bcfe of proved developed reserves, an estimated 534 bcfe of proved undeveloped reserves and its estimated risked unproved reserves are approximately 2.5 tcfe after applying a 35% risk factor and assuming an additional 9,100 net wells are drilled in the years ahead.  The companys targeted results for vertical Devonian Shale wells are $0.5 million to develop 0.35 bcfe on approximately 160 acre spacing.
Appalachian Basin Gas Resource Plays
In addition, Chesapeake continues to actively generate new prospects and acquire additional leasehold throughout the companys areas of operation in various conventional, unconventional and emerging unconventional plays not described above.
As part of a value capture and asset monetization program designed to fund a portion of the companys accelerated drilling program and in recognition of the extremely attractive valuations available in the financial and master limited partnership markets for low-risk, long-reserve life, low-decline rate producing properties, Chesapeake has recently begun a process to divest a portion of its Appalachian producing properties in West Virginia and eastern Kentucky.  The company intends to sell approximately 30 mmcfe net per day, or approximately 1.5% of the companys total current production, from an approximate 35% non-operated working interest in approximately 4,300 wells.  The working interest to be sold will convey internally estimated proved reserves of approximately 235 bcfe, or approximately 2.3% of the companys current proved reserves.  The company intends to retain drilling rights on the properties below currently producing intervals and outside of existing producing wellbores.  Chesapeake expects to receive proceeds of at least $600 million from the Appalachian asset sale, which is anticipated to close by the end of 2007.
 
13
 
Aubrey K. McClendon, Chesapeakes Chief Executive Officer, commented We are pleased to report outstanding financial and operational results for the 2007 second quarter.  We are particularly proud of our success through the drillbit that has allowed the company to exceed its mid-year production and reserve growth expectations and become the nations largest independent producer of natural gas and third largest overall.  Our sequential quarter and year-over-year production growth levels of 161 mmcfe and 300 mmcfe per day are at the top of the U.S. exploration and production industry.  Notably, these increases equal or exceed the total production of many small-cap high-growth companies that trade at significant valuation premiums and have enterprise values ranging from $5 to 10 billion.
The benefits of Chesapeakes strategic shift from resource capture to resource conversion are beginning to accelerate and we look forward to generating further strong growth in the second half of 2007 and in 2008.  Through the industrys most active drilling program, we plan to increase our average daily production rate 18-22% in 2007 and 14-18% in 2008 and we expect to exceed 10.5 tcfe of proved reserves by year-end 2007 and approach 12 tcfe by year-end 2008.
The Fort Worth Barnett Shale play has been the largest contributor to the companys recent success and we are excited about the substantial competitive advantages we have created in the sweet spot of Tarrant, Johnson and western Dallas counties.  In these areas, our leasehold position, surface drilling locations, land services agreements and gathering and water handling infrastructure are benefiting from rapidly developing economies of scale.  We are also pleased to have recently expanded our position in the increasingly significant Deep Haley play in West Texas where the combined expertise of Chesapeake and Anadarko, two of the best deep gas explorers in the industry, should help further develop the play.
Also in the 2007 second quarter, the company delivered attractive profit margins that were enhanced by the companys well-executed hedging strategy and we look forward to delivering strong risk-adjusted returns for many quarters to come.  Our focused business strategy, value-added growth, tremendous inventory of undrilled locations and valuable hedge positions continue to clearly differentiate Chesapeake in the industry.
 
14
 
A conference call to discuss this release has been scheduled for Friday morning, August 3, 2007 at 9:00 a.m. EDT.  The telephone number to access the conference call is
and the confirmation code is .  We encourage those who would like to participate in the call to dial the access number between 8:50 and 8:55 a.m. EDT.  For those unable to participate in the conference call, a replay will be available for audio playback from noon EDT, August 3, 2007 through midnight EDT on August 17, 2007.  The number to access the conference call replay is and the passcode for the replay is .  The conference call will also be webcast live on the Internet and can be accessed by going to Chesapeakes website at and selecting the News & Events section.  The webcast of the conference call will be available on our website for one year.
913-981-5584
4231813
719-457-0820
4231813
www.chkenergy.com
 
This press release and the accompanying Outlooks include forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements give our current expectations or forecasts of future events. They include estimates of oil and natural gas reserves, expected oil and natural gas production and future expenses, projections of future oil and natural gas prices, planned capital expenditures for drilling, leasehold acquisitions and seismic data, and statements concerning anticipated cash flow and liquidity, business strategy and other plans and objectives for future operations. Disclosures concerning the fair value of derivative contracts and their estimated contribution to our future results of operations are based upon market information as of a specific date. These market prices are subject to significant volatility. We caution you not to place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this press release, and we undertake no obligation to update this information.
Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from expected results are described in Risks Related to our Business under Risk Factors in the prospectus supplement we filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 10, 2007 and in Item 1A of our 2006 annual report on Form 10-K filed on March 1, 2007.  These risk factors include the volatility of oil and natural gas prices; the limitations our level of indebtedness may have on our financial flexibility; our ability to compete effectively against strong independent oil and natural gas companies and majors; the availability of capital on an economic basis to fund reserve replacement costs; our ability to replace reserves and sustain production; uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of oil and natural gas reserves and projecting future rates of production and the amount and timing of development expenditures; uncertainties in evaluating oil and natural gas reserves of acquired properties and associated potential liabilities; our ability to effectively consolidate and integrate acquired properties and operations; unsuccessful exploration and development drilling; declines in the values of our oil and natural gas properties resulting in ceiling test write-downs; lower prices realized on oil and natural gas sales and collateral required to secure hedging liabilities resulting from our commodity price risk management activities; the negative impact lower oil and natural gas prices could have on our ability to borrow; drilling and operating risks, including potential environmental liabilities; production interruptions that could adversely affect our cash flow; and pending or future litigation.
Our production forecasts are dependent upon many assumptions, including estimates of production decline rates from existing wells and the outcome of future drilling activity.  Although we believe the expectations and forecasts reflected in these and other forward-looking statements are reasonable, we can give no assurance they will prove to have been correct. They can be affected by inaccurate assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties.
The SEC has generally permitted oil and natural gas companies, in filings made with the SEC, to disclose only proved reserves that a company has demonstrated by actual production or conclusive formation tests to be economically and legally producible under existing economic and operating conditions.  We use the term unproved to describe volumes of reserves potentially recoverable through additional drilling or recovery techniques that the SEC's guidelines may prohibit us from including in filings with the SEC.  These estimates are by their nature more speculative than estimates of proved reserves and accordingly are subject to substantially greater risk of actually being realized by the company. While we believe our calculations of unproved drillsites and estimation of unproved reserves have been appropriately risked and are reasonable, such calculations and estimates have not been reviewed by third party engineers or appraisers.
Chesapeake Energy Corporation is the largest independent and third-largest overall producer of natural gas in the U.S.  Headquartered in Oklahoma City, the company's operations are focused on exploratory and developmental drilling and corporate and property acquisitions in the Mid-Continent, Fort Worth Barnett Shale, Fayetteville Shale, Permian Basin, Delaware Basin, South Texas, Texas Gulf Coast, Ark-La-Tex and Appalachian Basin regions of the United States. The companys Internet address is .
www.chkenergy.com
 
15
 
16
 
17
 
18
 
 
19
20
*Operating cash flow represents net cash provided by operating activities before changes in assets and liabilities.  Operating cash flow is presented because management believes it is a useful adjunct to net cash provided by operating activities under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP).  Operating cash flow is widely accepted as a financial indicator of an oil and natural gas company's ability to generate cash which is used to internally fund exploration and development activities and to service debt.  This measure is widely used by investors and rating agencies in the valuation, comparison, rating and investment recommendations of companies within the oil and natural gas exploration and production industry.  Operating cash flow is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to cash flows from operating, investing, or financing activities as an indicator of cash flows, or as a measure of liquidity.
**Ebitda represents net income before income tax expense, interest expense, and depreciation, depletion and amortization expense.  Ebitda is presented as a supplemental financial measurement in the evaluation of our business.  We believe that it provides additional information regarding our ability to meet our future debt service, capital expenditures and working capital requirements.  This measure is widely used by investors and rating agencies in the valuation, comparison, rating and investment recommendations of companies.  Ebitda is also a financial measurement that, with certain negotiated adjustments, is reported to our lenders pursuant to our bank credit agreement and is used in the financial covenants in our bank credit agreement and our senior note indentures.  Ebitda is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP.  Accordingly, it should not be considered as a substitute for net income, income from operations, or cash flow provided by operating activities prepared in accordance with GAAP.  Ebitda is reconciled to cash provided by operating activities as follows:
 
21
*Operating cash flow represents net cash provided by operating activities before changes in assets and liabilities.  Operating cash flow is presented because management believes it is a useful adjunct to net cash provided by operating activities under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP).  Operating cash flow is widely accepted as a financial indicator of an oil and natural gas company's ability to generate cash which is used to internally fund exploration and development activities and to service debt.  This measure is widely used by investors and rating agencies in the valuation, comparison, rating and investment recommendations of companies within the oil and natural gas exploration and production industry.  Operating cash flow is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to cash flows from operating, investing, or financing activities as an indicator of cash flows, or as a measure of liquidity.
**Ebitda represents net income before income tax expense, interest expense, and depreciation, depletion and amortization expense.  Ebitda is presented as a supplemental financial measurement in the evaluation of our business.  We believe that it provides additional information regarding our ability to meet our future debt service, capital expenditures and working capital requirements.  This measure is widely used by investors and rating agencies in the valuation, comparison, rating and investment recommendations of companies.  Ebitda is also a financial measurement that, with certain negotiated adjustments, is reported to our lenders pursuant to our bank credit agreement and is used in the financial covenants in our bank credit agreement and our senior note indentures.  Ebitda is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP.  Accordingly, it should not be considered as a substitute for net income, income from operations, or cash flow provided by operating activities prepared in accordance with GAAP.  Ebitda is reconciled to cash provided by operating activities as follows:
 
22
*Adjusted net income available to common and adjusted earnings per share assuming dilution exclude certain items that management believes affect the comparability of operating results.  The company discloses these non-GAAP financial measures as a useful adjunct to GAAP earnings because:
**Weighted average fully diluted shares outstanding includes shares that were considered antidilutive for calculating earnings per share in accordance with GAAP.
*Adjusted ebitda excludes certain items that management believes affect the comparability of operating results.  The company discloses these non-GAAP financial measures as a useful adjunct to ebitda because:
23
*Adjusted net income available to common and adjusted earnings per share assuming dilution exclude certain items that management believes affect the comparability of operating results.  The company discloses these non-GAAP financial measures as a useful adjunct to GAAP earnings because:
**Weighted average fully diluted shares outstanding includes shares that were considered antidilutive for calculating earnings per share in accordance with GAAP.
*Adjusted ebitda excludes certain items that management believes affect the comparability of operating results.  The company discloses these non-GAAP financial measures as a useful adjunct to ebitda because:
24
Quarter Ending September 30, 2007; Year Ending December 31, 2007; and Year Ending December 31, 2008.
We have adopted a policy of periodically providing investors with guidance on certain factors that affect our future financial performance. As of August 2, 2007, we are using the following key assumptions in our projections for the third quarter of 2007, the full-year 2007 and the full-year 2008.
The primary changes from our May 3, 2007 Outlook are in italicized bold in the table and are explained as follows:
25
 
Commodity Hedging Activities
The company utilizes hedging strategies to hedge the price of a portion of its future oil and natural gas production. These strategies include:
Commodity markets are volatile, and as a result, Chesapeakes hedging activity is dynamic.  As market conditions warrant, the company may elect to settle a hedging transaction prior to its scheduled maturity date and lock in the gain or loss on the transaction.
Chesapeake enters into oil and natural gas derivative transactions in order to mitigate a portion of its exposure to adverse market changes in oil and natural gas prices.   Accordingly, associated gains or loses from the derivative transactions are reflected as adjustments to oil and natural gas sales.  All realized gains and losses from oil and natural gas derivatives are included in oil and natural gas sales in the month of related production.  Pursuant to SFAS 133, certain derivatives do not qualify for designation as cash flow hedges.  Changes in the fair value of these non-qualifying derivatives that occur prior to their maturity (i.e., because of temporary fluctuations in value) are reported currently in the consolidated statement of operations as unrealized gains (losses) within oil and natural gas sales.
Following provisions of SFAS 133, changes in the fair value of derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges, to the extent effective in offsetting cash flows attributable to hedged risk, are recorded in other comprehensive income until the hedged item is recognized in earnings.  Any change in fair value resulting from ineffectiveness is recognized currently in oil and natural gas sales.
 
26
Excluding the swaps assumed in connection with the acquisition of CNR which are described below, the company currently has the following open in place and also has the following gains from :
natural gas swaps
lifted natural gas swaps
 
 
The company currently has the following open in place:
natural gas collars
 
Note: Not shown above are written call options covering 51 bcf of production in Q3-Q4 2007 at a weighted average price of $9.45 for a weighted average premium of $0.55, 104 bcf of production in 2008 at a weighed average price of $10.39 for a weighted average premium of $0.68 and 72 bcf of production in 2009 at a weighed average price of $11.38 for a weighted average premium of $0.54.
 
The company has the following in place:
natural gas basis protection swaps
* weighted average
27
We assumed certain liabilities related to open derivative positions in connection with the CNR acquisition in November 2005.  In accordance with SFAS 141, these derivative positions were recorded at fair value in the purchase price allocation as a liability of $592 million ($255 million as of June 30, 2007).  The recognition of the derivative liability and other assumed liabilities resulted in an increase in the total purchase price which was allocated to the assets acquired.  Because of this accounting treatment, only cash settlements for changes in fair value subsequent to the acquisition date for the derivative positions assumed result in adjustments to our oil and natural gas revenues upon settlement.  For example, if the fair value of the derivative positions assumed does not change, then upon the sale of the underlying production and corresponding settlement of the derivative positions, cash would be paid to the counterparties and there would be no adjustment to oil and natural gas revenues related to the derivative positions.  If, however, the actual sales price is different from the price assumed in the original fair value calculation, the difference would be reflected as either a decrease or increase in oil and natural gas revenues, depending upon whether the sales price was higher or lower, respectively, than the prices assumed in the original fair value calculation.  For accounting purposes, the net effect of these acquired hedges is that we hedged the production volumes listed below at their fair values on the date of our acquisition of CNR.
Pursuant to SFAS 149 Amendment of SFAS 133 on Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, the assumed CNR derivative instruments are deemed to contain a significant financing element and all cash flows associated with these positions are reported as financing activity in the statement of cash flows.
The following details the :
CNR derivatives (natural gas swaps) we have assumed
Note:  Not shown above are collars covering 3.7 bcf of production in 2009 at an average floor and ceiling of $4.50 and $6.00.
The company also has the following in place:
crude oil swaps
Note: Not shown above are written call options covering 916 mbbls of production in 2008 at a weighted average price of $75.00 for a weighted average premium of $5.03 and 1,460 mbbls of production in 2009 at a weighed average price of $75.00 for a weighted average premium of $5.96.
28
Quarter Ending June 30, 2007; Year Ending December 31, 2007; and Year Ending December 31, 2008.
We have adopted a policy of periodically providing investors with guidance on certain factors that affect our future financial performance. As of May 3, 2007, we are using the following key assumptions in our projections for the second quarter of 2007, the full-year 2007 and the full-year 2008.
The primary changes from our February 22, 2007 Outlook are in italicized bold in the table and are explained as follows:
 
29
 
Commodity Hedging Activities
The company utilizes hedging strategies to hedge the price of a portion of its future oil and natural gas production. These strategies include:
Commodity markets are volatile, and as a result, Chesapeakes hedging activity is dynamic.  As market conditions warrant, the company may elect to settle a hedging transaction prior to its scheduled maturity date and lock in the gain or loss on the transaction.
Chesapeake enters into oil and natural gas derivative transactions in order to mitigate a portion of its exposure to adverse market changes in oil and natural gas prices.   Accordingly, associated gains or loses from the derivative transactions are reflected as adjustments to oil and natural gas sales.  All realized gains and losses from oil and natural gas derivatives are included in oil and natural gas sales in the month of related production.  Pursuant to SFAS 133, certain derivatives do not qualify for designation as cash flow hedges.  Changes in the fair value of these non-qualifying derivatives that occur prior to their maturity (i.e., because of temporary fluctuations in value) are reported currently in the consolidated statement of operations as unrealized gains (losses) within oil and natural gas sales.
Following provisions of SFAS 133, changes in the fair value of derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges, to the extent effective in offsetting cash flows attributable to hedged risk, are recorded in other comprehensive income until the hedged item is recognized in earnings.  Any change in fair value resulting from ineffectiveness is recognized currently in oil and natural gas sales.
 
30
Excluding the swaps assumed in connection with the acquisition of CNR which are described below, the company currently has the following open in place and also has the following gains from :
natural gas swaps
lifted natural gas swaps
 
 
The company currently has the following open in place
natural gas collars
 
Note: Not shown above are written call options covering 63.3 bcf of production in Q2-Q4 2007 at a weighted average price of $9.48 for a weighted average premium of $0.54, 104.0 bcf of production in 2008 at a weighed average price of $10.39 for a weighted average premium of $0.68 and 53.8 bcf of production in 2009 at a weighed average price of $11.51 for a weighted average premium of $0.50.
The company has the following in place:
natural gas basis protection swaps
* weighted average
 
31
We assumed certain liabilities related to open derivative positions in connection with the CNR acquisition in November 2005.  In accordance with SFAS 141, these derivative positions were recorded at fair value in the purchase price allocation as a liability of $592 million ($293 million as of March 31, 2007).  The recognition of the derivative liability and other assumed liabilities resulted in an increase in the total purchase price which was allocated to the assets acquired.  Because of this accounting treatment, only cash settlements for changes in fair value subsequent to the acquisition date for the derivative positions assumed result in adjustments to our oil and natural gas revenues upon settlement.  For example, if the fair value of the derivative positions assumed does not change, then upon the sale of the underlying production and corresponding settlement of the derivative positions, cash would be paid to the counterparties and there would be no adjustment to oil and natural gas revenues related to the derivative positions.  If, however, the actual sales price is different from the price assumed in the original fair value calculation, the difference would be reflected as either a decrease or increase in oil and natural gas revenues, depending upon whether the sales price was higher or lower, respectively, than the prices assumed in the original fair value calculation.  For accounting purposes, the net effect of these acquired hedges is that we hedged the production volumes listed below at their fair values on the date of our acquisition of CNR.
Pursuant to SFAS 149 Amendment of SFAS 133 on Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, the assumed CNR derivative instruments are deemed to contain a significant financing element and all cash flows associated with these positions are reported as financing activity in the statement of cash flows.
The following details the :
CNR derivatives (natural gas swaps) we have assumed
Note:  Not shown above are collars covering 3.7 bcf of production in 2009 at an average floor and ceiling of $4.50 and $6.00.
The company also has the following in place:
crude oil swaps
Note: Not shown above are written call options covering 732 mbbls of production in 2008 at a weighted average price of $75.00 for a weighted average premium of $4.90 and 730 mbbls of production in 2009 at a weighed average price of $75.00 for a weighted average premium of $5.90.
 


