FILE:CHK/CHK-8K-20071206121825.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
 
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d)
of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported)
December 6, 2007 (December 3, 2007)
CHESAPEAKE ENERGY CORPORATION
(Exact name of Registrant as specified in its Charter)
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
(17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
(17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Section 8  Other Events
 
Item 8.01 Other Events.
 
On December 3, 2007, Chesapeake Energy Corporation issued a press release announcing that it was named Hydrocarbon Producer of the Year at the 9 Annual Platts Global Energy Awards program. A copy of the press release is attached as exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report.
th
 
 
 
2
SIGNATURE
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
4
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
DECEMBER 3, 2007
 
CONTACTS:
 
CHESAPEAKE ENERGY NAMED HYDROCARBON PRODUCER OF THE YEAR
 
OKLAHOMA CITY, OKLAHOMA, DECEMBER 3, 2007  Chesapeake Energy Corporation (NYSE:CHK) was named Hydrocarbon Producer of the Year at the 9 Annual Platts Global Energy Awards program in New York last week. In addition, Chesapeake was ranked as the 14 fastest growing company in Platts' 2007 Top 250 Global Energy Companies list.
th
th
 
The Platts Global Energy Awards recognize excellence and innovation by companies and executives in more than a dozen sectors within the global energy industry. The Hydrocarbon Producer of the Year award recognizes excellence in the upstream energy industries. The award's criteria included:
 
 
The award judges commented that they were impressed with Chesapeake's committed strategy of identifying and developing non-traditional natural gas plays, its ability to successfully execute acquisitions, its strong financial management and performance track-record.
Aubrey K. McClendon, Chesapeake's Chief Executive Officer, commented: "We are honored to be selected as the Hydrocarbon Producer of the Year and are proud of our accomplishments in building the nation's largest independent natural gas producer and the nation's most active drilling program. We are pleased that the hard work and dedication of Chesapeake's 6,000 employees have been recognized on the world stage and we look forward to continuing to provide substantial new supplies of clean-burning American natural gas in an increasingly energy-short world."
 
Platts, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies (NYSE: MHP), is a leading global provider of energy and commodities information. With nearly a century of business experience, Platts serves customers across more than 150 countries. From 14 offices worldwide, Platts serves the oil, natural gas, electricity, nuclear power, coal, petrochemical, emissions, and metals markets. Platts' real time news, pricing, analytical services, and conferences help markets operate with transparency and efficiency. Traders, risk managers, analysts, and industry leaders depend upon Platts to help them make better trading and investment decisions. Additional information is available at
www.platts.com
.
 
Chesapeake Energy Corporation is the largest independent producer and third-largest overall producer of natural gas in the United States. Headquartered in Oklahoma City, the company's operations are focused on exploratory and developmental drilling and corporate and property acquisitions in the Mid-Continent, Fort Worth Barnett Shale, Fayetteville Shale, Permian Basin, Delaware Basin, South Texas, Texas Gulf Coast, Ark-La-Tex and Appalachian Basin regions of the United States. The company's Internet address is
www.chkenergy.com
.
 
 
2
 
 


