FILE:CHK/CHK-8K-20070503183602.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
Section 2 - Financial Information
Item 2.02 - Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
We issued a press release on May 3, 2007, which includes information regarding our consolidated results of operations and financial condition as of and for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2007. It also includes updated information on our 2007 and 2008 outlook. The text of that press release is attached to this Report as an exhibit and is incorporated by reference herein.
 
Section 9 - Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Item 9.01 Final Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date:
 
May 3, 2007
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
MAY 3, 2007
 
OKLAHOMA CITY, OKLAHOMA, MAY 3, 2007 - Chesapeake Energy Corporation (NYSE:CHK) today reported strong financial and operating results for the first quarter of 2007. For the quarter, Chesapeake generated net income available to common shareholders of $232 million ($0.50 per fully diluted common share), operating cash flow of $1.124 billion (defined as cash flow from operating activities before changes in assets and liabilities) and ebitda of $924 million (defined as net income before income taxes, interest expense, and depreciation, depletion and amortization expense) on revenue of $1.580 billion and production of 154 billion cubic feet of natural gas equivalent (bcfe).
The companys 2007 first quarter net income available to common shareholders and ebitda include an unrealized after-tax mark-to-market loss of $193 million resulting from the companys oil and natural gas and interest rate hedging programs. This type of item is typically not included in published estimates of the companys financial results by certain securities analysts.
 
Excluding this item, Chesapeake generated adjusted net income to common shareholders in the 2007 first quarter of $425 million ($0.87 per fully diluted common share) and adjusted ebitda of $1.234 billion. The excluded item does not affect the calculation of operating cash flow.
A reconciliation of operating cash flow, ebitda, adjusted ebitda and adjusted net income to comparable financial measures calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles is presented on pages 19 - 20 of this release.
The table below summarizes Chesapeakes key results during the 2007 first quarter and compares them to the 2006 fourth quarter and the 2006 first quarter.
 
 
2
 
Daily production for the 2007 first quarter averaged 1.707 bcfe, an increase of 188 million cubic feet of natural gas equivalent (mmcfe), or 12%, over the 1.519 bcfe of daily production in the 2006 first quarter and an increase of 54 mmcfe, or 3%, over the 1.653 bcfe produced per day in the 2006 fourth quarter.
Chesapeakes 2007 first quarter production of 153.7 bcfe was comprised of 140.8 billion cubic feet of natural gas (bcf) (92% on a natural gas equivalent basis) and 2.14 million barrels of oil and natural gas liquids (mmbbls) (8% on a natural gas equivalent basis). Chesapeakes average daily production for the quarter of 1.707 bcfe consisted of 1.564 bcf of natural gas and 23,811 barrels (bbls) of oil. The 2007 first quarter was Chesapeakes 23rd consecutive quarter of sequential U.S. production growth. Over these 23 quarters, Chesapeakes U.S. production has increased 326%, for an average compound quarterly growth rate of 6.5% and an average compound annual growth rate of 29%.
 
The companys rate of production has recently exceeded 1.8 bcfe per day and based on projected drilling levels and anticipated results, Chesapeake is affirming its previous forecasts for total production growth of 14-18% for 2007 and 10-14% for 2008.
Chesapeake began 2007 with estimated proved reserves of 8.956 trillion cubic feet of natural gas equivalent (tcfe) and ended the quarter with 9.431 tcfe, an increase of 475 bcfe, or 5.3%. During the quarter, Chesapeake replaced its 154 bcfe of production with an estimated 629 bcfe of new proved reserves for a reserve replacement rate of 410%. Reserve replacement through the drillbit was 535 bcfe, or 349% of production (including 205 bcfe of positive performance revisions and 135 bcfe of positive revisions resulting from oil and natural gas price increases between December 31, 2006 and March 31, 2007) and 85% of the total increase. Reserve replacement through the acquisition of proved reserves was 94 bcfe, or 61% of production and 15% of the total increase.
On a per thousand cubic feet of natural gas equivalent (mcfe) basis, the companys total drilling and acquisition costs were $2.58 per mcfe (excluding costs of $50 million for seismic, $405 million for unproved properties and leasehold acquired during the quarter and $12 million relating to tax basis step-up and asset retirement obligations, as well as positive revisions of proved reserves from higher oil and natural gas prices). Excluding these items described above, Chesapeakes exploration and development costs through the drillbit were $2.66 per mcfe during the 2007 first quarter while reserve replacement costs through acquisitions of proved reserves were $2.21 per mcfe. Total costs incurred in oil and natural gas acquisition, exploration and development during the quarter, including seismic, leasehold, unproved properties, capitalized internal costs, non-cash tax basis step-up from corporate acquisitions and asset retirement obligations, were $1.741 billion. A complete reconciliation of finding and acquisition costs and a roll-forward of proved reserves are presented on page 17 of this release.
3
 
During the 2007 first quarter, Chesapeake continued the industrys most active drilling program and drilled 476 gross (404 net) operated wells and participated in another 394 gross (57 net) wells operated by other companies. The companys drilling success rate was 99% for company-operated wells and 98% for non-operated wells. Also during the quarter, Chesapeake invested $906 million in operated wells (using an average of 129 operated rigs), $160 million in non-operated wells (using an average of 94 non-operated rigs), $148 million to acquire new leasehold (exclusive of $258 million in unproved leasehold obtained through corporate and asset acquisitions) and $50 million to acquire seismic data.
As of March 31, 2007, Chesapeakes estimated future net cash flows, discounted at an annual rate of 10% before income taxes (PV-10) were $20.2 billion using field differential adjusted prices of $60.75 per bbl (based on a NYMEX quarter-end price of $65.85 per bbl) and $7.01 per thousand cubic feet of natural gas (mcf) (based on a NYMEX quarter-end price of $7.34 per mcf).
By comparison, the December 31, 2006 PV-10 of the companys proved reserves was $13.6 billion using field differential adjusted prices of $56.25 per bbl (based on a NYMEX year-end price of $61.15 per bbl) and $5.41 per mcf (based on a NYMEX year-end price of $5.64 per mcf). Additionally, the March 31, 2006 PV-10 of the companys proved reserves was $17.6 billion using field differential adjusted prices of $62.06 per bbl (based on a NYMEX year-end price of $66.33 per bbl) and $6.69 per mcf (based on a NYMEX year-end price of $7.18 per mcf).
Chesapeakes current PV-10 changes by approximately $360 million for every $0.10 per mcf change in natural gas prices and approximately $50 million for every $1.00 per bbl change in oil prices. The company calculates the standardized measure of future net cash flows in accordance with SFAS 69 only at year-end because applicable income tax information on properties, including recently acquired oil and natural gas interests, is not readily available at other times during the year. As a result, the company is not able to reconcile the interim period-end values to the standardized measure at such dates. The only difference between the two measures is that PV-10 is calculated before considering the impact of future income tax expenses, while the standardized measure includes such effects.
In addition to the PV-10 value of its proved reserves, the net book value of the companys other assets (including drilling rigs, land and buildings, investments in companies, securities, long-term derivative instruments and other non-current assets) was $2.7 billion as of March 31, 2007, $2.8 billion as of December 31, 2006 and $1.6 billion as of March 31, 2006.
 
4
Average prices realized during the 2007 first quarter (including realized gains or losses from oil and natural gas derivatives, but excluding unrealized gains or losses on such derivatives) were $61.13 per bbl and $9.26 per mcf, for a realized natural gas equivalent price of $9.33 per mcfe. Chesapeakes average realized pricing differentials to NYMEX during the first quarter were a negative $5.36 per bbl and a negative $0.46 per mcf. Realized gains from oil and natural gas hedging activities during the quarter generated an $8.33 gain per bbl and a $2.95 gain per mcf, for a 2007 first quarter realized hedging gain of $433 million, or $2.82 per mcfe.
The following tables compare Chesapeakes open hedge position through swaps and collars as well as gains from lifted hedges as of May 3, 2007 to those previously announced as of February 22, 2007. Depending on changes in oil and natural gas futures markets and managements view of underlying oil and natural gas supply and demand trends, Chesapeake may either increase or decrease its hedging positions at any time in the future without notice.
 
 
5
 
Additionally, the company has lifted a portion of its oil hedges securing gains of $6.3 million and $4.8 million for the second through fourth quarters of 2007 and for the full year 2008, respectively.
 
6
 
Certain open natural gas swap positions include knockout provisions at prices ranging from $5.25 to $6.50 covering 152 bcf in 2007, $5.75 to $6.50 covering 189 bcf in 2008 and $5.90 to $6.25 covering 79 bcf in 2009, and certain open natural gas collar positions include knockout provisions at prices ranging from $5.00 to $6.00 covering 52 bcf in 2007, $5.00 to $6.00 covering 11 bcf in 2008 and $6.00 covering 18 bcf in 2009. Also, certain open oil swap positions include knockout provisions at prices ranging from $45.00 to $60.00 covering 2.2 mmbbls in 2007, 2.9 mmbbls in 2008 and 1.5 mmbbls in 2009.
 
The companys updated forecasts for 2007 and 2008 are attached to this release in an Outlook dated May 3, 2007 labeled as Schedule A, which begins on page 21. This Outlook has been changed from the Outlook dated February 22, 2007 (attached as Schedule B, which begins on page 25) to reflect various updated information.
 
Since 2000, Chesapeake has invested $7.1 billion in new leasehold and 3-D seismic acquisitions and now owns one of the largest inventories of onshore leasehold (11.2 million net acres) and 3-D seismic (16.7 million acres) in the U.S. On this leasehold, the company has
approximately
26,500 net drilling locations, representing an approximate 10-year inventory of drilling projects, on which it believes it can develop an estimated 3.5 tcfe of proved undeveloped reserves and approximately 18.3 tcfe of risked unproved reserves (73 tcfe of unrisked unproved reserves). Chesapeakes 9.4 tcfe of proved reserves and its 18.3 tcfe of risked unproved reserves total approximately 27.7 tcfe.
To aggressively develop these assets, Chesapeake has continued to significantly strengthen its technical capabilities by increasing its land, geoscience and engineering staff to nearly 1,100 employees. Today, the company has over 5,000 employees, of which approximately 60% work in the companys E&P operations and approximately 40% work in the companys oilfield service operations.
7
 
Chesapeake characterizes its drilling activity by one of four play types:
conventional gas resource, unconventional gas resource, emerging unconventional gas resource and Appalachian Basin gas resource
. In these plays, Chesapeake uses a probability-weighted statistical approach to estimate the potential number of drillsites and unproved reserves associated with such drillsites. The following summarizes Chesapeakes ownership and activity in each gas resource play type and highlights notable projects in each play.
Conventional Gas Resource Plays
- In its traditional conventional areas (i.e., portions of the Mid-Continent, Permian, Gulf Coast and South Texas regions), where exploration targets are typically deep and defined using 3-D seismic data, Chesapeake believes it has a meaningful competitive advantage due to its operating scale, deep drilling expertise and over 13.1 million acres of 3-D seismic data. In these plays, Chesapeake owns 3.4 million net acres on which it has an estimated 3.0 tcfe of proved developed reserves, 1.0 tcfe of proved undeveloped reserves and approximately 3.3 tcfe of risked unproved reserves and is currently using 28 operated drilling rigs to further develop its inventory of approximately 3,600 drillsites. Three of Chesapeakes most important conventional gas resource plays are described below:
 
8
 
Unconventional Gas Resource Plays
- In its unconventional gas resource areas, Chesapeake owns 2.7 million net acres on which it has an estimated 1.9 tcfe of proved developed reserves, 2.0 tcfe of proved undeveloped reserves and approximately 10.5 tcfe of risked unproved reserves and is currently using 83 operated drilling rigs to further develop its inventory of approximately 12,600 net drillsites. Six of Chesapeakes most important unconventional gas resource plays are described below:
 
9
 
 
10
 
Emerging Unconventional Gas Resource Plays
- In its emerging unconventional gas resource areas where commercial production has only recently been established but the future reserve potential could be substantial, Chesapeake owns 1.5 million net acres on which it has an estimated 20 bcfe of proved developed reserves, 20 bcfe of proved undeveloped reserves and approximately 2.0 tcfe of risked unproved reserves and is currently using eight operated drilling rigs to further develop its inventory of approximately 900 net drillsites. Three of Chesapeakes most important emerging unconventional gas resource plays are described below:
 
11
 
Appalachian Basin Gas Resource Plays
- Chesapeakes Appalachia play types include conventional, unconventional and emerging unconventional in the Devonian Shale and other formations. Chesapeake is the largest leasehold owner in the region with 3.6 million net acres and is producing approximately 133 mmcfe net per day. The company is currently using a range of 7-12 operated rigs to further develop its extensive leasehold position. In Appalachia, Chesapeake has an estimated 978 bcfe of proved developed reserves, an estimated 528 bcfe of proved undeveloped reserves and its risked unproved reserves are approximately 2.5 tcfe after applying a 35% risk factor and assuming an additional 9,300 net wells are drilled in the years ahead. The companys targeted results for vertical Devonian Shale wells are $0.5 million to develop 0.35 bcfe on approximately 160 acre spacing.
In addition, Chesapeake continues to actively generate new prospects and acquire additional leasehold throughout the companys areas of operation in various conventional, unconventional and emerging unconventional plays not described above.
 
12
 
Aubrey K. McClendon, Chesapeakes Chief Executive Officer, commented, We are pleased to report outstanding financial and operational results for the 2007 first quarter. The company delivered attractive production and reserve growth and generated impressive profit margins that were enhanced by the companys well-executed hedging strategy. Our focused business strategy, value-added growth, tremendous inventory of undrilled locations and valuable hedge positions clearly differentiate Chesapeake in the industry.
We are pleased to again be recognized by Fortune this year as one the fastest growing and most profitable companies among the countrys 500 largest corporations. In the magazines recent Fortune 500 survey, we were ranked #325 by revenues (up from #451 last year - the third largest ranking increase in the survey), #96 by net income, #25 by earnings per share growth over the last ten years and #14 by profits as a percentage of revenues. Additionally, Chesapeake was recognized in this years Forbes Global 2000 listing as one of the 500 largest companies in the world based on sales, profits, assets and market value.
We look forward to another successful year in 2007 as our shift in focus from resource inventory capture to resource inventory conversion continues to generate impressive results and create substantial shareholder value. Through the industrys most active drilling program, we plan to increase our average daily production rate by 14-18% in 2007 and we expect to exceed 10 tcfe of proved reserves by year-end 2007. The Fort Worth Barnett Shale play will be the largest contributor to the companys 2007 success and we are also pleased with our recent progress in the Fayetteville Shale and Deep Haley plays. Furthermore, the combination of attractive natural gas prices with decreasing oilfield service costs may well make 2007 a golden year of value creation for Chesapeake and the E&P industry.
 
Looking forward, we believe that Chesapeake is well positioned to prosper for years to come. As the debate in America intensifies about how to become more energy independent in an increasingly dangerous world and at the same time reduce greenhouse gas emissions in a growing economy, natural gas is emerging as the most practical solution to the challenge at hand. The vast majority of greenhouse gas emissions are caused by transportation vehicles burning gasoline and diesel and by power plants and factories burning coal. Today, we see policymakers promoting alternative fuels such as wind, solar, biofuels and nuclear. These are all legitimate alternatives (although some much less so than others), yet none can offer energy in great abundance at a reasonable price anytime soon. However, burning natural gas instead of gasoline, diesel or coal reduces greenhouse gas emissions by approximately 50%. We believe the evidence clearly demonstrates that natural gas is by far the most practical solution to the problem - it is abundant, affordable, reliable, clean burning and domestically produced.
13
 
For many years, natural gas has been valued at a BTU discount to oil. We believe the opportunity is now at hand for the climate change debate to lead to an increased appreciation of natural gas and a higher valuation for the superior fuel we produce. We
intend to do well for our shareholders by doing well for our country and our world.
 
 
 
A conference call to discuss this release has been scheduled for Friday morning, May 4, 2007 at 9:00 a.m. EDT. The telephone number to access the conference call is
913-981-4911
and the confirmation code is
9507142
. We encourage those who would like to participate in the call to dial the access number between 8:50 and 8:55 a.m. EDT. For those unable to participate in the conference call, a replay will be available for audio playback from noon EDT, May 4, 2007 through midnight EDT on May 18, 2007. The number to access the conference call replay is
719-457-0820
and the passcode for the replay is
9507142
. The conference call will also be webcast live on the Internet and can be accessed by going to Chesapeakes website
at
www.chkenergy.com
and selecting
the News & Events section. The webcast of the conference call will be available on our website for one year.
This press release and the accompanying Outlooks include forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements give our current expectations or forecasts of future events. They include estimates of oil and natural gas reserves, expected oil and natural gas production and future expenses, projections of future oil and natural gas prices, planned capital expenditures for drilling, leasehold acquisitions and seismic data, and statements concerning anticipated cash flow and liquidity, business strategy and other plans and objectives for future operations. Disclosures concerning the fair value of derivative contracts and their estimated contribution to our future results of operations are based upon market information as of a specific date. These market prices are subject to significant volatility. We caution you not to place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this press release, and we undertake no obligation to update this information.
Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from expected results are described under Risk Factors in Item 1A of our 2006 annual report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 1, 2007. They include the volatility of oil and natural gas prices; the limitations our level of indebtedness may have on our financial flexibility; our ability to compete effectively against strong independent oil and natural gas companies and majors; the availability of capital on an economic basis to fund reserve replacement costs; our ability to replace reserves and sustain production; uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of oil and natural gas reserves and projecting future rates of production and the timing of development expenditures; uncertainties in evaluating oil and natural gas reserves of acquired properties and associated potential liabilities; our ability to effectively consolidate and integrate acquired properties and operations; unsuccessful exploration and development drilling; declines in the values of our oil and natural gas properties resulting in ceiling test write-downs; lower prices realized on oil and natural gas sales and collateral required to secure hedging liabilities resulting from our commodity price risk management activities; the negative impact lower oil and natural gas prices could have on our ability to borrow; drilling and operating risks; and pending or future litigation.
Our production forecasts are dependent upon many assumptions, including estimates of production decline rates from existing wells and the outcome of future drilling activity. Although we believe the expectations and forecasts reflected in these and other forward-looking statements are reasonable, we can give no assurance they will prove to have been correct. They can be affected by inaccurate assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties.
The SEC has generally permitted oil and natural gas companies, in filings made with the SEC, to disclose only proved reserves that a company has demonstrated by actual production or conclusive formation tests to be economically and legally producible under existing economic and operating conditions. We use the term unproved to describe volumes of reserves potentially recoverable through additional drilling or recovery techniques that the SEC's guidelines may prohibit us from including in filings with the SEC. These estimates are by their nature more speculative than estimates of proved reserves and accordingly are subject to substantially greater risk of actually being realized by the company. While we believe our calculations of unproved drillsites and estimation of unproved reserves have been appropriately risked and are reasonable, such calculations and estimates have not been reviewed by third party engineers or appraisers.
 
Chesapeake Energy Corporation is the third largest independent
and sixth largest overall producer of natural gas in the U.S. Headquartered in Oklahoma City, the company's operations are focused on exploratory and developmental drilling and corporate and property acquisitions in the Mid-Continent, Fort Worth Barnett Shale, Fayetteville Shale, Permian Basin, Delaware Basin, South Texas, Texas Gulf Coast, Ark-La-Tex and Appalachian Basin regions of the United States. The companys Internet address is
www.chkenergy.com
.
 
14
15
 
16
 
 
17
 
 
18
 
*Operating cash flow represents net cash provided by operating activities before changes in assets and liabilities. Operating cash flow is presented because management believes it is a useful adjunct to net cash provided by operating activities under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP). Operating cash flow is widely accepted as a financial indicator of an oil and natural gas company's ability to generate cash which is used to internally fund exploration and development activities and to service debt. This measure is widely used by investors and rating agencies in the valuation, comparison, rating and investment recommendations of companies within the oil and natural gas exploration and production industry. Operating cash flow is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to cash flows from operating, investing, or financing activities as an indicator of cash flows, or as a measure of liquidity.
**Ebitda represents net income before income tax expense, interest expense, and depreciation, depletion and amortization expense. Ebitda is presented as a supplemental financial measurement in the evaluation of our business. We believe that it provides additional information regarding our ability to meet our future debt service, capital expenditures and working capital requirements. This measure is widely used by investors and rating agencies in the valuation, comparison, rating and investment recommendations of companies. Ebitda is also a financial measurement that, with certain negotiated adjustments, is reported to our lenders pursuant to our bank credit agreement and is used in the financial covenants in our bank credit agreement and our senior note indentures. Ebitda is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP. Accordingly, it should not be considered as a substitute for net income, income from operations, or cash flow provided by operating activities prepared in accordance with GAAP. Ebitda is reconciled to cash provided by operating activities as follows:
 
19
 
*Adjusted net income available to common and adjusted earnings per share assuming dilution exclude certain items that management believes affect the comparability of operating results. The company discloses these non-GAAP financial measures as a useful adjunct to GAAP earnings because:
**Weighted average fully diluted shares outstanding includes shares that were considered antidilutive for calculating earnings per share in accordance with GAAP.
 
*Adjusted
ebitda excludes certain items that management believes affect the comparability of operating results. The company discloses these non-GAAP financial measures as a useful adjunct to ebitda because:
20
Quarter Ending June 30, 2007; Year Ending December 31, 2007; and Year Ending December 31, 2008.
We have adopted a policy of periodically providing investors with guidance on certain factors that affect our future financial performance. As of May 3, 2007, we are using the following key assumptions in our projections for the second quarter of 2007, the full-year 2007 and the full-year 2008.
The primary changes from our February 22, 2007 Outlook are in italicized bold in the table and are explained as follows:
21
Commodity Hedging Activities
The company utilizes hedging strategies to hedge the price of a portion of its future oil and natural gas production. These strategies include:
 
Commodity markets are volatile, and as a result, Chesapeakes hedging activity is dynamic. As market conditions warrant, the company may elect to settle a hedging transaction prior to its scheduled maturity date and lock in the gain or loss on the transaction.
Chesapeake enters into oil and natural gas derivative transactions in order to mitigate a portion of its exposure to adverse market changes in oil and natural gas prices. Accordingly, associated gains or losses from the derivative transactions are reflected as adjustments to oil and natural gas sales. All realized gains and losses from oil and natural gas derivatives are included in oil and natural gas sales in the month of related production. Pursuant to SFAS 133, certain derivatives do not qualify for designation as cash flow hedges. Changes in the fair value of these non-qualifying derivatives that occur prior to their maturity (i.e., because of temporary fluctuations in value) are reported currently in the consolidated statement of operations as unrealized gains (losses) within oil and natural gas sales.
Following provisions of SFAS 133, changes in the fair value of derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges, to the extent effective in offsetting cash flows attributable to hedged risk, are recorded in other comprehensive income until the hedged item is recognized in earnings. Any change in fair value resulting from ineffectiveness is recognized currently in oil and natural gas sales.
22
 
Excluding the swaps assumed in connection with the acquisition of CNR which are described below, the company currently has the following open
natural gas swaps
in place and also has the following gains from
lifted natural gas swaps
:
 
 
The company currently has the following open
natural gas collars
in place:
 
 
Note: Not shown above are written call options covering 63.3 bcf of production in Q2-Q4 2007 at a weighted average price of $9.48 for a weighted average premium of $0.54, 104.0 bcf of production in 2008 at a weighed average price of $10.39 for a weighted average premium of $0.68 and 53.8 bcf of production in 2009 at a weighed average price of $11.51 for a weighted average premium of $0.50.
The company has the following
natural gas basis protection swaps
in place:
* weighted average
 
23
 
We assumed certain liabilities related to open derivative positions in connection with the CNR acquisition in November 2005. In accordance with SFAS 141, these derivative positions were recorded at fair value in the purchase price allocation as a liability of $592 million ($293 million as of March 31, 2007). The recognition of the derivative liability and other assumed liabilities resulted in an increase in the total purchase price which was allocated to the assets acquired. Because of this accounting treatment, only cash settlements for changes in fair value subsequent to the acquisition date for the derivative positions assumed result in adjustments to our oil and natural gas revenues upon settlement. For example, if the fair value of the derivative positions assumed does not change, then upon the sale of the underlying production and corresponding settlement of the derivative positions, cash would be paid to the counterparties and there would be no adjustment to oil and natural gas revenues related to the derivative positions. If, however, the actual sales price is different from the price assumed in the original fair value calculation, the difference would be reflected as either a decrease or increase in oil and natural gas revenues, depending upon whether the sales price was higher or lower, respectively, than the prices assumed in the original fair value calculation. For accounting purposes, the net effect of these acquired hedges is that we hedged the production volumes listed below at their fair values on the date of our acquisition of CNR.
Pursuant to SFAS 149 Amendment of SFAS 133 on Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, the assumed CNR derivative instruments are deemed to contain a significant financing element and all cash flows associated with these positions are reported as financing activity in the statement of cash flows.
The following details the
CNR derivatives (natural gas swaps) we have assumed
:
Note: Not shown above are collars covering 3.7 bcf of production in 2009 at an average floor and ceiling of $4.50 and $6.00.
The company also has the following
crude oil swaps
in place:
Note: Not shown above are written call options covering 732 mbbls of production in 2008 at a weighted average price of $75.00 for a weighted average premium of $4.90 and 730 mbbls of production in 2009 at a weighed average price of $75.00 for a weighted average premium of $5.90.
 
24
Quarter Ending March 31, 2007; Year Ending December 31, 2007; and Year Ending December 31, 2008.
We have adopted a policy of periodically providing investors with guidance on certain factors that affect our future financial performance. As of February 22, 2007, we are using the following key assumptions in our projections for the first quarter of 2007, the full-year 2007 and the full-year 2008.
The primary changes from our December 11, 2006 Outlook are in italicized bold in the table and are explained as follows:
25
 
Commodity Hedging Activities
The company utilizes hedging strategies to hedge the price of a portion of its future oil and natural gas production. These strategies include:
 
Commodity markets are volatile, and as a result, Chesapeakes hedging activity is dynamic. As market conditions warrant, the company may elect to settle a hedging transaction prior to its scheduled maturity date and lock in the gain or loss on the transaction.
Chesapeake enters into oil and natural gas derivative transactions in order to mitigate a portion of its exposure to adverse market changes in oil and natural gas prices. Accordingly, associated gains or losses from the derivative transactions are reflected as adjustments to oil and natural gas sales. All realized gains and losses from oil and natural gas derivatives are included in oil and natural gas sales in the month of related production. Pursuant to SFAS 133, certain derivatives do not qualify for designation as cash flow hedges. Changes in the fair value of these non-qualifying derivatives that occur prior to their maturity (i.e., because of temporary fluctuations in value) are reported currently in the consolidated statement of operations as unrealized gains (losses) within oil and natural gas sales.
Following provisions of SFAS 133, changes in the fair value of derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges, to the extent effective in offsetting cash flows attributable to hedged risk, are recorded in other comprehensive income until the hedged item is recognized in earnings. Any change in fair value resulting from ineffectiveness is recognized currently in oil and natural gas sales.
 
26
Excluding the swaps assumed in connection with the acquisition of CNR which are described below, the company currently has the following open
natural gas swaps
in place and also has the following gains from
lifted natural gas swaps
:
 
 
The company currently has the following open
natural gas collars
in place:
 
 
Note: Not shown above are written call options covering 64.4 bcf of production in 2007 at a weighted average price of $9.56 for a weighted average premium of $0.54, 93.0 bcf of production in 2008 at a weighed average price of $10.20 for a weighted average premium of $0.70 and 42.9 bcf of production in 2009 at a weighed average price of $11.41 for a weighted average premium of $0.50.
The company has the following
natural gas basis protection swaps
in place:
* weighted average
We assumed certain liabilities related to open derivative positions in connection with the CNR acquisition in November 2005. In accordance with SFAS 141, these derivative positions were recorded at fair value in the purchase price allocation as a liability of $592 million ($357 million as of December 31, 2006). The recognition of the derivative liability and other assumed liabilities resulted in an increase in the total purchase price which was allocated to the assets acquired. Because of this accounting treatment, only cash settlements for changes in fair value subsequent to the acquisition date for the derivative positions assumed result in adjustments to our oil and natural gas revenues upon settlement. For example, if the fair value of the derivative positions assumed does not change, then upon the sale of the underlying production and corresponding settlement of the derivative positions, cash would be paid to the counterparties and there would be no adjustment to oil and natural gas revenues related to the derivative positions. If, however, the actual sales price is different from the price assumed in the original fair value calculation, the difference would be reflected as either a decrease or increase in oil and natural gas revenues, depending upon whether the sales price was higher or lower, respectively, than the prices assumed in the original fair value calculation. For accounting purposes, the net effect of these acquired hedges is that we hedged the production volumes listed below at their fair values on the date of our acquisition of CNR.
27
 
Pursuant to SFAS 149 Amendment of SFAS 133 on Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, the assumed CNR derivative instruments are deemed to contain a significant financing element and all cash flows associated with these positions are reported as financing activity in the statement of cash flows.
The following details the
CNR derivatives (natural gas swaps) we have assumed
:
Note: Not shown above are collars covering 3.7 bcf of production in 2009 at an average floor and ceiling of $4.50 and $6.00.
The company also has the following
crude oil swaps
in place:
 


