FILE:CHK/CHK-8K-20080326161109.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
            Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
*
 
            Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
*
 
 
Section 8  Other Events
Item 8.01  Other Events.
We are filing the following in order to amend our Registration Statement on Form 8-B (No. 001-13726), filed on December 12, 1996, with respect to our common stock .  The Form 8-B was most recently amended by our Current Report on Form 8-K filed on August 13, 2001.  The following supersedes the descriptions contained in such prior filings.
Set forth below is a description of our capital stock.  However, this description is not complete and is qualified by reference to our certificate of incorporation (including our certificates of designation) and bylaws.  Copies of our certificate of incorporation (including our certificates of designation) and bylaws are available from us upon request.  These documents have also been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Authorized Capital Stock
Our authorized capital stock consists of 750,000,000 shares of common stock, par value $.01 per share, and 20,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $.01 per share.
Common Stock
Holders of our common stock are entitled to one vote for each share held of record on all matters submitted to a vote of shareholders.  Subject to preferences that may be applicable to any outstanding preferred stock, holders of our common stock are entitled to receive ratably such dividends as may be declared by the board of directors out of funds legally available for dividends. In the event of our liquidation or dissolution, holders of our common stock are entitled to share ratably in all assets remaining after payment of liabilities and the liquidation preference of any outstanding preferred stock.
Holders of our common stock have no preemptive rights and have no rights to convert their common stock into any other securities.
Preferred Stock
Our board of directors has the authority, without further shareholder approval, to issue shares of preferred stock from time to time in one or more series, with such voting powers or without voting powers, and with such designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights, and qualifications, limitations or restrictions, as shall be set forth in the resolutions providing therefor.  As of March 26, 2008, our authorized preferred stock consisted of shares that are
While providing desirable flexibility for possible acquisitions and other corporate purposes, and eliminating delays associated with a shareholder vote on specific issuances, the issuance of preferred stock could adversely affect the voting power of holders of common stock, as well as dividend and liquidation payments on both common and preferred stock. It also could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control.
Anti-Takeover Provisions
Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and the Oklahoma General Corporation Act include a number of provisions which may have the effect of encouraging persons considering unsolicited tender offers or other unilateral takeover proposals to negotiate with our board of directors rather than pursue non-negotiated takeover attempts.  These provisions include a classified board of directors, authorized blank check preferred stock, restrictions on business combinations and the availability of authorized but unissued common stock.
. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions for a staggered board of directors with only one-third of the board standing for election each year.  Directors can only be removed for cause. A staggered board makes it more difficult for shareholders to change the majority of the directors.
Classified Board of Directors
. Section 1090.3 of the Oklahoma General Corporation Act prevents an "interested shareholder" from engaging in a "business combination" with an Oklahoma corporation for three years following the date the person became an interested shareholder, unless:
Oklahoma Business Combination Statute
The statute defines a "business combination" to include:
For purposes of Section 1090.3, the term "corporation" also includes the corporation's majority-owned subsidiaries.
 
In addition, Section 1090.3 defines an "interested shareholder," generally, as any person that owns stock having 15% or more of all voting power of the corporation, any person that is an affiliate or associate of the corporation and owned stock having 15% or more of all voting power of the corporation at any time within the three-year period prior to the time of determination of interested shareholder status, and any affiliate or associate of such person.
. Our certificate of incorporation includes a provision which requires the affirmative vote of two-thirds of the votes cast by the holders, voting together as a single class, of all then outstanding shares of capital stock, excluding the votes by an interested shareholder, to approve the purchase of any of our capital stock from the interested shareholder at a price in excess of fair market value, unless the purchase is either (1) made on the same terms offered to all holders of the same securities or (2) made on the open market and not the result of a privately negotiated transaction.
Stock Purchase Provisions
Share Rights Plan
. On July 7, 1998, our board of directors declared a dividend distribution of one preferred stock purchase right for each outstanding share of common stock.  The distribution was paid on July 27, 1998 to the shareholders of record on that date.  Each right entitles the registered holder to purchase from us one one-thousandth of a share of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock (the "Series A Preferred Stock") at a price of $25.00, subject to adjustment.
The Rights
The following is a summary of these rights.  The full description and terms of the rights are set forth in a rights agreement with Computershare Trust Company, N.A., formerly UMB Bank, N.A., as rights agent.  Copies of the rights agreement and the certificate of designation for the Series A Preferred Stock are available free of charge.  This summary description of the rights and the Series A Preferred Stock does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to all the provisions of the rights agreement and the certificate of designation for the Series A Preferred Stock.
Initially, the rights attached to all certificates representing shares of our outstanding common stock, and no separate rights certificates were distributed.  The rights will separate from our common stock and the distribution date will occur upon the earlier of:
The earlier of these dates is called the distribution date.
The term "acquiring person" means any person who or which, together with all of its affiliates and associates, is the beneficial owner of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock, but does not include:
 
The rights agreement provides that, until the distribution date, the rights will be transferred with and only with the common stock.  Until the distribution date (or earlier redemption or expiration of the rights), new common stock certificates issued after July 27, 1998, upon transfer or new issuance of common stock, will contain a notation incorporating the rights agreement by reference. Until the distribution date or earlier redemption or expiration of the rights, the surrender for transfer of any certificate for common stock, outstanding as of July 27, 1998, even without a notation or a copy of a summary of the rights being attached, will also constitute the transfer of the rights associated with the common stock represented by the certificate. As soon as practicable following the distribution date, separate certificates evidencing the rights will be mailed to holders of record of the common stock as of the close of business on the distribution date and these separate rights certificates alone will evidence the rights.
The rights are not exercisable until the distribution date.  The rights will expire on July 27, 2008.
The purchase price payable, and the number of one one-thousandths of a share of Series A Preferred Stock or other securities or property issuable, upon exercise of the rights are subject to adjustment from time to time to prevent dilution:
The number of outstanding rights and the number of one one-thousandths of a share of Series A Preferred Stock issuable upon exercise of each right are also subject to adjustment in the event of a stock split of the common stock or a stock dividend on the common stock payable in the common stock or subdivisions, consolidations or combinations of the common stock occurring, in any such case, prior to the distribution date.
In the event that following the date of public announcement that a person has become an acquiring person, we are acquired in a merger or other business combination transaction or more than 50% of our consolidated assets or earning power is sold, proper provision will be made so that each holder of a right will thereafter have the right to receive, upon the exercise of the right at the then current exercise price of the right, that number of shares of common stock of the acquiring company which at the time of such transaction will have a market value of two times the exercise price of the right (the "flip-over right").
In the event that a person, other than an exempt person, becomes an acquiring person, proper provision will be made so that each holder of a right, other than the acquiring person and its affiliates and associates, will thereafter have the right to receive upon exercise that number of shares of common stock, or, if applicable, cash, other equity securities or property of us, having a market value equal to two times the purchase price of the rights (the "flip-in right").  Any rights that are or were at any time owned by an acquiring person will then become void.
With certain exceptions, no adjustment in the purchase price will be required until cumulative adjustments require an adjustment of at least 1% in the purchase price.  Upon exercise of the rights, no fractional shares of Series A Preferred Stock will be issued other than fractions which are integral multiples of one one-hundredth of a share of Series A Preferred Stock.  Cash will be paid in lieu of fractional shares of Series A Preferred Stock that are not integral multiples of one one-hundredth of a share of Series A Preferred Stock.
 
At any time prior to the earlier to occur of (1) 5:00 p.m., Oklahoma City, Oklahoma time on the tenth day after the stock acquisition date or (2) the expiration of the rights, we may redeem the rights in whole, but not in part, at a price of $0.01 per right; provided, that (a) if the board of directors authorizes redemption on or after the time a person becomes an acquiring person, then the authorization must be by board approval and (b) the period for redemption may, upon board approval, be extended by amending the rights agreement.  Board approval means the approval of a majority of our directors. Immediately upon any redemption of the rights described in this paragraph, the right to exercise the rights will terminate and the only right of the holders of rights will be to receive the redemption price.
Our board of directors may amend the terms of the rights without the consent of the holders of the rights at any time and from time to time provided that any amendment does not adversely affect the interests of the holders of the rights. In addition, during any time that the rights are subject to redemption, the terms of the rights may be amended by the approval of a majority of the directors, including an amendment that adversely affects the interests of the holders of the rights, without the consent of the holders of rights.
Until a right is exercised, a holder will have no rights as a shareholder, including, without limitation, the right to vote or to receive dividends.  While the distribution of the rights will not be taxable to us or our shareholders, shareholders may, depending upon the circumstances, recognize taxable income in the event that the rights become exercisable for Series A Preferred Stock, or other consideration.
. Each one-thousandth of a share of the Series A Preferred Stock (a "preferred share fraction") that may be acquired upon exercise of the rights will be nonredeemable and junior to any other shares of preferred stock that we may issue.
The Series A Preferred Stock
Each preferred share fraction will have a minimum preferential quarterly dividend rate of $0.01 per preferred share fraction but will, in any event, be entitled to a dividend equal to the per share dividend declared on the common stock.
In the event of liquidation, the holder of a preferred share fraction will receive a preferred liquidation payment equal to the greater of $0.01 per preferred share fraction or the per share amount paid in respect of a share of common stock.
Each preferred share fraction will have one vote, voting together with the common stock. The holders of preferred share fractions, voting as a separate class, will be entitled to elect two directors if dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock are in arrears for six fiscal quarters.
In the event of any merger, consolidation or other transaction in which shares of common stock are exchanged, each preferred share fraction will be entitled to receive the per share amount paid in respect of each share of common stock.
The rights of holders of the Series A Preferred Stock to dividends, liquidation and voting, and in the event of mergers and consolidations, are protected by customary anti-dilution provisions.
Because of the nature of the Series A Preferred Stock's dividend, liquidation and voting rights, the economic value of one preferred share fraction that may be acquired upon the exercise of each right should approximate the economic value of one share of our common stock.
Shareholder Action
Except as otherwise provided by law or in our certificate of incorporation or bylaws, the approval by holders of a majority of the shares of common stock present in person or represented by proxy at a meeting and entitled to vote is sufficient to authorize, affirm, ratify or consent to a matter voted on by shareholders.  Our bylaws provide that all questions submitted to shareholders will be decided by a plurality of the votes cast, unless otherwise required by law, our certificate of incorporation, stock exchange requirements or any certificate of designation.  The Oklahoma General Corporation Act requires the approval of the holders of a majority of the outstanding stock entitled to vote for certain extraordinary corporate transactions, such as a merger, sale of substantially all assets, dissolution or amendment of the certificate of incorporation.  Our certificate of incorporation provides for a vote of the holders of two-thirds of the issued and outstanding stock having voting power, voting as a single class, to amend, repeal or adopt any provision inconsistent with the provisions of the certificate of incorporation limiting director liability and stock purchases by us, and providing for staggered terms of directors and indemnity for directors.  The same vote is also required for shareholders to amend, repeal or adopt any provision of our bylaws.
Under Oklahoma law, shareholders may take actions without the holding of a meeting by written consent or consents signed by the holders of a sufficient number of shares to approve the transaction had all of the outstanding shares of our capital stock entitled to vote thereon been present at a meeting.  If shareholder action is taken by written consent, the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission require us to send each shareholder entitled to vote on the matter, but whose consent was not solicited, an information statement containing information substantially similar to that which would have been contained in a proxy statement.
Transfer Agent and Registrar
Computershare Trust Company, N.A. is the transfer agent and registrar for our common stock and preferred stock.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date:                       March 26, 2008


