FILE:CHK/CHK-8K-20080904113418.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
*
  
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
*
  
 
*
  
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
*
  
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 7  Regulation FD
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
On September 2, 2008,
Chesapeake Energy Corporation and BP America announced the execution of a Letter of Intent for a joint venture whereby BP will acquire a 25% interest in Chesapeakes Fayetteville Shale assets in Arkansas for $1.9 billion.  A copy of this press release is attached as exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report.
 
On September 4, 2008, Douglas J. Jacobson, Executive Vice President  Acquisitions and Divestitures of Chesapeake Energy Corporation entered into a sales trading plan pursuant to Rule 10b5-1 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934.  The plan expires on August 31, 2009 and has been approved by Chesapeake in accordance with its Insider Trading Policy.  The plan is part of the executives long-term strategy to diversify assets.  Other Chesapeake executives may enter into Rule 10b5-1 trading plans in the future, from time to time.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date:                      September 4, 2008
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
OKLAHOMA CITY, OK AND HOUSTON, TX, SEPTEMBER 2, 2008  Chesapeake Energy Corporation (NYSE:CHK) and BP America (NYSE:BP) today announced the execution of a Letter of Intent for a joint venture whereby BP will acquire a 25% interest in Chesapeakes Fayetteville Shale assets in Arkansas for $1.9 billion.  The assets have current daily net production of approximately 180 million cubic feet of natural gas equivalent and include approximately 540,000 net acres of leasehold which the companies believe could support the drilling of up to 6,700 future horizontal wells.  As a result of the transaction, BP will own approximately 135,000 net acres of this leasehold and Chesapeake will own approximately 405,000 net acres.
BP will pay $1.1 billion in cash at closing and will pay a further $800 million during the remainder of 2008 and in 2009 by funding 100% of Chesapeakes 75% share of drilling and completion expenditures until the $800 million obligation has been funded.  Chesapeake plans to continue acquiring leasehold in the Fayetteville Shale play and BP will have the right to a 25% participation in any such additional leasehold. The transaction is subject to the execution of mutually acceptable definitive documentation that the companies anticipate executing within the next week and closing is anticipated to occur later this month.
Aubrey K. McClendon, Chesapeakes Chief Executive Officer, commented: We are honored to broaden our business relationship with BP and are excited about the mutually beneficial nature of our transactions with them.  Just a month after closing the sale of all our Arkoma Basin Woodford Shale assets in Oklahoma to BP for $1.7 billion, we are pleased to now announce a second major transaction with BP for a 25% interest in our Fayetteville Shale assets in Arkansas for $1.9 billion.  We believe this transaction creates substantial value for both companies, highlights the attractiveness and significant value of Chesapeakes assets and confirms the structural appeal of our innovative joint venture structures.
The PXP Haynesville Shale joint venture and the BP Fayetteville Shale joint venture together will pay for approximately $2.5 billion of Chesapeakes drilling and completion expenditures currently planned for the second half of 2008 through 2010.  As previously announced, we are also pursuing a similar transaction involving our Marcellus Shale assets with others in the industry that we hope to complete by year-end 2008.
 
BP Chief Executive of Exploration and Production Andy Inglis stated: This transaction, when combined with our recent Woodford acquisition, establishes a material position in the two attractive shale plays in the Arkoma Basin.  Together with our substantial position in the emerging Haynesville Shale play in East Texas, BP has made a strategic entry into three top tier shale plays in North America and established potential shale resources of 1 billion barrels oil equivalent net to BP.  Development of these resources, along with our leading position in Coal Bed Methane production, and our extensive tight gas plays throughout North America, will enhance BP's position as a leader in unconventional gas technology and enable growth of our North American onshore natural gas production from todays level of 470 thousand barrels per day oil equivalent.  We look forward to working closely with Chesapeake as they develop the significant Fayetteville play.
 
Chesapeake Energy Corporation is the largest producer of natural gas in the U.S.  Headquartered in Oklahoma City, the company's operations are focused on exploratory and developmental drilling and corporate and property acquisitions in the Fort Worth Barnett Shale, Fayetteville Shale, Haynesville Shale, Mid-Continent, Appalachian Basin, Permian Basin, Delaware Basin, South Texas, Texas Gulf Coast and Ark-La-Tex regions of the United States. Further information is available at .
www.chk.com
BP is one of the world's largest oil and gas companies with operations in more than 100 countries across six continents. The company's main businesses are exploration and production of oil and gas; refining, manufacturing and marketing of oil products and petrochemicals; transportation and marketing of natural gas.  Further information is available at .
www.bp.com
This news release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.  The companies believe that their expectations to conclude the documentation and closing of the Fayetteville Shale joint venture as described are based on reasonable assumptions.  No assurance, however, can be given that such expectations will prove to have been correct.  Chesapeake cautions that the Marcellus Shale joint venture it is pursuing may not result in a transaction or could occur later than anticipated.  See Risk Factors in the respective  companies 2007 Annual Reports on Form 10-K and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) for a discussion of risk factors that affect their businesses and could affect the referenced joint ventures,  The companies undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.


