FILE:CHK/CHK-8K-20081020170514.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
           Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
*
 
           Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
*
 
           
*
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
           
*
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 7  Regulation FD
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
On October 16, 2008, Chesapeake Energy Corporation issued a press release announcing that it has closed a new secured revolving bank credit facility for an affiliate of its unrestricted subsidiary, Chesapeake Midstream Partners, L.P. (CMP).  A copy of this press release is attached as exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report.
 
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date:                      October 17, 2008
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
OCTOBER 16, 2008
OKLAHOMA CITY, OKLAHOMA, OCTOBER 16, 2008  Chesapeake Energy Corporation (NYSE:CHK) today announced that it has closed a new secured revolving bank credit facility for an affiliate of its unrestricted subsidiary, Chesapeake Midstream Partners, L.P. (CMP).  The facility, which matures in October 2013, has initial availability of $460 million and may be expanded up to $750 million at CMPs option, subject to additional bank participation.  CMP plans to utilize the facility to partially fund capital expenditures associated with building additional natural gas gathering and other systems associated with Chesapeakes active drilling program in various plays, including the Barnett, Haynesville, Fayetteville and Marcellus Shales.
Twelve financial institutions participated in the facility that was jointly led by Wells Fargo Bank, National Association and RBS Securities Corporation d/b/a RBS Greenwich Capital.  Additionally, Wells Fargo Bank, National Association acted as sole Administrative Agent, The Royal Bank of Scotland plc as sole Syndication Agent and Bank of Montreal as Documentation Agent.  CMPs affiliate, Chesapeake Midstream Operating, L.L.C., is the borrower under the revolving bank credit facility.
Aubrey K. McClendon, Chesapeakes Chief Executive Officer, commented We are pleased to close our new bank facility for CMP, despite the turbulent financial market conditions.  This new facility clearly demonstrates that lenders continue to support companies with strong credit profiles and profitable businesses.  We look forward to growing the operations of CMP in the years ahead.
Chesapeake Energy Corporation is the largest producer of natural gas in the U.S.  Headquartered in Oklahoma City, the company's operations are focused on exploratory and developmental drilling and corporate and property acquisitions in the Fort Worth Barnett Shale, Haynesville Shale, Fayetteville Shale, Anadarko Basin, Arkoma Basin, Appalachian Basin, Permian Basin, Delaware Basin, South Texas, Texas Gulf Coast and Ark-La-Tex regions of the United States.  Further information is available at www.chk.com.
www.chk.com


