FILE:CHK/CHK-8K-20080331085108.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
[_]            Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
[_]            Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
 
Section 7  Regulation FD
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
We have updated our Outlook as of March 31, 2008 to reflect an increase in our production guidance, projected effect of changes in our hedging positions, updated budgeted capital expenditures and updated  share assumptions reflecting our recent offering of 20 million shares of common stock.  In conjunction with the filing of this Current Report on Form 8-K, we have also updated the Outlook on our website at www.chk.com.
 
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date:                       March 31, 2008
 
EXHIBIT INDEX

 
Exhibit 99.1
Quarter Ending March 31, 2008 and Years Ending December 31, 2008 and 2009.
We have adopted a policy of periodically providing guidance on certain factors that affect our future financial performance.  As of March 31, 2008, we are using the following key assumptions in our projections for the first quarter of 2008 and the full-years 2008 and 2009.
The primary changes from our February 21, 2008 Outlook are in and are explained as follows:
italicized bold
Commodity Hedging Activities
The company utilizes hedging strategies to hedge the price of a portion of its future oil and natural gas production. These strategies include:
Commodity markets are volatile, and as a result, Chesapeakes hedging activity is dynamic.  As market conditions warrant, the company may elect to settle a hedging transaction prior to its scheduled maturity date and lock in the gain or loss on the transaction.
Chesapeake enters into oil and natural gas derivative transactions in order to mitigate a portion of its exposure to adverse market changes in oil and natural gas prices.  Accordingly, associated gains or losses from the derivative transactions are reflected as adjustments to oil and natural gas sales.  All realized gains and losses from oil and natural gas derivatives are included in oil and natural gas sales in the month of related production.  Pursuant to SFAS 133, certain derivatives do not qualify for designation as cash flow hedges.  Changes in the fair value of these nonqualifying derivatives that occur prior to their maturity (i.e., because of temporary fluctuations in value) are reported currently in the consolidated statement of operations as unrealized gains (losses) within oil and natural gas sales.
Following provisions of SFAS 133, changes in the fair value of derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges, to the extent effective in offsetting cash flows attributable to hedged risk, are recorded in other comprehensive income until the hedged item is recognized in earnings.  Any change in fair value resulting from ineffectiveness is recognized currently in oil and natural gas sales.
Excluding the swaps assumed in connection with the acquisition of CNR which are described below, the company currently has the following open natural gas swaps in place and also has the following gains from lifted natural gas swaps:
 
 
The company currently has the following open natural gas collars in place:
 
 
Note: Not shown above are written call options covering 111 bcf of production in 2008 at a weighed average price of $10.26 for a weighted average premium of $0.66 and 191 bcf of production in 2009 at a weighed average price of $11.24 for a weighted average premium of $0.52.
The company has the following natural gas basis protection swaps in place:
 
* weighted average
We assumed certain liabilities related to open derivative positions in connection with the CNR acquisition in November 2005.  In accordance with SFAS 141, these derivative positions were recorded at fair value in the purchase price allocation as a liability of $592 million ($173 million as of December 31, 2007).  The recognition of the derivative liability and other assumed liabilities resulted in an increase in the total purchase price which was allocated to the assets acquired.  Because of this accounting treatment, only cash settlements for changes in fair value subsequent to the acquisition date for the derivative positions assumed result in adjustments to our oil and natural gas revenues upon settlement.  For example, if the fair value of the derivative positions assumed does not change, then upon the sale of the underlying production and corresponding settlement of the derivative positions, cash would be paid to the counterparties and there would be no adjustment to oil and natural gas revenues related to the derivative positions.  If, however, the actual sales price is different from the price assumed in the original fair value calculation, the difference would be reflected as either a decrease or increase in oil and natural gas revenues, depending upon whether the sales price was higher or lower, respectively, than the prices assumed in the original fair value calculation.  For accounting purposes, the net effect of these acquired hedges is that we hedged the production volumes listed below at their fair values on the date of our acquisition of CNR.
Pursuant to SFAS 149 Amendment of SFAS 133 on Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, the assumed CNR derivative instruments are deemed to contain a significant financing element and all cash flows associated with these positions are reported as financing activity in the statement of cash flows.
The following details the CNR derivatives (natural gas swaps) we have assumed:
Note:  Not shown above are collars covering 3.7 bcf of production in 2009 at an average floor and ceiling of $4.50 and $6.00.
The company also has the following crude oil swaps in place:
Note: Not shown above are written call options covering 2,564 mbbls of production in 2008 at a weighted average price of $82.50 for a weighted average premium of $3.17 and 2,555 mbbls of production in 2009 at a weighed average price of $82.14 for a weighted average premium of $4.98.
Quarter Ending March 31, 2008 and Years Ending December 31, 2008 and 2009.
We have adopted a policy of periodically providing guidance on certain factors that affect our future financial performance.  As of February 21, 2008, we are using the following key assumptions in our projections for the first quarter of 2008 and the full years 2008 and 2009.
The primary changes from our November 6, 2007 Outlook are in and are explained as follows:
italicized bold
Commodity Hedging Activities
The company utilizes hedging strategies to hedge the price of a portion of its future oil and natural gas production. These strategies include:
Commodity markets are volatile, and as a result, Chesapeakes hedging activity is dynamic.  As market conditions warrant, the company may elect to settle a hedging transaction prior to its scheduled maturity date and lock in the gain or loss on the transaction.
Chesapeake enters into oil and natural gas derivative transactions in order to mitigate a portion of its exposure to adverse market changes in oil and natural gas prices.  Accordingly, associated gains or losses from the derivative transactions are reflected as adjustments to oil and natural gas sales.  All realized gains and losses from oil and natural gas derivatives are included in oil and natural gas sales in the month of related production.  Pursuant to SFAS 133, certain derivatives do not qualify for designation as cash flow hedges.  Changes in the fair value of these nonqualifying derivatives that occur prior to their maturity (i.e., because of temporary fluctuations in value) are reported currently in the consolidated statement of operations as unrealized gains (losses) within oil and natural gas sales.
Following provisions of SFAS 133, changes in the fair value of derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges, to the extent effective in offsetting cash flows attributable to hedged risk, are recorded in other comprehensive income until the hedged item is recognized in earnings.  Any change in fair value resulting from ineffectiveness is recognized currently in oil and natural gas sales.
Excluding the swaps assumed in connection with the acquisition of CNR which are described below, the company currently has the following open in place and also has the following gains from :
natural gas swaps
lifted natural gas swaps
 
 
 
The company currently has the following open in place:
natural gas collars
 
 
Note: Not shown above are written call options covering 110 bcf of production in 2008 at a weighed average price of $10.26 for a weighted average premium of $0.66 and 142 bcf of production in 2009 at a weighed average price of $11.18 for a weighted average premium of $0.48.
The company has the following in place:
natural gas basis protection swaps
* weighted average
 
We assumed certain liabilities related to open derivative positions in connection with the CNR acquisition in November 2005.  In accordance with SFAS 141, these derivative positions were recorded at fair value in the purchase price allocation as a liability of $592 million ($173 million as of December 31, 2007).  The recognition of the derivative liability and other assumed liabilities resulted in an increase in the total purchase price which was allocated to the assets acquired.  Because of this accounting treatment, only cash settlements for changes in fair value subsequent to the acquisition date for the derivative positions assumed result in adjustments to our oil and natural gas revenues upon settlement.  For example, if the fair value of the derivative positions assumed does not change, then upon the sale of the underlying production and corresponding settlement of the derivative positions, cash would be paid to the counterparties and there would be no adjustment to oil and natural gas revenues related to the derivative positions.  If, however, the actual sales price is different from the price assumed in the original fair value calculation, the difference would be reflected as either a decrease or increase in oil and natural gas revenues, depending upon whether the sales price was higher or lower, respectively, than the prices assumed in the original fair value calculation.  For accounting purposes, the net effect of these acquired hedges is that we hedged the production volumes listed below at their fair values on the date of our acquisition of CNR.
Pursuant to SFAS 149 Amendment of SFAS 133 on Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, the assumed CNR derivative instruments are deemed to contain a significant financing element and all cash flows associated with these positions are reported as financing activity in the statement of cash flows.
The following details the :
CNR derivatives (natural gas swaps) we have assumed
Note:  Not shown above are collars covering 3.7 bcf of production in 2009 at an average floor and ceiling of $4.50 and $6.00.
The company also has the following in place:
crude oil swaps
Note: Not shown above are written call options covering 2,564 mbbls of production in 2008 at a weighted average price of $82.50 for a weighted average premium of $3.17 and 2,555 mbbls of production in 2009 at a weighed average price of $82.14 for a weighted average premium of $4.98.


