FILE:CHK/CHK-8K-20080616160208.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 7  Regulation FD
Item 7.01  Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
On June 12, 2008, Chesapeake Energy Corporation (the Company) issued a press release announcing that it has received a petition filed in Texas State District Court in Dallas County brought by ICC Energy Corp. alleging that the Company breached an agreement regarding the marketing of natural gas from the Barnett Shale underlying the Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport (DFW).  The press release also expresses the Companys view that the petition is without merit and that its allegations are inaccurate and misleading.  A copy of the press release is attached as exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report.
 
 
On June 16, 2008, the Company issued a joint press release with Goodrich Petroleum Corporation announcing that the two companies have entered into a joint venture to develop Goodrichs Haynesville Shale acreage in the Bethany-Longstreet and Longwood fields of Caddo and DeSoto Parishes, Louisiana.  A copy of the press release is attached as exhibit 99.2 to this Current Report.
 
 
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
JUNE 12, 2008
 
 
OKLAHOMA CITY, OKLAHOMA, JUNE 12, 2008  Chesapeake Energy Corporation (NYSE:CHK) today announced that it has received a petition filed in Texas State District Court in Dallas County brought by ICC Energy Corp. alleging that Chesapeake breached an agreement regarding the marketing of natural gas from the Barnett Shale underlying the Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport (DFW).  The company is surprised by the allegations and that ICC has chosen to file suit over the parties disagreement surrounding ICCs involvement as a Minority and Women Business Enterprise (M/WBE) subcontractor on the DFW lease project.  Chesapeake believes ICCs petition is completely without merit and its allegations are inaccurate and misleading.
 
 
 
 
Henry J. Hood, Chesapeakes Senior Vice President  Land and Legal and General Counsel, stated Chesapeake has had excellent relations with all minority and women owned subcontractors who have provided services on the DFW lease project and has met or exceeded its M/WBE commitments to DFW every month since the start of the project.  To date, Chesapeake has paid over $100 million to M/WBE subcontractors.
 
 
From the inception of this project, Chesapeake has been ready, willing and able to enter into a contract with ICC to provide the services set forth in ICCs bid documents, but ICC has refused to present a formal proposal with necessary contract terms consistent with its bid.  The only proposal that Chesapeake has received was provided just a few days ago and it materially differed from what was represented in ICCs bid.  ICC claims it is the largest minority-owned marketer of natural gas in the U.S., but it has refused to provide any references or any evidence of its competency and ability to perform.  Absent an agreement on essential terms and adequate demonstration of ICCs ability to perform the services required, the parties will not be able to move forward.  Chesapeake regrets this impasse, particularly since ICC is also a 1% M/WBE participant in the DFW lease project, and the parties relationship in that transaction has been very favorable to date.   
 
This press release includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements give our current expectations or forecasts of future events. They include projections of future natural gas and oil prices, planned capital expenditures for drilling, leasehold acquisitions, as well as statements concerning business strategy and other plans and objectives for future operations. We caution you not to place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this press release, and we undertake no obligation to update this information.
Chesapeake Energy Corporation is the third-largest producer of natural gas in the U.S.  Headquartered in Oklahoma City, the company's operations are focused on exploratory and developmental drilling and corporate and property acquisitions in the Fort Worth Barnett Shale, Fayetteville Shale, Haynesville Shale, Mid-Continent, Appalachian Basin, Permian Basin, Delaware Basin, South Texas, Texas Gulf Coast and Ark-La-Tex regions of the United States. Chesapeakes Internet address is .
www.chk.com

 
Exhibit 99.2
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
JUNE 16, 2008
Houston, Texas/Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, June 16, 2008  Goodrich Petroleum Corporation (NYSE:GDP) and Chesapeake Energy Corporation (NYSE:CHK) today announced they have entered into a joint venture to develop Goodrichs Haynesville Shale acreage in the Bethany-Longstreet and Longwood fields of Caddo and DeSoto Parishes, Louisiana.
Subject to customary due diligence, Chesapeake has agreed to pay Goodrich approximately $178 million for the deep rights to approximately 10,250 net acres of oil and natural gas leasehold comprised of a 20% working interest in approximately 25,000 net acres in the Bethany-Longstreet field and a 50% working interest in approximately 10,500 net acres in the Longwood field.  Chesapeake has also agreed to purchase 7,500 net acres of deep rights in the Bethany-Longstreet field from a third party, bringing the ownership interest in the deep rights in both fields after closing to 50% each for Goodrich and Chesapeake.  Chesapeake will be the operator of the joint venture for the Haynesville Shale development and closing is expected to occur on or before July 15, 2008.  Goodrich is retaining the shallow rights (through the base of the Cotton Valley sand) and the existing production and reserves with respect to its 70% interest in the Bethany-Longstreet field and its 100% interest in the Longwood field and is retaining its interest in both the shallow and Haynesville Shale rights on all of its East Texas assets.
Horizontal development of the Haynesville Shale for the joint venture is expected to commence in the 2008 third quarter with one rig dedicated to the play and a second rig to be added during the 2008 fourth quarter.
Gil Goodrich, Goodrichs Vice Chairman and Chief Executive Officer commented, This is a tremendous transaction for Goodrich Petroleum Corporation and its shareholders.  We are delighted to become a partner with Chesapeake, the premier operator in the Haynesville Shale play.  The proceeds we will receive upon closing will greatly strengthen our balance sheet, provide capital to begin aggressive development of the Haynesville Shale and allow us to maintain an active development program across our entire Cotton Valley trend acreage.
Aubrey K. McClendon, Chesapeakes Chief Executive Officer stated, Chesapeake is very pleased to announce this joint venture with Goodrich.  The acreage we are acquiring is well located in the heart of the Haynesville Shale play and we believe that it will be highly productive.  We currently anticipate drilling up to 440 horizontal Haynesville Shale wells on this acreage with Chesapeake and Goodrich each owning 50% of the wells.  We are aware that many other companies competed with us for this opportunity and we appreciate that Goodrich elected to partner with Chesapeake.  We believe this will be a very successful venture for both companies and we are eager for drilling to commence in the next few months.
Certain statements in this news release regarding future expectations and plans for future activities may be regarded as forward looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. They are subject to various risks, such as financial market conditions, operating hazards, drilling risks, and the inherent uncertainties in interpreting engineering data relating to underground accumulations of oil and gas, as well as other risks discussed in detail in the Annual Reports on Form 10-K and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission made by Goodrich and Chesapeake. Although the companies believe that the expectations reflected in such forward looking statements are reasonable, they can give no assurance that such expectations will prove to be correct.
Goodrich Petroleum Corporation is an independent exploration and production company listed on the New York Stock Exchange. The majority of its oil and gas properties are in Louisiana and Texas.
Chesapeake Energy Corporation is the third-largest producer of natural gas in the U.S.  Headquartered in Oklahoma City, the company's operations are focused on exploratory and developmental drilling and corporate and property acquisitions in the Fort Worth Barnett Shale, Fayetteville Shale, Haynesville Shale, Mid-Continent, Appalachian Basin, Permian Basin, Delaware Basin, South Texas, Texas Gulf Coast and Ark-La-Tex regions of the United States. Chesapeakes Internet address is .
www.chk.com


