FILE:CHK/CHK-8K-20080523165819.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
            Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
*
 
            Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
*
 
 
Section 8  Other Events
Item 8.01 Other Events.
On May 19, 2008, Chesapeake Energy Corporation (the "Company")  issued a press release announcing an offering of $800 million of senior notes due 2018 and also issued a press release announcing an offering of $500 million of contingent convertible notes due 2038.   Copies of these press releases are attached hereto as exhibits 99.1 and 99.2.
On May 20, 2008, the Comapny issued a press release announcing the pricing of the previously announced offering of senior notes due 2018 and also issued a press release announcing the pricing of the previously announced offering of contingent convertible notes due 2038.  Copies of these press releases are attached hereto as exhibits 99.3 and 99.4.
 
 
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Item 9.01  Final Statements and Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
OKLAHOMA CITY, OKLAHOMA, MAY 19, 2008  Chesapeake Energy Corporation (NYSE:CHK) today announced that it is commencing a public offering of $800 million of senior notes due 2018.  Chesapeake intends to use the net proceeds from the offering, together with proceeds from the concurrent public offering of contingent convertible senior notes, to fund the redemption of its 7.75% Senior Notes due 2015, to repay outstanding indebtedness under its revolving credit facility and for general corporate purposes.
 
The senior notes are being offered pursuant to a registration statement filed today with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Chesapeake intends to list the notes on the New York Stock Exchange after issuance.
 
Credit Suisse, Banc of America Securities, Lehman Brothers, Deutsche Bank Securities and RBS Greenwich Capital will act as joint book-running managers for the senior notes offering. Copies of the preliminary prospectus supplement relating to the offering may be obtained from the offices of Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC, Prospectus Department, One Madison Avenue, New York, NY 10010, 1-800-221-1037.  An electronic copy of the preliminary prospectus supplement will be available on the website of the Securities and Exchange Commission at www.sec.gov.
This press release shall not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy nor shall there be any sale of these securities in any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of such jurisdiction.
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, including the expected consummation of the offering described and the use of proceeds. Forward-looking statements include estimates and give our current expectations or forecasts of future events. Although we believe our forward-looking statements are reasonable, they can be affected by inaccurate assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties, and actual results may differ from the expectations expressed.
Chesapeake Energy Corporation is the third-largest producer of natural gas in the U.S.  Headquartered in Oklahoma City, the company's operations are focused on exploratory and developmental drilling and corporate and property acquisitions in the Fort Worth Barnett Shale, Fayetteville Shale, Haynesville Shale, Mid-Continent, Appalachian Basin, Permian Basin, Delaware Basin, South Texas, Texas Gulf Coast and Ark-La-Tex regions of the United States.

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
OKLAHOMA CITY, OKLAHOMA, MAY 19, 2008  Chesapeake Energy Corporation (NYSE:CHK) today announced that it is commencing a public offering of $500 million of contingent convertible senior notes due 2038.  The notes will be convertible, under certain circumstances, using a net share settlement process, into a combination of cash and Chesapeake common stock.  In general, upon conversion of a note, the holder of such note will receive cash equal to the principal amount of the note and common stock for the notes conversion value in excess of the principal amount of the note.  Chesapeake intends to use the net proceeds from the offering, together with proceeds from the concurrent public offering of senior notes, to fund the redemption of its 7.75% Senior Notes due 2015, to repay outstanding indebtedness under its revolving credit facility and for general corporate purposes.  The company intends to grant the underwriters of the proposed offering an option to purchase up to an additional $75 million aggregate principal amount of notes to cover over-allotments.
 
The contingent convertible senior notes are being offered pursuant to a registration statement filed today with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Chesapeake intends to list the notes on the New York Stock Exchange after issuance.
 
Banc of America Securities, Barclays Capital, Credit Suisse, Goldman, Sachs & Co., and UBS Investment Bank will act as joint book-running managers for the Senior Notes offering. Copies of the preliminary prospectus supplement relating to the offering may be obtained from Banc of America Securities LLC, Capital Markets (Prospectus Fulfillment) by email at or by mail at Banc of America Securities LLC, Capital Markets Operations, 100 West 33rd Street, 3rd Floor, New York, New York 10001.  An electronic copy of the preliminary prospectus supplement will be available on the website of the Securities and Exchange Commission at www.sec.gov.
dg.prospectus_distribution@bofasecurities.com
This press release shall not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy nor shall there be any sale of these securities in any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of such jurisdiction.
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, including the expected consummation of the offering described and the use of proceeds. Forward-looking statements include estimates and give our current expectations or forecasts of future events. Although we believe our forward-looking statements are reasonable, they can be affected by inaccurate assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties, and actual results may differ from the expectations expressed.
Chesapeake Energy Corporation is the third-largest producer of natural gas in the U.S.  Headquartered in Oklahoma City, the company's operations are focused on exploratory and developmental drilling and corporate and property acquisitions in the Fort Worth Barnett Shale, Fayetteville Shale, Haynesville Shale, Mid-Continent, Appalachian Basin, Permian Basin, Delaware Basin, South Texas, Texas Gulf Coast and Ark-La-Tex regions of the United States.

 
Exhibit 99.3
OKLAHOMA CITY, OKLAHOMA, MAY 20, 2008  Chesapeake Energy Corporation (NYSE:CHK) today announced that it has priced its previously announced public offering of $800 million aggregate principal amount of senior notes due 2018, which will carry an interest rate of 7.25% per annum.  The senior notes were priced at 100% of par.  Chesapeake expects the issuance and delivery of the senior notes to occur on May 27, 2008, subject to customary closing conditions.
 
Chesapeake intends to use the net proceeds from the offering, together with proceeds from the concurrent public offering of contingent convertible senior notes, to fund the redemption of its 7.75% Senior Notes due 2015, to repay outstanding indebtedness under its revolving credit facility and for general corporate purposes.
 
The senior notes were offered pursuant to a registration statement filed on May 19, 2008 with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Chesapeake intends to list the notes on the New York Stock Exchange after issuance.
Credit Suisse, Banc of America Securities LLC, Deutsche Bank Securities, Lehman Brothers and RBS Greenwich Capital acted as joint book-running managers for the senior notes offering. Copies of the prospectus supplement relating to the offering may be obtained from the offices of Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC, Prospectus Department, One Madison Avenue, New York, NY 10010, 1-800-221-1037.  An electronic copy of the prospectus supplement is available on the website of the Securities and Exchange Commission at www.sec.gov.
This press release shall not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy nor shall there be any sale of these securities in any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of such jurisdiction.
Chesapeake Energy Corporation is the third-largest producer of natural gas in the U.S.  Headquartered in Oklahoma City, the company's operations are focused on exploratory and developmental drilling and corporate and property acquisitions in the Fort Worth Barnett Shale, Fayetteville Shale, Haynesville Shale, Mid-Continent, Appalachian Basin, Permian Basin, Delaware Basin, South Texas, Texas Gulf Coast and Ark-La-Tex regions of the United States.

 
Exhibit 99.4
 
OKLAHOMA CITY, OKLAHOMA, MAY 20, 2008  Chesapeake Energy Corporation (NYSE:CHK) today announced that it has priced an offering of $1.2 billion of contingent convertible senior notes due 2038.  The offering was increased from a previously announced offering size of $500 million.  The notes will be convertible, under certain circumstances, using a net share settlement process, into a combination of cash and Chesapeake common stock at an initial conversion price of $85.89 (subject to adjustment in certain circumstances), which is equivalent to an initial conversion rate of approximately 11.6428 common shares per $1,000 principal amount of convertible notes.  In general, upon conversion of a note, the holder of such note will receive cash equal to the principal amount of the note and Chesapeake common stock for the notes conversion value in excess of such principal amount.  The company has granted the underwriters of the offering an option to purchase up to an additional $180 million aggregate principal amount of notes to cover over-allotments.
The convertible notes will bear interest at a rate of 2.25% per annum.  The convertible notes will also bear contingent interest in certain circumstances for semi-annual interest periods beginning December 15, 2018.  The convertible notes will mature on December 15, 2038 and may not be redeemed by Chesapeake prior to December 15, 2018.  Holders of the convertible notes may require Chesapeake to repurchase some or all of the convertible notes on December
 
15
, 2018, 2023, 2028 and 2033
, or in the event of certain change of control transactions,
at 100% of the principal amount of the notes
.
The contingent convertible senior notes were offered pursuant to a registration statement filed on May 19, 2008 with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Chesapeake intends to list the notes on the New York Stock Exchange after issuance.
Chesapeake expects the issuance and delivery of the convertible notes to occur on May 27, 2008, subject to customary closing conditions.  Chesapeake intends to use the net proceeds from the offering, together with proceeds from the concurrent public offering of senior notes, to fund the redemption of its 7.75% Senior Notes due 2015, to repay outstanding indebtedness under its revolving credit facility and for general corporate purposes.
 
Banc of America Securities LLC, Barclays Capital, Credit Suisse, Goldman, Sachs & Co., and UBS Investment Bank are acting as joint book-running managers for the convertible notes offering.  Copies of the prospectus supplement relating to the offering may be obtained from Banc of America Securities LLC, Capital Markets (Prospectus Fulfillment) by email at or by mail at Banc of America Securities LLC, Capital Markets Operations, 100 West 33rd Street, 3rd Floor, New York, New York 10001.  An electronic copy of the prospectus supplement is available on the website of the Securities and Exchange Commission at www.sec.gov.
dg.prospectus_distribution@bofasecurities.com
This press release shall not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy nor shall there be any sale of these securities in any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any jurisdiction.
Chesapeake Energy Corporation is the third-largest producer of natural gas in the U.S.  Headquartered in Oklahoma City, the company's operations are focused on exploratory and developmental drilling and corporate and property acquisitions in the Fort Worth Barnett Shale, Fayetteville Shale, Haynesville Shale, Mid-Continent, Appalachian Basin, Permian Basin, Delaware Basin, South Texas, Texas Gulf Coast and Ark-La-Tex regions of the United States.


