FILE:CHK/CHK-8K-20090107160122.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
           Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
*
 
           Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
*
 
           
*
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
           
*
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Section 5  Corporate Governance and Management
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
On December 31, 2008, Chesapeake Energy Corporation (the "Company") entered into a newfive-year employment agreement with Aubrey K. McClendon, the Companys Chief Executive Officer, in recognition of Mr. McClendons leadership role in completing a series of transactions in 2008 that were valuable to the Company and its shareholders. The new employment agreement is evidenced by the Second Amended and Restated Employment Agreement (the "Amended McClendon Agreement") which is attached as Exhibit 10.2.1 to this filing.  The material changes to Mr. McClendons prior employment agreement made by the Amended McClendon Agreement are described below and are qualified in their entirety by reference to the Exhibit.  The rationale for the changes to Mr. McClendons employment agreement is also set forth below.
 
Material Amendments
The Amended McClendon Agreement contains the following provisions which materially differ from Mr. McClendon's prior employment agreement:
The Company made the incentive award to Mr. McClendon effective December 31, 2008.  The total cost to the Company of the award is approximately $75 million plus the employment taxes imposed on the Company by law in the amount of $1.1 million.  However, under GAAP accounting, the Company is required to recognize the incentive award as general and administrative expense over the five-year vesting period for the clawback described below, resulting in an expense of approximately $15 million per year to the Company beginning in 2009.  In addition to state and federal income tax withholding, similar employment taxes were imposed on Mr. McClendon and withheld from the award.  After deduction of the required federal and state tax withholdings, the net incentive award was approximately $43.5 million.
Well Cost Incentive Award.
The net incentive award can only be utilized by Mr. McClendon or his family-owned affiliates for application against costs (the FWPP Credit) attributable to interests in the Company's wells, acquired by Mr. McClendon or Mr. McClendons affiliates under the Founder Well Participation Program (the "FWPP").  The FWPP was approved by the Company's shareholders in June 2005.  Under the FWPP, Mr. McClendon has the right to elect to participate with up to a 2.5% working interest in all of the Company's wells drilled during a calendar year (except for individual wells where the election would reduce the Companys working interest to below 12.5%) and is required to pay the drilling, completing, operating and leasehold costs attributable to his working interest in each well ("Well Costs") on the same pro rata basis as the Company or other third parties that own an interest in such well.  Based on the Company's current development plans and Mr. McClendons election under the FWPP to participate with a 2.5% working interest during  2009, the Well Costs under the FWPP are expected to exceed the amount of the entire FWPP Credit during 2009.  After December 31, 2014, Mr. McClendon may request payment in cash of the portion of the FWPP Credit that has not been subject to the clawback or utilized to pay Well Costs.
The incentive award, consisting of the FWPP Credit and Mr. McClendons associated tax withholdings, is subject to a clawback if, during the initial five-year term of the Amended McClendon Agreement, Mr. McClendon resigns from the Company or is terminated for cause by the Company.  The amount of the incentive award not subject to the clawback (the "Vested Amount") increases on a pro rata basis each calendar month that a triggering resignation or termination for cause does not occur.  Thus, the amount of the clawback reduces by $1.25 million per month over the initial five-year term of the Amended McClendon Agreement.  In the event that Mr. McClendon resigns or is terminated for cause during this period, the unused portion of the FWPP Credit is immediately forfeited for no consideration to Mr. McClendon.  In addition, Mr. McClendon is obligated to repay to the Company within 180 days the amount by which the sum of the associated tax withholdings from the incentive award plus the amount of the FWPP Credit applied against Well Costs exceeds the Vested Amount. The clawback provision does not apply if Mr. McClendon's employment is terminated (i) by the Company without cause, (ii) by Mr. McClendon if the Company defaults under a material provision of the Amended McClendon Agreement, (iii) as a result of Mr. McClendons death or disability, or (iv) after a change of control of the Company in certain circumstances.
Mr. McClendon agreed that, absent a material breach by the Company of the Amended McClendon Agreement, he would not resign from his position for the initial five-year term of the Amended McClendon Agreement.  Mr. McClendon also agreed that for the five years ending December 31, 2013, his annual salary would not exceed its 2008 level of $975,000 and his annual cash bonuses would not exceed the amount awarded to him during 2008 of $1.95 million.
Five-Year Employment Commitment and Cap on Future Cash Compensation.
Mr. McClendon agreed that any compensation due as a result of a termination by the Company without cause would be paid out over the then remaining term of the Amended McClendon Agreement.  The effect of such provision is to extend the covenant not to compete applicable against Mr. McClendon through the term of such payment, plus six months.
No Lump Sum Payment upon Termination without Cause; Extension of Non-Competition Period.
  Mr. McClendon's prior employment agreement required Mr. McClendon to hold shares of the Company's common stock with an investment value (as defined in the prior employment agreement) equal to 500% of Mr. McClendon's annual salary and annual cash bonuses. As a result of the forced liquidation of a substantial portion of Mr. McClendon's stock holdings in the Company during October 2008, Mr. McClendons stock ownership fell below the required amount. The Amended McClendon Agreement reduces the required percentage to 200% for 2009 in order to provide Mr. McClendon time to acquire additional shares of the Company's common stock.  The required percentage reverts to 500% beginning in 2010.  Part of the consideration for the foregoing reduction was the fact that the short swing profit rules under Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, may effectively preclude Mr. McClendons purchases of the Company's common stock through April 2009.
Stock Holding Requirement.
Rationale for Incentive Award and Structure
The Compensation Committee considered a number of factors in determining the amount and the form of the incentive award to Mr. McClendon and the amendments to Mr. McClendons prior employment agreement.  The Compensation Committee determined that the restrictions agreed to by Mr. McClendon, the requirement that Mr. McClendon use the FWPP Credit to invest on an at-risk basis in the Company's wells and the imposition of the clawback would align Mr. McClendons economic interests with the Company's long-term business plan and the shareholders interests while rewarding him for the leadership role he played in negotiating the 2008 transactions described below:
The Compensation Committee considered the substantial value the 2008 transactions created for the Company and its shareholders.  The initial cash payment under the 2008 transactions permitted the Company to recoup the cost basis of the assets sold in the 2008 transactions (book basis of approximately $1.7 billion) as well as all or virtually all of the cost basis of the interests in the Haynesville, Fayetteville and Marcellus plays retained by the Company.  In addition, the $4.6 billion drilling credit provides a tax efficient funding source for the development of the Company's retained acreage position, and the participation of the joint venturers in future leasing will provide material subsidies for the Company's ongoing leasing efforts in each of the co-development areas.  In total, the Company received consideration in the amount of $10.3 billion, generated a (non-GAAP) profit of $8.6 billion through the four transactions and retained majority ownership positions in the co-development areas valued at $25.9 billion on a pro-rata basis. The Company believes these transactions should result in peer-group leading finding and development costs and superior financial performance by the Company over the next several years, although many factors such as the risks related to the Company's business described under "Risk Factors" in the prospectus filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission on December 15, 2008 could cause actual results to differ materially from anticipated results.  
 
In addition to the success of the 2008 transactions and Mr. McClendons leadership role in those transactions, the Compensation Committee also considered a number of other factors in modifying his prior employment agreement. One such factor was Mr. McClendons voluntary decision not to participate in the special restricted stock grant in 2006 to the Companys other employees and the supplemental restricted stock grant in 2008 to the Companys other employees.  Mr. McClendons decision not to participate in such equity grants resulted in significant benefits to the Company and its shareholders while representing substantial forgone value to Mr. McClendon.
The Compensation Committee further determined that an award to Mr. McClendon in the form of a drilling credit not only rewarded him for his role in the Company's successful 2008 transactions, but also served to align his economic interests with those of the Company.  Under the terms of the Amended McClendon Agreement, Mr. McClendon and his affiliates are required to use the FWPP Credit to invest in the Companys drilling program in accordance with the FWPP, thereby exposing him to the same risks and benefits that accrue to the Company from its drilling program.  Mr. McClendons use of the FWPP Credit is also anticipated to match the form and deferred timing of a significant portion of the drilling credits received by the Company as part of the joint venture transactions.  In addition, by making the FWPP Credit award to Mr. McClendon subject to a clawback, the Compensation Committee provided a simple and direct incentive to Mr. McClendon to remain with the Company for at least the next five years, which corresponds to the development of the properties covered by the various joint venture transactions.  Because of other entrepreneurial opportunities that exist in the industry and Mr. McClendon's reduced Company stock holdings, the Compensation Committee focused on providing a retention incentive to Mr. McClendon that the Compensation Committee believed would be effective for multiple years without issuing substantial equity awards at current stock prices, which the Compensation Committee views as depressed.
Section 7  Regulation FD
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure
On January 5, 2009, the Company issued a press release announcing that it has sold certain Chesapeake-operated long-lived producing assets in the Anadarko and Arkoma Basins in its fourth volumetric production payment transaction (VPP).  A copy of this press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report.
On January 5, 2009, Jennifer M. Grigsby, Senior Vice President, Treasurer and Corporate Secretary of the Company, entered into a sales trading plan pursuant to Rule 10b5-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.  The plan expires on January 5, 2010 and has been approved by the Company in accordance with its Insider Trading Policy.  The plan is part of the executives long-term strategy to diversify assets and provides for the sale of shares of Chesapeakes common stock in connection with vested employee stock options.  Other executives of the Company may enter into Rule 10b5-1 trading plans in the future, from time to time.
 
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date:                      January 7, 2009
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
JANUARY 5, 2009
 
 
OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, JANUARY 5, 2009  Chesapeake Energy Corporation (NYSE:CHK) today announced it has sold certain Chesapeake-operated long-lived producing assets in the Anadarko and Arkoma Basins in its fourth volumetric production payment transaction (VPP).  Through the VPP, Chesapeake conveyed a royalty interest to investors associated with Argonaut Private Equity.  The purchase was financed by GS Loan Partners, an affiliate of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. (NYSE:GS).  The assets include proved reserves of approximately 98 bcfe and current net production of approximately 60 mmcfe per day for proceeds of $412 million, or $4.20 per mcfe.  Chesapeake retained drilling rights on the properties below currently producing intervals.  The company previously announced its intention to complete a VPP by year-end 2008 as part of its plan to build larger cash reserves over the next two years.  The transaction, which closed on December 31, 2008, will be treated as a sale for accounting purposes and the companys proved reserves will be reduced accordingly.  Chesapeake was advised on the transaction by Jefferies Randall & Dewey of Houston, Texas.
 
Chesapeake Energy Corporation is the largest producer of natural gas in the U.S.  Headquartered in Oklahoma City, the company's operations are focused on exploratory and developmental drilling and corporate and property acquisitions in the Barnett Shale, Haynesville Shale, Fayetteville Shale, Marcellus Shale, Anadarko Basin, Arkoma Basin, Appalachian Basin, Permian Basin, Delaware Basin, South Texas, Texas Gulf Coast and East Texas regions of the United States. Further information is available at .
www.chk.com
Argonaut Private Equity is a diversified global private equity fund with more than $3.5 billion under management. Argonaut exercises wide discretion on investment size, stage, sector and geography. Its equity investments span such diverse markets as alternative energy, technology, financial services, media, telecommunications, medical devices, aviation, retail and healthcare. Argonaut's portfolio includes investments in the United States, India, China, Israel, Japan, Eastern Europe, the Netherlands and Australia.
The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. is a bank holding company and a leading global investment banking, securities and investment management firm.  Established in 1986, the firms Principal Investment Area is part of the Merchant Banking Division and includes the GS Capital Partners, GS Loan Partners and GS Mezzanine Partners funds.  GS Loan Partners I, with $10.5 billion in equity and leverage commitments, is Goldman Sachs first fund dedicated to providing senior secured loans and investing in senior debt and is one of the largest funds dedicated to the senior secured loan asset class across North America and Europe.  For more information, please visit .
www.gs.com/pia

Exhibit 10.2.1
SECOND AMENDED AND RESTATED
EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT
 THIS AGREEMENT is made effective December 31, 2008, between CHESAPEAKE ENERGY CORPORATION, an Oklahoma corporation (the "Company"), and AUBREY K. McCLENDON, an individual (the "Executive").
   
W I T N E S S E T H:
 WHEREAS, the Company and the Executive entered into that certain Amended and Restated Employment Agreement dated effective January 1, 2008 (the Prior Agreement).
   
 WHEREAS, the Board of Directors has determined that it is in the best interests of the Company to modify the Executives employment arrangement in order to: (a) maximize the Executives incentive to remain an employee and officer of the Company; and (b) temporarily reduce the Executives minimum stock ownership threshold in order to permit the Executive sufficient time to increase his holdings of the Companys stock given the forced liquidation of a majority of the Executives stock holdings in October 2008.
   
 WHEREAS, as a result of the Executives extraordinary contribution to the joint venture transactions that were consummated by the Company during 2008 and increased the Companys intrinsic value by at least $10 billion, the Board of Directors has also determined that it is in the best interests of the Company to grant to the Executive an incentive award in the form of a credit against the joint interest billings issued in connection with the FWP Program (as hereafter defined) with a proportionate clawback provision in the event the Executive resigns or is terminated for Cause during the next five (5) years.
   
 WHEREAS, the Executive and the Board of Directors have agreed that the foregoing incentive award should be conditioned on the following for the initial five year term of this Agreement: (a) an agreement by the Executive not to resign or commit an act which would give rise to a termination for Cause by the Company; and (b) that the Executives salary and semi-annual bonuses will be frozen at current levels and not exceed the amounts for calendar year 2008.
   
 WHEREAS, the Company and the Executive desire to amend and restate the Prior Agreement in its entirety to incorporate the foregoing and other changes to the employment arrangement between the Company and the Executive.
   
 NOW THERFORE, in consideration of the mutual promises herein contained, the Company and the Executive agree as follows:
   
1.           .  The Company hereby employs the Executive and the Executive hereby accepts such employment subject to the terms and conditions contained in this Agreement.  The Executive is engaged as an employee of the Company and the Executive and the Company do not intend to create a joint venture, partnership or other relationship that might impose similar such fiduciary obligations on the Executive or the Company in the performance of this Agreement.
Employment
2.           .  The Executive is employed on a full-time basis.  Throughout  the term of this Agreement, the Executive will use the Executive's best efforts and due diligence to assist the Company in the objective of achieving the most profitable operation of the Company and the Company's affiliated entities consistent with developing and maintaining a quality business operation.
Executive's Duties
3.           .  Except for the activities (the Permitted Activities) permitted under this paragraph or approved by the Board of Directors, the Executive will not: (a) engage in activities which require such substantial services on the part of the Executive that the Executive is unable to perform the duties assigned to the Executive in accordance with this Agreement; (b) serve as an officer or director of any publicly held entity; or (c) directly or indirectly invest in, participate in or acquire an interest in any oil and gas business, including, without limitation, (i) producing oil and gas,  (ii) drilling, owning or operating oil and gas leases or wells, (iii) providing services or materials to the oil and gas industry, (iv) marketing or refining oil or gas, or (v) owning any interest in any corporation, partnership, company or entity which conducts any of the foregoing activities.  The Executive is not restricted from maintaining or making investments, or engaging in other businesses, enterprises or civic, charitable or public service functions if such activities, investments, businesses or enterprises do not result in a violation of clauses (a) through (c) of this paragraph 3.Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Executive will be permitted to participate in the following activities and such activities will be deemed to be approved by the Company, if such activities are undertaken in strict compliance with this Agreement.
Other Activities
 
4.           .  The Company agrees to compensate the Executive as follows:
Executive's Compensation
5.           .  In the absence of termination as set forth in paragraph 6 below, this Agreement will extend for a term commencing on the effective date of this Agreement and ending on December 31, 2013, as extended from time to time (the "Expiration Date"). Unless the Company provides at least thirty (30) days prior written notice of non-extension to the Executive, on each December 31 during the term of this Agreement, the term and the Expiration Date will be automatically extended for one (1) additional year so that the remaining term on this Agreement will be not less than four (4) and not more than five (5) years.
Term
6.           .  This Agreement will continue in effect until the expiration of the term set forth in paragraph 5 of this Agreement unless earlier terminated pursuant to this paragraph 6.
Termination
 
7.           .  The Executive recognizes that the nature of the Executives services are such that the Executive will have access to information which constitutes trade secrets, is of a confidential nature, is of great value to the Company or is the foundation on which the business of the Company is predicated.  The Executive agrees not to disclose to any person other than the Company's employees or the Company's legal counsel nor use for any purpose, other than the performance of this Agreement, any confidential information (Confidential Information).  Confidential Information includes data or material (regardless of form) which is:  (a) a trade secret; (b) provided, disclosed or delivered to Executive by the Company, any officer, director, employee, agent, attorney, accountant, consultant, or other person or entity employed by the Company in any capacity, any customer, borrower or business associate of the Company or any public authority having jurisdiction over the Company of any business activity conducted by the Company; or (c) produced, developed, obtained or prepared by or on behalf of Executive or the Company (whether or not such information was developed in the performance of this Agreement) with respect to the Company or any assets oil and gas prospects, business activities, officers, directors, employees, borrowers or customers of the foregoing.  However, Confidential Information will not include any information, data or material which at the time of disclosure or use was generally available to the public other than by a breach of this Agreement, was available to the party to whom disclosed on a non-confidential basis by disclosure or access provided by the Company or a third party, or was otherwise developed or obtained independently by the person to whom disclosed without a breach of this Agreement.  On request by the Company, the Company will be entitled to a copy of any Confidential Information in the possession of the Executive. The Executive also agrees that the provisions of this paragraph 7 will survive the termination, expiration or cancellation of this Agreement for a period of one (1) year.  The Executive will deliver to the Company all originals and copies of the documents or materials containing Confidential Information.  For purposes of paragraphs 7, 8, and 9 of this Agreement, the Company expressly includes any of the Company Entities.
Confidentiality
8.           .  During the Executive's employment hereunder and for the period ending six months after the later of (i) the Executives termination in accordance with this Agreement or (ii) the date amounts owing to the Executive in accordance with paragraph 6 of this Agreement cease to be due in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, the Executive will not: (a)  acquire, attempt to acquire or aid another in the acquisition or attempted acquisition of an interest in oil and gas assets, oil and gas production, oil and gas leases, minerals interests, oil and gas wells or other such oil and gas exploration, development or production activities within any spacing unit in which the Company owns an oil an gas interest on the date of the resignation or termination of the Executive; (b)  solicit, induce, entice or attempt to entice any employee, contractor, customer, vendor or subcontractor to terminate or breach any relationship with the Company or the Companys affiliates for the Executives own account or for the benefit of another party; and (c) circumvent or attempt to circumvent the foregoing agreements by any future arrangement or through the actions of a third party. The foregoing will not prohibit the activities which are expressly permitted by paragraph 3 of this Agreement.
Non-competition
 
9.           .  The Executive expressly understands and agrees that any and all improvements, inventions, discoveries, processes or know-how that are generated or conceived by the Executive during the term of this Agreement, whether generated or conceived during the Executive's regular working hours or otherwise, will be the sole and exclusive property of the Company.  Whenever requested by the Company (either during the term of this Agreement or thereafter), the Executive will assign or execute any and all applications, assignments and or other instruments and do all things which the Company deems necessary or appropriate in order to permit the Company to:  (a) assign and convey or otherwise make available to the Company the sole and exclusive right, title, and interest in and to said improvements, inventions, discoveries, processes, know-how, applications, patents, copyrights, trade names or trademarks; or (b) apply for, obtain, maintain, enforce and defend patents, copyrights, trade names, or trademarks of the United States or of foreign countries for said improvements, inventions, discoveries, processes or know-how. However, the improvements, inventions, discoveries, processes or know-how generated or conceived by the Executive and referred to above (except as they may be included in the patents, copyrights or registered trade names or trademarks of the Company, or corporations, partnerships or other entities which may be affiliated with the Company) will not be exclusive property of the Company at any time after having been disclosed or revealed or have otherwise become available to the public or to a third party on a non-confidential basis other than by a breach of this Agreement, or after they have been independently developed or discussed without a breach of this Agreement by a third party who has no obligation to the Company or the Company Entities.
Proprietary Matters
10.           .  The parties will attempt to promptly resolve any dispute or controversy arising out of or relating to this Agreement or termination of the Executive by the Company. Any negotiations pursuant to this paragraph 10 are confidential and will be treated as compromise and settlement negotiations for all purposes.  If the parties are unable to reach a settlement amicably, the dispute will be submitted to binding arbitration before a single arbitrator in accordance with the Employment Dispute Resolution Rules of the American Arbitration Association.  The arbitrator will be instructed and empowered to take reasonable steps to expedite the arbitration and the arbitrator's judgment will be final and binding upon the parties subject solely to challenge on the grounds of fraud or gross misconduct.  Except for damages arising out of a breach of paragraphs 6, 7, 8 or 9 of this Agreement, the arbitrator is not empowered to award total damages (including compensatory damages) that exceed 300% of compensatory damages and each party hereby irrevocably waives any damages in excess of that amount.  The arbitration will be held in Oklahoma County, Oklahoma.  Judgment upon any verdict in arbitration may be entered in any court of competent jurisdiction and the parties hereby consent to the jurisdiction of, and proper venue in, the federal and state courts located in Oklahoma County, Oklahoma.  The Company will pay the costs and expenses of the arbitration including, without implied limitation, the fees for the arbitrators.  Unless otherwise expressly set forth in this Agreement, the procedures specified in this paragraph 10 will be the sole and exclusive procedures for the resolution of disputes and controversies between the parties arising out of or relating to this Agreement.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, a party may seek a preliminary injunction or other provisional judicial relief if in such party's judgment such action is necessary to avoid irreparable damage or to preserve the status quo.
Arbitration
To the Company: 
    
Chesapeake Energy Corporation
    Post Office Box 18496
   
   
   
   
    Oklahoma City, OK   73154-0496
   
   
   
   
    Attn: Martha A. Burger
   
   
   
   
To the Executive: 
    
Mr. Aubrey K. McClendon
    6902 Avondale Drive
   
   
   
   
    Oklahoma City, Oklahoma  73116
   
   
   
   
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned have executed this Agreement this 31st day of December, 2008, effective the date first above written.
CHESAPEAKE ENERGY CORPORATION, an
Oklahoma corporation
By:
/s/ Martha A. Burger                           
     Martha A. Burger, Senior Vice
     President, Human and Corporate Resources
     (the "Company")
/s/ Aubrey K. McClendon                                
Aubrey K. McClendon, individually
     (the "Executive")


