FILE:CHK/CHK-8K-20090526170508.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
           Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
*
 
           Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
*
 
           
*
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
          
*
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Section 8  Other Events
Item 8.01 Other Events.
On May 21, 2009, Chesapeake Energy Corporation issued a press release announcing that the Company is commemorating its 20 anniversary, celebrating its rise from a start-up company with $50,000 of capital, no proved reserves or natural gas production and fewer than 10 employees to become the nations largest independent producer of clean-burning U.S. natural gas.  A copy of this press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report.
th
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)
 
Exhibits.  See "Index to Exhibits" attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K, which is incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date:                      May 26, 2009
 
 
 
* Filed herewith
.

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
MAY 21, 2009
OKLAHOMA CITY, OKLAHOMA, MAY 21, 2009  Chesapeake Energy Corporation (NYSE:CHK) is commemorating its 20 anniversary this week, celebrating its rise from a start-up company with $50,000 of capital, no proved reserves or natural gas production and fewer than 10 employees to become the nations largest independent producer of clean-burning U.S. natural gas.
th
Aubrey K. McClendon, co-founder and CEO of Chesapeake, commented, Tom Ward and I could not have dreamed that we would build the nations largest independent producer of American natural gas, but we were determined from the start to be the hardest workers in the industry.  Thanks to thousands of talented and dedicated employees, a state and city that foster energy entrepreneurs, extremely hard work, investor support and a little luck, we have achieved an outcome no one could have predicted 20 years ago.
Although I am proud of what we have accomplished in the past 20 years, I believe the best years for Chesapeake still lie ahead, he said.  With a top two ownership position in the massive unconventional reserves in the Big 4 shale plays, with substantial conventional reserves in Oklahoma and elsewhere, and a nation that is increasingly embracing natural gas as the economic and environmental fuel of choice, I believe Chesapeakes future is exceptionally bright.
Incorporated on May 18, 1989, Chesapeake said it will commemorate its anniversary by Chesapeake employees donating 20,000 hours of community service by the end of this summer across Oklahoma and 16 other states where the company has operations.     A key element of our success has been the support of the communities and states in which we operate, so we thought it was only fitting to return that support through our donation of 20,000 hours of community service by our employees, McClendon said.
The company also pledged $5 million to build the Chesapeake Finish Line Tower adjacent to the Chesapeake Boathouse at Oklahoma Citys rowing venue on the Oklahoma River.  The addition of the tower along with other planned infrastructure and boathouse projects will confirm the rivers status as a world-class competitive rowing, canoeing and kayaking facility.  McClendon said, We wanted to recognize the incredible role that this city and state have played in our success.
Since starting with a handful of employees and $50,000 in capital, the company:
 
 
Employee celebrations will be held across the country at Chesapeakes 42 corporate, regional and field offices from today through June 27, the 20 anniversary of the date the company started drilling its first well  the Newby 1-1 in Grady County, Oklahoma.
th
.
Chesapeake Energy Corporation is the largest independent producer of natural gas in the U.S. Headquartered in Oklahoma City, the company's operations are focused on the development of onshore unconventional and conventional natural gas in the U.S. in the Barnett Shale, Haynesville Shale, Fayetteville Shale, Marcellus Shale, Anadarko Basin, Arkoma Basin, Appalachian Basin, Permian Basin, Delaware Basin, South Texas, Texas Gulf Coast and East Texas regions of the United States. Further information is available at
www.chk.com


