FILE:CHK/CHK-8K-20090331171731.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
           Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
*
 
           Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
*
 
           
*
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
           
*
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Section 2 - Financial Information
 
Item 2.03 Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
On March 31, 2009, Chesapeake Energy Corporation (the Company) amended its Seventh Amended and Restated Credit Agreement by and among the Company, Chesapeake Exploration, L.L.C. and Chesapeake Appalachia, L.L.C., as Co-Borrowers, Union Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent, the other agents named therein and the lenders from time to time parties thereto (the Agreement) to amend certain of the definitions in Section 1.1 of the Agreement.  The amended definitions read as follows:
:  
Applicable Margin
for each
Type of
Revolving Loan, on any day, the rate per annum set forth at the appropriate intersection at the relevant column heading below based on the
Applicable Rating Level as of the close of
business on the immediately preceding Business Day:
:  on any day, a rate per annum equal to 0.500%.
Commitment Fee Rate
:  Consolidated Indebtedness plus stockholders equity of the Group Members
Consolidated Total Capitalization
as determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP; excluding, however, the stockholders equity of any Group Member attributable to such Group Members ownership of equity interests in any Unrestricted Subsidiary; provided, however, that all calculations of Consolidated Total Capitalization beginning December 31, 2008 shall exclude the effects of any write down of oil or gas assets which is required under Rule 4-10 (Financial Accounting and Reporting for Oil and Gas Producing Activities Pursuant to the Federal Securities Laws and the Energy Policy and Conservation Act of 1975) of Regulation S-X, promulgated by SEC regulation, or by the equivalent write down required by GAAP.
Additionally, the Company amended Section 7.1(a) of the Agreement to read as follows:
Consolidated Indebtedness to Total Capitalization Ratio.  
Permit the ratio of
(i) Consolidated Indebtedness to
(ii) Consolidated Total Capitalization at any time
(x) prior to the
Collateral Release Date, to be greater than 0.70 to 1.0 or
(y) after the
Collateral Release Date, to be greater than 0.65 to 1.0.  The portion of any reduction in Consolidated Total Capitalization that results from non-cash write downs of assets related to changes in accounting practices (whether or not required under GAAP), shall not be effective for purposes of this Section 7.1(a) until 60 days after such non-cash write down is reflected on financial statements delivered pursuant to Section 6.1(a) or (b).
Also effective March 31, 2009, pursuant to the Agreement, the Administrative Agent and Majority Lenders, as defined in the Agreement, notified the Company that the Borrowing Base will remain at $3.5 billion until the next date upon which the Borrowing Base is to be redetermined.
The Agreement was filed as Exhibit 4.1 to the Companys Form 8-K filed on November 8, 2007 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
Section 5  Corporate Governance and Management
Item 5.03 Amendments to Articles of Incorporation.
Effective March 31 2009, the Company filed a Certificate of Elimination with the Oklahoma Secretary of State retiring 3,033 shares of 4.125% Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share (the Preferred Stock).  The shares were acquired by the Company as the result of a mandatory conversion of the Preferred Stock into the Companys Common Stock.  The Certificate of Elimination is attached hereto as Exhibit 3.1.1.
Also effective March 31, 2009, the Company filed a Certificate to Eliminate Certificate of Designation with the Oklahoma Secretary of State to eliminate from the Companys Certificate of Incorporation all matters set forth in the Companys Certificate of Designation of 4.125% Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock filed with the Oklahoma Secretary of State on March 29, 2004 with respect to the series of preferred stock of the company designated 4.125% Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share.  The Certificate to Eliminate the Certificate of Designation is attached hereto as Exhibit 3.1.2.
 
Section 7  Regulation FD
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
On March 31, 2009, Martha A. Burger, Senior Vice President  Human and Corporate Resources of the Company entered into a sales trading plan pursuant to Rule 10b5-1 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934.  The plan expires on March 31, 2010 and has been approved by Chesapeake in accordance with its Insider Trading Policy.  The plan is part of Ms. Burgers long-term strategy to diversify assets.  Other Chesapeake executives may enter into Rule 10b5-1 trading plans in the future, from time to time.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 (d)
   
 
Exhibits.  See "Index to Exhibits" attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K, which is incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date:                      March 31, 2009
 
 
 
* Filed herewith

Exhibit 3.1.1
 
 
Chesapeake Energy Corporation (the Corporation), a corporation organized and existing under the Oklahoma General Corporation Act,
DOES HEREBY CERTIFY:
That the Corporation has acquired 3,033 shares of its 4.125% Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share (the Acquired Shares) through mandatory conversion, representing all of the outstanding shares of the 4.125% Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock.
FIRST:  
 
That the Board of Directors of the Corporation has adopted resolutions retiring the Acquired Shares.
SECOND:  
 
That the Certificate of Designation for the 4.125% Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock (the Certificate of Designation) prohibits the reissuance of shares when so retired and, pursuant to the provisions of Section 1078 of the Oklahoma General Corporation Act, upon the date of the filing of this Certificate of Elimination, the Certificate of Designation shall be amended so as to reduce the number of authorized shares of the 4.125% Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock by 3,033, shares, being the total number of the Acquired Shares retired by the Board of Directors. Accordingly, the number of authorized but undesignated shares of preferred stock of the Company shall be increased by 3,033 shares. The retired Acquired Shares have a par value of $.01 per share and an aggregate par value of $30.33.
THIRD:  
 
, the Corporation has caused this Certificate to be executed by its Senior Vice President, Treasurer and Corporate Secretary, and attested to by its Assistant Secretary, this 31 day of March, 2009.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
st
 
CHESAPEAKE ENERGY CORPORATION
 
 
 
ATTEST:
 

Exhibit 3.1.2
The undersigned officers of Chesapeake Energy Corporation, an Oklahoma corporation (the "Corporation"), hereby certify in accordance with Section 1032.G.1 of the Oklahoma General Corporation Act that on March 6, 2009, the Corporation's Board of Directors adopted the following resolutions to eliminate from the Corporation's Certificate of Incorporation all matters set forth in the Corporation's Certificate of Designation of 4.125% Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock filed with the Oklahoma Secretary of State on March 29, 2004 with respect to the series of preferred stock of the Corporation designated 4.125% Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share.
 
WHEREAS, it is anticipated that on or after March 15, 2009, the Corporation's 4.125% Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, par value $.01 per share (the Preferred Stock), may at the Corporations election be required to be converted into the Corporations Common Stock, par value $0.01 (the Common Stock), in accordance with the terms of the Certificate of Designation of the Preferred Stock (the Certificate of Designation); and
 
WHEREAS, the Board has determined it is in the best interest of the Corporation to cause the Preferred Stock to be converted into Common Stock.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the officers of the Corporation are hereby authorized and directed to:  (a) take all actions necessary to cause the Preferred Stock to be automatically converted into Common Stock on (or as soon after as reasonably practicable) the earlier of March 15, 2009 or such date the conditions for conversion in the Certificate of Designation, are met; (b) issue the requisite number of shares of Common Stock to the holders of the Preferred Stock in accordance with the Certificate of Designation; (c) pay cash to the holders of the Preferred Stock in lieu of fractional shares of Common Stock in accordance with the Certificate of Designation; (d) cancel the shares of Preferred Stock acquired by the Corporation upon conversion and return such shares to the status of authorized but undesignated shares of preferred stock; (e) pay or otherwise satisfy any remaining accrued dividends on the Preferred Stock accruing through the conversion hereunder if required by the Certificate of Designation; and (f) cancel the Certificate of Designation.
 
FURTHER RESOLVED, that the officers of the Corporation are authorized and directed to execute any and all documents, perform any and all other acts and do any and all other things that may be necessary, requisite or desirable to effectuate the foregoing resolutions and that the execution by one or more such officers of any paper or document or doing by them of any act in connection with any of the foregoing matters will conclusively establish their authority therefor and the approval and ratification of the papers or documents so executed and the actions so taken.
 
 
 
 
 
WE, THE UNDERSIGNED, certify that the facts herein stated are true, and we have accordingly executed this Certificate this March 31, 2009.
 
 
 
 
ATTEST:
 
 


