FILE:CHK/CHK-8K-20090127210300.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 8  Other Events
Item 8.01 Other Events
Chesapeake Energy Corporation is filing a registration statement on Form S-3 today which incorporates by reference the contents of this Current Report on Form 8-K. The securities covered by the registration statement will be senior notes of Chesapeake guaranteed by certain of its wholly owned subsidiaries. Pursuant to Rule 3-10 of Regulation S-X, Chesapeake must disclose certain financial information regarding the guarantor subsidiaries in connection with the registration of the senior notes. This report is being filed to add Note 12 to Chesapeake's unaudited consolidated interim financial statements included in Part I, Item 1 of its quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2008. This item, with the addition of Note 12, is included in its entirety as Exhibit 99.1.
This Current Report on Form 8-K should be read in conjunction with Chesapeake's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007, its quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2008 and its other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: January 27, 2009
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SUPPLEMENTAL SCHEDULE OF NON-CASH INVESTING AND FINANCING ACTIVITIES:
As of September 30, 2008 and 2007, dividends payable on our common and preferred stock were $48 million and $56 million, respectively.
For the nine months ended September 30, 2008 and 2007, natural gas and oil properties were adjusted by $13 million and $130 million, respectively, for income tax liabilities related to acquisitions.
For the nine months ended September 30, 2008 and 2007, natural gas and oil properties were adjusted by ($3) million and $103 million, respectively, as a result of an increase (decrease) in accrued exploration and development costs.
For the nine months ended September 30, 2008 and 2007, other property and equipment were adjusted by $88 million and ($6) million, respectively, as a result of an increase (decrease) in accrued costs.
We recorded non-cash asset additions to natural gas and oil properties of $6 million and $15 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2008 and 2007, respectively, for asset retirement obligations.
We recorded non-cash asset additions to natural gas gathering systems of $6 million and $0 for the nine months ended September 30, 2008 and 2007, respectively, for asset retirement obligations.
For the nine months ended September 30, 2008, a holder of our 4.5% cumulative convertible preferred stock exchanged 891,100 shares for 2,227,750 shares of common stock in a privately negotiated exchange.
For the nine months ended September 30, 2008, holders of our 5.0% (Series 2005B) cumulative convertible preferred stock exchanged 3,654,385 shares for 10,443,642 shares of common stock in privately negotiated exchanges.
For the nine months ended September 30, 2008, holders of our 4.125% cumulative convertible preferred stock converted 29 shares into 1,743 shares of common stock, and for the nine months ended September 30, 2007, a holder of our 4.125% cumulative convertible preferred stock converted 3 shares into 180 shares of common stock.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Principles of Consolidation
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements of Chesapeake Energy Corporation and its subsidiaries have been prepared in accordance with the instructions to Form 10-Q as prescribed by the Securities and Exchange Commission. Chesapeake's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007 ("2007 Form 10-K") includes certain definitions and a summary of significant accounting policies and should be read in conjunction with this Form 10-Q. All material adjustments (consisting solely of normal recurring adjustments) which, in the opinion of management, are necessary for a fair statement of the results for the interim periods have been reflected. The results for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2008 are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for the full year. This Form 10-Q relates to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2008 (the "Current Quarter" and the "Current Period", respectively) and the three and nine months ended September 30, 2007 (the "Prior Quarter" and the "Prior Period", respectively).
Income Taxes
Chesapeake adopted the provisions of FASB Interpretation (FIN) No. 48, on January 1, 2007. As of September 30, 2008, the company estimates we have uncertain tax positions which could result in AMT liabilities of $140 million. If the outcome of these uncertain tax positions results in AMT liabilities, they can be utilized as credits against future regular tax liabilities; therefore, we are only required to establish an interest accrual associated with these liabilities. The uncertain tax positions identified would not have an effect on the effective tax rate. At September 30, 2008, we had a liability of $11 million for interest related to these same uncertain tax positions. Chesapeake recognizes interest related to uncertain tax positions in interest expense. Penalties, if any, related to uncertain tax positions would be recorded in other expenses.
Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes  an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109
Critical Accounting Policies
We consider accounting policies related to hedging, natural gas and oil properties, income taxes and business combinations to be critical policies. These policies are summarized in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our 2007 Form 10-K.
 
 
Natural Gas and Oil Hedging Activities
Our results of operations and operating cash flows are impacted by changes in market prices for natural gas and oil. To mitigate a portion of the exposure to adverse market changes, we have entered into various derivative instruments. As of September 30, 2008, our natural gas and oil derivative instruments were comprised of swaps, basis protection swaps, knockout swaps, cap-swaps, call options, put options and collars. These instruments allow us to predict with greater certainty the effective natural gas and oil prices to be received for our hedged production. Although derivatives often fail to achieve 100% effectiveness for accounting purposes, we believe our derivative instruments continue to be highly effective in achieving the risk management objectives for which they were intended.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Chesapeake enters into counter-swaps from time to time for the purpose of locking-in the value of a swap. Under the counter-swap, Chesapeake receives a floating price for the hedged commodity and pays a fixed price to the counterparty. The counter-swap is 100% effective in locking-in the value of a swap since subsequent changes in the market value of the swap are entirely offset by subsequent changes in the market value of the counter-swap. We refer to this locked-in value as a locked swap. Generally, at the time Chesapeake enters into a counter-swap, Chesapeake removes the original swap's designation as a cash flow hedge and classifies the original swap as a non-qualifying hedge under SFAS 133. The reason for this new designation is that collectively the swap and the counter-swap no longer hedge the exposure to variability in expected future cash flows. Instead, the swap and counter-swap effectively lock-in a specific gain or loss that will be unaffected by subsequent variability in natural gas and oil prices. Any locked-in gain or loss is recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income and reclassified to natural gas and oil sales in the month of related production.
In accordance with FASB Interpretation No. 39, to the extent that a legal right of set-off exists, Chesapeake nets the value of its derivative arrangements with the same counterparty in the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheets.
Gains or losses from certain derivative transactions are reflected as adjustments to natural gas and oil sales on the condensed consolidated statements of operations. Realized gains (losses) are included in natural gas and oil sales in the month of related production. Pursuant to SFAS 133, certain derivatives do not qualify for designation as cash flow hedges. Changes in the fair value of these non-qualifying derivatives that occur prior to their maturity (i.e., temporary fluctuations in value) are reported currently in the condensed consolidated statements of operations as unrealized gains (losses) within natural gas and oil sales. Following provisions of SFAS 133, changes in the fair value of derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges, to the extent they are effective in offsetting cash flows attributable to the hedged risk, are recorded in other comprehensive income until the hedged item is recognized in earnings. Any change in fair value resulting from ineffectiveness is currently recognized in natural gas and oil sales as unrealized gains (losses). The components of natural gas and oil sales for the Current Quarter, the Prior Quarter, the Current Period and the Prior Period are presented below.
 
 
 
The estimated fair values of our natural gas and oil derivative instruments as of September 30, 2008 and December 31, 2007 are provided below. The associated carrying values of these instruments are equal to the estimated fair values.
 
 
Based upon the market prices at September 30, 2008, we expect to transfer approximately $163 million (net of income taxes) of the gain included in the balance in accumulated other comprehensive income to earnings during the next 12 months in the related month of production. All transactions hedged as of September 30, 2008 are expected to mature by December 31, 2022.
We have six secured hedging facilities, each of which permits us to enter into cash-settled natural gas and oil commodity transactions, valued by the counterparty, for up to a stated maximum value. Outstanding transactions under each facility are collateralized by certain of our natural gas and oil properties that do not secure any of our other obligations. The value of reserve collateral pledged to each facility is required to be at least 1.3 or 1.5 times the fair value of transactions outstanding under each facility. In addition, we may pledge collateral from our revolving bank credit facility, from time to time, to these facilities to meet any additional collateral coverage requirements. The hedging facilities are subject to a per annum exposure fee, which is assessed quarterly based on the average of the daily negative fair value amounts of the hedges, if any, during the quarter. The hedging facilities contain the standard representations and default provisions that are typical of such agreements. The agreements also contain various restrictive provisions which govern the aggregate natural gas and oil production volumes that we are permitted to hedge under all of our agreements at any one time. The fair value of outstanding transactions, per annum exposure fees and the scheduled maturity dates are shown below.
 
 
 
 
Interest Rate Derivatives
We use interest rate derivatives to mitigate our exposure to the volatility in interest rates. For interest rate derivative instruments designated as fair value hedges (in accordance with SFAS 133), changes in fair value are recorded on the condensed consolidated balance sheets as assets (liabilities), and the debt's carrying value amount is adjusted by the change in the fair value of the debt subsequent to the initiation of the derivative. Changes in the fair value of non-qualifying derivatives that occur prior to their maturity (i.e., temporary fluctuations in value) are reported currently in the condensed consolidated statements of operations as unrealized gains (losses) within interest expense.
Gains or losses from certain derivative transactions are reflected as adjustments to interest expense on the condensed consolidated statements of operations. Realized gains (losses) included in interest expense were ($5) million, $1 million, ($1) million and a nominal amount in the Current Quarter, the Prior Quarter, the Current Period and the Prior Period, respectively. Unrealized gains (losses) included in interest expense were $8 million, ($19) million, $9 million and ($13) million in the Current Quarter, the Prior Quarter, the Current Period and the Prior Period, respectively.
As of September 30, 2008, the following interest rate derivatives were outstanding:
 
In the Current Period, we sold call options on five of our interest rate swaps and received $12 million in premiums. Three call options were exercised in the Current Period resulting in the termination of three interest rate swaps and one call option expired unexercised. Additionally, we sold two swaptions in the Current Period and received $6 million in net premiums. One swaption was exercised during the Current Period and resulted in a new interest rate swap.
In the Current Period, we closed 32 interest rate swaps for gains totaling $72 million. These interest rate swaps were designated as fair value hedges and the settlement amounts received will be amortized as a reduction to interest expense over the remaining term of the related senior notes.
Foreign Currency Derivatives
On December 6, 2006, we issued 600 million of 6.25% Euro-denominated Senior Notes due 2017. Concurrent with the issuance of the euro-denominated senior notes, we entered into a cross currency swap to mitigate our exposure to fluctuations in the euro relative to the dollar over the term of the notes. Under the terms of the cross currency swap, on each semi-annual interest payment date, the counterparties pay Chesapeake 19 million and Chesapeake pays the counterparties $30 million, which yields an annual dollar-equivalent interest rate of 7.491%. Upon maturity of the notes, the counterparties will pay Chesapeake 600 million and Chesapeake will pay the counterparties $800 million. The terms of the cross currency swap were based on the dollar/euro exchange rate on the issuance date of $1.3325 to 1.00. Through the cross currency swap, we have eliminated any potential
 
 
variability in Chesapeake's expected cash flows related to changes in foreign exchange rates and therefore the swap qualifies as a cash flow hedge under SFAS 133. The euro-denominated debt is recorded in notes payable ($845 million at September 30, 2008) using an exchange rate of $1.4081 to 1.00. The fair value of the cross currency swap is recorded on the condensed consolidated balance sheet as a liability of $27 million at September 30, 2008.
Concentration of Credit Risk
A significant portion of our liquidity is concentrated in both cash and cash equivalents and derivative instruments. On September 30, 2008, our cash and cash equivalents were invested in money market funds with investment grade ratings. A significant portion of these funds was invested at the close of business on September 19, 2008, and is protected under the U.S. Treasury Department's Temporary Guarantee Program. The remaining funds were spread among several counterparties to mitigate the risk. The derivative instruments enable us to hedge a portion of our exposure to natural gas and oil price and interest rate volatility. These arrangements expose us to credit risk from our counterparties. To mitigate this risk, we enter into derivative contracts only with investment-grade rated counterparties deemed by management to be competent and competitive market makers. Recently there have been concerns about the ability of certain counterparties to continue to meet their financial obligations. On September 30, 2008, our commodity and interest rate derivative instruments were spread among 19 counterparties and no single counterparty represented a material credit risk to the company.
On September 15, 2008, Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. ("Lehman") filed for protection under Chapter 11 of the federal Bankruptcy Code in the United States Bankruptcy Court in the Southern District of New York. Chesapeake and its subsidiaries had certain business relationships with Lehman and its subsidiaries. We believe the Lehman bankruptcy and its potential impact on subsidiaries of Lehman will not have a material adverse effect on Chesapeake or its subsidiaries individually or collectively.
Lehman Brothers Commercial Bank ("LBCB"), a subsidiary of Lehman, had $75 million (2.1%) of the $3.5 billion in commitments under our revolving bank credit facility. Although LBCB, to date, has not filed for bankruptcy (to our knowledge), LBCB has not funded approximately $11 million of its share of our borrowings under the credit facility and we have no reason to expect that LBCB will do so in the future. The loss of $11 million in borrowing capacity is not material to us.
Chesapeake was a counterparty with Lehman Brothers Commodity Services Inc. ("LBCS"), a subsidiary of Lehman, in financial transactions. Specifically, we utilized LBCS as a counterparty to hedge a portion of our natural gas and oil production. The obligations of LBCS are guaranteed by Lehman, and the Lehman bankruptcy filing resulted in an event of default under our ISDA agreement with LBCS allowing us to terminate the ISDA on September 18, 2008, and cancel the outstanding transactions. The potential loss associated with the termination of such transactions is not material to us.
Chesapeake sells natural gas to Eagle Energy Partners 1, LP ("Eagle Energy"), previously an affiliate of Lehman. Eagle Energy was not included in the Lehman bankruptcy filing. On September 26, 2008, Eagle Energy notified us that EDF Trading Limited ("EDFT"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of lectricit de France SA ("EDF"), had entered into an agreement with Lehman to acquire Eagle Energy. The acquisition of Eagle Energy by EDFT was completed on October 31, 2008. We have received cash payment for all natural gas that has been sold to Eagle Energy and are continuing to do business with it.
Chesapeake will continue to closely monitor the Lehman bankruptcy situation and will assert its rights under the various contractual relationships. We monitor the credit worthiness of all our counterparties and do not believe a failure by a counterparty would have a material negative impact on our liquidity.
Other financial instruments which potentially subject us to concentrations of credit risk consist principally of investments in equity instruments and accounts receivable. Our accounts receivable are primarily from purchasers of natural gas and oil and exploration and production companies which own interests in properties we operate. This industry concentration has the potential to impact our overall exposure to credit risk, either positively or negatively, in that our customers may be similarly affected by changes in economic, industry or other conditions. We generally require letters of credit for receivables from customers which are judged to have sub-standard credit, unless the credit risk can otherwise be mitigated.
 
 
Litigation
We are involved in various disputes incidental to our business operations, including claims from royalty owners regarding volume measurements, post-production costs and prices for royalty calculations. In , Chesapeake's wholly-owned subsidiary Chesapeake Appalachia, L.L.C., formerly known as Columbia Natural Resources, LLC (CNR), is a defendant in a class action lawsuit filed in 2003 in the Circuit Court for Roane County, West Virginia by royalty owners. The plaintiffs allege that CNR underpaid royalties by improperly deducting post-production costs, failing to pay royalty on total volumes of natural gas produced and not paying a fair value for the natural gas produced from their leases. The plaintiff class consists of West Virginia royalty owners receiving royalties after July 31, 1990 from CNR. Chesapeake acquired CNR in November 2005, and its seller acquired CNR in 2003 from NiSource Inc. NiSource, a co-defendant in the case, has managed the litigation and indemnified Chesapeake against underpayment claims based on the use of fixed prices for natural gas production sold under certain forward sale contracts and other claims with respect to CNR's operations prior to September 2003.
Tawney, et al. v. Columbia Natural Resources, Inc.
On January 27, 2007, the Circuit Court jury returned a verdict against the defendants of $404 million, consisting of $134 million in compensatory damages and $270 million in punitive damages. The jury found fraudulent conduct by the defendants with respect to the sales prices used to calculate royalty payments and with respect to the failure of CNR to disclose post-production deductions. On June 28, 2007, the Circuit Court sustained the jury verdict for punitive damages, and on September 27, 2007, it denied all post-trial motions. The defendants stayed the judgment during the pendency of their appeal to the West Virginia Supreme Court of Appeals by filing an irrevocable letter of credit in the amount of $50 million. They filed their initial Petition for Appeal on January 24, 2008. On May 22, 2008, the West Virginia Supreme Court of Appeals refused to hear the appeal. NiSource and Chesapeake filed two petitions for writ of certiorari to the United States Supreme Court on August 20, 2008, asserting among other things that their constitutional rights were violated by the manner in which punitive damages were awarded, the amount of punitive damages, and the lack of meaningful state court appellate review of the punitive damages award. The U.S. Supreme Court may or may not decide to accept the appeal. The West Virginia Supreme Court of Appeals has granted a stay of the judgment until the proceedings before the U.S. Supreme Court are concluded.
On October 22, 2008, the parties in the matter entered into a settlement agreement providing for the establishment of a settlement fund of $380 million, and the Circuit Court for Roane County, West Virginia granted preliminary approval of the settlement on October 23, 2008. The settlement is subject to final approval by the Circuit Court, following a fairness hearing currently scheduled for November 22, 2008. Chesapeake's share of the prospective settlement fund would be approximately $41 million, which amount has previously been fully reserved. If the settlement receives final approval, NiSource and Chesapeake intend to withdraw their U.S. Supreme Court certiorari petitions. Chesapeake believes this litigation will not have a material adverse effect on its results of operations, financial condition or liquidity.
Tawney
Chesapeake is subject to other legal proceedings and claims which arise in the ordinary course of business. In our opinion, the final resolution of these proceedings and claims will not have a material effect on the company.
Employment Agreements with Officers
Chesapeake has employment agreements with its chief executive officer, chief operating officer, chief financial officer and other executive officers, which provide for annual base salaries, various benefits and eligibility for bonus compensation. The agreement with the chief executive officer has a term of five years commencing January 1, 2008. The term of the agreement is automatically extended for one additional year on each December 31 unless the company provides 30 days notice of non-extension. In the event of termination of employment without cause, the chief executive officer's base compensation (defined as base salary plus bonus compensation received during the preceding 12 months) and benefits would continue during the remaining term of the agreement. The chief executive officer is entitled to receive a payment in the amount of three times his base compensation upon the happening of certain events following a change of control. The agreement further provides that any stock-based awards held by the chief executive officer and deferred compensation will immediately become 100% vested upon termination of employment without cause, incapacity, death or retirement at or after
 
 
age 55, and any unexercised stock options will not terminate as the result of termination of employment. The agreements with the chief operating officer, chief financial officer and other executive officers expire on September 30, 2009. These agreements provide for the continuation of salary for one year in the event of termination of employment without cause or death and, in the event of a change of control, a payment in the amount of two times the executive officer's base compensation. These executive officers are entitled to continue to receive compensation and benefits for 180 days following termination of employment as a result of incapacity. Any stock-based awards held by such executive officers will immediately become 100% vested upon termination of employment without cause, a change of control, death, or retirement at or after age 55.
Environmental Risk
Due to the nature of the natural gas and oil business, Chesapeake and its subsidiaries are exposed to possible environmental risks. Chesapeake has implemented various policies and procedures to avoid environmental contamination and risks from environmental contamination. Chesapeake conducts periodic reviews, on a company-wide basis, to identify changes in our environmental risk profile. These reviews evaluate whether there is a contingent liability, its amount, and the likelihood that the liability will be incurred. The amount of any potential liability is determined by considering, among other matters, incremental direct costs of any likely remediation and the proportionate cost of employees who are expected to devote a significant amount of time directly to any possible remediation effort. We manage our exposure to environmental liabilities on properties to be acquired by identifying existing problems and assessing the potential liability. Depending on the extent of an identified environmental problem, Chesapeake may exclude a property from the acquisition, require the seller to remediate the property to our satisfaction, or agree to assume liability for the remediation of the property. Chesapeake has historically not experienced any significant environmental liability, and is not aware of any potential material environmental issues or claims at September 30, 2008.
Rig Leases
In a series of transactions in 2006, 2007 and 2008, our drilling subsidiaries sold 81 drilling rigs and related equipment for $660 million and entered into a master lease agreement under which we agreed to lease the rigs from the buyer for initial terms of seven to ten years for lease payments of approximately $90 million annually. The lease obligations are guaranteed by Chesapeake and its other material restricted subsidiaries. These transactions were recorded as sales and operating leasebacks and any related gain or loss will be amortized to service operations expense over the lease term. Under the rig leases, we can exercise an early purchase option after six or seven years or on the expiration of the lease term for a purchase price equal to the then fair market value of the rigs. Additionally, we have the option to renew the rig lease for a negotiated renewal term at a periodic lease equal to the fair market rental value of the rigs as determined at the time of renewal. As of September 30, 2008, Chesapeake's drilling subsidiaries had contracted to acquire 24 rigs to be constructed during 2008 and 2009. The total remaining cost of the rigs is estimated to be approximately $295 million. Our intent is to sell and lease back those rigs as they are delivered. Commitments related to rig lease payments are not recorded in the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheets. As of September 30, 2008, the minimum aggregate future rig lease payments were approximately $619 million.
Compressor Leases
In 2007 and 2008, our compression subsidiary sold a significant portion of its existing compressor fleet, consisting of 1,443 compressors, for $303 million and entered into a master lease agreement. The term of the agreement varies by buyer ranging from seven to ten years for aggregate lease payments of approximately $36 million annually. The lease obligations are guaranteed by Chesapeake and its other material restricted subsidiaries. These transactions were recorded as sales and operating leasebacks and any related gain or loss will be amortized to natural gas and oil marketing expenses over the lease term. Under the leases, we can exercise an early purchase option after six to nine years or we can purchase the compressors at expiration of the lease for the fair market value at the time. In addition, we have the option to renew the lease for negotiated new terms at the expiration of the lease. Approximately 650 new compressors are on order for approximately $300 million and our intent is to sell and lease back those compressors as they are delivered. Commitments related to compressor lease payments are not recorded in the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheets. As of September 30, 2008, the minimum aggregate future compressor lease payments were approximately $317 million.
 
 
Transportation Contracts
Chesapeake has various firm pipeline transportation service agreements with expiration dates ranging from one to 93 years. These commitments are not recorded in the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheets. Under the terms of these contracts, we are obligated to pay demand charges as set forth in the transporter's Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) gas tariff. In exchange, the company receives rights to flow natural gas production through pipelines located in highly competitive markets. As of September 30, 2008, the aggregate amount of such required demand payments was approximately $1.6 billion (excluding demand charges for pipeline projects that are currently seeking regulatory approval).
Drilling Contracts
Currently, Chesapeake has contracts with various drilling contractors to lease approximately 40 rigs with terms of one to three years. As of September 30, 2008, the aggregate drilling rig commitment was approximately $206 million.
Gas Purchase Obligations
Our marketing segment regularly commits to purchase natural gas from other owners in our properties and such commitments typically are short term in nature. We have also committed to purchase natural gas associated with volumetric production payment transactions. The purchase commitments extend over 11 to 15 year terms based on market prices at the time of production, and the purchased natural gas will be resold. As of September 30, 2008, we were obligated to purchase 371 bcfe under the terms of the volumetric production payments.
Other Commitments
We own a 49% interest in Mountain Drilling Company, a company that specializes in hydraulic drilling rigs which are designed for drilling in urban areas. Chesapeake has an agreement to lend Mountain Drilling Company up to $32 million through December 31, 2009. At September 30, 2008, Mountain Drilling owed Chesapeake $19 million under this agreement.
We invested in Ventura Refining and Transmission LLC in early 2007 and today own a 25% interest. There were no refineries in western Oklahoma until Ventura opened its refinery in 2006. We have an agreement to lend Ventura Refining and Transmission LLC up to $28 million through January 31, 2017. At September 30, 2008, there was $27 million outstanding under this agreement. Additionally, we have agreed to guarantee up to $70 million in commitments for Ventura to support its operating activities. As of September 30, 2008, we had guaranteed $62 million.
 
 
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 128, , requires presentation of "basic" and "diluted" earnings per share, as defined, on the face of the statements of operations for all entities with complex capital structures. SFAS 128 requires a reconciliation of the numerator and denominator of the basic and diluted EPS computations.
Earnings Per Share
The following securities were not included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share, as the effect was antidilutive:
 
For the Current Quarter and the Current Period, diluted shares do not include the common stock equivalent of our 5.0% (Series 2005B) preferred stock outstanding prior to conversion (convertible into 1,019,947 and 5,229,841 shares, respectively) and the preferred stock adjustment to net income does not include $13 million and $62 million, respectively, of dividends and loss on conversion related to these preferred shares, as the effect on diluted earnings per share would have been antidilutive.
Reconciliations for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2008 and 2007 are as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
Common Shares
The following is a summary of the changes in our common shares outstanding for the nine months ended September 30, 2008 and 2007:
 
In the Prior Period, we issued 9.8 million shares of restricted stock to our employees (except for our CEO and CFO, who did not participate in the stock awards) under a long-term stock incentive and retention program. These shares vest 50% in August 2009 with the remaining 50% vesting in August 2011.
Preferred Shares
The following is a summary of the changes in our preferred shares outstanding for the nine months ended September 30, 2008 and 2007:
 
In connection with the exchanges and conversions noted above, we recorded losses of $25 million and $67 million in the Current Quarter and the Current Period, respectively. In general, the loss is equal to the excess of the fair value of all common stock exchanged over the fair value of the common stock issuable pursuant to the original conversion terms of the preferred stock.
During the Current Period, a holder of our 4.50% cumulative convertible preferred stock exchanged 891,100 shares for 2,227,750 shares of our common stock in a privately negotiated transaction.
During the Current Period, 3,654,385 shares of our 5.0% (series 2005B) cumulative convertible preferred stock were exchanged for 10,443,642 shares of common stock in privately negotiated exchange transactions.
During the Current Period, holders of our 4.125% cumulative convertible preferred stock converted 29 shares into 1,743 shares of common stock, and during the Prior Period, a holder of our 4.125% cumulative convertible preferred stock converted 3 shares into 180 shares of common stock.
 
 
Stock-Based Compensation
Chesapeake's stock-based compensation programs consist of restricted stock and stock options issued to employees and non-employee directors. To the extent compensation cost relates to employees directly involved in natural gas and oil exploration and development activities, such amounts are capitalized to natural gas and oil properties. Amounts not capitalized are recognized as general and administrative expenses, production expenses, natural gas and oil marketing expenses or service operations expense. We recorded the following stock-based compensation during the Current Quarter, the Prior Quarter, the Current Period and the Prior Period:
 
Chesapeake regularly issues shares of restricted common stock to employees and to non-employee directors. The fair value of the awards issued is determined based on the fair market value of the shares on the date of grant. This value is amortized over the vesting period, which is generally four or five years from the date of grant for employees and three years for non-employee directors.
Restricted Stock.
A summary of the changes in unvested shares of restricted stock during the Current Period is presented below:
 
The aggregate intrinsic value of restricted stock vested during the Current Period was approximately $209 million based on the stock price at the time of vesting.
As of September 30, 2008, there was $713 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested restricted stock. The cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 2.82 years.
The vesting of certain restricted stock grants results in state and federal income tax benefits related to the difference between the market price of the common stock at the date of vesting and the date of grant. During the Current Quarter, the Prior Quarter, the Current Period and the Prior Period, we recognized excess tax benefits related to restricted stock of $18 million, $3 million, $27 million and $4 million, respectively, which were recorded as adjustments to additional paid-in capital and deferred income taxes.
 
 
. Prior to 2006, we granted stock options under several stock compensation plans. Outstanding options expire ten years from the date of grant and vest over a four-year period.
Stock Options
The following table provides information related to stock option activity during the Current Period:
 
 
As of September 30, 2008, unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested stock options was nominal.
During the Current Quarter, the Prior Quarter, the Current Period and the Prior Period, we recognized excess tax benefits related to stock options of $3 million, $2 million, $15 million and $9 million, respectively, which were recorded as adjustments to additional paid-in capital and deferred income taxes.
 
 
Our total debt consisted of the following as of September 30, 2008 and December 31, 2007:
 
 
 
 
 
 
No scheduled principal payments are required under our senior notes until 2013 when $864 million is due.
 
 
Our outstanding senior notes are unsecured senior obligations of Chesapeake that rank equally in right of payment with all of our existing and future senior indebtedness and rank senior in right of payment to all of our future subordinated indebtedness. We may redeem the senior notes, other than the contingent convertible senior notes, at any time at specified make-whole or redemption prices. Senior notes issued before July 2005 are governed by indentures containing covenants that limit our ability and our restricted subsidiaries' ability to incur additional indebtedness; pay dividends on our capital stock or redeem, repurchase or retire our capital stock or subordinated indebtedness; make investments and other restricted payments; incur liens; enter into sale/leaseback transactions; create restrictions on the payment of dividends or other amounts to us from our restricted subsidiaries; engage in transactions with affiliates; sell assets; and consolidate, merge or transfer assets. Senior notes issued after June 2005 are governed by indentures containing covenants that limit our ability and our subsidiaries' ability to incur certain secured indebtedness; enter into sale/leaseback transactions; and consolidate, merge or transfer assets.
Chesapeake is a holding company and owns no operating assets and has no significant operations independent of its subsidiaries. As of September 30, 2008, our obligations under our outstanding senior notes were fully and unconditionally guaranteed, jointly and severally, by all of our wholly-owned subsidiaries, other than minor subsidiaries, on a senior unsecured basis. In October 2008, we restructured our non-Appalachian midstream operations, as described in Note 11. As a result, certain of our wholly-owned subsidiaries having significant assets and operations do not presently guarantee our outstanding senior notes.
We have a $3.5 billion syndicated revolving bank credit facility which matures in November 2012. As of September 30, 2008, we had $3.474 billion in outstanding borrowings under our facility and utilized approximately $14 million of the facility for various letters of credit. To ensure that our revolving bank credit facility could be fully utilized in these turbulent economic times, we borrowed the remaining capacity under our facility at the end of the Current Quarter and invested the cash proceeds in short-term U.S. Treasury and other highly liquid securities. As a result, on September 30, 2008, we had cash and cash equivalents on hand of approximately $1.964 billion. All 36 lenders that participate in our revolving bank credit facility fully funded their commitment, with the exception of LBCB, a subsidiary of Lehman, which did not fund its $11 million share of the advance. See in Note 2.
Concentration of Credit Risk
Borrowings under our facility are secured by certain producing natural gas and oil properties and bear interest at our option at either (i) the greater of the reference rate of Union Bank of California, N.A. or the federal funds effective rate plus 0.50% or (ii) the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR), plus a margin that varies from 0.75% to 1.50% per annum according to our senior unsecured long-term debt ratings. The collateral value and borrowing base are determined periodically. The unused portion of the facility is subject to a commitment fee that also varies according to our senior unsecured long-term debt ratings, from 0.125% to 0.30% per annum. Currently, the commitment fee rate is 0.20% per annum. Interest is payable quarterly or, if LIBOR applies, it may be payable at more frequent intervals.
The credit facility agreement contains various covenants and restrictive provisions which limit our ability to incur additional indebtedness, make investments or loans and create liens. The credit facility agreement requires us to maintain an indebtedness to total capitalization ratio (as defined) not to exceed 0.70 to 1 and an indebtedness to EBITDA ratio (as defined) not to exceed 3.75 to 1. As defined by the credit facility agreement, our indebtedness to total capitalization ratio was 0.47 to 1 and our indebtedness to EBITDA ratio was 2.48 to 1 at September 30, 2008. If we should fail to perform our obligations under these and other covenants, the revolving credit commitment could be terminated and any outstanding borrowings under the facility could be declared immediately due and payable. Such acceleration , if involving a principal amount of $10 million ($50 million in the case of our senior notes issued after 2004), would constitute an event of default under our senior note indentures, which could in turn result in the acceleration of a significant portion of our senior note indebtedness. The credit facility agreement also has cross default provisions that apply to other indebtedness we may have with an outstanding principal amount in excess of $75 million.
Two of our subsidiaries, Chesapeake Exploration, L.L.C. and Chesapeake Appalachia, L.L.C., are the borrowers under our revolving bank credit facility. The facility is fully and unconditionally guaranteed, on a joint and several basis, by Chesapeake and all of our other wholly owned restricted subsidiaries.
 
 
In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 131, Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information, we have two reportable operating segments. Our exploration and production operational segment and natural gas and oil marketing segment are managed separately because of the nature of their products and services. The exploration and production segment is responsible for finding and producing natural gas and oil. As of September 30, 2008, the marketing segment was responsible for gathering, processing, compressing, transporting and selling natural gas and oil primarily from Chesapeake-operated wells. We also have drilling rig and trucking operations which are responsible for providing drilling rigs primarily used on Chesapeake-operated wells and trucking services utilized in the transportation of drilling rigs on both Chesapeake-operated wells and wells operated by third parties.
Management evaluates the performance of our segments based upon income (loss) before income taxes. Revenues from the marketing segment's sale of natural gas and oil related to Chesapeake's ownership interests are reflected as exploration and production revenues. Such amounts totaled $1.591 billion, $843 million, $4.667 billion and $2.441 billion for the Current Quarter, the Prior Quarter, the Current Period and the Prior Period, respectively. The following table presents selected financial information for Chesapeake's operating segments. Our drilling rig and trucking service operations are presented in "Other Operations".
 
 
 
Joint Ventures
On July 1, 2008, we entered into a joint venture with Plains Exploration & Production Company to develop our Haynesville Shale leasehold in Northwest Louisiana and East Texas. Under the terms of the joint venture, Plains acquired a 20% interest in our approximately 550,000 net acres of Haynesville Shale leasehold for $1.65 billion in cash, subject to normal post-closing adjustments. Plains has also agreed to fund 50% of our 80% share of the costs associated with drilling and completing future Haynesville Shale joint venture wells over a multi-year period, up to an additional $1.65 billion. In addition, Plains has the right to a 20% participation in any additional leasehold we acquire in the Haynesville Shale. Cash proceeds from the sale were reflected as a reduction of natural gas and oil properties for accounting purposes, with no gain or loss recognized. PXP's commitment to fund 50% of our share of future drilling and completion costs (up to $1.65 billion) is expected to reduce DD&A expense by reducing the amount of capital we would invest to develop our Haynesville properties.
On September 5, 2008, we entered into a joint venture with BP America Inc. to develop our Fayetteville Shale leasehold in Arkansas. Under the terms of the joint venture, BP acquired a 25% interest in our approximately 540,000 net acres of Fayetteville Shale leasehold for $1.1 billion in cash, which was paid at closing. BP has also agreed to pay $800 million by funding 100% of Chesapeake's 75% share of drilling and completion expenditures until the $800 million obligation has been funded. In addition, BP has the right to a 25% participation in any additional leasehold we acquire in the Fayetteville Shale. Cash proceeds from the sale were reflected as a reduction of natural gas and oil properties for accounting purposes, with no gain or loss recognized. BP's commitment to fund our share of future drilling and completion costs (up to $800 million) is expected to reduce DD&A expense by reducing the amount of capital we would invest to develop our Fayetteville properties.
Volumetric Production Payments
On May 1, 2008, we sold certain long-lived producing assets in Texas, Oklahoma and Kansas in a volumetric production payment transaction for net proceeds of $616 million. These assets had estimated proved reserves of approximately 94 bcfe and current net production (at the time of sale) of approximately 47 mmcfe per day. Chesapeake retained drilling rights on the properties below currently producing intervals.
On August 1, 2008, we completed another volumetric production payment transaction with estimated proved reserves of approximately 93 bcfe and current net production (at the time of sale) of approximately 46 mmcfe per day from wells in the Anadarko Basin of Oklahoma. This transaction resulted in net proceeds to us of $594 million. For accounting purposes, these transactions were treated as sales of natural gas and oil properties with no gain or loss recognized and our proved reserves were reduced accordingly.
Divestitures
On August 8, 2008, BP America Inc. acquired all of our interests in approximately 90,000 net acres of leasehold and producing natural gas properties in the Arkoma Basin Woodford Shale play for $1.7 billion in cash. The properties were producing approximately 50 mmcfe per day (at the time of sale).
Also in the Current Period, we sold non-core natural gas and oil assets in the Rocky Mountains and in the Mid-Continent for proceeds of $243 million.
 
 
Effective January 1, 2008, we adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 157, Fair Value Measurements for our financial assets and liabilities measured on a recurring basis. This statement establishes a framework for measuring fair value of assets and liabilities and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. In February 2008, the FASB issued FSP 157-2, which delayed the effective date of SFAS No. 157 by one year for nonfinancial assets and liabilities.
SFAS 157 defines fair value as the amount that would be received from the sale of an asset or paid for the transfer of a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants, i.e., an exit price. To estimate an exit price, a three-level hierarchy is used. The fair value hierarchy prioritizes the inputs, which refer broadly to assumptions market participants would use in pricing an asset or a liability, into three levels. Level 1 inputs are unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets and liabilities and have the highest priority. Level 2 inputs are inputs other than quoted prices within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly. Level 3 inputs are unobservable inputs for the financial asset or liability and have the lowest priority. Chesapeake uses appropriate valuation techniques based on available inputs, including counterparty quotes, to measure the fair values of its assets and liabilities. Counterparty quotes are generally assessed as a Level 3 input.
The following table provides fair value measurement information for financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis as of September 30, 2008.
 
The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair values of the assets and liabilities in the table above.
Level 1 Fair Value Measurements
The fair value of cash equivalents is based on quoted market prices.
Cash Equivalents.
. The fair value of Chesapeake's investment in Gastar Exploration Ltd. common stock is based on a quoted market price.
Investments
. The fair value of other long-term assets and liabilities, consisting of our Deferred Compensation Plan, is based on quoted market prices.
Other Long-Term Assets and Liabilities
Level 2 Fair Value Measurements
. The fair values of our natural gas swaps are measured internally using established index prices and other sources. These values are based upon, among other things, futures prices and time to maturity.
Derivatives
 
 
Level 3 Fair Value Measurements
. The fair values of our derivatives, excluding natural gas swaps, are based on estimates provided by our respective counterparties and reviewed internally using established index prices and other sources. These values are based upon, among other things, futures prices, interest rate curves and time to maturity.
Derivatives
. The fair value of our long-term debt is based on face value of the debt along with the value of the related interest rate swaps. The interest rate swap values are based on estimates provided by our respective counterparties and reviewed internally for reasonableness using future interest rate curves and time to maturity.
Debt
A reconciliation of Chesapeake's assets and liabilities classified as Level 3 measurements is presented below.
 
 
 
The FASB recently issued the following standards which were reviewed by Chesapeake to determine the potential impact on our financial statements upon adoption.
In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159, . This statement expands the use of fair value measurement and applies to entities that elect the fair value option. The fair value option established by this statement permits all entities to choose to measure eligible items at fair value at specified election dates. This statement is effective as of the beginning of the first fiscal year that begins after November 15, 2007. Since we have not elected to adopt the fair value option for eligible items, SFAS No. 159 has not had an impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities
In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 160, . This statement requires an entity to separately disclose non-controlling interests as a separate component of equity in the balance sheet and clearly identify on the face of the income statement net income related to non-controlling interests. This statement is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008. We are currently assessing the impact, if any, the adoption of this statement will have on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements  an amendment of Accounting Research Bulletin No. 51
In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141 (R), . This statement requires assets acquired and liabilities assumed to be measured at fair value as of the acquisition date, acquisition-related costs incurred prior to the acquisition to be expensed and contractual contingencies to be recognized at fair value as of the acquisition date. This statement is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008. We are currently assessing the impact, if any, the adoption of this statement will have on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
Business Combinations
 
 
In March 2008, the FASB issued SFAS No. 161, . This statement changes the disclosure requirements for derivative instruments and hedging activities. The statement requires that objectives for using derivative instruments be disclosed in terms of underlying risk and accounting designation. This statement is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after November 15, 2008. We are currently assessing the impact that adoption of this statement will have on our financial disclosures.
Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities  an amendment of FASB Statement No. 133
In May 2008, the FASB issued FSP APB 14-1, . FSP APB 14-1 clarifies that convertible debt instruments that may be settled in cash upon either mandatory or optional conversion (including partial cash settlement) are not addressed by paragraph 12 of APB Opinion No. 14, . The accounting prescribed by FSP APB 14-1 would increase the amount of interest expense required to be recognized with respect to such instruments and, thus, lower reported net income and net income per share of issuers of such instruments. Issuers will have to account for the liability and equity components of the instrument separately and in a manner that reflects interest expense at the interest rate of similar nonconvertible debt. We have three debt series that will be affected by the guidance, our 2.75% Contingent Convertible Senior Notes due 2035, our 2.5% Contingent Convertible Senior Notes due 2037 and our 2.25% Contingent Convertible Senior Notes due 2038. This staff position is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2008 and must be applied on a retrospective basis. We are currently assessing the impact that adoption of this staff position will have on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
Accounting for Convertible Debt Instruments That May Be Settled in Cash Upon Conversion (Including Partial Cash Settlement)
Accounting for Convertible Debt and Debt Issued with Stock Purchase Warrants
In June 2008, the FASB issued FSP Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) No. 03-6-1, . FSP EITF 03-6-1 addresses whether instruments granted in share-based payments transactions are participating securities prior to vesting and therefore need to be included in the earnings allocation in calculating earnings per share under the two-class method described in SFAS No. 128, . FSP EITF No. 03-6-1 requires companies to treat unvested share-based payment awards that have non-forfeitable rights to dividend or dividend equivalents as a separate class of securities in calculating earnings per share. FSP EITF No. 03-6-1 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008; earlier application is not permitted. We are currently evaluating the impact, if any, the adoption of FSP EITF No. 03-6-1 will have on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
Determining Whether Instruments Granted in Share-Based Payment Transactions Are Participating Securities
Earnings per Share
In October 2008, the FASB issued FSP FAS 157-3, . FSP FAS 157-3 clarifies the application of FASB statement No. 157, , in a market that is not active and provides an example to illustrate key considerations in determining the fair value of a financial asset when the market for that financial asset is not active. This FSP is effective upon issuance and will not have a material impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
Determining the Fair Value of a Financial Asset When the Market for That Asset Is Not Active
Fair Value Measurements
 
In early October 2008, Chesapeake designated its midstream wholly-owned subsidiaries as unrestricted subsidiaries under each of Chesapeake's indentures and its $3.5 billion revolving bank credit agreement. On October 16, 2008, one of these unrestricted subsidiaries, Chesapeake Midstream Operating, L.L.C., entered into a $460 million syndicated revolving bank credit facility which matures in October 2013. Borrowings under the midstream revolving credit facility will be used to fund capital expenditures and working capital associated with our midstream operations.
Subsequent to September 30, 2008, holders of certain of our contingent convertible senior notes exchanged their senior notes for shares of common stock in privately negotiated exchanges as summarized below (in millions):
 
The difference between the face value of the notes that were exchanged and the fair value of the common stock issued will be treated as a gain on the cancellation of indebtedness.
 
12.    Condensed Consolidating Financial Information
Chesapeake is a holding company and owns no operating assets and has no significant operations independent of its subsidiaries. As of September 30, 2008, our obligations under our outstanding senior notes and contingent convertible notes listed in Note 6 were fully and unconditionally guaranteed, jointly and severally, by all of our wholly-owned subsidiaries, other than minor subsidiaries, on a senior unsecured basis. In October 2008, we restructured our non-Appalachian midstream operations, as described in Note 11. As a result, certain of our wholly-owned subsidiaries having significant assets and operations do not guarantee our outstanding notes. The midstream revolving credit facility referred to in Note 11 contains a covenant restricting Chesapeake Midstream Partners, L.P., the parent of our midstream subsidiaries, from paying dividends or distributions to Chesapeake.
Set forth below are condensed consolidating financial statements for Chesapeake (the "parent") on a stand-alone, unconsolidated basis, and its combined guarantor and combined non-guarantor subsidiaries as of and for the nine-month period ended September 30, 2008. We have not provided comparative financial statements because the non-guarantor subsidiaries as of December 31, 2007 were minor subsidiaries individually and in the aggregate. The financial information may not necessarily be indicative of results of operations, cash flows, or financial position had the subsidiaries operated as independent entities.
 
 
 
 
 


