FILE:CHK/CHK-8K-20101006170452.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
           Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
*
 
           Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
*
 
           
*
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
           
*
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 5  Corporate Governance and Management
Item 5.02  Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On October 5, 2010, Kathleen Eisbrenner was appointed to the Board of Directors of Chesapeake Energy Corporation (the Company) effective December 1, 2010.  Ms. Eisbrenner is expected to be appointed to the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee and the Compensation Committee of the Board.  On October 6, 2010, the Company issued a press release announcing her appointment, a copy of which is filed herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
 
For her service on the Board, Ms. Eisbrenner will receive compensation that is commensurate with that received by the Companys other non-employee directors, although the annual retainer will be pro rated to reflect her term of service in 2010.  The description of such compensatory arrangements under the caption 2009 Directors Compensation in the Companys definitive proxy statement, filed with the SEC on April 30, 2010, is incorporated by reference herein.  The Company will also enter into a standard indemnity agreement with Ms. Eisbrenner, a form of which was filed with the SEC on February 29, 2008 as Exhibit 10.3 to the Companys 2007 Annual Report on For m 10-K.  Pursuant to this agreement, subject to the exceptions and limitations provided therein, the Company will indemnify Ms. Eisbrenner for obligations she might incur in her capacity as a director, as authorized by the Companys restated certificate of incorporation.
 
There are no arrangements or understandings between Ms. Eisbrenner and any other person pursuant to which she was elected as a director.  Ms. Eisbrenner has had no direct or indirect material interest in any transaction or series of similar transactions contemplated by Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K.
Section 7  Regulation FD
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
On October 5, 2010, the Company issued a press release announcing that its corporate band Shaleplay won first place in FORTUNE magazines 10 Annual Battle of the Corporate Bands.  A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.2.
th
 
On October 6, 2010, the Company issued a press release announcing the date that it will issue its 2010 third quarter financial and operational results.  The press release also provided information for accessing the related conference call.  A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.3.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date:           October 6, 2010
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
CHESAPEAKE ENERGY CORPORATION ANNOUNCES THE APPOINTMENT OF
 
OKLAHOMA CITY, OKLAHOMA, OCTOBER 6, 2010  Chesapeake Energy Corporation (NYSE:CHK) today announced the appointment of Kathleen Eisbrenner to the Chesapeake Board of Directors effective December 1, 2010, to serve until the 2011 annual meeting of shareholders when she will stand for election by Chesapeakes shareholders.  Ms. Eisbrenner, 50, currently is engaged in the organization of Next Decade, a new company that will be positioned to create new opportunities in the integrated international liquefied natural gas (LNG) industry.
 
Ms. Eisbrenner has had a long and distinguished business career in the oil and natural gas industry.  Prior to organizing Next Decade, she served as the head of Houston-based Poten & Partners Project Development Group.  Poten & Partners is a global broker and commercial advisor for the energy and ocean transportation industries and a recognized leader in the crude and petroleum products, LNG, liquefied petroleum gas (LPG), fuel oil, naphtha and asphalt market sectors.  From 2007 to 2009, Ms. Eisbrenner was Executive Vice President responsible for Royal Dutch Shell plcs global LNG business.  From 2003 to 2007, she was founder, President and Chief Executive Officer of Excelerate Energy, a global importer and marketer of LNG.  Ms. Eisbrenner also previously served in various senior leadership positions with other energy companies in the United States, including El Paso Corporation (NYSE:EP).  Ms. Eisbrenner graduated from the University of Notre Dame in 1982 with a degree in civil engineering.
 
Ms. Eisbrenners appointment increases the size of Chesapeakes Board of Directors to nine members.  Management is represented by Aubrey K. McClendon, the companys co-founder, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.  Other board members are: Richard K. Davidson of Bonita Springs, Florida; Frank Keating of Washington, D.C.; V. Burns Hargis of Stillwater, Oklahoma; Charles T. Maxwell of Bronxville, New York; Pete Miller of Houston, Texas; Don Nickles of Washington, D.C.; and Frederick B. Whittemore of New York, New York.  Ms. Eisbrenner is expected to serve on the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee and the Compensation Committee of the board.
 
 
Aubrey K.  McClendon said of Ms. Eisbrenners appointment, We are extremely honored to have Kathleen join Chesapeakes board.  I believe her experience in the natural gas industry and specifically her expertise in the global LNG business will be of great benefit to Chesapeake, our board and our shareholders.  Kathleen offers a unique blend of professional experiences, accomplishments and skills that will build on Chesapeakes commitment to have diverse talents and perspectives represented on the board.
 
.
Chesapeake Energy Corporation is the second-largest producer of natural gas and the most active driller of new wells in the U.S.  Headquartered in Oklahoma City, the company's operations are focused on discovering and developing unconventional natural gas and oil fields onshore in the U.S.  Chesapeake owns leading positions in the Barnett, Fayetteville, Haynesville, Marcellus and Bossier n atural gas shale plays and in the Eagle Ford, Granite Wash and various other unconventional liquids plays.  The company has also vertically integrated its operations and owns substantial midstream, compression, drilling and oilfield service assets.  Further information is available at
www.chk.com
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
CHESAPEAKE ENERGY CORPORATIONS CORPORATE BAND WINS FIRST
 
OKLAHOMA CITY, OKLAHOMA, OCTOBER 5, 2010  Chesapeake Energy Corporations (NYSE:CHK) corporate band, Shaleplay, was recognized as the best corporate band in America after bringing home the first place trophy from the 10 Annual FORTUNE Battle of the Corporate Bands competition held last weekend at the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame and Museum in Cleveland, Ohio.  Katy Igarta, Shaleplays lead vocalist and fitness center membership coordinator for Chesapeake, was also named Best Vocalist in the individual competition.
th
 
The Battle of the Corporate Bands competition benefited the Rock and Roll Hall of Fames education programs.  Shaleplay had its first public appearance in Las Vegas, Nevada, on May 22, and was one of eight bands selected to compete in the national finals.
 
Martha Burger, Chesapeakes Senior Vice President of Human and Corporate Resources, commented, At Chesapeake, we are always looking for ways to enhance our employees work experience and personal growth through our unique culture.  This contest was not only a great opportunity for the members of Shaleplay to display their talent and pursue their passion, but it also gives our employees an opportunity to enjoy their colleagues musical skills and show their support for their fellow employees.
 
In order to begin gathering the talent together to submit a demo last March, Burger shared her idea with Greg Singleton, guitarist and a technical director for Chesapeakes Corporate Communications department.  From there, the band gained keyboard player and guitarist Blayne Cook, bass player Chris Royse and drummer Dan Wright, all with prior band experience.  Cook is a senior applications developer in the IT department, Royse is a field training supervisor in the HR department and Wright is an audio visual technician in the Corporate Communications department.
 
The bands name is derived from two words frequently used in the energy .  Shale is a prevalent type of rock that can be found from the earths surface to tens of thousands of feet deep, often containing substantial recoverable volumes of natural gas and oil.  Play is industry jargon for a productive or potentially productive area for energy development.
exploration industry
 
Now that Shaleplay is officially the best corporate band in America, they plan to continue playing together and hope to play in shows around Oklahoma City.
 
Chesapeake Energy Corporation is the second-largest producer of natural gas and the most active driller of new wells in the U.S.  Headquartered in Oklahoma City, the company's operations are focused on discovering and developing unconventional natural gas and oil fields onshore in the U.S.  Chesapeake owns leading positions in the Barnett, Fayetteville, Haynesville, Marcellus and Bossier natural gas shale plays and in t he Eagle Ford, Granite Wash and various other unconventional liquids plays.  The company has also vertically integrated its operations and owns substantial midstream, compression, drilling and oilfield service assets.  Further information is available at
www.chk.com
.
 

Exhibit 99.3
 
 
 
OKLAHOMA CITY, OKLAHOMA, OCTOBER 6, 2010  Chesapeake Energy Corporation (NYSE:CHK) has scheduled its 2010 third quarter operational update to be released after the close of trading on the New York Stock Exchange on Tuesday, November 2, 2010.  Additionally, the company has scheduled its 2010 third quarter financial results to be released after the close of trading on the New York Stock Exchange on Wednesday, November 3, 2010.
 
The company has also scheduled a conference call to discuss both releases for
Thursday, November 4, 2010 at 9:00 am EDT.  The telephone number to access the conference call is or toll-free .  The passcode for the call is .  We encourage those who would like to participate in the call to place calls between < /font>
913-981-5510
888-215-7015
5815149
8:50 and 9:00 am EDT.
For those unable to participate in the conference call, a replay will be available for audio playback at 1:00 pm EDT on Thursday, November 4, 2010 and will run through midnight Thursday, November 18, 2010.  The number to access the conference call replay is
or toll-free .  The passcode for the replay is .
719-457-0820
888-203-1112
5815149
 
The conference call will also be webcast live on Chesapeakes website at in the Events subsection of the Investors section of our website.  The webcast of the conference call will be available on Chesapeakes website for one year.
www.chk.com
 
.
Chesapeake Energy Corporation is the second-largest producer of natural gas and the most active driller of new wells in the U.S.  Headquartered in Oklahoma City, the company's operations are focused on discovering and developing unconventional natural gas and oil fields onshore in the U.S.  Chesapeake owns leading positions in the Barnett, Fayetteville, Haynesville, Marcellus and Bossier natural gas shale plays and in the Eagle Ford, Granite Wash and various other unconventional liquids plays.  The company has also vertically integrated its operations and owns substantial midstream, compression, drilling and oilfield service assets.  Further information is available at
www.chk.com
 
 


