FILE:CHK/CHK-8K-20100125160517.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
           Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
*
 
           Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
*
 
           
*
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
           
*
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
 
Section 7  Regulation FD
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
 On January 19, 2010, Chesapeake Energy Corporation (the Company) issued a press release announcing its multi-counterparty secured natural gas and oil hedging facility was named as a Deal of the Year by Energy Risk, an Incisive Media publication.  The press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
   
 
 On January 21, 2010, the Company issued a press release announcing that Chesapeake Energy Corporation has once again been named as one of FORTUNE magazines 100 best companies to work for in the U.S.  A copy of this press release is attached to this Current Report as Exhibit 99.2.
   
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 (d)
   
 
Exhibits.  See "Index to Exhibits" attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K, which is incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date:           January 25, 2010
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
JANUARY 19, 2010
OKLAHOMA CITY, OKLAHOMA, JANUARY 19, 2010  Chesapeake Energy Corporations (NYSE:CHK) multi-counterparty secured natural gas and oil hedging facility was named as a Deal of the Year by Energy Risk, an Incisive Media publication.  Energy Risk's annual Deals of the Year feature highlights 10 key deals which it believes have helped to advance and shape the energy markets.
Completed in June 2009, this unique facility enables Chesapeake to enter into financially settled natural gas and oil hedge contracts with 13 counterparties that share the same non-cash collateral pool and trade under similar terms.  The facility provides Chesapeake more than $10 billion of mark-to-market-based hedging capacity, or approximately 400,000 contracts, representing nearly four years of the companys anticipated production.  The facility replaced Chesapeakes six previous bilateral secured natural gas and oil hedging agreements and approximately doubled the companys hedging capacity.  Chesapeakes contracts are secured primarily by its proved reserves while the hedging counterparties obligations are secured by cash or short-term Treasury instruments.
Energy Risk stated, The facility structure sets a new precedent for optimizing the collateral and credit framework of commodity hedging by allowing clients to implement hedging decisions faster while minimizing administrative costs.  Uniformity of terms makes it much easier to trade with a larger number of counterparties, thus ensuring competitive pricing and execution, and the flexibility to quickly allocate reserve collateral, which reduces the waste of underused collateral.
Aubrey K. McClendon, Chesapeakes Chief Executive Officer, commented, We are honored to be awarded and appreciate the commitments of Barclays Capital and our 12 other trading partners.  The new facility is groundbreaking and provides CHK with an exceptionally valuable tool for mitigating price-related risk in our business and managing counterparty credit risk.  I am very proud of the innovative facility and the hard work that Marc Rowland, our CFO, Jennifer Grigsby, our Treasurer, and their staffs contributed to the success of the facility.  I also appreciate the participation of our 13 partners in the facility.
Deal of the Year
Barclays Capital led the development and structuring of the facility and Chesapeake was advised by Dean Street Capital Advisors.
Chesapeake Energy Corporation is the second-largest producer of natural gas in the U.S.  Headquartered in Oklahoma City, the company's operations are focused on the development of onshore unconventional and conventional natural gas in the U.S. in the Barnett Shale, Haynesville Shale, Fayetteville Shale, Marcellus Shale, Anadarko Basin, Arkoma Basin, Appalachian Basin, Permian Basin, Delaware Basin, South Texas, Texas Gulf Coast and East Texas regions of the United States.  Further information is available at
www.chk.com
.
 

Exhibit 99.2
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
JANUARY 21, 2010
OKLAHOMA CITY, OKLAHOMA, JANUARY 21, 2010  FORTUNE announced today that Chesapeake Energy Corporation (NYSE:CHK) has been named one of thein the U.S for the third consecutive year.  Chesapeakes rank this year is #34, up from #73 a year ago. The full list and related stories will appear in the February 8 issue of FORTUNE, which will be available on newsstands Monday, January 25 and is now available at .
100 Best Companies to Work For
www.fortune.com/bestcompanies
 
Aubrey K. McClendon, Chesapeakes Chief Executive Officer, commented, We are honored to have been selected again this year as one of Americas 100 best places to work.  We place a very high priority on creating a work environment and culture in which our employees deliver extraordinary performance while achieving professional and personal growth.  This winning combination of great talent and a unique culture promises a very bright future for Chesapeake in the years ahead. I am also very proud that Oklahoma City, with only 0.3% of the nations population, is home to three of the top 35 best places to work in the U.S.
Martha A. Burger, Chesapeakes Senior Vice President  Human & Corporate Resources, added, We are proud to accept this honor on behalf of our 8,200 employees across the nation, since consistently ranking as one of Americas best places to work is very much a reflection of their commitment to build an outstanding team that we believe is at the top of our industry. During 2009, Chesapeake added more than 500 employees and we look forward to continuing our aggressive hiring in 2010.
Chesapeake is actively hiring the best available talent for every facet of its business.  The company currently has more than 300 open positions, which can be found at .
www.chk.com/careers
FORTUNE Deputy Managing Editor Hank Gilman said, The most important considerations for this years list were hiring and the ways in which companies are helping their employees weather the recession.  All 100 companies on our list are currently hiring, many of them aggressively, leading to more than 96,000 open job positions expected during the year.
To select the 100 Best Companies, FORTUNE partners with the Great Place to Work Institute to conduct the most extensive employee survey in corporate America.  Two-thirds of a company's score is based on the results of the Institute's Trust Index survey, which is sent to a random sample of employees from each company.  The survey asks questions related to their attitudes about the management's credibility, job satisfaction, and camaraderie.  The other third of the scoring is based on the company's responses to the Institute's Culture Audit, which includes detailed questions about pay and benefit programs and a series of open-ended questions about hiring, communication and diversity.
Chesapeake Energy Corporation is the second-largest producer of natural gas in the U.S. Headquartered in Oklahoma City, the company's operations are focused on the development of onshore unconventional and conventional natural gas in the U.S. in the Barnett Shale, Haynesville Shale, Fayetteville Shale, Marcellus Shale, Anadarko Basin, Arkoma Basin, Appalachian Basin, Permian Basin, Delaware Basin, South Texas, Texas Gulf Coast and East Texas regions of the United States. Further information is available at .
www.chk.com


