FILE:CHK/CHK-8K-20100104080917.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
           Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
*
 
           Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
*
 
           
*
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
           
*
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
 
Section 7  Regulation FD
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
On January 4, 2010, Chesapeake Energy Corporation (the Company) issued a press release announcing the execution of an agreement for a joint venture with Total E&P USA, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Total S.A.(Total), whereby Total will acquire a 25% interest in Chesapeakes upstream Barnett Shale assets for $2.25 billion.  The press release is attached herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
Also, on January 4, 2010, the Company issued an updated outlook for 2010 and 2011.  The updated outlook is attached herewith as Exhibit 99.2
On December 28, 2009, the Company issued a press release announcing that Chesapeake Energy Marketing, Inc., a subsidiary of the Company, has entered into an agreement to be the largest of three anchor shippers on a new Spectra Energy Corp natural gas pipeline project to serve the large and growing New York City metropolitan area natural gas market.  The press release is attached herewith as Exhibit 99.3.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)
 
Exhibits.  See "Index to Exhibits" attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K, which is incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date:           January 4, 2010
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
JANUARY 4, 2010
OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, JANUARY 4, 2010  Chesapeake Energy Corporation (NYSE:CHK) today announced the execution of an agreement for a $2.25 billion joint venture with Total E&P USA, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Total S.A. (NYSE:TOT, FP:FP) (Total), whereby Total will acquire a 25% interest in Chesapeakes upstream Barnett Shale assets. Total will pay $800 million in cash at closing and will pay an additional $1.45 billion by funding 60% of Chesapeakes share of drilling and completion expenditures until the $1.45 billion obligation has been funded, which Chesapeake expects to occur by year-end 2012.  Closing of the transaction, which is subject to regulatory approval, is anticipated by the end of January 2010.
 
The assets subject to the Chesapeake-Total joint venture include approximately 270,000 net acres of leasehold in the Core and Tier 1 areas of the Barnett, approximately 700 million cubic feet of natural gas equivalent per day of current net production and approximately 3.0 trillion cubic feet of natural gas equivalent (tcfe) of proved reserves (0.75 tcfe net to Total).  In addition, Chesapeake believes that its leasehold position will support the drilling of approximately 3,100 additional net locations (775 net to Total) with approximately 6.3 tcfe of unrisked unproved reserves (1.6 tcfe net to Total).  Approximately 60% of Chesapeakes Core and Tier 1 leasehold is held by production (HBP) and therefore considered developed.
In the framework of the joint venture, Chesapeake plans to continue acquiring leasehold in the Barnett and Total will acquire its 25% share of the new acreage on promoted terms until December 31, 2015.  After such date, Totals right to acquire its 25% proportionate share of Chesapeakes leasehold will be on an unpromoted basis and Total will also begin paying 25% of Chesapeakes support costs related to the joint ventures corporate development activities.
Christophe de Margerie, Chief Executive Officer of Total, stated, Total is pleased to be making a strategically important move by entering into the U.S. shale gas business with Chesapeake, the worlds leading shale gas operator.  This joint venture will provide us with a solid position in an attractive long-term resource base under competitive terms.  It will allow Total to develop its expertise in unconventional hydrocarbons in order to expand its unconventional business worldwide.  Additionally, this transaction adds yet another key support for Total to build the gas value chain position the Group has established in the U.S., the worlds largest and most liquid natural gas market, with our existing capacity rights in the Sabine Pass LNG terminal and our gas trading and marketing organization.  Total is conscious of the environmental aspect linked to producing shale gas and has confidence in Chesapeakes capacity to contain the impact of the Barnett Shale gas operations on the environment and respect local and federal regulations and guidelines.
Aubrey K. McClendon, Chesapeakes Chief Executive Officer, commented, We are very pleased to announce our fourth joint venture transaction in the Big 4 shales and we are honored to partner with Total to further develop the Barnett Shale.  Total is one of the largest and most well respected industrial enterprises in the world.  It was established in 1924, is the fifth largest integrated natural gas and oil company, has approximately 97,000 employees and has a market valuation exceeding $150 billion.  Total approached Chesapeake about a Barnett joint venture approximately seven months ago and during this time the companies have worked diligently and thoughtfully to structure this mutually beneficial joint venture.
This transaction will allow Chesapeake to reduce its financial leverage and future capital expenditures and further position us to deliver industry-leading finding and development costs and returns on capital for years to come.  This brings our combined shale joint venture proceeds, including upfront cash payments and drilling carries, during the past 18 months to approximately $10.8 billion, which compares very favorably against a cost basis in the assets sold of approximately $2.7 billion.  Chesapeake has maintained majority positions in these joint venture shale assets ranging from 67.5% to 80% that have an implied remaining value of approximately $33 billion based on the original valuations of the four joint ventures.
We are proud to welcome Total into our family of joint venture partners, which also includes the world-class companies Plains Exploration & Production Company (NYSE:PXP), BP America (NYSE:BP) and Statoil (NYSE:STO).  We believe these partnerships have proven to be mutually beneficial to both Chesapeake and its partners.  We plan to continue to take advantage of our large asset base by pursuing other joint ventures, including potentially our large acreage positions in the Eagle Ford Shale and in several Mid-Continent unconventional plays that we believe would be attractive to potential partners.  We have agreed to discuss with Total an Eagle Ford joint venture as well as joint ventures covering several Canadian natural gas shale plays in which Total has shown an interest.
Chesapeakes exclusive advisor on the transaction was Jefferies & Company, Inc.
A conference call to discuss this release has been scheduled for Monday morning, January 4, 2010, at 10:00 a.m. EST.  The telephone number to access the conference call is or toll-free .  The passcode for the call is .  We encourage those who would like to participate in the call to dial the access number between 9:50 and 10:00 a.m. EST.  For those unable to participate in the conference call, a replay will be available for audio playback from 2:00 p.m. EST on January 4, 2010 through midnight EST on January 18, 2010.  The number to access the conference call replay is or toll-free .  The passcode for the replay is .  The conference call will also be webcast live on the Internet and can be accessed by going to Chesapeakes website at www.chk.com in the Events subsection of the Investors section of our website.  The webcast of the conference call will be available on our website for one year.
913-312-0635
888-668-1637
5634585
719-457-0820
888-203-1112
5634585
This news release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.  They include the anticipated closing of the Total joint venture transaction, an estimate of natural gas and oil reserves, planned drilling activity and plans to pursue other joint venture transactions.  Actual results, including the timing of the closing of the Total joint venture, could differ materially as a result of a variety of risks and uncertainties.  Estimates of unproved reserves are by their nature more speculative than estimates of proved reserves and accordingly are subject to substantially greater risk of actually being realized by the company.  While we believe our calculations of future drillsites and estimation of unproved reserves are reasonable, such calculations and estimates have not been reviewed by third-party engineers or appraisers.  See Risk Factors in our 2008 Form 10-K and 2009 second quarter Form 10-Q filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on March 2, 2009 and August 10, 2009, respectively, for a discussion of risk factors that affect our business and could affect the joint venture announced today and other potential joint ventures.  We caution you not to place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this press release, and we undertake no obligation to update this information.
Chesapeake Energy Corporation is the second largest producer of natural gas in the U.S.  Headquartered in Oklahoma City, the company's operations are focused on the development of onshore unconventional and conventional natural gas in the U.S. in the Barnett Shale, Haynesville Shale, Fayetteville Shale, Marcellus Shale, Anadarko Basin, Arkoma Basin, Appalachian Basin, Permian Basin, Delaware Basin, South Texas, Texas Gulf Coast and East Texas regions of the United States.  Further information is available at
www.chk.com
.
Total is one of the worlds major oil and gas groups, with activities in more than 130 countries.  Its 97,000 employees put their expertise to work in every part of the industry  exploration and production of oil and natural gas, refining and marketing, gas & power and trading.  Total is working to keep the world supplied with energy, both today and tomorrow.  The Group is also a first rank player in chemicals.  Further information is available at
www.total.com
.
 

Exhibit 99.2
Years Ending December 31, 2010 and 2011
Our policy is to periodically provide guidance on certain factors that affect our future financial performance.  As of January 4, 2010, we are using the following key assumptions in our projections for 2010 and 2011.
The primary changes from our November 2, 2009 Outlook are in and are explained as follows:
italicized bold
 
 
 
At December 31, 2009, the company had approximately 5 billion of cash and cash equivalents and additional borrowing capacity under its three revolving bank credit facilities.
$2.
Commodity Hedging Activities
The company utilizes hedging strategies to hedge the price of a portion of its future natural gas and oil production.  These strategies include:
All of our derivative instruments are net settled based on the difference between the fixed-price payment and the floating-price payment, resulting in a net amount due to or from the counterparty.
Commodity markets are volatile, and as a result, Chesapeakes hedging activity is dynamic.  As market conditions warrant, the company may elect to settle a hedging transaction prior to its scheduled maturity date and lock in the gain or loss on the transaction.
Chesapeake enters into natural gas and oil derivative transactions in order to mitigate a portion of its exposure to adverse market changes in natural gas and oil prices.  Accordingly, associated gains or losses from the derivative transactions are reflected as adjustments to natural gas and oil sales.  All realized gains and losses from natural gas and oil derivatives are included in natural gas and oil sales in the month of related production.  Pursuant to ASC 815, certain derivatives do not qualify for designation as cash flow hedges.  Changes in the fair value of these nonqualifying derivatives that occur prior to their maturity (i.e., because of temporary fluctuations in value) are reported currently in the consolidated statement of operations as unrealized gains (losses) within natural gas and oil sales.  Following provisions of ASC 815, changes in the fair value of derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges, to the extent effective in offsetting cash flows attributable to hedged risk, are recorded in other comprehensive income until the hedged item is recognized in earnings.  Any change in fair value resulting from ineffectiveness is recognized currently in natural gas and oil sales.
The company currently has the following open natural gas swaps in place and also has the following gains from lifted natural gas trades:
 
The company currently has the following open natural gas collars in place:
 
 
The company currently has the following natural gas written call options in place:
 
The company has the following natural gas basis protection swaps in place:
 
The company also has the following crude oil swaps in place:
 
Note:  Not shown above are written call options covering 3 mmbbls of oil production in 2010 at a weighted average price of $105.00 per bbl for a weighted average discount of $1.10 per bbl and 4 mmbls of oil production in 2011 at a weighted average price of $105.00 per bbl for a weighted average premium of $4.27 per bbl.
 
 
 
Years Ending December 31, 2009, 2010 and 2011
Our policy is to periodically provide guidance on certain factors that affect our future financial performance.  As of November 2, 2009, we are using the following key assumptions in our projections for 2009, 2010 and 2011.
The primary changes from our October 13, 2009 Outlook are in and are explained as follows:
italicized bold
 
 
 
At September 30, 2009, the company had $3.1 billion of cash and cash equivalents and additional borrowing capacity under its three revolving bank credit facilities.
Commodity Hedging Activities
The company utilizes hedging strategies to hedge the price of a portion of its future natural gas and oil production.  These strategies include:
 
All of our derivative instruments are net settled based on the difference between the fixed-price payment and the floating-price payment, resulting in a net amount due to or from the counterparty.
Commodity markets are volatile, and as a result, Chesapeakes hedging activity is dynamic.  As market conditions warrant, the company may elect to settle a hedging transaction prior to its scheduled maturity date and lock in the gain or loss on the transaction.
Chesapeake enters into natural gas and oil derivative transactions in order to mitigate a portion of its exposure to adverse market changes in natural gas and oil prices.  Accordingly, associated gains or losses from the derivative transactions are reflected as adjustments to natural gas and oil sales.  All realized gains and losses from natural gas and oil derivatives are included in natural gas and oil sales in the month of related production.  Pursuant to ASC 815, certain derivatives do not qualify for designation as cash flow hedges.  Changes in the fair value of these nonqualifying derivatives that occur prior to their maturity (i.e., because of temporary fluctuations in value) are reported currently in the consolidated statement of operations as unrealized gains (losses) within natural gas and oil sales.  Following provisions of ASC 815, changes in the fair value of derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges, to the extent effective in offsetting cash flows attributable to hedged risk, are recorded in other comprehensive income until the hedged item is recognized in earnings.  Any change in fair value resulting from ineffectiveness is recognized currently in natural gas and oil sales.
Excluding the swaps assumed in connection with the acquisition of CNR which are described below, the company currently has the following open natural gas swaps in place and also has the following gains from lifted natural gas trades:
 
 
The company currently has the following open natural gas collars in place:
 
The company currently has the following natural gas written call options in place:
 
 
The company has the following natural gas basis protection swaps in place:
 
 
We assumed certain liabilities related to open derivative positions in connection with the CNR acquisition in November 2005.  In accordance with ASC 805, these derivative positions were recorded at fair value in the purchase price allocation as a liability of $592 million ($11 million as of September 30, 2009).  The recognition of the derivative liability and other assumed liabilities resulted in an increase in the total purchase price which was allocated to the assets acquired.  Because of this accounting treatment, only cash settlements for changes in fair value subsequent to the acquisition date for the derivative positions assumed result in adjustments to our natural gas and oil revenues upon settlement.  For example, if the fair value of the derivative positions assumed does not change, then upon the sale of the underlying production and corresponding settlement of the derivative positions, cash would be paid to the counterparties and there would be no adjustment to natural gas and oil revenues related to the derivative positions.  If, however, the actual sales price is different from the price assumed in the original fair value calculation, the difference would be reflected as either a decrease or increase in natural gas and oil revenues, depending upon whether the sales price was higher or lower, respectively, than the prices assumed in the original fair value calculation.  For accounting purposes, the net effect of these acquired hedges is that we hedged the production volumes listed below at their fair values on the date of our acquisition of CNR.
Pursuant to ASC 815 , the assumed CNR derivative instruments are deemed to contain a significant financing element and all cash flows associated with these positions are reported as financing activity in the statement of cash flows.
Derivatives and Hedging
The following details the CNR derivatives (natural gas swaps) we have assumed:
 
 
Note:  Not shown above are collars covering 1 bcf of production for the remainder of 2009 at an average floor and ceiling of $4.50 and $6.00.
The company also has the following crude oil swaps in place:
 
 
Note:  Not shown above are written call options covering 1 mmbbls of oil production for the remainder of 2009 at a weighted average price of $112.50 per bbl for a weighted average discount of $1.21 per bbl, 3 mmbbls of oil production in 2010 at a weighted average price of $115.00 per bbl for a weighted average discount of $0.86 per bbl and 4 mmbls of oil production in 2011 at a weighted average price of $105.00 per bbl for a weighted average premium of $4.27 per bbl.

Exhibit 99.3
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
DECEMBER 28, 2009
CHESAPEAKE ENERGY CORPORATION SECURES NEW PIPELINE CAPACITY
TO EXPAND NATURAL GAS MARKET IN NEW YORK CITY METRO AREA
 
 
Spectra Energy Pipeline to Deliver Natural Gas from
Chesapeakes Marcellus Shale Production
OKLAHOMA CITY, OKLAHOMA, DECEMBER 28, 2009  Chesapeake Energy Marketing, Inc., a subsidiary of Chesapeake Energy Corporation (NYSE:CHK), announced today that it has entered into an agreement to be the largest of three anchor shippers on a new Spectra Energy Corp (NYSE:SE) natural gas pipeline project to serve the large and growing New York City metropolitan area natural gas market.  Spectra Energy will construct facilities on its Algonquin Gas Transmission and Texas Eastern Transmission pipeline systems, including approximately 16 miles of 30-inch pipeline from Staten Island to Manhattan.  Once completed, the pipeline will provide a new interconnect with facilities of Consolidated Edison of New York (NYSE:ED), which will deliver up to 800 million cubic feet per day (mmcf/d) of additional natural gas to Con Edisons service area.  Chesapeake is the largest capacity holder with a commitment of up to 425 mmcf/d.  The expansion is expected to be in service by year-end 2013.
Aubrey K. McClendon, Chesapeakes Chief Executive Officer, commented, Chesapeake is pleased to make the commitments necessary to transport our growing Marcellus Shale production into the best natural gas market in the U.S.  The relative proximity of abundant Marcellus natural gas reserves to New York City will provide the public, utilities and businesses with a clean-burning alternative to existing dirtier fuel sources.  Increased investment in natural gas production and distribution will create tens of thousands of well-paying American jobs in areas that have been suffering economically and will reduce our dependence on expensive foreign oil and other carbon-heavy fuels such as coal.  Natural gas provides a cleaner alternative that will reduce greenhouse emissions and improve air quality in the New York City metropolitan area  a major goal of the citys long-term clean-air initiative.
With the newfound abundance of domestic natural gas unfolding in many parts of the country through deep shale development, American energy consumers can now more fully embrace the substantial economic and environmental benefits of natural gas, McClendon said.
This is the first major pipeline expansion in the Northeast U.S. that is designed to transport Chesapeakes rapidly expanding Marcellus Shale natural gas production and will likely be followed by other pipeline expansion projects from the Marcellus to other high-value eastern U.S. markets.  The New York City metropolitan area is the logical first expanded distribution delivery point for this production based on proximity to the Marcellus and the need for the New York City area to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions and improve air quality by burning less fuel oil in electricity-generating power plants and in building and home furnaces.
Chesapeake believes the Marcellus will become one of the two largest natural gas fields in the U.S., along with the Haynesville Shale.  Chesapeake is both the largest leasehold owner and most active driller in both the Marcellus and the Haynesville with more than 1.5 million and 0.5 million net acres owned, respectively, and with 23 and 38 operated rigs currently drilling, respectively.
To date, Chesapeake has invested more than $1.0 billion in acquiring leasehold drilling rights from landowners in New York and Pennsylvania and in 2009 created more than 650 new jobs in Pennsylvania to explore for and develop Marcellus natural gas.  The company expects to continue hiring at least 1,000 Pennsylvanians directly and indirectly annually for years to come.  The company has no employee hiring plans in New York until the current Marcellus drilling moratorium is lifted.
Although New York Marcellus natural gas volumes will not be required to support the pipeline expansion announced today, McClendon said, We look forward to the day when we can re-activate our Marcellus drilling program in the Southern Tier of New York using our advanced drilling and completion technologies, which will demonstrate our ability to safely and responsibly explore for and produce natural gas in an environmentally sensitive way, just as we do every day in Pennsylvania and in many other states across the country.
Chesapeake Energy Corporation is one of the leading producers of natural gas in the U.S.  Headquartered in Oklahoma City, the company's operations are focused on the development of onshore unconventional and conventional natural gas in the U.S. in the Barnett Shale, Haynesville Shale, Fayetteville Shale, Marcellus Shale, Anadarko Basin, Arkoma Basin, Appalachian Basin, Permian Basin, Delaware Basin, South Texas, Texas Gulf Coast and East Texas regions of the United States.  Further information is available at .
www.chk.com


