FILE:CHK/CHK-8K-20100416090614.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
           Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
*
 
           Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
*
 
           
*
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
           
*
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 7  Regulation FD
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
On April 13, 2010, Chesapeake Energy Corporation (the Company) issued a press release announcing that it has been recognized for the Best Investor Relations Program in North America by at the 2010 Global IR Rankings Awards Ceremony held in New York last week.  Additionally, Jeffrey L. Mobley, Chesapeakes Senior Vice President of Investor Relations and Research, was selected as the Best Investor Relations Officer in North America by   The press release is attached herewith as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report.
Investors Choice
Investors Choice.
Section 8  Other Events
Item 8.01 Other Events.
On April 16, 2010, the Company issued a press release announcing that it will convert all of its outstanding 5.00% Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock (Series 2005), par value $0.01 per share, into Chesapeake Energy Corporation Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share, on May 3, 2010.  A copy of the press release is attached herewith as Exhibit 99.2 to this Current Report.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 (d)
   
 
Exhibits.  See "Index to Exhibits" attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K, which is incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date:           April 16, 2010
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
APRIL 13, 2010
OKLAHOMA CITY, OKLAHOMA, APRIL 13, 2010  Chesapeake Energy (NYSE:CHK) was recognized for the Best Investor Relations Program in North America by at the 2010 Global IR Rankings Awards Ceremony held in New York last week.  Additionally, Jeffrey L. Mobley, Chesapeakes Senior Vice President of Investor Relations and Research, was selected as the Best Investor Relations Officer in North America by
Investors Choice
Investors Choice.
The IR Global Rankings is a comprehensive ranking system for investor relations websites, online annual reports, corporate governance practices and financial disclosure procedures.
The ranking is based on extensive proprietary research of publicly traded companies and investors through a transparent methodology created by MZ Consult () and supported by input from independent audit, corporate governance and legal experts.  The annual IR Global Rankings have been awarded since 1999.  Further information is available at .
www.mz-ir.com
www.irglobalrankings.com
Aubrey K. McClendon, Chesapeakes Chief Executive Officer, commented, "We are truly honored by this recognition and congratulate Jeff for the individual accolade.  This latest award comes just two weeks after recognized Chesapeake for Best Investor Relations in the Energy Sector and for Best Investor Relations Website. We work hard to provide excellent disclosure and significant personal contact with the investment community, and I am pleased that our efforts have been so publicly recognized in the past few weeks.
IR Magazine
Chesapeake Energy Corporation is the second-largest producer of natural gas and most active driller of new wells in the U.S.  Headquartered in Oklahoma City, the company's operations are focused on discovering, acquiring and developing unconventional and conventional natural gas and oil onshore in the U.S. Chesapeake assets include the Big 6 shale plays:
 
the Barnett, Fayetteville, Haynesville, Marcellus, Bossier and Eagle Ford, and substantial operations in the Granite Wash and various other plays in the Mid-Continent, as well as the Appalachian Basin, Permian Basin, Delaware Basin, South Texas, Texas Gulf Coas t, East Texas and Powder River Basin regions of the U.S.  Further information is available at
www.chk.com
.

Exhibit 99.2
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
APRIL 16, 2010
 
OKLAHOMA CITY, OKLAHOMA, APRIL 16, 2010  Chesapeake Energy Corporation (NYSE:CHK) today announced that it will convert all 5,000 shares of its outstanding 5.00% Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock (Series 2005), par value $0.01 per share, into Chesapeake Energy Corporation Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share, on May 3, 2010 (the Mandatory Conversion Date).
On the Mandatory Conversion Date, the 5.00% Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock (Series 2005) will be automatically converted into a number of shares equal to $100.00 divided by the lesser of the conversion price then in effect (anticipated to be $25.55) and the average of the closing prices of our common stock for the five trading days ending on April 29, 2010.  Dividends on the preferred stock will cease to accrue on the Mandatory Conversion Date.  Cash will be paid in lieu of fractional shares of common stock.  No payment or adjustment will be made upon conversion of the preferred stock for accrued dividends with respect to the preferred stock or for dividends with respect to the common stock issued upon conversion.
From and after May 3, 2010, the preferred stock remaining outstanding will be deemed to be no longer outstanding and all rights of the holders with respect to such preferred stock will terminate, except the right to receive the whole shares of common stock issuable upon conversion and cash in lieu of any fractional shares, as described above.
Chesapeake Energy Corporation is the second-largest producer of natural gas and the most active driller of new wells in the U.S.  Headquartered in Oklahoma City, the company's operations are focused on discovering, acquiring and developing unconventional natural gas and oil onshore in the U.S. Chesapeakes assets include leading positions in the Barnett, Fayetteville, Haynesville, Marcellus, Bossier and Eagle Ford shale plays (the Big 6) and in the Granite Wash and other plays in the Mid-Continent. In addition, the company remains active in the Appalachian Basin, Permian Basin, Delaware Basin, South Texas, Texas Gulf Coast, East Texas and Powder River Basin regions of the U.S.  Further information is available at .
www.chk.com


