FILE:CHK/CHK-8K-20101118172429.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
           Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
*
 
           Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
*
 
           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
*
 
           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
*
 
 
 
 
Section 7  Regulation FD
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
On November 16, 2010, Chesapeake Energy Corporation (the Company) issued a press release announcing the closing of its Eagle Ford Shale project cooperation agreement with CNOOC International Limited.  A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report.
Section 8  Other Events
Item 8.01 Other Events.
 
 On November 16, 2010, the Company and CNOOC Limited (NYSE: CEO; SEHK: 00883) announced the closing of a project cooperation agreement whereby CNOOC International Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of CNOOC Limited, purchased a 33.3% undivided interest in the Companys 600,000 net oil and natural gas leasehold acres in the Eagle Ford Shale project in South Texas.  The consideration for the transaction was $1.08 billion in cash, plus an additional $40 million payment adjustment at closing.  In addition, CNOOC Limited has agreed to fund 75% of the Companys share of drilling and completion costs up t o $1.08 billion, which the Company expects to occur by year-end 2012.
   
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)
 
Exhibits.  See Index to Exhibits attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K, which is incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date:           November 18, 2010
 
 
 
 

HONG KONG, NOVEMBER 16, 2010  Chesapeake Energy Corporation (NYSE:CHK) and CNOOC Limited (NYSE:CEO; SEHK:00883) today announced the closing of a project cooperation agreement whereby CNOOC International Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of CNOOC Limited, purchased a 33.3% undivided interest in Chesapeakes 600,000 net oil and natural gas leasehold acres in the Eagle Ford Shale project in South Texas.  The consideration for the transaction was $1.08 billion in cash, plus an additional $40 million payment adjustment at closing.  In addition, CNOOC Limited has agreed to fund 75% of Chesapeakes share of drilling and completion costs up to $1.08 billion, which Chesapeake expects to occur by year-end 2012.
 
Aubrey K. McClendon, Chesapeakes Chief Executive Officer, commented, We are very pleased to have partnered with CNOOC Limited in completing our fifth industry shale development transaction.  We look forward to accelerating the development of this large domestic oil and natural gas resource, resulting in a reduction of our countrys oil imports over time, the creation of thousands of high-paying jobs in the U.S. and the payment of very significant local, state and federal taxes.
 
Fu Chengyu, Chairman of CNOOC Limited, stated, We are delighted to close the transaction and further grow our business in line with our overseas development strategy.  With our partners expertise and experience in the shale oil and natural gas development, I believe the project will bring substantial benefits to both parties.
 
Chesapeakes advisor on the transaction was Jefferies & Company, Inc., and CNOOC Limiteds advisor was Tudor, Pickering, Holt & Co. Securities, Inc.
This news release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 regarding expected future events.  Actual results could differ materially as a result of a variety of risks and uncertainties.  While forward-looking statements are based on assumptions and analyses made by us that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, a number of risks and uncertainties could cause our actual results and future developments to differ materially from our predictions and expectations.  See Risks Related to Our Business in Chesapeake's Prospectus Supplement filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on August 10, 2010 for a discussion of risk factors that affect our business and could affect the project cooperation agreement.  Further discussion of risks and uncertainties can also be found in CNOOC Limiteds 2009 Annual Report on Form 20-F filed with the SEC on April 23, 2010.  We caution you not to place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this news release, and we undertake no obligation to update this information.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
.
Chesapeake Energy Corporation is the second-largest producer of natural gas and the most active driller of new wells in the U.S.  Headquartered in Oklahoma City, the company's operations are focused on discovering and developing unconventional natural gas and oil fields onshore in the U.S.  Chesapeake owns leading positions in the Barnett, Fayetteville, Haynesville, Marcellus and Bossier natural gas shale plays and in the Granite Wash, Eagle Ford, Niobrara and various other unconventional liquids plays.  The company has also vertically integrated its operations and owns substantial midstream, compression, drilling and oilfield service assets.  Further i nformation is available at
www.chk.com
 
 
For further inquiries to Chesapeake, please contact:
 
CNOOC Limited is China's largest producer of offshore crude oil and natural gas and one of the largest independent oil and gas exploration and production companies in the world.  Headquartered in Hong Kong, CNOOC Limited mainly engages in exploration, development, production and sales of oil and natural gas and has four major production areas in offshore China, which are Bohai Bay, Western South China Sea, Eastern South China Sea and East China Sea.  In addition, it is one of the largest offshore crude oil producers in Indonesia.  CNOOC Limited also has upstream assets in Nigeria, Australia and other countries.  Further information is available at .
www.cnoocltd.com
For further inquiries to CNOOC Limited, please contact:


