FILE:CHK/CHK-8K-20100326170557.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
           Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
*
 
           Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
*
 
           
*
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
           
*
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 7  Regulation FD
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
Effective March 15, 2010, Michael A. Johnson, Senior Vice President  Accounting, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer of Chesapeake Energy Corporation entered into a sales trading plan pursuant to Rule 10b5-1 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934.  The plan expires on March 15, 2011 and has been approved by Chesapeake in accordance with its Insider Trading Policy.  The plan is part of Mr. Johnsons long-term strategy to diversify assets.  Other Chesapeake executives may enter into Rule 10b5-1 trading plans in the future, from time to time.
 
Effective March 22, 2010, Jennifer M. Grigsby, Senior Vice President  Treasurer and Corporate Secretary of Chesapeake Energy Corporation entered into a sales trading plan pursuant to Rule 10b5-1 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934.  The plan expires on March 22, 2011 and has been approved by Chesapeake in accordance with its Insider Trading Policy.  The plan is part of Ms. Grisbys long-term strategy to diversify assets.  Other Chesapeake executives may enter into Rule 10b5-1 trading plans in the future, from time to time.
 
On March 25, 2010, Chesapeake Energy Corporation issued a press release announcing that it has been recognized by IR Magazine and received the award for .  Chesapeake was also selected as finalist in the among large cap companies and .  The press release is attached herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
Best Investor Relations in the Energy Sector
for
Best Investor Relations Website
Grand Prix for Best Overall Investor Relations
Best Use of Conferencing
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)
 
Exhibits.  See "Index to Exhibits" attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K, which is incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date:           March 26, 2010
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
  FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
  MARCH 25, 2010
 
OKLAHOMA CITY, OKLAHOMA, MARCH 25, 2010  Chesapeake Energy Corporation (NYSE:CHK) was recognized for and also received the award for at the 2010 IR Magazine U.S. awards program last night in New York.  Chesapeake was also selected as finalist in the among large cap companies and .
Best Investor Relations in the Energy Sector
Best Investor Relations Website
Grand Prix for Best Overall Investor Relations
Best Use of Conferencing
In its 15th year, IR Magazine U.S. Awards have set the benchmark of excellence in investor relations.  Based on their unique research process that directly canvases the opinions of the entire investment community, the annual event in New York brings together the entire investor relations community.
Jeffery L. Mobley, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations and Research, stated, We greatly appreciate this recognition by IR Magazine.  Our team strives to provide transparent, comprehensive and insightful information regarding Chesapeake and the energy industry to investors and analysts and we value this feedback from nearly 4,200 investment professionals that voted in this years survey.
Aubrey K. McClendon, Chesapeakes Chief Executive Officer, commented, Congratulations to Jeff and his team for outstanding work.  Chesapeake continues to place significant emphasis on our communications exchange with the investment community and we are honored by these awards.
 
About Cross Border Ltd and IR Magazine:  Cross Border Ltd is the publisher in
New York
and
London
of IR magazine, the only global publication focused on the interface between companies and their investors.  IR Magazine hosts events in the US, the UK,
Europe
,
Canada
,
Singapore
,
Hong Kong, China
and
Brazil
.  Visit
www.thecross bordergroup.com
 
for more details.
 
Chesapeake Energy Corporation is the second-largest producer of natural gas in the U.S.  Headquartered in Oklahoma City, the company's operations are focused on the development of onshore unconventional and conventional natural gas in the U.S. in the Barnett Shale, Haynesville Shale, Fayetteville Shale, Marcellus Shale, Anadarko Basin, Arkoma Basin, Appalachian Basin, Permian Basin, Delaware Basin, South Texas, Texas Gulf Coast and East Texas regions of the United States.  Further information is available at .
www.chk.com
 


