FILE:CHK/CHK-8K-20110721171258.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
           Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
*
 
           Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
*
 
           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
*
 
           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
*
 
 
 
 
 
Section 7  Regulation FD
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
On July 18, 2011, Chesapeake Energy Corporation issued a press release announcing its Buffalo Creek well in western Oklahoma has reached a rare production milestone of 60 billion cubic feet of natural gas.  A copy of this press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)
 
Exhibits.  See "Index to Exhibits" attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K, which is incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date:           July 21, 2011
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
OKLAHOMA CITY, OKLAHOMA, JULY 18, 2011  Chesapeake Energy Corporation (NYSE:CHK) today announced its Buffalo Creek 1-17 well located in Beckham County, Oklahoma, recently surpassed cumulative gross production of more than 60 billion cubic feet of natural gas (bcf).  Chesapeake operates the well with an 82.6% working interest and a 65.8% net revenue interest.
Chesapeake originally spud the well in May 2002 and reached a total depth of approximately 21,000 feet in the Cunningham Sand of the Deep Springer formation with first sales commencing in December 2002.  The well averaged approximately 41 million cubic feet of natural gas (mmcf) per day for the first two years of production and is still producing approximately 8 mmcf per day.
Total gross capital expenditures to drill and complete the well were $8.5 million and subsequent operating expenses have been $1.4 million, or $0.024 per thousand cubic feet of natural gas equivalent (mcfe).  Total gross revenue has been approximately $320 million, which includes approximately $65 million paid to royalty owners and approximately $15 million paid in severance tax to the state of Oklahoma.  Total net cash flow from the well to the working interest owners has been approximately $230 million, or a multiple of 27 times the original cost of drilling and completing the well, and the realized price per mcfe has averaged $5.35.
Aubrey K. McClendon, Chesapeakes Chief Executive Officer, commented, The Buffalo Creek 1-17 has certainly been a special well in the history of Chesapeake.  As early pioneers drilling deep conventional wells using 3-D seismic in the Anadarko Basin, the success of the Buffalo Creek 1-17 well initiated a process almost 10 years ago that has now led to Chesapeake owning the largest leasehold position in the Anadarko Basin.  This industry-leading leasehold position has proved to be exceedingly valuable as unconventional plays such as the Granite Wash, Cleveland and Tonkawa plays have emerged in areas in and around our traditional strongholds of conventional Anadarko Basin production.  We believe that this is only the sixth well in Oklahoma history to reach this remarkable milestone of 60 bcf of cumulative production and Chesapeake now operates four of the six most prolific natural gas wells ever drilled in Oklahoma.  I offer my congratulations to the entire Chesapeake Anadarko Basin team for being part of this historic well.
McClendon added, As a result of this wells success and the many other successful Deep Springer wells we have drilled in the Anadarko Basin over the years that followed the drilling of the Buffalo Creek 1-17, we continue to pursue ultra-deep 3-D based Deep Springer drilling in the Anadarko Basin and we are currently operating three rigs in the play, where we believe at least another 185 wells can be drilled in the years ahead on our approximate 75,000 net acres of Deep Springer leasehold.
 
 
 
 
 
Chesapeake Energy Corporation is the second-largest producer of natural gas, a Top 15 producer of oil and natural gas liquids and the most active driller of new wells in the U.S.  Headquartered in Oklahoma City, the company's operations are focused on discovering and developing unconventional natural gas and oil fields onshore in the U.S.  Chesapeake owns leading positions in the Barnett, Haynesville, Bossier, Marcellus and Pearsall natural gas shale plays and in the Granite Wash, Cleveland, Tonkawa, Mississippian, Bone Spring, Avalon, Wolfcamp, Wolfberry, Eagle Ford, Niobrara, Three Forks/Bakken and Utica unconventional liquids plays.  The company has also vertically integrated its operations and owns substantial midstream, compression, drilling and oilfield service assets.  Chesapeakes stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol CHK.  Further information is available at where Chesapeake routinely posts announcements, updates, events, investor information, presentations and press releases.
www.chk.com


