FILE:CHK/CHK-8K-20110421180359.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
           Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
*
 
           Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
*
 
           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
*
 
           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
*
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 7  Regulation FD
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
On April 18, 2011, Chesapeake Energy Corporation (the Company) issued a press release announcing the early tender results for its previously announced cash tender offers to purchase a portion of the outstanding principal amount of its 7.625% Senior Notes due 2013, 9.500% Senior Notes due 2015, 6.250% Euro-denominated Senior Notes due 2017, 6.500% Senior Notes due 2017, 6.875% Senior Notes due 2018, 7.250% Senior Notes due 2018 and 6.625% Senior Notes due 2020 (collectively, the Notes). In addition, the press release announced that the Company has increased the tender offer series maximum with respect to its 6.250% Euro-denominated Senior Notes due 2017. A copy of this press release is attached to this Current Report as Exhibit 99.1.
 This Current Report is not an offer to purchase or a solicitation of an offer to sell the Notes or any other securities.
   
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)
 
Exhibits.  See "Index to Exhibits" attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K, which is incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date:           April 21, 2011
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
OKLAHOMA CITY, OKLAHOMA, APRIL 18, 2011  Chesapeake Energy Corporation (NYSE:CHK) today announced the early tender results for its previously announced cash tender offers to purchase a portion of the outstanding principal amount of each series of its senior notes listed in the table below (collectively, the Notes). The tender offers are being made pursuant to the terms of the Offer to Purchase dated April 4, 2011 (the Offer to Purchase) and the related Letter of Transmittal.
The column in the table above entitled Early Tender Results shows the aggregate principal amount of each series of Notes that was validly tendered (and not validly withdrawn) in the tender offers as of 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on April 15, 2011, which was the early tender deadline. Holders who validly tendered (and did not validly withdraw) their Notes prior to the early tender deadline, and whose Notes are accepted for purchase by Chesapeake, will receive in cash, for each $1,000 or 1,000 in principal amount, as applicable, of Notes tendered, the applicable Total Consideration, as set forth in the Offer to Purchase, which includes the applicable early tender premium of $20.00 per $1,000 (or 20.00 per 1,000, as applicable) in principal amount of Notes.  The Total Consideration with respect to each series of Notes has not been changed.
 
 
 
 
 
Chesapeake also announced that it has increased the tender offer Series Maximum with respect to its 6.250% Euro-denominated Senior Notes due 2017. The table above sets forth the principal amount of such series of Notes that Chesapeake originally offered to purchase and the increased principal amount of such series of Notes that Chesapeake is offering to purchase in the columns entitled Original Series Maximum and Revised Series Maximum, respectively.  Chesapeake reserves the right to further increase the Series Maximum for one
or more series of Notes in the tender offers at any time on or before the applicable expiration date for any series of Notes in the tender offers.
If the aggregate principal amount of Notes of any series validly tendered (and not validly withdrawn) and accepted for purchase by Chesapeake exceeds the Original Series Maximum or the Revised Series Maximum, as applicable, for such series of Notes, Chesapeake will accept tendered Notes of such series on a pro rata basis, as more fully set forth in the Offer to Purchase.
The tender offers are scheduled to expire at 11:59 p.m., New York City time, on April 29, 2011 (unless extended or earlier terminated).  Holders whose Notes are validly tendered (and not validly withdrawn) and accepted for purchase by Chesapeake after the early tender deadline but before the expiration date of the tender offers will receive in cash, for each $1,000 or 1,000 in principal amount, as applicable, of Notes tendered, the applicable Purchase Price set forth in the Offer to Purchase, which does not include the early tender premium. The Purchase Price with respect to each series of Notes has not been changed.
In addition, holders will receive, in respect of their Notes that are accepted for purchase, accrued and unpaid interest on the principal amount of the accepted Notes to, but not including, the applicable settlement date of the tender offers, which will be promptly after the expiration date.
This announcement is not an offer to purchase or a solicitation of an offer to sell the Notes or any other securities.  The tender offers are only being made pursuant to the terms of the Offer to Purchase and the related Letter of Transmittal.
Chesapeake has retained Global Bondholder Services Corporation as the Depositary and Information Agent for the tender offers for the dollar-denominated Notes and has retained Lucid Issuer Services Limited as Tender Agent and Information Agent for the tender offer for the euro-denominated Notes.  Requests for documents may be directed to the applicable Information Agent at the addresses and telephone numbers set forth below:
 
 
Chesapeake has retained Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and RBS Securities Inc. as the Dealer Managers for the tender offers.  Questions regarding the tender offers may be directed to the Dealer Managers at the addresses and telephone numbers set forth below:
 
 
 
 
None of Chesapeake, the Dealer Managers, the Depositary, the Tender Agent, the Information Agents or any other person makes any recommendation as to whether holders of the Notes should participate in the tender offers, and no one has been authorized to make such a recommendation.
This news release contains forward-looking statements, including the expected consummation of the tender offers and the anticipated principal amounts of notes to be retired.  Forward-looking statements give our current expectations or forecasts of future events. Although we believe our forward-looking statements are reasonable, they can be affected by inaccurate assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties, and actual results may differ from the expectations expressed. See the Risk Factors discussion in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010 filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on March 1, 2011 for a discussion of risk factors that affect our business.  We caution you not to place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this news release, and we undertake no obligation to update this information.
Chesapeake Energy Corporation is the second-largest producer of natural gas and the most active driller of new wells in the U.S.  Headquartered in Oklahoma City, the company's operations are focused on discovering and developing unconventional natural gas and oil fields onshore in the U.S.  Chesapeake owns leading positions in the Barnett, Haynesville, Marcellus and Bossier natural gas shale plays and in the Eagle Ford, Granite Wash, Tonkawa, Cleveland, Mississippian, Wolfcamp, Bone Spring, Avalon and Niobrara unconventional liquids plays.  The company has also vertically integrated its operations and owns substantial midstream, compression, drilling and oilfield service assets.  Further information is available at where Chesapeake routinely posts announcements, updates, events, investor information and presentations and all recent press releases.
www.chk.com


