FILE:CHK/CHK-8K-20110405172039.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
*
           Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
*
           Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
*
           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
*
           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 2  Financial Information
Item 2.01 Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets.
On March 31, 2011, Chesapeake Energy Corporation (the Company) closed the sale of its Fayetteville Shale assets in central Arkansas to BHP Billiton Petroleum, a wholly owned subsidiary of BHP Billiton Limited (NYSE: BHP; ASX: BHP), for net proceeds of $4.637 billion in cash (the Fayetteville Transaction).  The sold properties consist of approximately 487,000 net acres of leasehold, current net production of approximately 415 million cubic feet of natural gas equivalent per day and midstream assets consisting of approximately 420 miles of pipeline.  As part of the Fayetteville Transaction, the Company has agreed to provide technical and business services for up to one year for BHP Billitons Fayetteville properties for an agreed-upon fee.
Section 7  Regulation FD
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
On March 31, 2011, the Company issued a press release announcing the closing of the Fayetteville Transaction.  A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
The Companys unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2010 and its unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2010 that give effect to the Fayetteville Transaction are furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.2 to this Current Report.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
Date:  April 5, 2011
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
OKLAHOMA CITY, OKLAHOMA, MARCH 31, 2011  Chesapeake Energy Corporation (NYSE:CHK) today announced the closing of a transaction to sell its Fayetteville Shale
assets to BHP Billiton Petroleum, a wholly owned subsidiary of BHP Billiton Limited
(NYSE:BHP; ASX:BHP). The transaction included approximately 487,000 net acres of leasehold, current net production of approximately 415 million cubic feet of natural gas equivalent per day and midstream assets consisting of approximately 420 miles of pipeline.  As part of the transaction, Chesapeake has agreed to provide technical and business services for up to one year for BHP Billitons Fayetteville properties for an agreed-upon fee.
Aubrey K. McClendon, Chesapeakes Chief Executive Officer, commented, We are pleased to complete the sale of our Fayetteville Shale assets to BHP Billiton.  I would also like to personally thank all of the Chesapeake employees who throughout the past six years helped build this field into a world-class natural gas asset.  This transaction allows Chesapeake to achieve substantial progress in implementing the debt reduction targets of our previously announced 25/25 Plan.  We look forward to replacing the Fayetteville production through substantial growth from our other world-class natural gas plays and also from our rapidly growing higher margin liquids-rich plays in the years ahead.
This news release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 regarding our 25/25 Plan and our expectation of future production growth. Actual results could differ materially as a result of a variety of risks and uncertainties. While forward-looking statements are based on assumptions and analyses made by us that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, a number of risks and uncertainties could cause our actual results to differ materially from our predictions and expectations. See "Risks Factors" in Item 1A of our 2010 Form 10-K filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on March 1, 2011 for a discussion of risk factors that affect our business. We caution you not to place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this news release, and we undertake no obligation to update this information.
Chesapeake Energy Corporation is the second-largest producer of natural gas and the most active driller of new wells in the U.S. Headquartered in Oklahoma City, the company's operations are focused on discovering and developing unconventional natural gas and oil fields onshore in the U.S. Chesapeake owns leading positions in the Barnett, Haynesville, Marcellus and Bossier natural gas shale plays and in the Eagle Ford, Granite Wash, Cleveland, Tonkawa, Mississippian, Wolfcamp, Bone Spring, Avalon, Niobrara and Williston Basin unconventional liquids plays. The company has also vertically integrated its operations and owns substantial midstream, compression, drilling and oilfield service assets. Further information is available at www.chk.com where Chesapeake routinely posts announcements, updates, events, investor information and presentations and all recent press releases.

Exhibit 99.2
 
The following unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated balance sheet and statement of operations are derived from the historical consolidated financial statements of Chesapeake Energy Corporation (the Company).  The pro forma condensed consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2010 gives effect to the disposition of the Companys Fayetteville Shale upstream and midstream assets as if it had occurred on December 31, 2010.  The pro forma condensed consolidated statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2010 reflects the Fayetteville Shale asset disposition as if it had occurred on January 1, 2010.  The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated balance sheet and statement of operations should be read in conjunction with the notes thereto and the historical financial statements, including the notes thereto, of the Company included in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010.
 
The preparation of the unaudited pro forma consolidated financial information is based on financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.  These principles require the use of estimates that affect the reported amounts of revenues and expenses.  Actual results could differ from those estimates.
 
The unaudited pro forma consolidated financial information is provided for illustrative purposes only and does not purport to represent what the actual results of operations would have been had the transaction occurred on the respective dates assumed, nor is it necessarily indicative of the Companys future operating results.  However, the pro forma adjustments reflected in the accompanying unaudited pro forma consolidated financial information reflect estimates and assumptions that the Companys management believes to be reasonable.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NOTES TO UNAUDITED PRO FORMA CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
NOTES TO UNAUDITED PRO FORMA CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS
 
 
 
 
 
 


