FILE:CHK/CHK-8K-20111208165147.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
           Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
*
 
           Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
*
 
           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
*
 
           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
*
 
 
 
 
 
Section 7  Regulation FD
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
 On December 2, 2011, Chesapeake Energy Corporation (the Company) issued a press release announcing that the Company has received the at the 13th Annual Platts Global Energy Awards program on December 1, 2011 in New York City and also received thefor its industry joint ventures in the Eagle Ford Shale and Denver-Julesberg and Powder River basins with a subsidiary of CNOOC Limited. A copy of this press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report.
   
Industry Leadership Award
Deal of the Year Award
issued a press release announcing the closing of the sale of $750 million of perpetual preferred shares in its wholly owned, unrestricted subsidiary, CHK Utica, L.L.C.  A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.2 to this Current Report.
On December 5, 2011, the Company
Section 8  Other Events
Item 8.01 Other Events.
   
 On December 2, 2011, the Company completed the sale of $750 million of perpetual preferred shares of a newly formed entity, CHK Utica, L.L.C.  CHK Utica is an unrestricted subsidiary of the Company that owns approximately 700,000 net leasehold acres within an area of mutual interest in the Utica Shale play in 13 counties primarily in eastern Ohio.  The Company has retained all the common interests in CHK Utica.
   
 
 This closing completes a financial transaction led by EIG Global Energy Partners ("EIG") and results in total proceeds of $1.25 billion from sales of CHK Utica preferred shares. As previously announced on November 3, 2011, EIG purchased $500 million of perpetual preferred shares in CHK Utica. 
   
   
 The CHK Utica preferred shares issued in the second closing have identical terms to the initial shares sold to EIG, including an initial annual distribution of 7%, payable quarterly. The Company has retained an option exercisable prior to October 31, 2018 to repurchase the preferred shares for cash in whole or in part at any time at a valuation expected to equal the greater of a 10% internal rate of return or a return on investment of 1.4x. Investors in the combined $1.25 billion of CHK Utica preferred shares will also proportionately receive a 3% overriding royalty interest in the first 1,500 net wells drilled on CHK Utica's leasehold, which is the equivalent of an approximate 0.45% overriding royalty interest across the Company's projected 10,000 inventory of net wells to be drilled. The Company's average net revenue interest on its Utica Shale leasehold is approximately 83%.  As part of the transaction, the Company has committed to drill a minimum of 50 net wells per year through 2016 in the CHK Utica area of mutual interest, up to a minimum cumulative total of 250 net wells, for the benefit of CHK Utica.
   
 
 The private placement of CHK Utica preferred shares was made pursuant to the exemption from the registration provisions of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, provided by Section 4(2) of the Securities Act. The shares have not been registered under the Securities Act and may not be offered or sold in the United States absent registration or an applicable exemption from registration requirements.
   
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 (d)
   
 
Exhibits.  See "Exhibit Index" attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K, which is incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date:                      December 8, 2011
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
OKLAHOMA CITY, OKLAHOMA, DECEMBER 2, 2011  Chesapeake Energy Corporation (NYSE:CHK) received the at the 13 Annual Platts Global Energy Awards program last night in New York City and also received the for its industry joint ventures in the Eagle Ford Shale and Denver-Julesberg and Powder River basins with a subsidiary of CNOOC Limited (NYSE:CEO).
Industry Leadership Award
th
Deal of the Year Award
The Platts Global Energy Awards recognize excellence and innovation by companies and executives throughout the global energy industry.  Finalists were chosen for the Global Energy Awards from more than 200 nominations.  Chesapeake was also a finalist for the awards.  Chesapeake is one of only two companies that received multiple awards this year and one of only two companies selected as a finalist in five or more categories.  This is the second time in three years that Chesapeake has received the from Platts.  During the past five years, Chesapeake has earned five Platts Global Energy Awards and has been nominated for nine more, the most recognition of any E&P company in the world.
CEO of the Year, Energy Producer of the Year and Community Development Program of the Year
Industry Leadership Award
In the category, Platts stated, Chesapeake Energy Corporation is positioning itself to help lead the transition toward a greater use of natural gas as the fuel for motor vehicles.  Such an effort to promote the use of compressed natural gas (CNG) and liquefied natural gas (LNG) to fuel vehicles could help the United States reduce its dependence on gasoline and diesel, and thus high-cost imported oil, and approach energy independence.  This could be a game-changer for the U.S. economy, energy policy and foreign policy, a leadership initiative that has earned this years 
Industry Leadership Award
Industry Leadership Award.
In the category, Platts also added, Chesapeake Energy Corporation reshaped the contours of international energy exploration with two landmark deals with the same partner: CNOOC, the state-owned China National Offshore Oil Corporation.  Chesapeake and its CEO Aubrey K. McClendon singlehandedly transformed U.S.-China energy cooperation and helped strengthen overall U.S.-China economic relations.  Seldom does a single set of transactions have such a serious commercial, diplomatic and energy-policy impact.  For its pioneering efforts to create an international partnership that may have wide-ranging energy and economic implications for years to come, Chesapeake has certainly eclipsed all other competitors in the 2011 award category for .
Deal of the Year
Deal of the Year
 
 
 
 
 
Aubrey K. McClendon, Chesapeakes Chief Executive Officer, commented, We are proud of the accomplishments of our more than 12,000 employees and honored to receive the and for 2011.  We are pleased to have been honored with the twice in the past three years.  We appreciate Platts recognition of our achievements and believe these awards reflect very favorably on the companys strategy and the accomplishments of its employees and management team.  We look forward to continuing to drive innovation in our industry and creating value for our shareholders for many years to come.
Industry Leadership Award
Deal of the Year Award
Industry Leadership Award
About Platts: Founded in 1909, Platts is a leading global provider of energy, petrochemicals and metals information and a premier source of benchmark prices for those markets. Platts' , , analytics, commentary and help customers make better-informed trading and business decisions and help the markets operate with greater transparency and efficiency. Customers in 150 countries benefit from Platts coverage of the , , , ,, , , and markets. A division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Platts has approximately 900 employees in more than 15 offices worldwide. Additional information is available at .
news
pricing
conferences
oil
petrochemicals
natural gas
electricity
coal
nuclear power
shipping
metals
www.platts.com
Chesapeake Energy Corporation is the second-largest producer of natural gas, a Top 15 producer of oil and natural gas liquids and the most active driller of new wells in the U.S.  Headquartered in Oklahoma City, the company's operations are focused on discovering and developing unconventional natural gas and oil fields onshore in the U.S.  Chesapeake owns leading positions in the Barnett, Haynesville, Bossier, Marcellus and Pearsall natural gas shale plays and in the Granite Wash, Cleveland, Tonkawa, Mississippi Lime, Bone Spring, Avalon, Wolfcamp, Wolfberry, Eagle Ford, Niobrara, Three Forks/Bakken and Utica unconventional liquids plays.  The company has also vertically integrated its operations and owns substantial midstream, compression, drilling, trucking, pressure pumping and other oilfield service assets directly and indirectly through its subsidiaries Chesapeake Midstream Development, L.P. and Chesapeake Oilfield Services, L.L.C. and its affiliate Chesapeake Midstream Partners, L.P. (NYSE:CHKM).  Chesapeakes stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol CHK.  Further information is available at where Chesapeake routinely posts announcements, updates, events, investor information, presentations and press releases.
www.chk.com

Exhibit 99.2
OKLAHOMA CITY, OKLAHOMA, DECEMBER 5, 2011  Chesapeake Energy Corporation (NYSE:CHK) today announced the closing of the sale of $750 million of perpetual preferred shares in its wholly owned, unrestricted subsidiary, CHK Utica, L.L.C.  The subsidiary owns approximately 700,000 net leasehold acres within an area of mutual interest in the Utica Shale play in 13 counties primarily in eastern Ohio (the CHKU AMI).  Chesapeake has retained all the common interests in CHK Utica.
This closing completes a financial transaction led by EIG Global Energy Partners (EIG) and results in total proceeds of $1.25 billion of sales of CHK Utica preferred shares.  As previously announced on November 3, 2011, EIG purchased $500 million of perpetual preferred shares in CHK Utica.  The additional $750 million of preferred shares have been placed with:  a co-investment vehicle managed by EIG consisting of limited partners and qualified EIG employees; GSO Capital Partners LP, an affiliate of the Blackstone Group (NYSE:BX); and Magnetar Capital, a private asset management firm.
The CHK Utica preferred shares issued in the second closing have identical terms to the initial shares sold to EIG, including an initial annual distribution of 7%, payable quarterly.  Chesapeake has retained an option exercisable prior to October 31, 2018 to repurchase the preferred shares for cash in whole or in part at any time at a valuation expected to equal the greater of a 10% internal rate of return or a return on investment of 1.4x.  Investors in the combined $1.25 billion of CHK Utica preferred shares will also proportionately receive a 3% overriding royalty interest in the first 1,500 net wells drilled on CHK Uticas leasehold, which is the equivalent of an approximate 0.45% overriding royalty interest across Chesapeakes projected 10,000 inventory of net wells to be drilled.  Chesapeakes average net revenue interest on its Utica Shale leasehold is approximately 83%, which compares favorably to net revenue interests in the Haynesville, Barnett and Eagle Ford shale plays of approximately 75%.
As previously announced, part of this financial transaction includes a commitment by Chesapeake to drill a minimum of 50 net wells per year through 2016 in the CHKU AMI, up to a minimum cumulative total of 250 net wells, for the benefit of CHK Utica.  Chesapeake believes it will have considerable operating and financial flexibility in fulfilling the drilling commitment because the companys planned Utica Shale drilling program for the years ahead involves a significantly higher rig count than the approximate 10-rig drilling program required by the terms of the CHK Utica preferred share investment.  In addition, the companys pending Utica industry joint venture, if completed as proposed, will fund 60% of Chesapeakes share of drilling and completion costs, up to $1.5 billion in the joint venture area of mutual interest, which lies entirely within the CHKU AMI.
 
 
 
 
 
Chesapeake Energy Corporation is the second-largest producer of natural gas, a Top 15 producer of oil and natural gas liquids and the most active driller of new wells in the U.S.  Headquartered in Oklahoma City, the company's operations are focused on discovering and developing unconventional natural gas and oil fields onshore in the U.S.  Chesapeake owns leading positions in the Barnett, Haynesville, Bossier, Marcellus and Pearsall natural gas shale plays and in the Granite Wash, Cleveland, Tonkawa, Mississippi Lime, Bone Spring, Avalon, Wolfcamp, Wolfberry, Eagle Ford, Niobrara, Three Forks/Bakken and Utica unconventional liquids plays.  The company has also vertically integrated its operations and owns substantial midstream, compression, drilling, trucking, pressure pumping and other oilfield service assets directly and indirectly through its subsidiaries Chesapeake Midstream Development, L.P. and Chesapeake Oilfield Services, L.L.C. and its affiliate Chesapeake Midstream Partners, L.P. (NYSE:CHKM).  Chesapeakes stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol CHK.  Further information is available at
www.chk.com
where Chesapeake routinely posts announcements, updates, events, investor information, presentations and press releases.
This news release includes forward-looking statements that give Chesapeakes current expectations or forecasts of future events. They include the execution of definitive documentation and closing of the announced joint venture transaction for a portion of its Utica Shale leasehold and Chesapeakes planned Utica Shale drilling activity. Although Chesapeake believes the expectations and forecasts reflected in these forward-looking statements are reasonable, it can give no assurance they will prove to have been correct. The joint venture may not be completed as described or at all and drilling plans may change. . Chesapeake cautions you not to place undue reliance on its forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this news release, and undertakes no obligation to update this information.
 
The CHK Utica preferred shares have not been, and will not be, registered under the Securities Act of 1933 or any state securities laws and may not be offered or sold in the United States absent registration or an applicable exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act of 1933 and applicable state laws.
This news release shall not constitute an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to purchase the CHK Utica preferred shares or any other securities, and shall not constitute an offer, solicitation or sale in any state or jurisdiction in which such an offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful. 


