FILE:CHK/CHK-8K-20110922181717.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
           Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
*
 
           Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
*
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 7  Regulation FD
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
On September 20, 2011, Chesapeake Energy Corporation (the Company), issued a press release announcing the date that it will issue its 2011 third quarter financial and operational results.  The press release also provided information for accessing the related conference call.  A copy of this press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report.
Effective September 15, 2011, Michael A. Johnson, Senior Vice President  Accounting, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer of the Company entered into a sales trading plan pursuant to Rule 10b5-1 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934.  The plan expires on September 15, 2012 and has been approved by the Company in accordance with its Insider Trading Policy.  The plan is part of Mr. Johnsons long-term strategy to diversify assets.  
 
Effective September 26, 2011, Jennifer M. Grigsby, Senior Vice President  Treasurer and Corporate Secretary of the Company entered into a sales trading plan pursuant to Rule 10b5-1 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934.  The plan expires on September 26, 2012 and has been approved by the Company in accordance with its Insider Trading Policy.  The plan is part of Ms. Grigsbys long-term strategy to diversify assets.  Other Company executives may enter into Rule 10b5-1 trading plans in the future, from time to time.
Section 8  Other Events
Item 8.01 Other Events.
On September 19, 2011, the Company issued a press release announcing the executive management team for its newly formed and wholly owned subsidiary Chesapeake Oilfield Services, L.L.C.  A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.2 to this Current Report.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)
 
Exhibits.  See "Index to Exhibits" attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K, which is incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date:           September 22, 2011
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
OKLAHOMA CITY, OKLAHOMA, SEPTEMBER 20, 2011  Chesapeake Energy Corporation (NYSE:CHK) has scheduled its 2011 third quarter operational update and financial
results to be released after the close of trading on the New York Stock Exchange on
Thursday, November 3, 2011.
 
The company has also scheduled a conference call to discuss the release for
Friday, November 4, 2011 at 9:00 am EDT.  The telephone number to access the conference call is or toll-free .  The passcode for the call is .  We encourage those who would like to participate in the call to place calls between 8:50 and 9:00 am EDT.
913-312-1463
888-778-8861
5544489
 
For those unable to participate in the conference call, a replay will be available for audio playback at 1:00 pm EDT on Friday, November 4, 2011 and will run through midnight
Friday, November 18, 2011.  The number to access the conference call replay is
719-457-0820
or toll-free .  The passcode for the replay is .
888-203-1112
5544489
 
The conference call will also be webcast live on Chesapeakes website at in the Events subsection of the Investors section of the companys website.  The webcast of the conference will be available on the companys website for one year.
www.chk.com
 
Chesapeake Energy Corporation is the second-largest producer of natural gas, a Top 15 producer of oil and natural gas liquids and the most active driller of new wells in the U.S.  Headquartered in Oklahoma City, the company's operations are focused on discovering and developing unconventional natural gas and oil fields onshore in the U.S.  Chesapeake owns leading positions in the Barnett, Haynesville, Bossier, Marcellus and Pearsall natural gas shale plays and in the Granite Wash, Cleveland, Tonkawa, Mississippian, Bone Spring, Avalon, Wolfcamp, Wolfberry, Eagle Ford, Niobrara, Three Forks/Bakken and Utica unconventional liquids plays.  The company has also vertically integrated its operations and owns substantial midstream, compression, drilling and oilfield service assets.  Chesapeakes stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol CHK.  Further information is available at where Chesapeake routinely posts announcements, updates, events, investor information, presentations and press releases.
www.chk.com
 

Exhibit 99.2
OKLAHOMA CITY, OKLAHOMA, SEPTEMBER 19, 2011  Chesapeake Energy Corporation (NYSE:CHK) today announced the executive management team for its newly formed and wholly owned subsidiary Chesapeake Oilfield Services, L.L.C. (COS).
Chesapeake initiated its service company vertical integration strategy in 2001 with a $25 million investment to build and refurbish five drilling rigs.  In the past 10 years, Chesapeake has built what it believes will become a top five U.S.-focused oilfield service company.  The goal of Chesapeakes service company vertical integration strategy is to provide premium services at attractive prices to Chesapeake's E&P operations while improving operating efficiencies, lowering costs and serving as an inflation hedge.  Including Chesapeake's 30% interest in Frac Tech International, LLC, the company has invested approximately $1.8 billion in its service companies and believes in 2012 its service companies could be worth between $7-10 billion.
Subsidiaries of COS include the following: Nomac Drilling, L.L.C., the nation's fourth-largest drilling contractor with 114 operated rigs; Performance Technologies, L.L.C. (PTL), a start-up pressure pumping company that will have 60,000 horsepower (hp) in the field in October 2011, 140,000 hp by February 2012 and 300,000 hp by year-end 2012; Thunder Oilfield Services, L.L.C., a holding company for trucking, equipment rental and rock excavation businesses; Compass Manufacturing, L.L.C., which supplies natural gas compression packages and related production equipment to Chesapeakes wholly owned subsidiary MidCon Compression L.L.C., which is the second-largest natural gas compressor provider in the U.S.; and CHK Directional Drilling, L.L.C., a leading provider of integrated directional drilling and measurement while drilling (MWD) services.
Jerry L. Winchester, 52, joined COS as the companys first Chief Executive Officer.  Mr. Winchester served as President and CEO of Boots & Coots International Well Control, Inc. for 13 years until the company was acquired by Halliburton Corporation in September 2010.  Boots & Coots was formed in 1978 and was a public company for 15 years before its acquisition.  Prior to Boots & Coots, Mr. Winchester served in a variety of management and operational roles over 14 years with Halliburton.  He received a Bachelor of Science degree from Oklahoma State University. 
James G. Jay Minmier, 47, joined COS as President of Nomac Drilling and CHK Directional Drilling.  Previously, Mr. Minmier served as Vice President and General Manager for Precision Drilling Corporation.  He has more than 20 years of experience in the drilling industry, including previous assignments with Helmerich & Payne IDC and Grey Wolf Drilling LLC.  Prior to working in the oilfield, Mr. Minmier was a captain in the U.S. Air Force.  He received a Bachelor of Science degree from the University of Texas at Arlington and a Master of Business Administration degree from the University of West Florida.
 
 
 
 
 
 
William R. Bill Stanger, 57, joined Chesapeake in January 2010 as President of Great Plains Oilfield Rentals, a wholly owned subsidiary of Chesapeake, and has assumed the role of President of PTL.  Mr. Stanger served in a variety of management and operational positions for Schlumberger Limited for 23 years including Vice President of Operations Well Services  North America and management of wireline, drilling and measurements, artificial lift and data and consulting services.  He received a Bachelor of Science degree from the University of Tulsa.
Zachary M. Zac Graves, 36, joined COS through Chesapeakes recent acquisition of Bronco Drilling Company, Inc. in June 2011, where he most recently served as Executive Vice President of Operations and previously served as Chief Financial Officer.  Mr. Graves serves as President of Thunder Oilfield Services.  He received a Bachelor of Business Administration degree from the University of Oklahoma.
David L. Dave Fisher, 58, was appointed Chief Administrative Officer of COS in May 2011.  Mr. Fisher previously served as Vice President of Drilling Services for Chesapeake, coordinating business activities for numerous Chesapeake affiliates.  Prior to joining Chesapeake in 2006, Mr. Fisher held management and executive management positions with Reading and Bates Offshore Drilling, NICOR Drilling, FWA Drilling, ADCOR-Nicklos Drilling Company and Merlin Production Company.  Mr. Fisher received a Bachelor of Arts and Sciences degree from the University of Oklahoma and a Master of Business Administration degree from the University of Tulsa.
Aubrey K. McClendon, Chesapeakes Chief Executive Officer, commented, We have built a premier U.S. onshore oilfield service business in COS and are extremely pleased to add additional first-class leadership to further enhance our success and manage this distinctive combination of very profitable assets.  Chesapeake benefits greatly from its vertically integrated business model and believes that owning and operating quality service assets to drill and complete its wells uniquely insulates Chesapeake from inflationary pressures.  The buildout of these oilfield service businesses further demonstrates the energy sectors contribution to economic recovery in the U.S. by adding high-paying, quality jobs across all the COS business units in multiple states.  The assembling of this very strong COS management team is an important step to ultimately monetizing a portion of these assets to unlock the latent value in COS for Chesapeakes shareholders.
Chesapeake Energy Corporation is the second-largest producer of natural gas, a Top 15 producer of oil and natural gas liquids and the most active driller of new wells in the U.S.  Headquartered in Oklahoma City, the company's operations are focused on discovering and developing unconventional natural gas and oil fields onshore in the U.S.  Chesapeake owns leading positions in the Barnett, Haynesville, Bossier, Marcellus and Pearsall natural gas shale plays and in the Granite Wash, Cleveland, Tonkawa, Mississippian, Bone Spring, Avalon, Wolfcamp, Wolfberry, Eagle Ford, Niobrara, Three Forks/Bakken and Utica unconventional liquids plays.  The company has also vertically integrated its operations and owns substantial midstream, compression, drilling, trucking, pressure pumping and oilfield service assets.  Chesapeakes stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol CHK.  Further information is available at where Chesapeake routinely posts announcements, updates, events, investor information, presentations and press releases.
www.chk.com


