FILE:CHK/CHK-8K-20110519164246.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
           Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
*
 
           Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
*
 
           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
*
 
           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
*
 
 
 
 
Section 7  Regulation FD
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
On May 18, 2011, Chesapeake Energy Corporation (the Company) issued a press release announcing that it has been selected to receive the Oil and Gas Investor Excellence Award for the 2010 M&A Deal of the Year for its $2.2 billion joint venture transaction with CNOOC Limited (NYSE:CEO; SEHK:0883) in the Eagle Ford Shale in South Texas.  A copy of this press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report.
Section 8  Other Events
Item 8.01 Other Events.
.
On May 16, 2011, the Company issued a press release announcing the expiration and final results of its previously announced cash tender offers, which were extended on April 29, 2011, to purchase a portion of the outstanding principal amount of 9.500% Senior Notes due 2015 and 6.500% Senior Notes due 2017.  A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.2 to this Current Report
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)
 
Exhibits.  See "Index to Exhibits" attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K, which is incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date:           May 19, 2011
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
OKLAHOMA CITY, OKLAHOMA, MAY 18, 2011  Chesapeake Energy Corporation (NYSE:CHK) today announced it has been selected to receive the Oil and Gas Investor Excellence Award for the 2010 M&A Deal of the Year for its $2.2 billion joint venture transaction with CNOOC Limited (NYSE:CEO; SEHK:0883) in the Eagle Ford Shale in South Texas.  The 7 annual Excellence Awards will be made by magazine at Hart Energys annual Energy Capital Conference in Houston on June 2, 2011.  Chesapeake also previously received the award for M&A Deal of the Year in 2005 for the acquisition of Columbia Natural Resources.
th
Oil and Gas Investor
Leslie Haines, Editor-in-Chief commented, This years Deal of the Year Award recognizes a groundbreaking transaction between a premier U.S. oil and gas producer and a Chinese multinational company to develop a world-class asset onshore in the U.S.  We are pleased to select Chesapeake for this important transaction and also recognize Chesapeake for all of the joint venture transactions it has completed over the past four years that have changed the shale and Acquisition & Divestiture landscapes.
Oil and Gas Investor
Aubrey K. McClendon, Chesapeakes Chief Executive Officer, commented, We are very honored to be selected to receive this prestigious award from and pleased that the first of our two joint venture transactions with CNOOC will be so prominently recognized.  We greatly appreciate the investments CNOOC has made with Chesapeake in both the Eagle Ford Shale and the Powder River and DJ Basins and look forward to accelerating the development of these large domestic oil and natural gas resources.
Oil and Gas Investor
In 2011, Oil and Gas Investor magazine celebrates 30 years of setting the standard for energy journalism. Headquartered in Houston, Hart Energy, publisher of Oil and Gas Investor, ranks among the leading providers of news, data and analysis for the global energy industry. Its market-leading publishing and consulting expertise has been extended to online products (databases, maps) and services (web sites, market information) as well as industry conferences and exhibitions.
Chesapeake Energy Corporation is the second-largest producer of natural gas, a Top 15 producer of oil and natural gas liquids and the most active driller of new wells in the U.S.  Headquartered in Oklahoma City, the company's operations are focused on discovering and developing unconventional natural gas and oil fields onshore in the U.S.  Chesapeake owns leading positions in the Barnett, Haynesville, Bossier, Marcellus and Pearsall natural gas shale plays and in the Granite Wash, Cleveland, Tonkawa, Mississippian, Bone Spring, Avalon, Wolfcamp, Wolfberry, Eagle Ford, Niobrara, Three Forks/Bakken and Utica unconventional liquids plays.  The company has also vertically integrated its operations and owns substantial midstream, compression, drilling and oilfield service assets.  Chesapeakes stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol CHK.  Further information is available at where Chesapeake routinely posts announcements, updates, events, investor information, presentations and press releases.
www.chk.com
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
OKLAHOMA CITY, OKLAHOMA, MAY 16, 2011  Chesapeake Energy Corporation (NYSE:CHK) today announced the expiration and final results of its previously announced cash tender offers, which were extended on April 29, 2011, to purchase a portion of the outstanding principal amount of its 9.500% Senior Notes due 2015 and 6.500% Senior Notes due 2017 (collectively, the Notes). The tender offers for the Notes expired at 11:59 P.M., New York City time, on May 13, 2011.  An aggregate of $599,917,000in principal amount of the Notes was validly tendered and accepted for purchase in the tender offers.  Chesapeake expects the final settlement of the tender offers for the Notes to occur today.  Combined with separate tender offers for certain other series of senior notes and contingent convertible senior notes that expired previously, and open market purchases of certain series of contingent convertible senior notes, Chesapeake has retired an aggregate of $1,664,449,000in principal amountof dollar-denominated senior notes and contingent convertible senior notes and 255,835,000 in principal amount of euro-denominated senior notes in 2011.
 
 
 
 
 
Chesapeake accepted an additional amount of the Notes not in excess of two percent of the principal amount outstanding of such series of Notes, as permitted by Rule 14e-1(b) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
(1)
The tender offers for the Notes were made pursuant to the terms of an Offer to Purchase dated April 4, 2011 (as amended, the "Offer to Purchase") and the related Letter of Transmittal.  The table above sets forth the principal amount of each series of Notes that Chesapeake offered to purchase in the column entitled "Series Maximum," the principal amount of each series of Notes that was tendered and the principal amount of each series of Notes that was accepted for purchase.
 
 
 
 
 
Global Bondholder Services Corporation served as the Depositary and Information Agent for the tender offers. Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and RBS Securities Inc. served as the Dealer Managers for the tender offers.  Questions regarding the tender offers may be directed to the Dealer Managers at the addresses and telephone numbers set forth below:
This announcement is not an offer to purchase or a solicitation of an offer to sell the Notes or any other securities.  The tender offers were made solely pursuant to the Offer to Purchase and the related Letter of Transmittal.
 
This news release contains forward-looking statements, including the anticipated settlement dates of the tender offers.  Forward-looking statements give our current expectations or forecasts of future events. Although we believe our forward-looking statements are reasonable, they can be affected by inaccurate assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties, and actual results may differ from the expectations expressed. See the Risk Factors discussion in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010 filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on March 1, 2011 for a discussion of risk factors that affect our business.  We caution you not to place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this news release, and we undertake no obligation to update this information.
Chesapeake Energy Corporation is the second-largest producer of natural gas, a Top 15 producer of oil and natural gas liquids and the most active driller of new wells in the U.S.  Headquartered in Oklahoma City, the company's operations are focused on discovering and developing unconventional natural gas and oil fields onshore in the U.S.  Chesapeake owns leading positions in the Barnett, Haynesville, Bossier, Marcellus and Pearsall natural gas shale plays and in the Granite Wash, Cleveland, Tonkawa, Mississippian, Bone Spring, Avalon, Wolfcamp, Wolfberry, Eagle Ford, Niobrara and Utica unconventional liquids plays.  The company has also vertically integrated its operations and owns substantial midstream, compression, drilling and oilfield service assets.  Chesapeakes stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol CHK.  Further information is available at where Chesapeake routinely posts announcements, updates, events, investor information, presentations and press releases.
www.chk.com


