FILE:CHK/CHK-8K-20110208182109.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
           Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
*
 
           Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
*
 
           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
*
 
           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
*
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 7  Regulation FD
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
On February 7, 2011, Chesapeake Energy Corporation (the Company) issued a press release announcing that, as part of its 2011-12 strategic and financial 25/25 Plan, the company has decided to sell all of its Fayetteville Shale assets, as well as its equity investments in Frac Tech Holdings, LLC and Chaparral Energy, Inc.  A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report.
Section 8  Other Events
Item 8.01 Other Events.
On February 8, 2011, the Company issued a press release announcing a public offering of $1 billion of senior notes due 2021. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.2 to this Current Report.
On February 8, 2011, the Company issued a press release announcing the pricing of the previously announced public offering of senior notes due 2021.  A copy of this press release is attached to this Current Report as Exhibit 99.3.
In addition, the Company is filing the following in order to amend our Registration Statement on Form 8-B (No. 001-13726), filed on December 12, 1996, with respect to our common stock.  The Form 8-B was most recently amended by our Current Report on Form 8-K filed on March 26, 2008.  The following supersedes the descriptions contained in such prior filings.
 
 
Set forth below is a description of our capital stock.  However, this description is not complete and is qualified by reference to our certificate of incorporation (including our certificates of designation) and bylaws.  Copies of our certificate of incorporation (including our certificates of designation) and bylaws are available from us upon request.  These documents have also been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
Authorized Capital Stock
 
Our authorized capital stock consists of 1,000,000,000 shares of common stock, par value $.01 per share, and 20,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $.01 per share.
 
Common Stock
 
Holders of our common stock are entitled to one vote for each share held of record on all matters submitted to a vote of shareholders.  Subject to preferences that may be applicable to any outstanding preferred stock, holders of our common stock are entitled to receive ratably such dividends as may be declared by the board of directors out of funds legally available for dividends.  In the event of our liquidation or dissolution, holders of our common stock are entitled to share ratably in all assets remaining after payment of liabilities and the liquidation preference of any outstanding preferred stock.
 
Holders of our common stock have no preemptive rights and have no rights to convert their common stock into any other securities.
 
Preferred Stock
 
Our board of directors has the authority, without further shareholder approval, to issue shares of preferred stock from time to time in one or more series, with such voting powers or without voting powers, and with such designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights, and qualifications, limitations or restrictions, as shall be set forth in the resolutions providing therefor.  As of February 8, 2011, our authorized preferred stock consisted of shares that are
 
 
 
While providing desirable flexibility for possible acquisitions and other corporate purposes, and eliminating delays associated with a shareholder vote on specific issuances, the issuance of preferred stock could adversely affect the voting power of holders of common stock, as well as dividend and liquidation payments on both common and preferred stock.  It also could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control.
 
Anti-Takeover Provisions
 
Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and the Oklahoma General Corporation Act include a number of provisions which may have the effect of encouraging persons considering unsolicited tender offers or other unilateral takeover proposals to negotiate with our board of directors rather than pursue non-negotiated takeover attempts.  These provisions include a classified board of directors, authorized blank check preferred stock, restrictions on business combinations and the availability of authorized but unissued common stock.
 
. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions for a classified or "staggered" board of directors with only one-third of the board standing for election each year.  Directors can only be removed for cause.  A classified board makes it more difficult for shareholders to change the majority of the directors.  The Oklahoma General Corporation Act requires a classified board for an Oklahoma corporation having (1) voting stock listed or traded on a national securities exchange or registered under Section 12(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and (2) 1,000 or more shareholders of record.  Effective January 1, 2015, the Oklahoma General Corporation Act permits a corporation subject to such provisions to elect not to be governed by the statutory requirements for a classified board upon a resolution adopted by the board of directors and approved by shareholders.
Classified Board of Directors
 
. Section 1090.3 of the Oklahoma General Corporation Act prevents an "interested shareholder" from engaging in a "business combination" with an Oklahoma corporation for three years following the date the person became an interested shareholder, unless:
Oklahoma Business Combination Statute
 
 
 
 
The statute defines a "business combination" to include:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For purposes of Section 1090.3, the term "corporation" also includes the corporation's majority-owned subsidiaries.
 
In addition, Section 1090.3 defines an "interested shareholder," generally, as any person that owns stock having 15% or more of all voting power of the corporation, any person that is an affiliate or associate of the corporation and owned stock having 15% or more of all voting power of the corporation at any time within the three-year period prior to the time of determination of interested shareholder status, and any affiliate or associate of such person.
 
. Our certificate of incorporation includes a provision which requires the affirmative vote of two-thirds of the votes cast by the holders, voting together as a single class, of all then outstanding shares of capital stock, excluding the votes by an interested shareholder, to approve the purchase of any of our capital stock from the interested shareholder at a price in excess of fair market value, unless the purchase is either (1) made on the same terms offered to all holders of the same securities or (2) made on the open market and not the result of a privately negotiated transaction.
Stock Purchase Provisions
 
Shareholder Action
 
Except as otherwise provided by law or in our certificate of incorporation or bylaws, the approval by holders of a majority of the shares of common stock present in person or represented by proxy at a meeting and entitled to vote is sufficient to authorize, affirm, ratify or consent to a matter voted on by shareholders.  Our bylaws provide that all questions submitted to shareholders will be decided by a plurality of the votes cast, unless otherwise required by law, our certificate of incorporation, stock exchange requirements or any certificate of designation.  The Oklahoma General Corporation Act requires the approval of the holders of a majority of the outstanding stock entitled to vote for certain extraordinary corporate transactions, such as a merger, sale of substantially all assets, dissolution or amendment of the certificate of incorporation.  Our certificate of incorporation provides for a vote of the holders of two-thirds of the issued and outstanding stock having voting power, voting as a single class, to amend, repeal or adopt any provision inconsistent with the provisions of the certificate of incorporation limiting director liability and stock purchases by us, and providing for staggered terms of directors and indemnity for directors.  The same vote is also required for shareholders to amend, repeal or adopt any provision of our bylaws.
 
Under Oklahoma law, any action by our shareholders must be taken at an annual or special meeting and may not be taken without a meeting unless such action is approved by written consent signed by the holders of all outstanding shares of our capital stock entitled to vote thereon.  This restriction applies to us and all other Oklahoma corporations having (1) voting stock listed or traded on a national securities exchange or registered under Section 12(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and (2) 1,000 or more shareholders of record.  In addition, our bylaws provide that any shareholder intending to nominate a candidate for election to the board of directors or proposing any business to be brought before an annual shareholders' meeting must deliver written notice to the company not less than 90 nor more than 120 days prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting.  The notice must include information specified in the bylaws, including information concerning the nominee or proposal, as the case may be, the shareholder's ownership of and agreements related to our common stock, any material interest of the shareholder in the proposal and any arrangements between such shareholder and any other persons in connection with the proposal or nomination of the candidates, as the case may be.
 
Transfer Agent and Registrar
 
Computershare Trust Company, N.A. is the transfer agent and registrar for our common stock and preferred stock.
 
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)
 
Exhibits.  See Index to Exhibits attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K, which is incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date:           February 8, 2011
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
OKLAHOMA CITY, OKLAHOMA, FEBRUARY 7, 2011  Chesapeake Energy Corporation (NYSE:CHK) announced that, as part of its 2011-12 strategic and financial 25/25 Plan, the company has decided to sell all of its Fayetteville Shale assets, as well as its equity investments in Frac Tech Holdings, LLC and Chaparral Energy, Inc.  If these sales are completed, Chesapeake anticipates that the combined pre-tax proceeds could exceed $5.0 billion.  In the Fayetteville Shale, the company is the second-largest producer of natural gas with current net production of approximately 415 million cubic feet of natural gas equivalent production per day and owns approximately 487,000 net acres of leasehold.  Chesapeake owns 25.8% of Frac Tech and 20.0% of Chaparral.  In light of Chesapeakes plan to reduce its long-term debt by 25% in 2011-12, the company plans to use the net proceeds from these sales and its previously announced Niobrara joint venture to retire approximately $2.0 - $3.0 billion of its shorter-dated senior notes and to also reduce borrowings under its revolving bank credit facility.  The amount of senior notes retired will depend in part on Chesapeakes ability to acquire its senior notes in the market or through tender offers.
Aubrey K. McClendon, Chesapeakes Chief Executive Officer, commented, We have received strong positive feedback from a number of our investors with respect to the announcement of our 25/25 Plan in early January and last weeks announcement of our $1.3 billion Niobrara joint venture with an affiliate of CNOOC Limited (NYSE:CEO; SEHK:0883).  We believe the three proposed asset sales announced today and the Niobrara joint venture are all likely to be completed in the first half of 2011 and will provide us with strong momentum into the second half of 2011 as we move forward in executing our plan.
This news release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.  Forward-looking statements give our current expectations or forecasts of future events. They include our plan to sell certain assets and to apply the anticipated sale proceeds to reduce debt.  Actual results could differ materially as a result of a variety of risks and uncertainties and such divestitures may not occur in the time period projected or at all.  See Risks Related to Our Business in our Prospectus Supplement filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on August 10, 2010 for a discussion of risk factors that affect our business and could affect our planned asset sales.  We caution you not to place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this news release, and we undertake no obligation to update this information.
Chesapeake Energy Corporation is the second-largest producer of natural gas and the most active driller of new wells in the U.S.  Headquartered in Oklahoma City, the company's operations are focused on discovering and developing unconventional natural gas and oil fields onshore in the U.S.  Chesapeake owns leading positions in the Barnett, Fayetteville, Haynesville, Marcellus and Bossier natural gas shale plays and in the Eagle Ford, Granite Wash, Tonkawa, Cleveland, Mississippian, Wolfcamp, Bone Spring, Avalon and Niobrara unconventional liquids plays.  The company has also vertically integrated its operations and owns substantial midstream, compression, drilling and oilfield service assets.  Further information is available at where Chesapeake routinely posts announcements, updates, events, investor information and presentations and all recent press releases.
www.chk.com

Exhibit 99.2
OKLAHOMA CITY, OKLAHOMA, FEBRUARY 8, 2011  Chesapeake Energy Corporation (NYSE:CHK) today announced that it is commencing a public offering of $1.0 billion of Senior Notes due 2021.  Chesapeake intends to use the net proceeds from the offering to repay indebtedness outstanding under its revolving bank credit facility, which it anticipates reborrowing from time to time to meet capital expenditure initiatives and for general corporate purposes. This offering is a part of Chesapeake's 2011 liability management program, which contemplates extending the maturity profile of its outstanding indebtedness and also retiring approximately
$2.0 - $3.0 billion of its shorter-dated senior notes using the proceeds from its recently announced planned asset sales.
The notes are being offered pursuant to a shelf registration statement filed August 3, 2010 with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Chesapeake intends to list the notes on the New York Stock Exchange after issuance.  Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated and Wells Fargo Securities, LLC will act as joint book-running mangers for the offering.  Copies of the prospectus relating to the offering may be obtained from Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated (Attn: Prospectus Department, 180 Varick Street, 2 Floor New York, NY 10014, by telephone (866) 718-1649 or by email: ).  An electronic copy of the preliminary prospectus supplement will be available on the website of the Securities and Exchange Commission at .
nd
prospectus@morganstanley.com
www.sec.gov
This press release shall not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy nor shall there be any sale of these securities in any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of such jurisdiction.
This news release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, including the expected consummation of the offering described, the use of proceeds and the execution of Chesapeake's 2011 liability management program.  Forward-looking statements give our current expectations or forecasts of future events. Although we believe our forward-looking statements are reasonable, they can be affected by inaccurate assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties, and actual results may differ from the expectations expressed.
 
See Risks Related to Our Business in
our Prospectus Supplement filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on February 8, 2011
for a discussion of risk factors that affect our business.  
We caution you not to place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this news release, and we undertake no obligation to update this information.
Chesapeake Energy Corporation is the second-largest producer of natural gas and the most active driller of new wells in the U.S.  Headquartered in Oklahoma City, the company's operations are focused on discovering and developing unconventional natural gas and oil fields onshore in the U.S.  Chesapeake owns leading positions in the Barnett, Fayetteville, Haynesville, Marcellus and Bossier natural gas shale plays and in the Eagle Ford, Granite Wash, Tonkawa, Cleveland, Mississippian, Wolfcamp, Bone Spring, Avalon and Niobrara unconventional liquids plays.  The company has also vertically integrated its operations and owns substantial midstream, compression, drilling and oilfield service assets.  Further information is available at where Chesapeake routinely posts announcements, updates, events, investor information and presentations and all recent press releases.
www.chk.com

Exhibit 99.3
OKLAHOMA CITY, OKLAHOMA, FEBRUARY 8, 2011  Chesapeake Energy Corporation (NYSE:CHK) today announced that it has priced its previously announced public offering of $1.0 billion principal amount of Senior Notes due 2021.  The notes were priced at par and carry an interest rate of 6.125% per annum. Chesapeake expects the issuance and delivery of the senior notes to occur on February 11, 2011, subject to customary closing conditions.
Chesapeake intends to use the net proceeds from the offering to repay indebtedness outstanding under its revolving bank credit facility, which it anticipates reborrowing from time to time to meet capital expenditure initiatives and for general corporate purposes. This offering is a part of Chesapeake's 2011 liability management program, which contemplates extending the maturity profile of its outstanding indebtedness and also retiring approximately $2.0 to $3.0 billion of its shorter-dated senior notes using the proceeds from its recently announced planned asset sales.
The notes were offered pursuant to a shelf registration statement filed August 3, 2010 with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Chesapeake intends to list the notes on the New York Stock Exchange after issuance.  Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated and Wells Fargo Securities, LLC acted as joint book-running mangers for the offering.  Copies of the prospectus relating to the offering may be obtained from Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated (Attn: Prospectus Department, 180 Varick Street, 2 Floor New York, NY 10014, by telephone (866) 718-1649 or by email: ).  An electronic copy of the preliminary prospectus supplement is available on the website of the Securities and Exchange Commission at .
nd
prospectus@morganstanley.com
www.sec.gov
This press release shall not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy nor shall there be any sale of these securities in any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of such jurisdiction.
This news release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, including the expected consummation of the offering described, the use of proceeds and the execution of Chesapeake's 2011 liability management program.  Forward-looking statements give our current expectations or forecasts of future events. Although we believe our forward-looking statements are reasonable, they can be affected by inaccurate assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties, and actual results may differ from the expectations expressed.
 
See Risks Related to Our Business in
our Prospectus Supplement filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on February 8, 2011
for a discussion of risk factors that affect our business.  
We caution you not to place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this news release, and we undertake no obligation to update this information.
Chesapeake Energy Corporation is the second-largest producer of natural gas and the most active driller of new wells in the U.S.  Headquartered in Oklahoma City, the company's operations are focused on discovering and developing unconventional natural gas and oil fields onshore in the U.S.  Chesapeake owns leading positions in the Barnett, Fayetteville, Haynesville, Marcellus and Bossier natural gas shale plays and in the Eagle Ford, Granite Wash, Tonkawa, Cleveland, Mississippian, Wolfcamp, Bone Spring, Avalon and Niobrara unconventional liquids plays.  The company has also vertically integrated its operations and owns substantial midstream, compression, drilling and oilfield service assets.  Further information is available at where Chesapeake routinely posts announcements, updates, events, investor information and presentations and all recent press releases.
www.chk.com


