FILE:CHK/CHK-8K-20111221172213.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
           Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
*
 
           Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
*
 
           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
*
 
           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
*
 
 
 
 
Section 5  Corporate Governance and Management
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
   
On December 15, 2011, following an extensive evaluation of executive compensation, and with the advice of its independent compensation consultant, Cogent Compensation Partners, the Compensation Committee (the Committee) of the Board of Directors (the Board) of Chesapeake Energy Corporation (the Company) and the Board approved changes to the Companys executive compensation program.
  
 Annual Incentive Plan
   
 
 The Committee and the Board approved the Chesapeake Energy Corporation 2012 Annual Incentive Plan (the AIP), subject to shareholder approval at the Companys 2012 annual meeting of shareholders. The AIP is a cash-based incentive program utilizing pre-determined performance goals. The AIP is intended to comply with Section 162(m) of the Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Code), and comply with, or be exempt from, Section 409(a) of the Code.
   
Internal
 
 To be eligible for a cash payment from an award granted under the AIP, the Company must first achieve one of the specified objective minimum standards, which are based on operating cash flow, production and long-term indebtedness. Once eligible, the payment amount of an award will be determined following the end of the performance period based on the achievement of pre-established performance goals. The Committee will establish the performance goals prior to the start of, or during the initial 25% of, the performance period.  For 2012, the Committee has established the following performance goals:
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The foregoing description of the AIP does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the AIP, which is filed as Exhibit 10.1.16 to this Current Report on Form 8K and incorporated herein by reference.
   
 
 Performance Share Unit Awards
   
 
 The Committee and the Board also approved a modification to the Companys long-term incentive compensation program, which contemplates granting performance share units (PSUs) under the Companys Amended and Restated Long Term Incentive Plan (the LTIP). Since 2004, the Company has provided long-term compensation in the form of restricted stock granted under the LTIP. In 2012, long-term compensation for senior executives will consist of awards of equal amounts of restricted stock and PSUs based on grant-date value.
   
 
 In 2012 and 2013, the Committee may grant PSUs having one-, two- or three-year performance periods to accommodate the transition to the revised long-term incentive award mix. Beginning in 2014, it is anticipated that all PSUs will have at least three-year performance periods. Each PSU will entitle the participant to a cash payment based on the achievement of performance goals during the performance period. The performance goals will be established by the Committee prior to the start of, or during the initial 25% of, the performance period, consistent with the requirements of Section 162(m) of the Code, and based on any one or combination of certain performance goals enumerated in the LTIP. Performance goals under the LTIP may include the Companys achievement of target levels of total or comparative shareholder return, earnings per share, share price, net income, cash flows, reserve additions or replacements, production volume, finding costs, operating costs, overhead or other costs, drilling results, acquisitions and divestitures, risk management activities, return on equity, a combination of or interrelationship among any of the foregoing, or other criteria, as determined by the Committee, such as net asset value. All PSU awards are intended to comply with Section 162(m) of the Code and comply with, or be exempt from, Section 409A of the Code.
   
 
 The Committee also approved the form of Performance Share Unit Award Agreement that sets forth the terms of the PSU awards to be granted under the LTIP, which is filed as Exhibit 10.1.17 to this Current Report on Form 8K and incorporated herein by reference.
   
 
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d) Exhibits.  See "Exhibit Index" attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K, which is incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date:           December 21, 2011
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1.16
 
 
SECTION 1.
 
PURPOSE OF THE PLAN
 
The Chesapeake Energy Corporation 2012 Annual Incentive Plan (the Plan) is a performance-based incentive program.  The purpose of the Plan is to provide cash-based incentive compensation to those officers, executives, and key employees who, in the opinion of Chesapeake Energy Corporation (the Company), contribute significantly to the growth and success of the Company; to attract and retain individuals of outstanding ability; and to align the interests of those who hold positions of major responsibility in the Company with the interests of Company shareholders. The Plan is intended to constitute a qualified performance-based compensation plan under Section 162(m)(4)(c) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Code), and shall be administered and interpreted so to ensure such compliance.
 
SECTION 2.
 
DEFINITIONS
 
Unless context otherwise indicates, the following definitions shall be applicable:
 
Affiliated Entity shall mean any partnership or limited liability company in which at least 50% of the voting power of such entity is owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by the Company or one or more of its Subsidiaries or Affiliated Entities or a combination thereof.
 
Award shall mean a right granted to a Participant pursuant to Section 5 of the Plan to receive a cash payment from the Company based upon achievement of an Objective Minimum Standard and, to the extent achieved, the Participants Performance Goal(s) during the relevant Performance Period and subject to the Committees discretion pursuant to Section 6.B of the Plan.
 
Base Salary shall mean the actual base salary in effect at the end of the Performance Period to which an Award applies as shown in the payroll/personnel records of the Company.
 
Board shall mean the Board of Directors of the Company.
 
Change of Control shall mean the occurrence of any of the following:
 
 
 
 
 
Code shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time; references to particular sections of the Code include references to regulations and rulings thereunder and to successor provisions.
 
Committee shall mean the Compensation Committee of the Board or any committee of the Board designated by resolution of the Board to administer the Plan pursuant to Section 3.A.
 
Company shall mean Chesapeake Energy Corporation, an Oklahoma corporation, its successors and assigns, and each of its subsidiaries and affiliates and other entities which it controls directly or indirectly and which have been approved for participation in the Plan by the Committee.
 
Covered Employee shall mean an individual who with respect to a Performance Period is a covered employee within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code.
 
Disability shall mean a physical or mental impairment sufficient to make a Participant eligible for benefits under the Companys long-term disability plan; that if payment or settlement of an award subject to Section 409A of the Code is to be accelerated solely as a result of a Participants Disability, Disability shall have the meaning set forth in Section 409A of the Code.
provided, however,
 
Employee shall mean any employee of the Company, a Subsidiary or an Affiliated Entity or any person to whom an offer of employment with the Company, a Subsidiary or an Affiliated Entity is extended, as determined by the Committee.
 
GAAP shall mean generally accepted accounting principles set forth in the opinions, statements and pronouncements of the Financial Accounting Standards Board (or predecessors or successors thereto or agencies with similar functions) or in such other statements by such other entity as may be in general use by significant segments of the accounting profession, which are applicable to the circumstances as of the date of determination and in any event applied in a manner consistent with the application thereof used in the preparation of the Companys financial statements.
 
Maximum Award Opportunity shall mean an amount equal to a percentage of Base Salary to be awarded to a Participant with respect to a single Performance Period upon achieving the maximum level of performance respecting a Performance Goal as established by the Committee pursuant to Section 5 of the Plan, provided however that no payment to a Participant in respect of any Performance Period shall exceed the lesser of an amount equal to 300% of Base Salary or $10 million.
 
Objective Minimum Standard shall mean any one of the following, which shall enable the payout of awards to Participants pursuant to Section 6:
 
 
 
 
Participant shall have the meaning ascribed to it in Section 4.
 
Performance Goal shall mean performance objectives established by the Committee for each Performance Period for the purpose of determining the extent to which a Participant will receive an Award for such Performance Period.  Each Performance Goal selected for a particular Performance Period shall include, but is not limited to, any one or more of the following performance criteria, either individually or in any combination, applied to the Company as a whole, to a Subsidiary, to a business unit of the Company or any Subsidiary, to an affiliate of the Company or any Subsidiary or to any individual, measured either annually or cumulatively over a period of time, on an absolute basis or relative to an identified index or peer group, and, where applicable, may be measured on a pre-tax or post-tax basis, in the aggregate or on a per-share basis and on an absolute basis or as a percentage change over a period of time:
 
 
Performance Period shall mean the period designated by the Committee and communicated to each Participant over which the attainment of an Objective Minimum Standard and any of the Performance Goal(s), if any, will be measured for purposes of determining payment of an Award or, for an Employee who is first hired as an employee after the first day of such period and who becomes a Participant during such period, such portion of the period as determined by the Committee consistent with the requirements of Section 162(m) of the Code.
 
Plan shall mean the Chesapeake Energy Corporation 2012 Annual Incentive Plan.
 
Subsidiary shall mean any entity that is directly or indirectly controlled by the Company; as determined by the Committee.
 
SECTION 3.
 
PLAN ADMINISTRATION
 
A.
 
The Committee.
 
The Plan will be administered by a committee appointed by the Board consisting of two or more directors, each of whom is an outside director within the meaning of Section 162(m)(4)(c)(i) of the Code (the Committee). The Committee may adopt rules and regulations for carrying out the Plan. The interpretation and construction of any provision of the Plan by the Committee shall be final and conclusive. The Committee may consult with counsel, who may be counsel to the Company, and shall not incur any liability for any action taken in good faith in reliance upon the advice of counsel. In accordance with and subject to the provisions of the Plan, the Committee will have full authority and discretion with respect to Awards made under the Plan, including without limitation the following (a) selecting the officers, executives, or other key Employees to be Participants; (b) establishing the terms of each Award; (c) determining the time or times when Awards will be granted; and (d) establishing the restrictions and other conditions to which the payment of Awards may be subject. Subject to Section 3.B, the Committee will have no authority under the Plan to amend or modify, in any manner, the terms of any outstanding Award; that the Committee shall have the authority to reduce or eliminate the compensation or other economic benefit due pursuant to an Award upon the attainment of an Objective Minimum Standard and one or more Performance Goals, if any, included in such Award. Each determination, interpretation, or other action made or taken by the Committee pursuant to the provisions of the Plan will be conclusive and binding for all purposes and on all persons, and no member of the Committee will be liable for any action or determination made in good faith with respect to the Plan or any Award granted under the Plan.
provided, however,
 
B.
 
Adjustments.
 
In the event of (a) any merger, reorganization, consolidation, recapitalization, liquidation, reclassification, stock dividend, stock split, combination of shares, rights, offering, extraordinary dividend (including a spin-off), or other similar change affecting the Companys shares; (b) any purchase, acquisition, sale, or disposition of a significant amount of assets other than in the ordinary course of business, or of a significant business; (c) any change resulting from the accounting effects of discontinued operations, extraordinary income or loss, changes in accounting as determined under GAAP, or restatement of earnings; or (d) any charge or credit resulting from an item which is classified as non-recurring, restructuring, or similar unusual item on the Companys audited annual Statement of Operations which, in the case of (a)  (d), results in a change in the components of the calculations of any of an Objective Minimum Standard or the Performance Goals as established by the Committee, in each case with respect to the Company or any other entity whose performance is relevant to the achievement of an Objective Minimum Standard or any Performance Goal, if any, upon which an Award is based, the Committee shall, without the consent of any affected Participant, amend or modify the terms of any outstanding Award that is based in whole or in part on the performance of the Company (or any Subsidiary or division thereof) or such other entity so as equitably to reflect such event or events; that the Committee shall not take any action pursuant to this Section which would constitute an impermissible exercise of discretion pursuant to Section 162(m) of the Code.
provided, however,
 
SECTION 4.
 
PARTICIPATION
 
The Participants for any Performance Period shall be those officers, executives, and key Employees who are granted Awards by the Committee under the Plan for such Performance Period.
 
SECTION 5.
 
ESTABLISHMENT OF PERFORMANCE GOALS
 
Prior to the beginning of each Performance Period, or not later than 90 days following the commencement of the relevant Performance Period (or, in the case of a Performance Period for a period of time of less than 12 months duration, no later than by the end of the first 25% of such period or such earlier date as may be required pursuant to Section 162(m) of the Code), the Committee shall establish and communicate in writing to each Participant the Objective Minimum Standards and the specific Performance Goals, if any, which must be achieved for each Participant to receive an Award payment for such Performance Period.  The Performance Goals may include a threshold level of performance below which no Award payment shall be earned, target levels of performance at which specific Award payments will be earned, and a maximum level of performance at which the maximum level of Award payment will be earned, that no such maximum level of Award payment in respect of any Performance Period shall exceed the Maximum Award Opportunity.
provided, however,
 
For an Employee who is first hired as an employee and who becomes a Participant after the first day of the Performance Period, the Objective Minimum Standard, Performance Goals and other criteria as set forth in this Section 5 shall be established by the Committee and communicated to the Participant within the time period permitted by Section 162(m) of the Code.
 
SECTION 6.
 
PAYMENT OF AWARDS
 
A.
 
Performance Period Payments.
 
The Committee shall make a determination as soon as practicable after appropriate financial and other data respecting the Objective Minimum Standards and Performance Goal(s) respecting each applicable Performance Period, or such portion of the applicable Performance Period as the Committee shall determine, whether an Objective Minimum Standard and the Performance Goal(s) have been achieved and the amount of the Award payment for each Participant, that in no event will an Award payment payable under this Plan exceed the Maximum Award Opportunity for any Performance Period.  Except as otherwise set forth herein, in no event will an Award payment be payable under this Plan if, during the applicable Performance Period, an Objective Minimum Standard is not achieved.  The Committee shall certify the foregoing determinations in writing.
provided, however,
 
Payment of each Award in a cash lump sum, less applicable withholding taxes pursuant to Section 9 of the Plan, shall be made as soon as practicable after certification by the Committee, that any such payment shall be made no later than March 15 of the year immediately following the year in which the applicable Performance Period expires.
provided, however,
 
B.
 
Discretionary Downward Adjustments.
 
At any time after an Award has been granted but before the Award has been paid, the Committee, in its sole and absolute discretion, may reduce or eliminate the Award granted to any Participant for any reason or for no reason, including, without limitation, the Committees judgment that the Performance Goals have become an inappropriate measure of achievement, a change in the employment status, position or duties of the Participant, unsatisfactory performance of the Participant, or the Participants service for less than the entire Performance Period.
 
SECTION 7.
 
TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT
 
A.
 
Termination Due to Death, Disability, or Retirement.
 
In the event a Participants employment with the Company and all Subsidiaries is terminated by reason of death, Disability, or retirement, as defined by the Committee, prior to the payment date of an Award or during a Performance Period, the Participant (or the Participants estate) (subject to the Committees discretion as allowed by Sections 3.A and 6.B of the Plan) shall be entitled to a distribution of the Award on the payment date that would otherwise have been payable to the Participant pursuant to Section 6 of the Plan after the completion of the Performance Period, pro-rated based upon a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of full days worked on active payroll in an incentive-eligible position during the applicable Performance Period and the denominator of which is the number of days in such Performance Period (or the number of days remaining in such Performance Period after the individual is assigned to an incentive-eligible position), as determined by the Committee.
 
B.
 
Termination for Reasons Other than Death, Disability, or Retirement.
 
In the event a Participants employment is terminated with the Company and all Subsidiaries prior to the end of the Performance Period for any reason other than death, Disability, or retirement, the Participants Award for such Performance Period shall be immediately forfeited and the Participant shall have no right to any payment thereafter; that under such circumstances the Committee may, in its sole discretion, pay the Participant an amount not to exceed a percentage of the amount earned according to the terms of the Award equal to the portion of the Performance Period through the Participants termination.
provided, however,
 
SECTION 8.
 
FUNDAMENTAL TRANSACTION; CHANGE OF CONTROL
 
If the Company merges with another entity in a transaction in which the Company is not the surviving entity or if, as a result of a merger, other business combination or any other transaction or event, other securities are substituted for the common stock of the Company or the common stock of the Company may no longer be issued (each, a Fundamental Transaction) or if a Change of Control occurs, then notwithstanding any other provisions of the Plan, an Objective Minimum Standard shall be deemed to have been met and each outstanding Award shall be deemed to have achieved a level of performance equal to the higher of (i) such performance level as required to achieve a payment equal to 100% of Base Salary or (ii) the actual performance level achieved as of the occurrence of such Fundamental Transaction or Change of Control as determined by the Committee.  In determining whether a performance level is achieved in this circumstance, the Committee may make any adjustment in the Performance Goals by measuring such criteria over the period commencing on the first day of the Performance Period and ending on the date of the Fundamental Transaction or Change of Control, instead of over the entire Performance Period.  In the event of a Fundamental Transaction or Change of Control, payment of an award shall be made as soon as practicable, but in no event later than 60 days following such Fundamental Transaction or Change of Control.
 
SECTION 9.
 
PAYMENT OF WITHHOLDING TAXES
 
All distributions under the Plan are subject to withholding of all applicable taxes. The Company may condition the delivery of benefits under the Plan on satisfaction of the applicable withholding obligations and is entitled to withhold and deduct from the payment made pursuant to an Award or from future wages of the Participant (or from other amounts that may be due and owing to the Participant from the Company), or make other arrangements for the collection of, all legally required amounts necessary to satisfy any and all federal, state, and local withholding and employment-related tax requirements attributable to any payment made pursuant to an Award.
 
SECTION 10.
 
PLAN AMENDMENT, MODIFICATION, AND TERMINATION
 
The Committee or the Board may suspend or terminate the Plan or any portion thereof at any time and for any reason in its sole discretion.  The Board may amend the Plan from time to time in such respects as the Board may deem advisable in order that Awards under the Plan will conform to any change in applicable laws or regulations or in any other respect the Board may deem to be in the best interests of the Company; that no amendments to the Plan will be effective without the approval of the shareholders of the Company if shareholder approval of the amendment is then required for the Plan to continue to be a qualified performance-based compensation plan pursuant to Section 162(m) of the Code. Any termination, suspension, or amendment of the Plan may adversely affect any outstanding Award without the consent of the affected Participant.
provided, however,
 
SECTION 11.
 
NON-FUNDED, UNSECURED OBLIGATION
 
A.
 
Neither a Participant nor any other person shall, by reason of participation in the Plan, acquire any right in or title to any assets, funds or property of the Company whatsoever, including, without limitation, any specific funds, assets, or other property which the Company, in its sole discretion, may set aside in anticipation of a liability under the Plan. A Participant shall have only a contractual right to the cash, if any, payable under the Plan (subject to the authority of the Committee pursuant to Section 3), unsecured by any assets of the Company, and nothing contained in the Plan shall constitute a guarantee that the assets of the Company shall be sufficient to pay any benefits to any person. To the extent that a participant acquires a right to receive such a cash payment under the Plan, such right shall be no greater than the right of any unsecured, general creditor of the Company.
 
B.
 
No portion of any amount payable to Participants under the Plan shall be held by the Company in trust or escrow or any other form of asset segregation.
 
SECTION 12.
 
EFFECTIVE DATE AND DURATION OF THE PLAN
 
The Plan was approved by the Board on December 16, 2011. The Plan is subject to shareholder approval as required by Section 162(m) of the Code. The Plan will become effective if approved at the Companys 2012 annual meeting of shareholders and shall remain in effect until such time as the Plan is terminated as provided in Section 10. No amounts will be paid pursuant to the Plan unless and until such time shareholder approval is obtained. Any payments pursuant to Awards outstanding upon termination of the Plan may continue to be made in accordance with the terms of the Awards, subject to the authority of the Committee pursuant to Sections 3 and 9 of the Plan.
 
SECTION 13.
 
MISCELLANEOUS
 
A.
 
Employment.
 
The Plan does not constitute a contract of employment and nothing in the Plan will interfere with or limit in any way the right of the Company to terminate the employment or otherwise modify the terms and conditions of the employment of any Employee or Participant at any time, nor confer upon any Employee or Participant any right to continue in the employ of the Company or any Subsidiary.
 
B.
 
Restrictions or Transfer.
 
Except pursuant to testamentary will or the laws of descent and as otherwise expressly permitted by the Plan, no right or interest of any Participant in an Award will be assignable or transferable, or subjected to any lien, during the lifetime of the Participant, either voluntarily or involuntarily, directly or indirectly, by operation of law or otherwise.
 
C.
 
Governing Law.
 
Except in connection with other matters of corporate governance and authority (all of which shall be governed by the laws of the Companys jurisdiction of incorporation), the validity, construction, interpretation, administration, and effect of the Plan and any rules, regulations, and actions relating to the Plan will be governed by and construed exclusively in accordance with the internal, substantive laws of the State of Oklahoma, without regard to the conflict of law rules of the State of Oklahoma or any other jurisdiction.
 
D.
 
Clawbacks.
 
To the extent required by applicable laws, rules, regulations or securities exchange listing requirements, the Company shall have the right, and shall take all actions necessary, to recover any amounts paid to any individual under this Plan.
 
E.
 
Code Section 162(m).
 
It is the intent of the Company that the Plan comply fully with and meet all the applicable requirements of Code Section 162(m) and the regulations thereunder with respect to Awards.  If any provision of the Plan or if any Award would otherwise conflict with the intent expressed in this subsection (E), that provision, to the extent possible, shall be interpreted so as to avoid such conflict. To the extent of any remaining irreconcilable conflict with such intent, such provision shall be deemed void as applicable to Covered Employees.  Nothing herein shall be interpreted to preclude a Participant who is or may be a Covered Employee from receiving any remuneration from the Company that is awarded not pursuant to the Plan or does not comply with Code Section 162(m).
 
F.
 
Code Section 409A.
 
The Plan and all Awards granted hereunder are intended to comply with, or otherwise be exempt from, Code Section 409A.  The Plan and all Awards shall be administered, interpreted, and construed in a manner consistent with Code Section 409A or an exemption therefrom.  Should any provision of the Plan, any Award hereunder, or any other agreement or arrangement contemplated by the Plan be found not to comply with, or otherwise be exempt from, the provisions of the Code Section 409A, such provision shall be modified and given effect (retroactively if necessary), in the sole discretion of the Committee, and without the consent of the Participant, in such manner as the Committee determines to be necessary or appropriate to comply with, or to effectuate an exemption from, Code Section 409A.  Without limiting the foregoing and notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, to the extent required in order to avoid accelerated taxation or tax penalties under Section 409A, amounts that would otherwise be payable and benefits that would otherwise be provided pursuant to this Plan during the six-month period immediately following the Employees separation from service shall instead be paid on the first business day after the date that is six months following the Executives termination date (or death, if earlier), with interest from the date such amounts would otherwise have been paid at the short-term applicable federal rate, compounded semi-annually, as determined under Section 1274 of the Code, for the month in which payment would have been made but for the delay in payment required to avoid the imposition of an additional rate of tax on the Employee under Section 409A.  Any payments to be made under this Plan upon a termination of employment shall only be made if such termination of employment constitutes a separation from service under Section 409A. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company makes no representations that the payments and benefits provided under this Plan comply with Section 409A and in no event shall the Company be liable for all or any portion of any taxes, penalties, interest or other expenses that may be incurred by the Employee on account of non-compliance with Section 409A.
 
G.
 
Successors.
 
The Plan will be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the successors of the Company and the Participants.
 
Effective <date> (the Effective Date), you have been offered an Award from Chesapeake Energy Corporation (the Company) pursuant to the Plan identified above.  This Award entitles you to the right to receive a cash payment on the Payment Date specified below, subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan, the Company achieves at least one of the Objective Minimum Standards set forth below the Company achieves certain Performance Goals as determined by the Committee in its discretion as set forth below.
if
and
 
$[Base Salary x %]
Your Maximum Award Opportunity:
   
 
Shall refer to any of the following:
Objective Minimum Standard:
   
 
 
 
 
 
[insert scorecard containing goals as established by the Committee with corresponding achievable Award payments]
Your Performance Goals and Incremental Projected Amount:
   
 
mm/dd/yyyy to mm/dd/yyyy
Performance Period:
   
 
[Committee to specify Payment Date. Payments earned pursuant to this Award will be made no later than March 15 of [the year following the year in which the Performance Period ends]]
Payment Timing:
   
 
You are required to accept the terms and conditions set forth in this Notice and the Plan, which is made a part of this document, within 60 days following the Effective Date (the Acceptance Period) in order for you to receive the Award granted to you hereunder. If you wish to decline this Award, you must expressly reject this Notice prior to the end of the Acceptance Period. For your benefit, if you have not rejected this Notice prior to the end of the Acceptance Period, you will be deemed to have automatically accepted this Award and all the terms and conditions set forth in this Notice and the Plan. Any capitalized terms used but not defined in this Notice have the same meanings given to them in the Plan.
Deemed Acceptance.  
 
The Committee shall include a value equal to 50% of the Companys operating cash flow (defined as cash flow from operating activities before changes in assets and liabilities) achieved during the immediately preceding fiscal year (or corresponding period of time as specified by the Committee pursuant to Section 5).
1
 
The Committee shall include a value equal to 75% of the Companys production achieved during the immediately preceding fiscal year (or corresponding period of time as specified by the Committee pursuant to Section 5) as adjusted for asset sales.
2
 

Exhibit 10.1.17
 
FORM OF 20[  ] PERFORMANCE SHARE UNIT AWARD AGREEMENT FOR
CHESAPEAKE ENERGY CORPORATION
LONG TERM INCENTIVE PLAN
 
THIS 20[  ] PERFORMANCE SHARE UNIT AWARD AGREEMENT (the Agreement) entered into as of the grant date set forth on the attached Notice of Grant of Award and Award Agreement (the Notice), by and between Chesapeake Energy Corporation, an Oklahoma corporation (the Company), and the participant named on the Notice (the Participant);
 
W I T N E S S E T H:
 
WHEREAS, the Participant is an Employee, and it is important to the Company that the Participant be encouraged to remain an Employee or Consultant; and
 
WHEREAS, the Company has previously adopted the Chesapeake Energy Corporation Long Term Incentive Plan (the Plan); and
 
WHEREAS, the Company has awarded the Participant Performance Share Units under the Plan, as set forth on the Notice, subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement; and
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and the mutual promises and covenants herein contained, the Participant and the Company agree as follows:
 
1.
 
. The Plan, a copy of which has been made available to the Participant, is hereby incorporated by reference herein and made a part hereof for all purposes, and when taken with this Agreement shall govern the rights of the Participant and the Company with respect to the Award (as defined below). Any capitalized terms used but not defined in this Agreement have the same meanings given to them in the Plan.  The Participant acknowledges that he or she has received a copy of, or has online access to, the Plan, and hereby accepts the Performance Share Units (PSUs) subject to all the terms and provisions of the Plan and this Agreement. Such acceptance may be in any manner that the Committee may establish pursuant to the Notice, including deemed acceptance. The Participant hereby further agrees that he or she has received a copy of, or has online access to, the most recent Form S-8 prospectus relating to the Plan and hereby acknowledges his or her acceptance and receipt of such prospectus electronically.
The Plan
 
2.
 
. The Company hereby awards to the Participant the number of PSUs in accordance with the Notice, on the terms and conditions set forth herein, in the Plan and in the Notice (the Award).  The Award gives the Participant the opportunity to earn the right to receive payment of cash for each PSU awarded in accordance with this Agreement and the Notice.  The Award is subject to adjustment under the terms of the Plan. This Agreement and the Notice establish vesting requirements and determination of payment based on attainment by the Company of specified performance levels for the Performance Measures described in the Notice during the period commencing on the grant date and ending on the date set forth in the Notice (the Performance Period), as established and determined by the Committee.  The Participant shall have no rights as a shareholder of the Company with respect to the PSUs.
Grant of Award
 
3.
 
.
Vesting and Forfeiture
 
(a)
 
The PSUs will vest based on the Participants continuous employment with or service to the Company, a Subsidiary or Affiliated Entity in accordance with the vesting schedule set forth on the Notice.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, a Participant shall not be entitled to any payment under this Agreement unless and until the Committee certifies the level of performance respecting the Performance Measures that has been achieved and the Participant satisfies applicable vesting conditions for such payment.
 
(b)
 
. Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, in its sole discretion in accordance with the terms of the Plan, any unvested Performance Share Units shall be forfeited when a Participant ceases to be an Eligible Person.
Forfeiture
 
4.
 
.  In accordance with the terms of the Plan, upon the occurrence of a Fundamental Transaction or a Change of Control, all PSUs shall be deemed to have achieved a level of performance respecting the Performance Measures equal to the higher of (i) such performance level as required to achieve the Target PSU Allocation (as described in the Notice) or (ii) the actual performance level. The Committee may, in its discretion, adjust the level of performance respecting the Performance Measures described above to account for the change in any specified Performance Measure caused by measuring such values over the period commencing on the grant date and ending on the date of the Fundamental Transaction or Change of Control instead of over the Performance Period. All PSUs awarded pursuant to this paragraph 4 shall be deemed to fully vest at such time.
Fundamental Transaction; Change of Control
 
5.
 
. A PSU is not transferable other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution. Any attempted sale, assignment, transfer, pledge, hypothecation or other disposition of, or the levy of execution, attachment or similar process upon, a PSU contrary to the provisions hereof shall be void and ineffective, shall give no right to any purported transferee, and may, at the sole discretion of the Committee, result in forfeiture of the PSU involved in such attempt.
Nontransferability of Award
 
6.
 
. The payment date(s) with respect to all PSUs in which a Participant becomes vested shall be the earlier of (i) the payment date(s) set forth on the Notice or, (ii) in the event of a Fundamental Transaction or Change of Control, no later than 60 days following such Fundamental Transaction or Change of Control.
Payment
 
7.
 
. The Company may make such provision as it may deem appropriate for the withholding of any applicable federal, state or local taxes that it determines it may be obligated to withhold or pay in connection with the PSUs.
Withholding
 
8.
 
. This Award Agreement may be amended by a written agreement signed by the Company and the Participant; provided that the Committee may modify the terms of this Award Agreement without the consent of the Participant in any manner that is not adverse to the Participant.
Amendments
 
9.
 
. This Award shall be issued, vested and paid only in compliance with the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Act), and any other applicable securities law, or pursuant to an exemption therefrom.
Securities Law Restrictions
 
10.
 
. Notwithstanding anything in the Plan or this Agreement to the contrary, the Committee shall have the authority to determine that in the event of serious misconduct by the Participant (including violations of employment agreements, confidentiality or other proprietary matters) or any activity of a Participant in competition with the business of the Company or any Subsidiary or Affiliated Entity, the PSUs may be cancelled, in whole or in part, whether or not vested. The determination of whether a Participant has engaged in serious misconduct or any activity in competition with the business of the Company or any Subsidiary or Affiliated Entity shall be determined by the Committee in good faith and in its sole discretion. This paragraph 10 shall have no effect and be deleted from this Agreement following a Change of Control.
Participant Misconduct
 
11.
 
. All notices or other communications relating to the Plan and this Agreement as it relates to the Participant shall be in electronic or written form. If in writing, such notices shall be deemed to have been made if personally delivered, or if mailed, by regular U.S. mail, postage prepaid, by the Company to the Participant at his last known address evidenced on the payroll records of the Company.
Notices
 
12.
 
. This Agreement shall be (i) binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective heirs, successors and assigns except as may be limited by the Plan and (ii) governed and construed under the laws of the State of Oklahoma.
Binding Effect and Governing Law
 
13.
 
. The captions of specific provisions of this Agreement are for convenience and reference only, and in no way define, describe, extend or limit the scope of this Agreement or the intent of any provision hereof.
Captions
 
14.
 
. This Agreement may be accepted by execution of the Notice (if execution is the required form of acceptance established by the Committee pursuant to the Notice) in any number of identical counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original for all purposes, but all of which taken together shall form but one agreement. This Agreement, together with the Notice, shall constitute the entire agreement between the parties.
Counterparts; Entire Agreement
 
15.
 
. The Agreement and all Awards granted hereunder are intended to comply with, or otherwise be exempt from, Code Section 409A.  The Plan and all Awards shall be administered, interpreted, and construed in a manner constituent with Code Section 409A or an exemption thereform.  Should any provision of the Plan, the Agreement or any Award hereunder be found not to comply with, or otherwise be exempt from, the provisions of the Code Section 409A, such provision shall be modified and given effect (retroactively if necessary), in the sole discretion of the Committee, and without the consent of the Participant, in such manner as the Committee determines to be necessary or appropriate to comply with, or to effectuate an exemption from, Code Section 409A.  Without limiting the foregoing and notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, to the extent required in order to avoid accelerated taxation or tax penalties under Section 409A, amounts that would otherwise be payable and benefits that would otherwise be provided pursuant to this Plan during the six-month period immediately following the Employees separation from service shall instead be paid on the first business day after the date that is six months following the Executives termination date (or death, if earlier), with interest from the date such amounts would otherwise have been paid at the short-term applicable federal rate, compounded semi-annually, as determined under Section 1274 of the Code, for the month in which payment would have been made but for the delay in payment required to avoid the imposition of an additional rate of tax on the Employee under Section 409A.  Any payments to be made under this Plan upon a termination of employment shall only be made if such termination of employment constitutes a separation from service under Section 409A. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company makes no representations that the payments and benefits provided under this Plan comply with Section 409A and in no event shall the Company be liable for all or any portion of any taxes, penalties, interest or other expenses that may be incurred by the Employee on account of non-compliance with Section 409A.
Code Section 409A
 
 
 
 
 
 
Effective <date> (the Grant Date), you have been granted an Award of a number (the Target PSU Allocation, specified below) of Performance Share Units (PSUs) by Chesapeake Energy Corporation (the Company). This Award entitles you to the right to receive a cash payment for each PSU awarded in an amount equal to Final PSU Value (as defined below) on the Payment Date specified below. The number of PSUs awarded is subject to adjustment pursuant to the level of performance respecting the Performance Measures over the Performance Period, as determined by the Committee and as set forth below.  This Award is further subject to the vesting requirements set forth below.
 
$_________
Value of Target Award:
   
 
$_________ [The closing price per share of the Companys Common Stock as reported on the New York Stock Exchange on the Grant Date]
Grant Date Common Stock Value:
   
 
: #_________ [rounded to the nearest whole share]
Target PSU Allocation
   
 
mm/dd/yyyy
Last Day of the Performance Period:
   
 
mm/dd/yyyy
Payment Date:
   
 
The value of each PSU is equal to the average closing price per share of the Companys Common Stock as reported on the New York Stock Exchange for the 20 trading days including and immediately preceding the last day of the Performance Period.
Final PSU Value:
 
: The Committee has established the following levels of performance for each Performance Measure listed: [list Performance Measures and performance levels.] The final number of PSUs you may receive will be adjusted based on the attainment by the Company of specified levels of performance over the Performance Period, as determined by the Committee following the last day of the Performance Period. This adjustment is represented as a percentage of the Target PSU Allocation, in no event will the Committee adjust the final number of PSUs beyond the stated maximum percentage. The cash payment made to you on the Payment Date will be an amount equal to the final number of PSUs you receive multiplied by the Final PSU Value.
Performance Measures
provided
that
 
  Your Award will vest in equal increments on the date(s) shown below, expressed as a percentage of the Target PSU Allocation. Your vested PSUs are subject to final adjustment following the last day of the Performance Period to reflect the level of performance respecting the Performance Measures as described above. You must continuously provide services to the Company on the dates below in order to receive the corresponding PSUs.
Vesting Schedule.
 
In order to comply fully with and meet all the applicable requirements of Code Section 162(m) and the regulations thereunder with respect to Awards, the payment provisions in this Notice and Agreement shall supersede and replace all inconsistent provisions in any pre-existing agreements between you and the Company that may be interpreted as providing for the acceleration of payment of the Award and all such provisions are specifically waived with respect to the Award, including all such provisions in any pre-existing employment agreement between you and the Company.
No Acceleration of Payment.
You are required to accept the terms and conditions set forth in this Notice, the Agreement and the Plan, all of which are made a part of this document, within 60 days following the Grant Date (the Acceptance Period) in order for you to receive the Award granted to you hereunder. If you wish to decline this Award, you must expressly reject this Notice and the Agreement prior to the end of the Acceptance Period. For your benefit, if you have not rejected this Notice and the Agreement prior to the end of the Acceptance Period, you will be deemed to have automatically accepted this Award and all the terms and conditions set forth in this Notice, the Agreement and the Plan. [Include affirmative acceptance method, if execution is the required form of acceptance established by the Committee.] Any capitalized terms used but not defined in this Notice have the same meanings given to them in the Agreement or the Plan.
Deemed Acceptance.  
 


