FILE:CHK/CHK-8K-20110124165509.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
           Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
*
 
           Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
*
 
           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
*
 
           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
*
 
 
 
 
 
Section 7  Regulation FD
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
On January 18, 2011, Chesapeake Energy Corporation (the Company) issue a press release announcing the date that it will issue its 2010 fourth quarter and full year financial and operational results.  The press release also provided information for accessing the related conference call.  A copy of this press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report.
On January 20, 2011, the Company issued a press release announcing that the Company has been named as one of FORTUNE magazines 100 best companies to work for in the U.S for the fouth consecutive year.  A copy of this press release is attached as Exhibit 99.2 to this Current Report.
 
 On January 24, 2011, the Company issued a press release announcing that its board of directors has extended an invitation to Louis A. Simpson to join the Chesapeake Board of Directors.  A copy of this press release is attached as Exhibit 99.3 to this Current Report.
   
 
 
Section 8  Other Events
Item 8.01 Other Events.
On January 24, 2011, the Company announced that its board of directors has extended an invitation to Louis A. Simpson to join the board of directors.  Mr. Simpson has accepted Chesapeakes invitation and will fill the vacancy created by the retirement of Mr. Frederick B. Whittemore.
 Mr. Simpson, 74, has enjoyed a long and distinguished business career. Currently, Mr. Simpson is the Chairman of SQ Advisors, LLC in Naples, Florida. Mr. Simpson served as President and Chief Executive Officer, Capital Operations, of GEICO Corporation (a subsidiary of Berkshire Hathaway Corporation) from May 1993 until his retirement on December 31, 2010. From 1985 to 1993, he served as Vice Chairman of the board of GEICO. Mr. Simpson joined GEICO in September 1979 as Senior Vice President and Chief Investment Officer. Prior to joining GEICO, Mr. Simpson was President and Chief Executive Officer of Western Asset Management, a subsidiary of the Los Angeles, California-based Western Bancorporation. Previously, he was a partner at Stein Roe and Farnham, a Chicago, Illinois investment firm, and an instructor of economics at Princeton University.
   
 
 
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)
 
Exhibits.  See "Index to Exhibits" attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K, which is incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date:           January 24, 2011
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
CHESAPEAKE ENERGY CORPORATION ANNOUNCES 2010 FOURTH QUARTER
OKLAHOMA CITY, OKLAHOMA, January 18, 2011  Chesapeake Energy Corporation (NYSE:CHK) has scheduled its 2010 fourth quarter and full year operational update and financial results to be released after the close of trading on the New York Stock Exchange on
Tuesday, February 22, 2011.
The company has also scheduled a conference call to discuss the release for
Wednesday, February 23, 2011 at 11:00 am EST.  The telephone number to access the
conference call is or toll-free The passcode for the call is .  We encourage those who would like to participate in the call to place calls between
913-981-5549
888-211-7383
.  
6147630
10:50 and 11:00 am EST.
 
For those unable to participate in the conference call, a replay will be available for audio playback at 3:00 pm EST on Wednesday, February 23, 2011 and will run through midnight
Wednesday, March 9, 2011.  The number to access the conference call replay is
or toll-free .  The passcode for the replay is .
719-457-0820
888-203-1112
6147630
The conference call will also be webcast live on Chesapeakes website at in the Events subsection of the Investors section of our website.  The webcast of the conference will be available on our website for one year.
www.chk.com
Chesapeake Energy Corporation is the second-largest producer of natural gas and the most active driller of new wells in the U.S.  Headquartered in Oklahoma City, the company's operations are focused on discovering and developing unconventional natural gas and oil fields onshore in the U.S.  Chesapeake owns leading positions in the Barnett, Fayetteville, Haynesville, Marcellus and Bossier natural gas shale plays and in the Eagle Ford, Granite Wash, Tonkawa, Cleveland, Mississippian, Wolfcamp, Bone Spring, Avalon and Niobrara unconventional liquids plays.  The company has also vertically integrated its operations and owns substantial midstream, compression, drilling and oilfield service assets.  Further information is available at where Chesapeake routinely posts announcements, updates, events, investor information and presentations and all recent press releases.
www.chk.com

Exhibit 99.2
OKLAHOMA CITY, OKLAHOMA, JANUARY 20, 2011  FORTUNE announced today
that Chesapeake Energy Corporation (NYSE:CHK) has been named one of the
in the U.S. for the fourth consecutive year.  Chesapeakes
100 Best Companies to Work For
rank this year is #32, up from #34 a year ago and #73 in 2009.  The full list and related
stories will appear in the February 7 issue of FORTUNE and is now available at .
http://www.fortune.com/BestCompanies
Aubrey K. McClendon, Chesapeakes Chief Executive Officer, commented, We are honored and excited to have been selected again this year as one of Americas 100 best places to work.  We have long recognized that our employees are our most valuable asset and we continue to look for innovative ways to enhance their professional and personal experience at our company.  Chesapeakes unique corporate culture of achievement and innovation, along with cutting-edge benefits, have enabled us to attract and retain what we believe is the best talent in the industry.
Martha A. Burger, Chesapeakes Senior Vice President  Human & Corporate Resources, added, We are proud to be named to this prestigious list for the fourth consecutive year.  In the past 20 years, we have been able to build a team of 10,000 very skilled individuals from a wide range of backgrounds and locations nationwide.  Our consistent ranking as one of Americas best places to work is a true reflection of the commitment of our diverse work force and the unique benefits and culture we provide.
Some of Chesapeakes unique employee benefits include three on-site restaurants, an on-site medical center, a state-of-the-art fitness center, a $1,500 cash incentive to employees who practice healthy lifestyles, free weight loss programs, a 2.25-acre sustainable employee garden and much more.
Chesapeake has experienced a 10% full-time job growth rate throughout the past year and is actively hiring in every facet of its business.  The company currently has more than 500 open positions, descriptions of which can be found at .
www.chk.com/careers
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
To pick the 100 Best Companies to Work For, FORTUNE partners with the Great Place to Work Institute to conduct the most extensive employee survey in corporate America.  Three hundred eleven companies participated in this year's survey.  Two-thirds of a company's score is based on the results of the Institute's Trust Index survey, which is sent to a random sample of employees from each company.  The survey asks questions related to their attitudes about management's credibility, job satisfaction, and camaraderie.  The other third of the scoring is based on the company's responses to the Institute's Culture Audit, which includes detailed questions about pay and benefit programs and a series of open-ended questions about hiring practices, internal communications, training, recognition programs and diversity efforts.  Any
company that is at least seven years old with more than 1,000 U.S. employees is eligible.  The deadline for applying for next year's list is June 15, 2011. For an online nomination form, go to .
www.greatplacetowork.com
 
Chesapeake Energy Corporation is the second-largest producer of natural gas and the most active driller of new wells in the U.S. Headquartered in Oklahoma City, the company's operations are focused on discovering and developing unconventional natural gas and oil fields onshore in the U.S. Chesapeake owns leading positions in the Barnett, Fayetteville, Haynesville, Marcellus and Bossier natural gas shale plays and in the Eagle Ford, Granite Wash, Tonkawa, Cleveland, Mississippian, Wolfcamp, Bone Spring, Avalon and Niobrara unconventional liquids plays. The company has also vertically integrated its operations and owns substantial midstream, compression, drilling and oilfield service assets. Further information is available at
www.chk.com
where Chesapeake routinely posts announcements, updates, events, investor information and presentations and all recent press releases.
 

Exhibit 99.3
OKLAHOMA CITY, OKLAHOMA, JANUARY 24, 2011  Chesapeake Energy Corporation (NYSE:CHK) today announced that its board of directors has extended an invitation to Louis A. Simpson to join the Chesapeake Board of Directors.  Mr. Simpson has accepted Chesapeakes invitation and will fill the vacancy created by the retirement of Mr. Frederick B. Whittemore, the final nonexecutive member of Chesapeakes 1992 founding board of directors, at the annual meeting of shareholders scheduled for June 10, 2011 in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma.
Mr. Simpson, 74, has enjoyed a long and distinguished business career.  Currently, Mr. Simpson is the Chairman of SQ Advisors, LLC in Naples, Florida.  Mr. Simpson served as President and Chief Executive Officer, Capital Operations, of GEICO Corporation (a subsidiary of Berkshire Hathaway Corporation) from May 1993 until his retirement on December 31, 2010. From 1985 to 1993, he served as Vice Chairman of the board of GEICO.  Mr. Simpson joined GEICO in September 1979 as Senior Vice President and Chief Investment Officer.  Prior to joining GEICO, Mr. Simpson was President and Chief Executive Officer of Western Asset Management, a subsidiary of the Los Angeles, California-based Western Bancorporation.  Previously, he was a partner at Stein Roe and Farnham, a Chicago, Illinois investment firm, and an instructor of economics at Princeton University.
Mr. Simpson is a Director of Science Applications International Corporation (NYSE:SAIC), VeriSign Corporation (NASDAQ:VRSN), and Princeton University Investment Company.  He is a trustee emeritus of the Urban Institute based in Washington, D.C., a life trustee of the Museum of Science and Industry based in Chicago, Illinois, a life trustee of Northwestern University in Evanston, Illinois, and a director of the Economic Club of Chicago, Illinois.
Mr. Simpson has served as a Director of a number of public companies including AT&T, Comcast, HNC Software, MediaOne, Potomac Electric Power, ResMed, Salomon Inc., Thompson BPE, Magma Power, U.S. West and Western Asset Funds.  The Outstanding Directors Exchange named him an Outstanding Director in 2006.  Mr. Simpson obtained his bachelors degree from Ohio Wesleyan University and his masters degree in economics from Princeton University.
Aubrey K.  McClendon said of Mr. Simpsons intention to join Chesapeakes Board of Directors, In recent conversations with our largest shareholder, Southeastern Asset Management of Memphis, Tennessee, Lous name surfaced as a potential addition to our Board upon Fred Whittemores retirement this coming June.  I had met Lou previously and now our Board has met him as well and we are extremely honored to have Lou accept the invitation to join Chesapeakes board.  I believe his long and distinguished experience as one of our nations most accomplished investors will be of substantial benefit to Chesapeake, our board and our shareholders.  Lou not only offers a unique blend of professional experiences, accomplishments and skills that will help Chesapeake to continue building very significant intrinsic value per share, but also he and his family are already significant shareholders.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Aubrey K. McClendon, the companys Co-Founder, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, is the only member of management on the board.  Other board members are: Richard K. Davidson of Bonita Springs, Florida; Kathleen M Eisbrenner of Houston, Texas; Frank Keating of Washington, D.C.; V. Burns Hargis of Stillwater, Oklahoma; Charles T. Maxwell of Bronxville, New York; Pete Miller of Houston Texas; Don Nickles of Washington, D.C.; and Frederick B. Whittemore of New York, N.Y., all of whom are independent under the rules of the New York Stock Exchange.
Chesapeake Energy Corporation is the second-largest producer of natural gas and the most active driller of new wells in the U.S.  Headquartered in Oklahoma City, the company's operations are focused on discovering and developing unconventional natural gas and oil fields onshore in the U.S.  Chesapeake owns leading positions in the Barnett, Fayetteville, Haynesville, Marcellus and Bossier natural gas shale plays and in the Eagle Ford, Granite Wash, Tonkawa, Cleveland, Mississippian, Wolfcamp, Bone Spring, Avalon and Niobrara unconventional liquids plays.  The company has also vertically integrated its operations and owns substantial midstream, compression, drilling and oilfield service assets.  Further information is available at
www.chk.com
where Chesapeake routinely posts announcements, updates, events, investor information and presentations and all recent press releases.


