FILE:CHK/CHK-8K-20110413163559.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
           Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
*
 
           Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
*
 
           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
*
 
           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
*
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 7  Regulation FD
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
On April 11, 2011, Chesapeake Energy Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release announcing that it provides full disclosure of chemicals used in the hydraulic fracture well completion process through a national publicly accessible registry.  A copy of this press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report.
the adoption of formal operating principles to further protect the environment and promote increased safe and responsible exploration and production performance
On April 12, 2011, the Company issued a press release announcing
.  A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.2 to this Current Report.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)
 
Exhibits.  See "Index to Exhibits" attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K, which is incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date:           April 13, 2011
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
CHESAPEAKE ENERGY CORPORATION PROVIDES FULL DISCLOSURE OF
OKLAHOMA CITY, OKLAHOMA, APRIL 11, 2011  Chesapeake Energy Corporation (NYSE:CHK), one of the first energy companies to call for disclosure of additives used in the hydraulic fracturing process, announced today that it is actively participating in a national publicly accessible web-based registry developed by the Ground Water Protection Council (GWPC) and the Interstate Oil and Gas Compact Commission (IOGCC), with support of the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE), to report the additives used in the process on a well-by-well basis. To date, a total of 24 companies have registered as participants and 11 of those companies, including Chesapeake, have begun using this website to provide detailed information about the additives in their hydraulic fracturing operations.
Chesapeake began loading well completion data onto the registry on February 15, 2011, for wells where completion reports have been filed with the appropriate state agencies. To date, information has been uploaded to the registry covering 94 wells in Arkansas, Louisiana, Oklahoma, Pennsylvania, Texas and Wyoming. The website, which also includes information about how hydraulic fracturing works, information about the chemicals used and how fresh ground water is protected, may be used by the public and the website address is .
www.fracfocus.org/
Aubrey K. McClendon, Chesapeakes CEO, commented, Providing further information about our drilling, completing and producing operations in todays environment is more critical than ever, and we believe this new public registry provides an immediate, workable and accurate way to present information about the additives of our hydraulic fracturing operations to all of our stakeholders.  We applaud the leadership of the GWPC, IOGCC and DOE and our colleagues in the industry who have joined us in this initiative.  We encourage every other producer and their respective service company partners to enthusiastically embrace this approach.
Chesapeake Energy Corporation is the second-largest producer of natural gas and the most active driller of new wells in the U.S. Headquartered in Oklahoma City, the company's operations are focused on discovering and developing unconventional natural gas and oil fields onshore in the U.S. Chesapeake owns leading positions in the Barnett, Haynesville, Marcellus and Bossier natural gas shale plays and in the Eagle Ford, Granite Wash, Cleveland, Tonkawa, Mississippian, Wolfcamp, Bone Spring, Avalon, Niobrara and Williston Basin unconventional liquids plays. The company has also vertically integrated its operations and owns substantial midstream, compression, drilling and oilfield service assets. Further information is available at www.chk.com where Chesapeake routinely posts announcements, updates, events, investor information and presentations and all recent press releases.
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
OKLAHOMA CITY, OKLAHOMA, APRIL 12, 2011  Chesapeake Energy Corporation (NYSE:CHK) today furthered its commitment to progressive operational, environmental and safety standards by formally adopting a set of operational principles for the companys employees, contractors, suppliers and vendors to guide its oil and natural gas exploration and production operations throughout the country.  Since its inception, Chesapeake has committed to promoting and conducting responsible exploration and production activities in its operating areas and achieving a standard of environmental excellence. However, with this announcement and yesterdays announcement that Chesapeake has joined a nationwide public registry () that is disclosing the additives in the companys hydraulic fracturing operations, Chesapeake will more formally integrate the following core values into all decisions affecting operations and seek the same from all who perform work on its behalf:
www.fracfocus.org
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In addition to fully supporting and actively participating in the national registry mentioned above and developed by the Ground Water Protection Council (GWPC) and the Interstate Oil and Gas Compact (IOGCC), with support of the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE), to disclose the additives used in hydraulic fracturing fluids on a well-by-well basis, the company will continue its ongoing work with lawmakers and regulators to improve environmental protection and address misperceptions about operational and environmental safety.  To further this commitment, Chesapeake frequently provides advanced technical consulting to appropriate regulatory agencies at the local, state and federal level to assist in that process.  The company has previously said it welcomes the Environmental Protection Agencys study of the hydraulic fracturing well completion process and believes a professional and science-based study
will reconfirm the EPAs previous analysis that in 2004 concluded that the process is
safe based upon industry best management practices and regulatory requirements already in place at the federal, state and local levels.  More details can be found at
www.chk.com/About/Commitment/Pages/default.aspx
Aubrey K. McClendon, Chesapeakes CEO, commented, We are pleased to formalize our philosophy and commitment as part of our ongoing commitment to continuous improvement in our operating principles that will guide our activities as we explore for and produce more domestic oil and natural gas for American consumers.  These guiding principles represent our commitment to surface owners, mineral owners, local citizens, shareholders, government officials and regulators, and all other stakeholders to make progress in improving our operational performance by working in an environmentally respectful way. Furthermore, we will also require that our contractors and vendors adopt these same principles.
We will also continue to pursue and support additional innovations and enhancements to our drilling, completion and operating practices that minimize our impact on the environment.  For example, we have implemented our Aqua Renew program to recycle produced water that further protects the environment.  Chesapeake has also initiated what we believe is an industry-leading Green Frac program to evaluate the types of additives typically used in the hydraulic fracturing process to identify additives that can be replaced by greener alternatives.  In the past year, the company has already eliminated 25% of the chemical additives used in frac fluids in most of its shale plays. We expect further progress in the years ahead.
Chesapeake Energy Corporation is the second-largest producer of natural gas and the most active driller of new wells in the U.S. Headquartered in Oklahoma City, the company's operations are focused on discovering and developing unconventional natural gas and oil fields onshore in the U.S. Chesapeake owns leading positions in the Barnett, Haynesville, Marcellus and Bossier natural gas shale plays and in the Eagle Ford, Granite Wash, Cleveland, Tonkawa, Mississippian, Wolfcamp, Bone Spring, Avalon, Niobrara and Williston Basin unconventional liquids plays. The company has also vertically integrated its operations and owns substantial midstream, compression, drilling and oilfield service assets. Further information is available at www.chk.com where Chesapeake routinely posts announcements, updates, events, investor information and presentations and all recent press releases.
 


