FILE:CHK/CHK-8K-20111104062442.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
           Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
*
 
           Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
*
 
           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
*
 
           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
*
 
 
 
 
 
Section 2  Financial Information
Item 2.02  Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On November 3, 2011, Chesapeake Energy Corporation (the Company) issued a press release reporting its financial and operational results for the 2011 third quarter and providing an updated outlook for 2011, 2012 and 2013.  The press release also provided information for accessing a related conference call.  A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report.
Section 7  Regulation FD
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
On November 2, 2011, the Company issued a press release announcing that Chesapeake Granite Wash Trust (the Trust) has commenced an initial public offering of 23,375,000 common units representing an approximate 50% beneficial interest in the Trust.  A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.2 to this Current Report.
On November 3, 2011, the Company issued a press release announcing it had entered into a letter of intent regarding a joint venture for the development of a portion of its Utica Shale leasehold and a financial transaction that included the sale of preferred shares of CHK Utica, L.L.C, a newly formed Company subsidiary that owns approximately 700,000 net leasehold acres within an area of mutual interest in the Utica Shale play.  A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.3 to this Current Report.
Section 8  Other Events
Item 8.01 Other Events.
On November 3, 2011, the Company announced that it has entered into a letter of intent (LOI) with an undisclosed international major energy company for an industry joint venture (JV) through which the JV partner will acquire an undivided 25% interest in approximately 650,000 net acres of leasehold in the wet natural gas area of the Utica Shale play.  Of this acreage, approximately 570,000 net acres are owned by the Company and approximately 80,000 net acres are owned by Houston-based EnerVest, Ltd. and its affiliates (EnerVest).  The JV area covers all or a portion of 10 counties in eastern Ohio. The consideration for the transaction will be $15,000 per net acre, or approximately $2.14 billion to the Company and approximately $300 million to EnerVest.  Approximately $640 million of the consideration to the Company will be paid in cash at closing and approximately $1.5 billion will be paid in the form of a drilling and completion cost carry, which the Company anticipates fully receiving by year-end 2014.
The Company will serve as the operator of the JV and will conduct all leasing, drilling, completion, operations and marketing activities for the project.  The LOI provides that the JV partner will have the option to acquire a 25% share of all additional acreage acquired by the Company in the JV area of mutual interest and the option to participate with the Company for a 25% interest in midstream infrastructure related to production generated from the assets. The LOI provides for the execution of definitive transaction documents and closing by mid-December 2011.  Completion of the Utica Shale JV transaction is subject to the negotiation and execution and delivery of mutually agreeable definitive agreements among the parties, and we cannot assure you that the transaction will occur on the terms described or at all.  Changes in market conditions or other factors beyond our control could adversely affect our ability to consummate the transaction.
On November 2, 2011, the Company completed the sale to EIG Global Energy Partners of $500 million of perpetual preferred shares of a newly formed entity, CHK Utica, L.L.C.  CHK Utica is an unrestricted subsidiary of the Company that owns approximately 700,000 net leasehold acres within an area of mutual interest in the Utica Shale play in 13 counties primarily in eastern Ohio.  The Company has retained all the common interests in CHK Utica.
The CHK Utica preferred shares are entitled to receive an initial annual distribution of 7%, payable quarterly.  The Company retains an option exercisable prior to October 31, 2018 to repurchase the preferred shares for cash in whole or in part at any time at a valuation expected to equal the greater of a 10% internal rate of return or a return on investment of 1.4x and may repurchase the shares thereafter at a higher valuation.  Investors in CHK Utica preferred shares will also receive an overriding royalty interest in the well-bore of the first 1,500 net wells drilled in the area of mutual interest.  If an additional $750 million of CHK Utica preferred shares are purchased in the future, holders of the preferred shares would hold an aggregate 3% overriding royalty interest, which is the equivalent of an approximate 0.45% overriding royalty interest across the Companys projected 10,000 net well inventory.  The Companys average net revenue interest on its Utica Shale leasehold is approximately 83%.  As part of the transaction, the Company has committed to drill a minimum of 50 net wells per year through 2016 in the CHK Utica area of mutual interest, up to a minimum cumulative total of 250 net wells, for the benefit of CHK Utica.
The private placement of CHK Utica preferred shares was made pursuant to the exemption from the registration provisions of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, provided by Section 4(2) of the Securities Act. The shares have not been registered under the Securities Act and may not be offered or sold in the United States absent registration or an applicable exemption from registration requirements.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)
 
Exhibits.  See "Exhibit Index" attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K, which is incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date:           November 4, 2011
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
OKLAHOMA CITY, OKLAHOMA, NOVEMBER 3, 2011  Chesapeake Energy Corporation (NYSE:CHK) today announced its 2011 third quarter financial and operational results.  For the quarter, Chesapeake reported net income to common stockholders of $879 million ($1.23 per fully diluted common share), operating cash flow of $1.409 billion (defined as cash flow from operating activities before changes in assets and liabilities) and ebitda of $2.013 billion (defined as net income before income taxes, interest expense, and depreciation, depletion and amortization) on revenue of $3.977 billion and production of 306 billion cubic feet of natural gas equivalent (bcfe).
The companys 2011 third quarter results include various items that are typically not included in published estimates of the companys financial results by certain securities analysts.  For the 2011 third quarter, Chesapeake reported adjusted net income to common stockholders of $496 million ($0.72 per fully diluted common share) and adjusted ebitda of $1.385 billion.  The primary excluded item was a net unrealized after-tax mark-to-market gain of $385 million resulting from the companys natural gas, liquids and interest rate hedging programs.
A reconciliation of operating cash flow, ebitda, adjusted ebitda and adjusted net income to comparable financial measures calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles is presented on pages 16  20 of this release.
 
 
 
 
 
The table below summarizes Chesapeakes key results during the 2011 third quarter and compares them to results during the 2011 second quarter and the 2010 third quarter.
 
Chesapeakes daily production for the 2011 third quarter averaged 3.329 bcfe, an increase of 286 million cubic feet of natural gas equivalent (mmcfe), or 9%, over the 3.043 bcfe produced per day in the 2010 third quarter and an increase of 280 mmcfe, or 9%, from the 3.049 bcfe produced per day in the 2011 second quarter.
Chesapeakes average daily production of 3.329 bcfe for the 2011 third quarter consisted of 2.763 billion cubic feet of natural gas (bcf) and 94,228 barrels (bbls) of oil and natural gas liquids (collectively, liquids).  The companys 2011 third quarter production of 306.2 bcfe was comprised of 254.2 bcf of natural gas (83% on a natural gas equivalent basis) and 8.7 million barrels of liquids (mmbbls) (17% on a natural gas equivalent basis).  The companys year-over-year growth rate of natural gas production was 1% while its year-over-year growth rate of liquids production was 91%.  The companys percentage of revenue from liquids in the 2011 third quarter was 40% of total unhedged natural gas and liquids revenue compared to 23% in the 2010 third quarter and 40% in the 2011 second quarter.
Average prices realized during the 2011 third quarter (including realized gains or losses from natural gas and oil derivatives, but excluding unrealized gains or losses on such derivatives) were $4.82 per thousand cubic feet (mcf) and $63.03 per bbl, for a realized natural gas equivalent price of $5.78 per thousand cubic feet of natural gas equivalent (mcfe).  Realized gains from natural gas hedging activities during the 2011 third quarter generated a $1.43 gain per mcf, while realized losses from liquids hedging activities generated a $2.26 loss per bbl, resulting in 2011 third quarter net realized hedging gains of $344 million, or $1.12 per mcfe.
By comparison, average prices realized during the 2010 third quarter (including realized gains or losses from natural gas and oil derivatives, but excluding unrealized gains or losses on such derivatives) were $5.20 per mcf and $59.81 per bbl, for a realized natural gas equivalent price of $5.67 per mcfe.  Realized gains from natural gas and liquids hedging activities during the 2010 third quarter generated a $1.92 gain per mcf and a $5.56 gain per bbl, respectively, for 2010 third quarter realized hedging gains of $512 million, or $1.83 per mcfe.
The companys realized cash hedging gains since January 1, 2006 have been $8.1 billion, or $1.64 on average for every mcfe produced.
The following table summarizes Chesapeakes 2011 and 2012 open swap positions as of November 3, 2011.  Depending on changes in natural gas and oil futures markets and managements view of underlying natural gas and liquids supply and demand trends, Chesapeake may increase or decrease some or all of its hedging positions at any time in the future without notice.
In addition to the open hedging positions disclosed above, as of November 3, 2011, the company had an additional $358 million, $294 million and $47 million of net hedging gains on closed contracts and premiums collected on call options that will be realized in 2011, 2012 and 2013, respectively, as set forth below.
 
Details of the companys quarter-end hedging positions are available in the companys Form  10-Q filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and current positions are disclosed in summary format in the companys Outlook.  The companys updated forecasts for 2011, 2012 and 2013 are attached to this release in the Outlook dated November 3, 2011, labeled as Schedule A, which begins on page 21.  The Outlook has been changed from the Outlook dated July 28, 2011, attached as Schedule B, which begins on page 25, to reflect various updated information.
The following table compares Chesapeakes September 30, 2011 proved reserves, the increase versus its year-end 2010 proved reserves, estimated future net cash flows from proved reserves (discounted at an annual rate of 10% before income taxes (PV-10)), and proved developed percentage based on the trailing 12-month average price required by the reserve reporting rules of the SEC and the 10-year average NYMEX strip prices at September 30, 2011.
 
 
The following table summarizes Chesapeakes proved well costs for the first three quarters of 2011 using the two pricing methods described above.
 
A complete reconciliation of proved reserves based on these two alternative pricing methods, along with total costs, is presented on pages 12 and 13 of this release.
In addition to the PV-10 value of its proved reserves, the company also has significant value in its unevaluated properties, which had a book value of $16.4 billion as of September 30, 2011 and a likely value substantially in excess of book value.  Furthermore, the net book value of the companys other assets (including gathering systems, compressors, land and buildings, investments and other non-current assets) was $7.0 billion as of September 30, 2011, an increase of approximately $0.9 billion from December 31, 2010.
Since 2000, Chesapeake has built the largest combined inventories of onshore leasehold (15.0 million net acres) and 3-D seismic (30.1 million acres) in the U.S.  The company has also accumulated the largest inventory of U.S. natural gas shale play leasehold (2.5 million net acres) and now owns a leading position in 12 of what Chesapeake believes are the Top 15 unconventional liquids-rich plays in the U.S.  the Granite Wash, Cleveland, Tonkawa and Mississippi Lime plays in the Anadarko Basin; the Avalon, Bone Spring, Wolfcamp and Wolfberry plays in the Permian Basin; the Eagle Ford Shale in South Texas; the Niobrara Shale in the Powder River and DJ Basins; the Bakken/Three Forks in the Williston Basin; and the Utica Shale in the Appalachian Basin.
On its leasehold inventory, Chesapeake has identified an estimated 18.5 trillion cubic feet of natural gas equivalent (tcfe) of proved reserves (using volume estimates based on the 10-year average NYMEX strip prices at September 30, 2011), 111 tcfe of risked unproved resources and 338 tcfe of unrisked unproved resources.  The company is currently using 171 operated drilling rigs to further develop its inventory of approximately 38,700 net risked drillsites.  Of Chesapeakes 171 operated rigs, 105 are drilling wells primarily focused on unconventional liquids-rich plays, 63 are drilling wells primarily focused on unconventional natural gas plays and three are drilling conventional natural gas plays.  The company has reduced its natural gas-directed activity by 18 rigs from July 2011 and by 31 rigs from January 2011.  In addition, 165 of Chesapeakes 171 operated rigs are drilling horizontal wells.
In recognition of the value gap between liquids and natural gas prices, Chesapeake has directed a significant portion of its technological and leasehold acquisition expertise during the past three years to identify, secure and commercialize new unconventional liquids-rich plays.  To date, Chesapeake has built leasehold positions and established production in multiple liquids-rich plays on approximately 6.2 million net leasehold acres with 7.0 billion bbls of oil equivalent (bboe) (or 42 tcfe) of risked unproved resources and 27.0 bboe (or 162 tcfe) of unrisked unproved resources based on the companys internal estimates.  As a result of its success to date, Chesapeake expects to increase its liquids production through its drilling activities to an average of approximately 150,000 bbls per day in 2012, 200,000 bbls per day in 2013 and 250,000 bbls per day in 2015.  Previously, these volume estimates were for year-end exit rates and have been recently revised to full-year averages because of the companys ongoing success in increasing its liquids production rates.
The following table summarizes Chesapeakes ownership and activity in its unconventional natural gas plays, unconventional liquids-rich plays and other conventional and unconventional plays.  Chesapeake uses a probability-weighted statistical approach to estimate the potential number of drillsites and unproved resources associated with such drillsites.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A conference call to discuss this release has been scheduled for Friday, November 4, 2011 at 9:00 a.m. EDT.  The telephone number to access the conference call is or toll-free .  The passcode for the call is .  We encourage those who would like to participate in the call to dial the access number between 8:50 and 9:00 a.m. EDT.  For those unable to participate in the conference call, a replay will be available for audio playback from 1:00 p.m. EDT on Friday, November 4, 2011 through midnight on November 18, 2011.  The number to access the conference call replay is or toll-free .  The passcode for the replay is .  The conference call will also be webcast live on Chesapeakes website section of the website.  The webcast of the conference call will be available on Chesapeakes website for one year.
913
-312-1463
888-778-8861
5544489
719-457-0820
888-203-1112
5544489
at
www.chk.com
in the Events subsection of the Investors
Chesapeake Energy Corporation is the second-largest producer of natural gas, a Top 15 producer of oil and natural gas liquids and the most active driller of new wells in the U.S.  Headquartered in Oklahoma City, the company's operations are focused on discovering and developing unconventional natural gas and oil fields onshore in the U.S.  Chesapeake owns leading positions in the Barnett, Haynesville, Bossier, Marcellus and Pearsall natural gas shale plays and in the Granite Wash, Cleveland, Tonkawa, Mississippi Lime, Bone Spring, Avalon, Wolfcamp, Wolfberry, Eagle Ford, Niobrara, Three Forks/Bakken and Utica unconventional liquids plays.  The company has also vertically integrated its operations and owns substantial midstream, compression, drilling, trucking, pressure pumping and other oilfield service assets directly and indirectly through its subsidiaries Chesapeake Midstream Development, L.P. and Chesapeake Oilfield Services, L.L.C. and its affiliate Chesapeake Midstream Partners, L.P. (NYSE:CHKM).  Chesapeakes stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol CHK.  Further information is available at where Chesapeake routinely posts announcements, updates, events, investor information, presentations and press releases.
www.chk.com
This news release and the accompanying Outlooks include forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.  Forward-looking statements give our current expectations or forecasts of future events.  They include estimates of natural gas and liquids reserves and resources, expected natural gas and liquids production and future expenses, assumptions regarding future natural gas and oil prices, planned drilling activity and well costs, projected cash flow and liquidity, business strategy and other plans and objectives for future operations.  Disclosures of the estimated realized effects of our current hedging positions on future natural gas and liquids sales are based upon market prices that are subject to significant volatility.  We caution you not to place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this news release, and we undertake no obligation to update this information.
Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from expected results are described under Risk Factors in our 2010 Form 10-K filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on March 1, 2011.  These risk factors include the volatility of natural gas and oil prices; the limitations our level of indebtedness may have on our financial flexibility; declines in the values of our natural gas and liquids properties resulting in ceiling test write-downs; the availability of capital on an economic basis, including planned asset monetization transactions, to fund reserve replacement costs; our ability to replace reserves and sustain production; uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of natural gas and liquids reserves and projecting future rates of production and the amount and timing of development expenditures; inability to generate profits or achieve targeted results in drilling and well operations; leasehold terms expiring before production can be established; hedging activities resulting in lower prices realized on natural gas and liquids sales, the need to secure hedging liabilities and the inability of hedging counterparties to satisfy their obligations; a reduced ability to borrow or raise additional capital as a result of  lower natural gas and oil prices; drilling and operating risks, including potential environmental liabilities; legislative and regulatory changes adversely affecting our industry and our business; general economic conditions negatively impacting us and our business counterparties; transportation capacity constraints and interruptions that could adversely affect our revenues and cash flow; and adverse results in pending or future litigation.
Our production forecasts are dependent upon many assumptions, including estimates of production decline rates from existing wells and the outcome of future drilling activity.  Although we believe the expectations and forecasts reflected in these and other forward-looking statements are reasonable, we can give no assurance they will prove to have been correct.  They can be affected by inaccurate assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties.
The SEC requires natural gas and oil companies, in filings made with the SEC, to disclose proved reserves, which are those quantities of natural gas and liquids that by analysis of geoscience and engineering data can be estimated with reasonable certainty to be economically producible  from a given date forward, from known reservoirs, and under existing economic conditions, operating methods, and government regulations  prior to the time at which contracts providing the right to operate expire, unless evidence indicates that renewal is reasonably certain, regardless of whether deterministic or probabilistic methods are used for the estimation.  In this news release, we use the terms risked and unrisked unproved resources to describe Chesapeakes internal estimates of volumes of natural gas and liquids that are not classified as proved reserves but are potentially recoverable through exploratory drilling or additional drilling or recovery techniques.  These are broader descriptions of potentially recoverable volumes than probable and possible reserves, as defined by SEC regulations.  Estimates of unproved resources are by their nature more speculative than estimates of proved reserves and accordingly are subject to substantially greater risk of actually being realized by the company.  We believe our estimates of unproved resources are reasonable, but such estimates have not been reviewed by independent engineers.  Estimates of unproved resources may change significantly as development provides additional data, and actual quantities that are ultimately recovered may differ substantially from prior estimates.  The company calculates the standardized measure of future net cash flows of proved reserves only at year end because applicable income tax information on properties, including recently acquired natural gas and liquids interests, is not readily available at other times during the year.  As a result, the company is not able to reconcile interim period-end PV-10 values to the standardized measure at such dates.  The only difference between the two measures is that PV-10 is calculated before considering the impact of future income tax expenses, while the standardized measure includes such effects.  Year-end standardized measure calculations are provided in the financial statement notes in our annual reports on Form 10-K.
 
 
CHESAPEAKE ENERGY CORPORATION
 
CHESAPEAKE ENERGY CORPORATION
 
 
 
 
CHESAPEAKE ENERGY CORPORATION
 
 
CHESAPEAKE ENERGY CORPORATION
 
 
 
 
 
 
Our policy is to periodically provide guidance on certain factors that affect our future financial performance.  As of November 3, 2011, we are using the following key assumptions in our projections for 2011, 2012 and 2013.
The primary changes from our July 28, 2011 Outlook are in and are explained as follows:
italicized bold
 
 
Commodity Hedging Activities
Chesapeake enters into natural gas and oil derivative transactions in order to mitigate a portion of its exposure to adverse market changes in natural gas and oil prices.  Please see the quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and annual reports on Form 10-K filed by Chesapeake with the Securities and Exchange Commission for detailed information about derivative instruments the company uses, its quarter-end natural gas and oil derivative positions and the accounting for commodity derivatives.
At November 3, 2011, the company does not have any open natural gas swaps in place.  The company currently has $616 million of net hedging gains related to closed natural gas contracts and premiums collected on call options for future production periods.
The company currently has the following natural gas written call options in place for 2011 through 2020:
 
 
The company has the following natural gas basis protection swaps in place for 2011 through 2022:
At November 3, 2011, the company has the following open crude oil swaps in place for 2011 and through 2015.  In addition, the company has $93 million of net hedging gains related to closed crude oil contracts and premiums collected on call options for future production periods.
The company currently has the following crude oil written call options in place for 2011 through 2017:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Years Ending December 31, 2011 and 2012
Our policy is to periodically provide guidance on certain factors that affect our future financial performance.  As of July 28, 2011, we are using the following key assumptions in our projections for 2011 and 2012.
The primary changes from our May 2, 2011 Outlook are in and are explained as follows:
italicized bold
 
 
Commodity Hedging Activities
Chesapeake enters into natural gas and oil derivative transactions in order to mitigate a portion of its exposure to adverse market changes in natural gas and oil prices.  The company utilizes the following types of natural gas and oil derivative instruments:
All of our derivative instruments are net settled based on the difference between the fixed-price payment and the floating-price payment, resulting in a net amount due to or from the counterparty.
Commodity markets are volatile, and as a result, Chesapeakes hedging activity is dynamic.  As market conditions warrant, the company may elect to settle a hedging transaction prior to its scheduled maturity date and lock in the gain or loss on the transaction.  Since the latter half of 2009 through June 2011, the company has taken advantage of attractive strip prices in 2012 through 2017 and sold natural gas and oil call options to its counterparties in exchange for 2010, 2011 and 2012 natural gas swaps with strike prices above the then current market price.  This effectively allowed the company to sell out-year volatility through call options at terms acceptable to Chesapeake in exchange for natural gas swaps with fixed prices in excess of the market price at the time.
 
Gains or losses from commodity derivative transactions are reflected as adjustments to natural gas and liquids sales.  All realized gains (losses) from natural gas and oil derivatives are included in natural gas and liquids sales in the month of related production.  In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, changes in the fair value of derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges, to the extent they are effective in offsetting cash flows attributable to the hedged risk, are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income until the hedged item is recognized in earnings as the physical transactions being hedged occur.  Any change in fair value resulting from ineffectiveness is currently recognized in natural gas and liquids sales as unrealized gains (losses).  Realized gains (losses) are comprised of settled trades related to the production periods being reported.  Unrealized gains (losses) are comprised of both temporary fluctuations in the mark-to-market values of nonqualifying trades and settled values of nonqualifying derivatives related to future production periods.
At July 28, 2011, the company has the following open natural gas swaps in place for 2011 and 2012.  In addition, the company currently has $630 million of net hedging gains related to closed natural gas contracts and premiums collected on call options for future production periods.
 
 
The company currently has the following natural gas written call options in place for 2011 through 2020:
 
 
The company has the following natural gas basis protection swaps in place for 2011 through 2022:
 
At July 28, 2011, the company has the following open crude oil swaps in place for 2011 and 2012.  In addition, the company has $60 million of net hedging gains related to closed crude oil contracts and premiums collected on call options for future production periods.
 
 
The company currently has the following crude oil written call options in place for 2011 through 2017:
 

Exhibit 99.2
OKLAHOMA CITY, OKLAHOMA, NOVEMBER 2, 2011  Chesapeake Energy Corporation (Chesapeake) (NYSE:CHK) announced today that Chesapeake Granite Wash Trust (the Trust) has commenced an initial public offering of 23,375,000 common units representing an approximate 50% beneficial interest in the Trust.  The Trust has also granted the underwriters the option to purchase up to an additional 3,506,250 common units.
The common units being offered to the public have been approved for listing on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol CHKR, subject to official notice of issuance.  Following completion of the offering, Chesapeake will own 11,687,500 common units and 11,687,500 subordinated units in the Trust, assuming no exercise of the underwriters option to purchase additional units, and the Trust will have a total of 46,750,000 units outstanding.
The Trust will own royalty interests conveyed to it by Chesapeake that will entitle the Trust to a percentage of the proceeds received by Chesapeake from the production of hydrocarbons from 69 currently producing wells and 118 development wells to be drilled in the future by Chesapeake on approximately 45,400 gross acres (28,700 net acres) in the Colony Granite Wash play in Washita County in the Anadarko Basin of western Oklahoma.
Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC and Raymond James & Associates, Inc. are serving as joint book-running managers and joint structuring advisors for this offering.  Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., Goldman, Sachs & Co. and Wells Fargo Securities, LLC will also serve as joint book-running managers.  This offering of common units will be made only by means of a prospectus.  A written prospectus meeting the requirements of the Securities Act of 1933 may be obtained from:
 
A Registration Statement on Forms S-1 and S-3 relating to these securities has been filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission but has not yet become effective.  These securities may not be sold nor may offers to buy be accepted prior to the time the registration statement becomes effective.
 
 
 
 
 
ABOUT CHESAPEAKE GRANITE WASH TRUST:
Chesapeake Granite Wash Trust is a Delaware statutory trust formed by Chesapeake Energy Corporation to own certain royalty interests in oil and natural gas wells in Washita County, Oklahoma producing from the Colony Granite Wash Play within the broader Granite Wash formation of the Anadarko Basin. The common units do not represent interests in and are not obligations of Chesapeake Energy Corporation.
ABOUT CHESAPEAKE ENERGY CORPORATION:
Chesapeake Energy Corporation is the second-largest producer of natural gas, a Top 15 producer of oil and natural gas liquids and the most active driller of new wells in the U.S.  Headquartered in Oklahoma City, the company's operations are focused on discovering and developing unconventional natural gas and oil fields onshore in the U.S.  Chesapeake owns leading positions in the Barnett, Haynesville, Bossier, Marcellus and Pearsall natural gas shale plays and in the Granite Wash, Cleveland, Tonkawa, Mississippi Lime, Bone Spring, Avalon, Wolfcamp, Wolfberry, Eagle Ford, Niobrara, Three Forks/Bakken and Utica unconventional liquids plays.  The company has also vertically integrated its operations and owns substantial midstream, compression, drilling, trucking, pressure pumping and other oilfield service assets directly and indirectly through its subsidiaries Chesapeake Midstream Development, L.P. and Chesapeake Oilfield Services, L.L.C. and its affiliate Chesapeake Midstream Partners, L.P. (NYSE:CHKM).  Chesapeakes stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol CHK.  Further information is available at where Chesapeake routinely posts announcements, updates, events, investor information, presentations and press releases.
www.chk.com
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS:
This press release includes forward-looking statements that relate to, among other things, the offering and expected closing of such offering of common units.  Forward-looking statements give our current expectations or forecasts of future events.  We caution you not to place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this release, and we undertake no obligation to update this information.  Although we believe the expectations and forecasts reflected in these and other forward-looking statements are reasonable, we can give no assurance they will prove to be correct.  They can be affected by inaccurate assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties.  Please read Risk Factors in the registration statement to which this offering relates.

Exhibit 99.3
 
OKLAHOMA CITY, OKLAHOMA, NOVEMBER 3, 2011  Chesapeake Energy Corporation (NYSE:CHK) today announced two transactions to monetize a portion of its 1.5 million net acres of leasehold in the Utica Shale play primarily in eastern Ohio.  Fully implemented, the transactions would result in consideration to Chesapeake of approximately $3.4 billion.
Chesapeake has entered into a letter of intent (LOI) with an undisclosed international major energy company for an industry joint venture (JV) through which the JV partner will acquire an undivided 25% interest in approximately 650,000 net acres of leasehold in the wet natural gas area of the Utica Shale play.  Of this acreage, approximately 570,000 net acres are owned by Chesapeake and approximately 80,000 net acres are owned by Houston-based EnerVest, Ltd. and its affiliates (EnerVest).  The JV area covers all or a portion of 10 counties in eastern Ohio (the JV AMI). The consideration for the transaction will be $15,000 per net acre, or approximately $2.14 billion to Chesapeake and approximately $300 million to EnerVest.  Approximately $640 million of the consideration to Chesapeake will be paid in cash at closing and approximately $1.5 billion will be paid in the form of a drilling and completion cost carry, which Chesapeake anticipates fully receiving by year-end 2014.
Chesapeake will serve as the operator of the JV and will conduct all leasing, drilling, completion, operations and marketing activities for the project.  The LOI provides that the JV partner will have the option to acquire a 25% share of all additional acreage acquired by Chesapeake in the JV AMI and the option to participate with Chesapeake for a 25% interest in midstream infrastructure related to production generated from the assets. The LOI provides for the execution of definitive transaction documents and closing by mid-December 2011.
Additionally, as a first step in a financial transaction led by EIG Global Energy Partners (EIG), Chesapeake has completed the sale to EIG of $500 million of perpetual preferred shares of a newly formed entity, CHK Utica, L.L.C.  Chesapeake expects to sell up to $750 million of additional CHK Utica preferred shares to other investors, including limited partners of EIG, by November 30, 2011.  CHK Utica is a wholly owned, unrestricted subsidiary of Chesapeake that owns approximately 700,000 net leasehold acres within an area of mutual interest in the Utica Shale play in 13 counties primarily in eastern Ohio (the CHKU AMI) that encompasses the JV AMI.  Chesapeake has retained all the common interests in CHK Utica.
 
 
 
 
 
The CHK Utica preferred shares are entitled to receive an initial annual distribution of 7%, payable quarterly.  Chesapeake retains an option exercisable prior to October 31, 2018 to repurchase the preferred shares for cash in whole or in part at any time at a valuation expected to equal the greater of a 10% internal rate of return or a return on investment of 1.4x.  Assuming a total of $1.25 billion of CHK Utica preferred shares are purchased, investors in CHK Utica preferred shares will also receive a 3% overriding royalty interest in the first 1,500 net wells drilled on CHK Uticas leasehold, which is the equivalent of an approximate 0.45% overriding royalty interest across Chesapeakes projected 10,000 net well inventory.  Chesapeakes average net revenue interest on its Utica Shale leasehold is approximately 83%, which compares favorably to net revenue interests in the Haynesville, Barnett and Eagle Ford shale plays of approximately 75%.
As part of the financial transaction, Chesapeake has committed to drill a minimum of 50 net wells per year through 2016 in the CHKU AMI, up to a minimum cumulative total of 250 net wells, for the benefit of CHK Utica.  Chesapeake believes it will have considerable operating and financial flexibility in fulfilling the drilling commitment because the companys planned Utica Shale drilling program for the years ahead involves a significantly higher rig count than the approximate 10-rig drilling program required by the terms of the CHK Utica preferred shares investment.
Jefferies & Company, Inc. is acting as financial advisor to Chesapeake on the JV.
Aubrey K. McClendon, Chesapeakes Chief Executive Officer, commented, We are pleased to announce the signing of an LOI for our industry JV in the Utica Shale and also the closing of the $500 million initial investment by the EIG-led investor group.  Through the industry JV, we will be able to recover more than our total leasehold investment in the entire Utica Shale play while only selling approximately 142,500 net acres of our 1.5 million net acres of Utica Shale leasehold.  Through the financial transaction led by EIG, our drilling program in CHK Utica is almost entirely funded for the foreseeable future (including cash flow from anticipated production).  We have achieved very strong initial drilling results in the wet natural gas and dry natural gas areas of our Utica Shale play and are beginning to accelerate our evaluation of the oil area of the play, which the EIG transaction will help enable.
ABOUT CHESAPEAKE:
Chesapeake Energy Corporation is the second-largest producer of natural gas, a Top 15 producer of oil and natural gas liquids and the most active driller of new wells in the U.S.  Headquartered in Oklahoma City, the company's operations are focused on discovering and developing unconventional natural gas and oil fields onshore in the U.S.  Chesapeake owns leading positions in the Barnett, Haynesville, Bossier, Marcellus and Pearsall natural gas shale plays and in the Granite Wash, Cleveland, Tonkawa, Mississippi Lime, Bone Spring, Avalon, Wolfcamp, Wolfberry, Eagle Ford, Niobrara, Three Forks/Bakken and Utica unconventional liquids plays.  The company has also vertically integrated its operations and owns substantial midstream, compression, drilling, trucking, pressure pumping and other oilfield service assets directly and indirectly through its subsidiaries Chesapeake Midstream Development, L.P. and Chesapeake Oilfield Services, L.L.C. and its affiliate Chesapeake Midstream Partners, L.P. (NYSE:CHKM).  Chesapeakes stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol CHK.  Further information is available at where Chesapeake routinely posts announcements, updates, events, investor information, presentations and press releases.
www.chk.com
 
ABOUT EIG:
EIG Global Energy Partners (EIG) specializes in private investments in energy, energy-related infrastructure and resources and was formerly the Energy & Infrastructure Group of Trust Company of the West.  EIG has $9.2 billion currently under management and a 29-year track record investing in the sector through more than 260 projects or companies in 33 countries on 6 continents.  EIG's clients include many of the leading pension plans, insurance companies, endowments, foundations and sovereign wealth funds in the U.S., Asia and Europe.  EIG is headquartered in Washington, DC, with offices in Houston, New York, London, Hong Kong and Sydney.
 
Further information is available at
www.eigpartners.com
.
 
 
 
 
 
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS:
This news release includes forward-looking statements that give Chesapeakes current expectations or forecasts of future events. They include the execution of definitive documentation and closing of the announced joint venture transaction for a portion of its Utica Shale leasehold, the placement and closing of the sale of additional CHK Utica preferred shares and Chesapeakes planned Utica Shale drilling activity. Although Chesapeake believes the expectations and forecasts reflected in these forward-looking statements are reasonable, it can give no assurance they will prove to have been correct. The joint venture and financial transactions may not be completed as described or at all and drilling plans may change. They can be affected by inaccurate assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from expected results are described under Risk Factors in Chesapeakes 2010 Form 10-K filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on March 1, 2011 and include the volatility of oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids prices; the availability of capital on an economic basis; drilling and operating risks, including potential environmental liabilities; legislative and regulatory changes adversely affecting the industry and Chesapeakes business; general economic conditions negatively impacting Chesapeake and its business counterparties; and transportation capacity constraints and interruptions. Chesapeake cautions you not to place undue reliance on its forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this news release, and undertakes no obligation to update this information.
The CHK Utica preferred shares have not been, and will not be, registered under the Securities Act of 1933 or any state securities laws and may not be offered or sold in the United States absent registration or an applicable exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act of 1933 and applicable state laws.
This news release shall not constitute an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to purchase the CHK Uitca preferred shares or any other securities, and shall not constitute an offer, solicitation or sale in any state or jurisdiction in which such an offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful. 


