FILE:CHK/CHK-8K-20110408163953.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
           Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
*
 
           Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
*
 
           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
*
 
           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
*
 
 
 
 
Section 7  Regulation FD
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
On April 4, 2011, Chesapeake Energy Corporation (the Company) issued a press release announcing the date that it will issue its 2011 first quarter financial and operational results.  The press release also provided information for accessing the related conference call.  A copy of this press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report.
On April 5, 2011, the Company issued a press release announcing that it continues to make significant progress towards its goal of converting its entire corporate fleet of 4,200 vehicles to clean, compressed natural gas by 2014.  A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.2 to this Current Report.
Section 8  Other Events
Item 8.01 Other Events.
On April 4, 2011, the Company issued a press release announcing 7.625% Senior Notes due 2013, 9.50% Senior Notes due 2015, 6.25% Euro-denominated Senior Notes due 2017, 6.50% Senior Notes due 2017, 6.875% Senior Notes due 2018, 7.25% Senior Notes due 2018 and 6.625% Senior Notes due 2020. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.3 to this Current Report.
that it has commenced tender offers to acquire a portion of the outstanding principal amount of the following series of its senior notes:
Also on April 4, 2011, the Company issued a press release announcing 2.75% Contingent Convertible Senior Notes due 2035, 2.50% Contingent Convertible Senior Notes due 2037 and 2.25% Contingent Convertible Senior Notes due 2038. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.4 to this Current Report.
that it has commenced tender offers to acquire a portion of the outstanding principal amount of the following series of its contingent convertible senior notes:
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)
 
Exhibits.  See "Index to Exhibits" attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K, which is incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date:           April 8, 2011
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
OKLAHOMA CITY, OKLAHOMA, APRIL 4, 2011  Chesapeake Energy Corporation (NYSE:CHK) has scheduled its 2011 first quarter operational update and financial results to be released after the close of trading on the New York Stock Exchange on Monday, May 2, 2011.
The company has also scheduled a conference call to discuss the release for Tuesday, May 3, 2011 at 9:00 am EDT.  Thetelephone number to access theconference call is or toll-free .  The passcode for the call is .  We encourage those who would like to participate in the call to place calls between 8:50 and 9:00 am EDT.
 
913-981-5539
888-820-9417
8789033
For those unable to participate in the conference call, a replay will be available for audio playback at 1:00 pm EDT on Tuesday, May 3, 2011 and will run through midnight Tuesday, May 17, 2011.  The number to access the conference call replay is or toll-free .  The passcode for the replay is .
719-457-0820
888-203-1112
8789033
The conference call will also be webcast live on Chesapeakes website at in the Events subsection of the Investors section of our website.  The webcast of the conference will be available on our website for one year.
www.chk.com
Chesapeake Energy Corporation is the second-largest producer of natural gas and the most active driller of new wells in the U.S. Headquartered in Oklahoma City, the company's operations are focused on discovering and developing unconventional natural gas and oil fields onshore in the U.S. Chesapeake owns leading positions in the Barnett, Haynesville, Marcellus and Bossier natural gas shale plays and in the Eagle Ford, Granite Wash, Cleveland, Tonkawa, Mississippian, Wolfcamp, Bone Spring, Avalon, Niobrara and Williston Basin unconventional liquids plays. The company has also vertically integrated its operations and owns substantial midstream, compression, drilling and oilfield service assets. Further information is available at where Chesapeake routinely posts announcements, updates, events, investor information and presentations and all recent press releases.
www.chk.com
 

Exhibit 99.2
OKLAHOMA CITY, OKLAHOMA, APRIL 5, 2011  Chesapeake Energy Corporation (NYSE:CHK) announced today that it continues to make significant progress towards its goal of converting its entire corporate fleet of 4,200 vehicles to clean, compressed natural gas (CNG) by 2014.  Phase One of the program, which involved converting the Chesapeake fleet in Oklahoma, was completed last week when the companys 800 natural gas vehicle entered service.  The natural gas-powered truck fleet will be used by field operations teams overseeing the companys drilling programs in the Anadarko Basin in western Oklahoma.
th
Aubrey K. McClendon, Chesapeakes CEO, announced plans to convert the companys fleet to CNG in May 2010.  With gasoline and diesel prices approaching $4.00 per gallon in Oklahoma and with fuel prices even higher in many parts of the country, the company will realize annual savings of at least $11 million once the entire Chesapeake fleet has been converted.  Unlike the volatility in gasoline and diesel prices sparked by recent turmoil in the Middle East, the price of CNG remains steady at $1.39 per gallon of gasoline equivalent in Oklahoma.
As President Obama stated last week, our country can no longer afford to lurch from energy crisis to energy crisis so we must take aggressive actions immediately to begin reducing OPEC oil imports, McClendon said.  With fuel prices expected to exceed $4.00 a gallon nationwide as unrest continues in the Middle East, if ever it was time for American-produced natural gas to begin replacing expensive OPEC oil, it is now.  We are pleased the President has acknowledged the environmental and economic benefits to our country from the increased use of natural gas as a transportation fuel in his recent speeches.  As the President clearly stated, our dependence on unstable sources for much of our oil constitutes a national security imperative.  That said, we are blessed to have an abundance of domestic natural gas to meet our growing energy needs  natural gas is the cleanest, most affordable and most readily scalable alternative energy source we have.  Natural gas, along with the nations resurgence in domestic oil production led by unconventional producers such as Chesapeake, can begin reversing our dangerous dependence on OPEC oil right now.
 
 
 
 
 
 
President Obama called for Leading by Example with the Federal Fleet by directing federal agencies to ensure that by 2015 all new vehicles purchased for the federal fleet of 600,000 will be alternative fuel, hybrid or electric vehicles.  Chesapeake led by example when it announced plans to convert its fleet to CNG, joining many major U.S. companies, including UPS and AT&T, which have already converted portions of their fleets to natural gas.  Additionally, all of Chesapeakes top 15 senior executives drive natural gas vehicles as a further example of CNG leadership.
 
In preparation for its fleet conversion, Chesapeake worked with several leading fuel retailers, including OnCue Express and Loves Travel Stops, to add natural gas fueling stations to existing public facilities located on major streets and highways in Oklahoma.  In 2010, Chesapeake and its fuel retail partners opened 14 public CNG stations throughout Oklahoma, bringing Oklahomas public available CNG stations to 42.  The company said it expects hundreds more stations to open across the country in the next few years to support the transition to CNG by large fleet operators.
Public CNG stations make it convenient for school districts, businesses, government and citizens to drive natural gas-powered vehicles and benefit from lower fuel prices, said Tom Price, Chesapeakes Senior Vice President of Corporate Development and Government Relations.  As our nations economy rebounds, we must retain American wealth by replacing OPEC oil with American natural gas, so investments can continue to be made to create quality jobs right here, not elsewhere around the world.  Many local, state and federal leaders are recognizing the benefits of natural gas, and through close coordination with original equipment manufacturers, fuel retailers, and heavy fuel consumers, we can assist American consumers and enable them to also realize the many benefits of CNG.
Phase Two of Chesapeakes conversion will include the conversion of its fleets in North Texas and Louisiana to CNG.  The company plans to replicate its successful model in Oklahoma by partnering with local fuel retailers in these areas to build public CNG fueling stations.  Phases Three and Four of the initiative call for converting the companys fleets in Pennsylvania, West Virginia, Colorado, Wyoming and South Texas.
Chesapeake Energy Corporation is the second-largest producer of natural gas and the most active driller of new wells in the U.S.  Headquartered in Oklahoma City, the company's operations are focused on discovering and developing unconventional natural gas and oil fields onshore in the U.S. Chesapeake owns leading positions in the Barnett, Haynesville, Marcellus and Bossier natural gas shale plays and in the Eagle Ford, Granite Wash, Cleveland, Tonkawa, Mississippian, Wolfcamp, Bone Spring, Avalon, Niobrara and Williston Basin unconventional liquids plays.  The company has also vertically integrated its operations and owns substantial midstream, compression, drilling and oilfield service assets.  Further information is available at where Chesapeake routinely posts announcements, updates, events, investor information and presentations and all recent press releases.
www.chk.com

Exhibit 99.3
CHESAPEAKE ENERGY CORPORATION ANNOUNCES CASH TENDER OFFERS
OKLAHOMA CITY, OKLAHOMA, APRIL 4, 2011  Chesapeake Energy Corporation (NYSE:CHK) today announced that it has commenced tender offers to acquire a portion of the outstanding principal amount of each series of its senior notes listed in the table below (collectively, the Notes).
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Holders whose Notes are validly tendered (and not validly withdrawn) and accepted for purchase by Chesapeake by the early tender deadline for the tender offers, which is 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on
April 15, 2011, will receive in cash, for each $1,000 or 1,000 in principal amount, as applicable, of Notes tendered, the applicable Total Consideration set forth in the table above, which includes the applicable Early Tender Premium.  Holders whose Notes are validly tendered (and not validly withdrawn) and accepted for purchase by Chesapeake after the early tender deadline but before the expiration date of the tender offers, which is 11:59 p.m., New York City time, on April 29, 2011 (unless extended or earlier terminated), will receive in cash, for each $1,000 or 1,000 in principal amount, as applicable, of Notes tendered, the applicable Purchase Price, which is equal to the applicable Total Consideration less the applicable Early Tender Premium.  In addition, holders will receive, in respect of their Notes that are accepted for purchase, accrued and unpaid interest on the principal amount of the accepted Notes to, but not including, the applicable settlement date of the tender offers.
 
Tenders of Notes may not be withdrawn after 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on April 15, 2011, except under limited circumstances.
Chesapeake also announced today that it has commenced separate tender offers to acquire up to $1.0 billion of its 2.75% Contingent Convertible Senior Notes due 2035, 2.50% Contingent Convertible Senior Notes due 2037 and 2.25% Contingent Convertible Senior Notes due 2038 (collectively, the "Convertible Notes").  Chesapeake currently anticipates retiring approximately $2.0 billion in aggregate principal amount of the Notes and the Convertible Notes in the tender offers for the Notes and such concurrent tender offers.  None of the tender offers for the Notes are conditioned on the results of the separate concurrent tender offers for the Convertible Notes.
The principal amount of each series of Notes that Chesapeake is offering to purchase in the tender offers is set forth in the table above in the column entitled "Series Maximum."  Chesapeake may increase the principal amount of Notes of any series that it is seeking to purchase.  If the aggregate principal amount of Notes of any series validly tendered (and not validly withdrawn) and accepted for purchase by Chesapeake exceeds the Series Maximum for such series of Notes, Chesapeake will accept tendered Notes of such series on a pro rata basis, as more fully set forth in the Offer to Purchase.  This announcement is not an offer to purchase or a solicitation of an offer to sell the Notes, the Convertible Notes or any other securities.  The tender offers are only being made pursuant to the terms of the Offer to Purchase and the related Letter of Transmittal.
The complete terms and conditions of the tender offers are set forth in an Offer to Purchase and the related Letter of Transmittal dated today, which are being sent to holders of the Notes.  Holders are urged to read the tender offer documents carefully before making any decision with respect to the tender offers.  Holders must make their own decisions as to whether to participate in the tender offers and if they decide to do so, the principal amount of the Notes to tender.
Chesapeake has retained Global Bondholder Services Corporation as the Depositary and Information Agent for the tender offers for the dollar-denominated Notes and has retained Lucid Issuer Services Limited as Tender Agent and Information Agent for the tender offer for the euro-denominated Notes.  Requests for documents may be directed to the applicable Information Agent at the addresses and telephone numbers set forth below:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Chesapeake has retained Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and RBS Securities Inc. as the Dealer Managers for the tender offers.  Questions regarding the tender offers may be directed to the Dealer Managers at the addresses and telephone numbers set forth below:
None of Chesapeake, the Dealer Managers, the Depositary, Tender Agents, the Information Agent or any other person makes any recommendation as to whether holders of the Notes or the Convertible Notes should participate in the tender offers, and no one has been authorized to make such a recommendation.
 
This news release contains forward-looking statements, including the expected consummation of the tender offers and the anticipated principal amounts of notes to be retired.  Forward-looking statements give our current expectations or forecasts of future events. Although we believe our forward-looking statements are reasonable, they can be affected by inaccurate assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties, and actual results may differ from the expectations expressed. See the "Risk Factors" discussion in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010 filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on March 1, 2011 for a discussion of risk factors that affect our business.  We caution you not to place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this news release, and we undertake no obligation to update this information.
Chesapeake Energy Corporation is the second-largest producer of natural gas and the most active driller of new wells in the U.S.  Headquartered in Oklahoma City, the company's operations are focused on discovering and developing unconventional natural gas and oil fields onshore in the U.S.  Chesapeake owns leading positions in the Barnett, Haynesville, Marcellus and Bossier natural gas shale plays and in the Eagle Ford, Granite Wash, Tonkawa, Cleveland, Mississippian, Wolfcamp, Bone Spring, Avalon and Niobrara unconventional liquids plays.  The company has also vertically integrated its operations and owns substantial midstream, compression, drilling and oilfield service assets.  Further information is available at where Chesapeake routinely posts announcements, updates, events, investor information and presentations and all recent press releases.
www.chk.com

Exhibit 99.4
CHESAPEAKE ENERGY CORPORATION ANNOUNCES CASH TENDER OFFERS
OKLAHOMA CITY, OKLAHOMA, APRIL 4, 2011  Chesapeake Energy Corporation (NYSE:CHK) today announced that it has commenced tender offers to acquire a portion of the outstanding principal amount of each series of its contingent convertible senior notes listed in the table below (collectively, the Convertible Notes).
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Holders whose Convertible Notes are validly tendered (and not validly withdrawn) and accepted for purchase by Chesapeake before the expiration date of the tender offers, which is 11:59 p.m., New York City time, on April 29, 2011 (unless extended or earlier terminated), will receive in cash, for each $1,000 in principal amount of Convertible Notes tendered, consideration equal to the sum of:
 
 
 
provided that in no event will the purchase price per $1,000 in principal amount of Convertible Notes be more than the applicable Maximum Purchase Price set forth in the table above.  In addition, holders will receive in respect of their Convertible Notes that are accepted for purchase, accrued and unpaid interest on the principal amount of the accepted Convertible Notes from the last interest payment date to, but not including, the applicable settlement date of the tender offers.
 
The Company will determine the final purchase price promptly after the close of trading on the New York Stock Exchange on April 27, 2011 (the Pricing Date) and will announce the final purchase price no later than 9:00 a.m., New York City time, on the business day immediately following the Pricing Date. The final purchase price also will be posted at such time on the internet at and available from the Information Agent for the tender offers.  Prior to determining the final purchase price, an indicative purchase price will be posted on the website and will be available from the Information Agent for the tender offers.
www.gbsc-usa.com/chesapeak
e
www.gbsc-usa.com/chesapeak
e
 
The principal amount of each series of Convertible Notes that Chesapeake is offering to purchase in the tender offers is set forth in the table above in the column entitled "Series Maximum."  If the aggregate principal amount of Convertible Notes of any series validly tendered (and not validly withdrawn) and accepted for purchase by Chesapeake exceeds the Series Maximum for such series of Convertible Notes, Chesapeake will accept tendered notes of such series on a pro rata basis, as more fully set forth in the Offer to Purchase.
 
Chesapeake also announced today that it has commenced separate tender offers to acquire up to $1.0 billion in principal amount of its 7.625% Senior Notes due 2013, 9.500% Senior Notes due 2015, 6.250% Euro-denominated Senior Notes due 2017, 6.500% Senior Notes due 2017, 6.875% Senior Notes due 2018, 7.250% Senior Notes due 2018 and 6.625% Senior Notes due 2020 (collectively, the "Non-Convertible Notes").
 
Chesapeake currently anticipates retiring approximately $2.0 billion in aggregate principal amount of the Convertible Notes and the Non-Convertible Notes in the tender offers for the Convertible Notes and such concurrent tender offers. None of the tender offers for the Convertible Notes are conditioned on the results of the separate concurrent tender offers for the Non-Convertible Notes.  This announcement is not an offer to purchase or a solicitation of an offer to sell the Convertible Notes, the Non-Convertible Notes or any other securities.  The tender offers are only being made pursuant to the terms of the Offer to Purchase and the related Letter of Transmittal.
 
The complete terms and conditions of the tender offers are set forth in the Offer to Purchase and the related Letter of Transmittal dated today, which are being sent to holders of the Convertible Notes.  Holders are urged to read the tender offer documents carefully before making any decision with respect to the tender offers.  Holders must make their own decisions as to whether to participate in the tender offers, and if they decide to do so, the principal amount of the Convertible Notes to tender.
 
Holders may obtain copies of the Offer to Purchase and the related Letter of Transmittal online at the Securities and Exchange Commissions (SEC's) website at as exhibits to the Tender Offer Statement on Schedule TO filed by Chesapeake with the SEC.  Holders may also obtain copies of the Offer to Purchase and the related Letter of Transmittal from the Depositary and Information Agent for the tender offers, Global Bondholder Services Corporation, at (212) 430-3774 (collect, for banks and brokers only) and (866) 470-4200 (toll free).
www.sec.gov
 
 
 
 
 
 
Chesapeake has retained Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and RBS Securities Inc. as the Dealer Managers for the tender offers.  Questions regarding the tender offers may be directed to the Dealer Managers at the addresses and telephone numbers set forth below:
None of Chesapeake, the Dealer Managers, the Depositary and Information Agent or any other person makes any recommendation as to whether holders of the Convertible Notes should participate in the tender offers, and no one has been authorized to make such a recommendation.
 
This news release contains forward-looking statements, including the expected consummation of the tender offers and the anticipated principal amounts of notes to be retired.  Forward-looking statements give our current expectations or forecasts of future events. Although we believe our forward-looking statements are reasonable, they can be affected by inaccurate assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties, and actual results may differ from the expectations expressed. See the "Risk Factors" discussion in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010 filed with the SEC on March 1, 2011 for a discussion of risk factors that affect our business.  We caution you not to place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this news release.
Chesapeake Energy Corporation is the second-largest producer of natural gas and the most active driller of new wells in the U.S.  Headquartered in Oklahoma City, the company's operations are focused on discovering and developing unconventional natural gas and oil fields onshore in the U.S.  Chesapeake owns leading positions in the Barnett, Haynesville, Marcellus and Bossier natural gas shale plays and in the Eagle Ford, Granite Wash, Tonkawa, Cleveland, Mississippian, Wolfcamp, Bone Spring, Avalon and Niobrara unconventional liquids plays.  The company has also vertically integrated its operations and owns substantial midstream, compression, drilling and oilfield service assets.  Further information is available at where Chesapeake routinely posts announcements, updates, events, investor information and presentations and all recent press releases.
www.chk.com


