FILE:CHK/CHK-8K-20121227165154.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 2  Financial Information
Item 2.01 Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets.
On December 20, 2012, Chesapeake Midstream Development, L.L.C., an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Chesapeake Energy Corporation (the "Company"), closed the previously announced sale of 100% of the issued and outstanding equity interests in Chesapeake Midstream Operating, L.L.C. ("CMO") to Access Midstream Partners, L.P. ("ACMP") for proceeds of $2.16 billion in cash, subject to post-closing adjustments. CMO, together with its subsidiaries, owns certain midstream gas gathering, processing and related assets in the Eagle Ford, Utica, Niobrara, Haynesville and Marcellus shale plays. We refer to this transaction as the "CMO Sale."
The Company's historical financial statements reflect the effects of assets owned by CMO that were sold prior to the CMO Sale, including amounts related to CMO's investment in ACMP that was sold in June 2012. The accompanying financial information required by the CMO Sale adjusts for these transactions in the unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated statements of operations as the assets were owned by CMO at the time of their disposal.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(b) Pro Forma Financial Information. The Company's unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated balance sheet as of September 30, 2012 and its unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated statements of operations for the nine months ended September 30, 2012 and the year ended December 31, 2011 that give effect to the CMO Sale are filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and incorporated by reference herein.
(d) Exhibits. See "Exhibit Index" attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K, which is incorporated by reference herein.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: December 27, 2012
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
On December 20, 2012, Chesapeake Midstream Development, L.L.C., an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Chesapeake Energy Corporation (the "Company"), closed the sale of 100% of the issued and outstanding equity interests in Chesapeake Midstream Operating, L.L.C. ("CMO") to Access Midstream Partners, L.P. ("ACMP") for proceeds of $2.16 billion in cash, subject to post-closing adjustments. CMO, together with its subsidiaries, owns certain midstream gas gathering, processing and related assets in the Eagle Ford, Utica, Niobrara, Haynesville and Marcellus shale plays. We refer to this transaction as the "CMO Sale."
The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated balance sheet has been prepared as if the CMO Sale occurred on September 30, 2012. The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated statements of operations for the nine months ended September 30, 2012 and year ended December 31, 2011 have been prepared as if the CMO Sale occurred on January 1, 2011.
The Company's historical financial statements reflect the effects of assets owned by CMO that were sold prior to the CMO Sale, including amounts related to CMO's investment in ACMP that was sold in June 2012. The accompanying financial information required by the CMO Sale adjusts for these transactions in the unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated statements of operations as the assets were owned by CMO at the time of their disposal.
The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial information is based on financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. These principles require the use of estimates that affect the reported amounts of revenues and expenses. The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial information does not purport to represent what the actual results of operations would have been had the transactions occurred on the respective dates assumed, nor is it necessarily indicative of the Company's future operating results. The pro forma adjustments in the accompanying unaudited pro forma consolidated financial information reflect estimates as well as assumptions. The Company's management believes these estimates and assumptions are reasonable, but actual results could differ from estimates and assumptions may prove to be incorrect. In addition, the unaudited pro forma consolidated financial information reflects preliminary accounting treatment for the various agreements executed in connection with the CMO Sale. These agreements relate to ongoing business arrangements between the Company and ACMP after the CMO Sale. Final accounting treatment will be reflected on Form 10-K for the year ending December 31, 2012.
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. Basis of Presentation
The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated balance sheet as of September 30, 2012 and unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated statement of operations for the nine months ended September 30, 2012 are derived from and should be read in conjunction with the Company's unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements in its quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2012. The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2011 is derived from and should be read in conjunction with the Company's audited consolidated financial statements in its annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011.
2. Pro Forma Adjustments and Assumptions
The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements give pro forma effect to the following items:
 
 
 
As these are nonrecurring one-time termination benefits, the pro forma adjustments on the unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated statements of operations do not include these adjustments.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


