FILE:CHK/CHK-8K-20121026160433.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
           Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
*
 
           Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
*
 
           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
*
 
           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
*
 
 
 
 
Section 7  Regulation FD
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
On October 22, 2012, Chesapeake Energy Corporation (the Company) issued a press release announcing the completion of its previously announced asset sales in the Permian Basin.  A copy of this press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report.
Section 8  Other Events
Item 8.01 Other Events.
On October 22, 2012, the Company completed the sale of its asset packages in the Permian Basin  The Company sold its southern Delaware Basin assets in the Permian Basin to SWEPI LP, a subsidiary of Royal Dutch Shell plc (NYSE:RDS.B); its northern Delaware Basin assets in the Permian Basin to Chevron U.S.A. Inc., a subsidiary of Chevron Corporation (NYSE:CVX); and its producing assets in the Midland Basin portion of the Permian Basin to affiliates of Houston-based EnerVest, Ltd.  Total combined net proceeds from the three transactions, inclusive of preferential rights exercised by other parties, are approximately $3.3 billion, of which the Company received approximately $2.8 billion in cash at closing.  Payment of the remaining proceeds will be subject to certain title, environmental and other standard contingencies.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)
 
Exhibits.  See "Exhibit Index" attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K, which is incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date:           October 26, 2012
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
OKLAHOMA CITY, OKLAHOMA, OCTOBER 22, 2012  Chesapeake Energy Corporation (NYSE:CHK) announced today it has completed the sale of its previously announced asset packages in the Permian Basin.  The company sold its southern Delaware Basin assets in the Permian Basin to SWEPI LP, a subsidiary of Royal Dutch Shell plc (NYSE:RDS.B); its northern Delaware Basin portion of the Permian Basin to Chevron U.S.A. Inc., a subsidiary of Chevron Corporation (NYSE:CVX); and its producing assets in the Midland Basin portion of the Permian Basin to affiliates of Houston-based EnerVest, Ltd.  The Permian Basin assets sold produced approximately 21,000 barrels of liquids and 90 million cubic feet of natural gas per day during the 2012 second quarter, or approximately 5.7% of Chesapeakes production during the quarter.
 
 
Total combined net proceeds from the three transactions, inclusive of preferential rights exercised by other parties, are approximately $3.3 billion, of which Chesapeake received approximately $2.8 billion in cash at closing.  Payment of the remaining proceeds will be subject to certain title, environmental and other standard contingencies.  With the net proceeds from the Permian transactions along with various other asset sale proceeds, the company will reduce the total outstanding balance on its existing term loans from $4.0 billion to approximately $1.2 billion by the end of October 2012.  The company plans to fully repay the term loans by year-end 2012.
Jefferies & Company, Inc. and Goldman, Sachs & Co. served as financial advisors to Chesapeake regarding the Permian Basin asset sales.
that give our current expectations or forecasts of future events, including the planned use of asset sale proceeds.  Although we believe the expectations and forecasts reflected in our forward-looking statements are reasonable, we can give no assurance they will prove to be correct.  They can be affected by inaccurate assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties, and actual results may differ from the expectations expressed.  We caution you not to place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this news release, and we undertake no obligation to update this information.
This news release includes forward-looking statements
Chesapeake Energy Corporation (NYSE:CHK) is the second-largest producer of natural gas, a Top 15 producer of oil and natural gas liquids and the most active driller of new wells in the U.S.  Headquartered in Oklahoma City, the company's operations are focused on discovering and developing unconventional natural gas and oil fields onshore in the U.S.  The company also owns substantial marketing and oilfield services businesses through its subsidiaries Chesapeake Energy Marketing, Inc. and Chesapeake Oilfield Services, L.L.C.  Further information is available at where Chesapeake routinely posts announcements, updates, events, investor information, presentations and news releases.
Chesapeake owns leading positions in the Eagle Ford, Utica, Granite Wash, Cleveland, Tonkawa, Mississippi Lime and Niobrara unconventional liquids plays and in the Marcellus, Haynesville/Bossier and Barnett unconventional natural gas shale plays.  
www.chk.com


