FILE:CHK/CHK-8K-20120627171101.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
           Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
*
 
           Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
*
 
           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
*
 
           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
*
 
 
 
 
 
Section 5  Corporate Governance and Management
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
 On June 8, 2012, Richard K. Davidson, a member of the Board of Directors (the Board) of Chesapeake Energy Corporation (the Company), tendered a conditional letter of resignation, effective upon acceptance by the Board, after he did not receive a majority of the votes cast for reelection at the Companys 2012 annual meeting of shareholders.  The resignation was made in accordance with the Companys majority vote resignation policy.  The Board considered the circumstances accompanying Mr. Davidsons resignation and, on June 21, 2012, accepted Mr. Davidsons resignation.
   
 On June 8, 2012, V. Burns Hargis, a member of the Board, tendered a conditional letter of resignation, effective upon acceptance by the Board, after he did not receive a majority of the votes cast for reelection at the Companys 2012 annual meeting of shareholders.  The resignation was made in accordance with the Companys majority vote resignation policy.  The Board considered the circumstances accompanying Mr. Hargis resignation, particularly his current role as chairman of the Boards Audit Committee, which is conducting a review of the financing arrangements between the Companys Chief Executive Officer, Aubrey K. McClendon, and the entities through which he participates in the Companys Founder Well Participation Program and any third party that has had or may have a relationship with the Company in any capacity.  In consideration of these circumstances and reflecting the input of the Companys two largest shareholders, Southeastern Asset Management, Inc. (SAM), which beneficially owns 13.9% of the Companys common stock, and Carl C. Icahn (Icahn), who, through Icahn Capital LP and its affiliates, beneficially owns 7.6% of the Companys common stock, the Board determined that Mr. Hargis continued service as a member of the Board would be in the Companys best interest.  Accordingly, on June 21, 2012, the Board declined to accept Mr. Hargis resignation to permit completion of the Audit Committee review.  Mr. Hargis will continue to lead the review, but is not expected to remain chairman of the Audit Committee. Upon completion of the review, the Board will revisit his resignation.
   
 On June 21, 2012, Frank Keating, Don Nickles and Kathleen M. Eisbrenner each tendered his or her resignation from the Board effective June 21, 2012.  The resignations reflect the understanding reached among the Company, SAM and Icahn, and publicly disclosed in the press release Companys, pursuant to which SAM would have the opportunity to propose three members of the Board and Icahn would have the opportunity to propose one member of the Board.  There were no disagreements on any matter relating to the Companys operations, policies or practices between any of Governor Keating, Senator Nickles or Ms. Eisbrenner and the Company that led to their decisions to resign.
   
attached as Exhibit 99.1 to the
Current Report on Form 8-K, filed with the SEC on June 6, 2012
Vincent J. Intrieri,
 On June 21, 2012, the Board appointed Archie W. Dunham, Bob G. Alexander,
   
R. Brad Martin and Frederic M. Poses to the Board to fill the vacancies created by the resignations of Mr. Davidson, Governor Keating, Senator Nickles and Ms. Eisbrenner and the retirement of Charles T. Maxwell on June 8, 2012.  As previously announced,
the Board will also take the necessary actions to enable shareholders to elect the entire Board of Directors at the 2013 annual meeting of shareholders.
 In addition, on June 21, 2012, the Board appointed Mr. Dunham to serve as Non-Executive Chairman of the Board, effective immediately, replacing Aubrey K. McClendon, who relinquished the position of Chairman.  Mr. McClendon remains a director and will continue to serve as Chesapeakes Chief Executive Officer and as President.  The Company is aware of no arrangement or understanding between Mr. Dunham and any other person pursuant to which he was appointed as a director.  Messrs. Alexander, Martin and Poses were appointed in connection with discussions with SAM, and Mr. Intrieri was appointed in connection with discussions with Icahn.  The Company is aware of no other arrangements or understandings between the newly appointed directors and any other person pursuant to which they were appointed as directors, other than Mr. Intrieris employment by Icahn.  None of the newly appointed directors has a direct or indirect material interest in any transaction or series of similar transactions contemplated by Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K.
   
 The continuing members of the Board are Mr. McClendon, Merrill A. (Pete) Miller, Jr., formerly lead independent director of the Board and who will become chairman of the Compensation Committee, Louis A. Simpson, who was proposed by SAM in 2011 and will become chairman of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, and Mr. Hargis.  The Board is in the process of determining the remaining committee assignments.
   
 For their service on the Board, the Companys non-employee directors receive total annual compensation of approximately $350,000, comprised of a $100,000 annual cash retainer and annual restricted stock awards with an aggregate grant date fair value of approximately $250,000. Directors are also reimbursed for travel and other expenses directly related to their service as directors.  Newly appointed directors will receive compensation that is commensurate with that received by the Companys other non-employee directors, although the annual cash retainer and restricted stock grants will be pro rated to reflect their term of service in 2012.  In addition, each newly appointed director will be awarded 10,000 shares of our common stock on July 2, 2012, a substantial portion of which will be issued without restrictions.  For his service as Non-Executive Chairman, Mr. Dunham received an initial restricted stock award with a grant date fair value of approximately $500,000 and an annual restricted stock award with a grant date fair value of approximately $250,000 in addition to the annual restricted stock award and other compensation received by all non-employee directors.  In addition to the annual compensation received by all non-employee directors, the chairman of the Audit Committee receives an annual restricted stock award with a grant date fair value of approximately $25,000 and the chairmen of the Boards other committees each receive an annual restricted stock award with a grant date fair value of approximately $15,000.
   
 Restricted stock awards vest 25% immediately upon award and 25% vest on the grant date anniversary in each of the three years following the date of award.  Unvested shares of restricted stock vest on the date of a non-employee directors termination as a director, unless the termination is for cause.
   
 Directors are eligible to defer any or all of their annual retainers through the Chesapeake Energy Corporation Amended and Restated Deferred Compensation Plan (the DCP) on a tax-favored basis. Deferrals into the DCP are not matched or subsidized by the Company nor are they eligible for above-market or preferential earnings. Please refer to the narrative to the Nonqualified Deferred Compensation Table for 2011 on page 35 of the Companys definitive proxy statement, filed with the SEC on May 11, 2012, which is incorporated by reference herein, for more information about the DCP.
   
 The Company is also entering into a new indemnity agreement with each of the Companys existing directors and senior executives, directors that resigned effective June 21, 2012, newly appointed directors and Mr. Maxwell, a form of which is filed herewith as Exhibit 10.3.  Pursuant to this agreement, subject to the exceptions and limitations provided therein, the Company will indemnify the directors for obligations they may have incurred or might incur in their capacity as a director or officer, as authorized by the Companys restated certificate of incorporation.
   
Section 7  Regulation FD
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
 On June 21, 2012, the Company issued a press release announcing the reconstitution of the Board, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
   
 
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 (d) Exhibits.  See "Exhibit Index" attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K, which is incorporated by reference herein.
   
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date:           June 27, 2012
 
 
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 10.3
 
This Indemnity Agreement ("Agreement") is made as of June 21, 2012 by and between Chesapeake Energy Corporation, an Oklahoma corporation (the "Company"), and ______________ ("Indemnitee").  This Agreement supersedes and replaces any and all previous agreements between the Company and Indemnitee covering the subject matter of this Agreement.
 
RECITALS
 
WHEREAS, highly competent persons have become more reluctant to serve publicly-held corporations as directors and officers or in other capacities unless they are provided with adequate protection through insurance or indemnification against inordinate risks of claims and actions against them arising out of their service to and activities on behalf of the corporation;
 
WHEREAS, the Board of Directors of the Company (the "Board") has determined that, in order to attract and retain qualified individuals, the Company will attempt to maintain on an ongoing basis, at its sole expense, liability insurance to protect persons serving the Company and its subsidiaries from certain liabilities.
 
WHEREAS, Section 1031 of the General Corporation Act of the State of Oklahoma (the Oklahoma Law) empowers the Company to indemnify and advance expenses to its officers, directors, employees and agents by agreement and to indemnify and advance expenses to persons who serve, at the request of the Company, as directors, officers, employees, or agents of other corporations or enterprises, and expressly provides that the indemnification provided by Section 1031 is not exclusive; and
 
WHEREAS, the Bylaws of the Company (as amended, the Bylaws) and the Certificate of Incorporation of the Company (as amended, the Certificate of Incorporation) provide for mandatory indemnification of its officers and directors to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, subject to certain limitations specified in the Bylaws and Certificate of Incorporation, and the Company wishes to clarify and enhance the rights and obligations of the Company and the Indemnitee with respect to indemnification; and
 
WHEREAS, in order to induce and encourage highly experienced and capable persons such as the Indemnitee to serve and continue to serve as directors and officers of the Company and in other capacities with respect to the Company and its affiliates, and to otherwise promote the desirable end that such persons will resist what they consider unjustified lawsuits and claims made against them in connection with the good faith performance of their duties to the Company, with the knowledge that certain costs, judgments, liabilities and expenses incurred by them in their defense of such litigation are to be borne by the Company, the Board of the Company has determined that the following Agreement is reasonable and prudent to promote and ensure the best interests of the Company and its stockholders; and
 
WHEREAS, this Agreement is a supplement to and in furtherance of the Bylaws and the Certificate of Incorporation and any resolutions adopted pursuant thereto, and shall not be deemed a substitute therefor, nor to diminish or abrogate any rights of Indemnitee thereunder; and
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and the covenants contained herein, the Company and Indemnitee do hereby covenant and agree as follows:
 
Section 1.
 
.  The Indemnitee will serve and/or continue to serve as a director or officer of the Company faithfully and to the best of the Indemnitees ability so long as the Indemnitee is duly elected or appointed and until such time as the Indemnitee is removed, terminated, or tenders a resignation that is accepted by the Board.
Service by Indemnitee
 
Section 2.
 
   As used in this Agreement:
Definitions.
 
(a)
 
References to agent shall mean any person who is or was a director, officer, or employee of the Company or a subsidiary of the Company or other person authorized by the Company to act for the Company, to include such person serving in such capacity as a director, officer, employee, fiduciary or other official of another corporation, partnership, limited liability company, joint venture, trust or other enterprise at the request of, for the convenience of, or to represent the interests of the Company or a subsidiary of the Company.
 
(b)
 
Change of Control means a change in control of the Company of a nature that would be required to be reported in response to Item 5.01 of Current Report on Form 8-K (or in response to any similar item on any similar schedule or form) promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Act), whether or not the Company is then subject to such reporting requirement; provided, however, that, without limitation, such a Change of Control shall be deemed to have occurred if after the Effective Date (i) any person (as such term is used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Act) becomes the beneficial owner (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Act), directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing thirty percent (30%) or more of the combined voting power of the Companys then outstanding securities without the prior approval of at least two-thirds of the members of the Board of Directors in office immediately prior to such person attaining such percentage; (ii) the Company is a party to a merger, consolidation, sale of assets or other reorganization, or a proxy contest, as a consequence of which members of the Board of Directors in office immediately prior to such transaction or event constitute less than a majority of the Board of Directors thereafter; or (iii) during any period of two consecutive years, individuals who at the beginning of such period constituted the Board of Directors (including for this purpose any new director whose election or nomination for election by the Companys shareholders was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds of the directors then still in office who were directors at the beginning of such period) cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board of Directors.
 
(c)
 
"Corporate Status" describes the status of a person who is or was a director, officer, employee or agent of the Company or of any other corporation, limited liability company, partnership or joint venture, trust or other enterprise which such person is or was serving at the request of the Company.
 
(d)
 
"Disinterested Director" shall mean a director of the Company who is not and was not a party to the Proceeding in respect of which indemnification is sought by Indemnitee.
 
(e)
 
"Enterprise" shall mean the Company and any other corporation, limited liability company, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise of which Indemnitee is or was serving at the request of the Company as a director, officer, trustee, partner, managing member, employee, agent or fiduciary.
 
(f)
 
"Expenses" shall include all attorneys' fees, retainers, court costs, transcript costs, fees of experts and other professionals, witness fees, travel expenses, duplicating costs, printing and binding costs, telephone charges, postage, delivery service fees, any federal, state, local or foreign taxes imposed on Indemnitee as a result of the actual or deemed receipt of any payments under this Agreement, ERISA excise taxes and penalties, and all other disbursements or expenses of the types customarily incurred in connection with prosecuting, defending, preparing to prosecute or defend, investigating, being or preparing to be a witness in, or otherwise participating in, a Proceeding.  Expenses also shall include (i) Expenses incurred in connection with any appeal resulting from any Proceeding, including without limitation the premium, security for, and other costs relating to any cost bond, supersedeas bond, or other appeal bond or its equivalent, and (ii) for purposes of Section 14(d) only, Expenses incurred by Indemnitee in connection with the interpretation, enforcement or defense of Indemnitee's rights under this Agreement, by litigation or otherwise.  Expenses, however, shall not include amounts paid in settlement by Indemnitee or the amount of judgments or fines against Indemnitee.
 
(g)
 
"Independent Counsel" shall mean a law firm, or a member of a law firm, that is experienced in matters of corporation law and neither presently is, nor in the past five years has been, retained to represent:  (i) the Company or Indemnitee in any matter material to either such party (other than with respect to matters concerning the Indemnitee under this Agreement, or of other indemnitees under similar indemnification agreements), or (ii) any other party to the Proceeding giving rise to a claim for indemnification hereunder.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the term "Independent Counsel" shall not include any person who, under the applicable standards of professional conduct then prevailing, would have a conflict of interest in representing either the Company or Indemnitee in an action to determine Indemnitee's rights under this Agreement.  The Company agrees to pay the reasonable fees and expenses of the Independent Counsel referred to above and to fully indemnify such counsel against any and all Expenses, claims, liabilities and damages arising out of or relating to this Agreement or its engagement pursuant hereto.
 
(h)
 
The term "Proceeding" shall include any threatened, pending or completed action, suit, claim, counterclaim, cross claim, arbitration, mediation, alternate dispute resolution mechanism, investigation, inquiry, administrative hearing or any other actual, threatened or completed proceeding, whether brought in the right of the Company or otherwise and whether of a civil, criminal, administrative, legislative, or investigative (formal or informal) nature, including any appeal therefrom, in which Indemnitee was, is or will be involved as a party, potential party, non-party witness or otherwise by reason of the fact that Indemnitee is or was a director or officer of the Company, by reason of any action taken by him (or a failure to take action by him) or of any action (or failure to act) on his part while acting pursuant to his Corporate Status, in each case whether or not serving in such capacity at the time any liability or Expense is incurred for which indemnification, reimbursement, or advancement of Expenses can be provided under this Agreement.  If the Indemnitee believes in good faith that a given situation may lead to or culminate in the institution of a Proceeding, this shall be considered a Proceeding under this paragraph.
 
(i)
 
Reference to "other enterprise" shall include employee benefit plans; references to "fines" shall include any excise tax assessed with respect to any employee benefit plan; references to "serving at the request of the Company" shall include any service as a director, officer, employee or agent of the Company which imposes duties on, or involves services by, such director, officer, employee or agent with respect to an employee benefit plan, its participants or beneficiaries; and a person who acted in good faith and in a manner he reasonably believed to be in the best interests of the participants and beneficiaries of an employee benefit plan shall be deemed to have acted in manner "not opposed to the best interests of the Company" as referred to in this Agreement.
 
Section 3.
 
  The Company shall indemnify Indemnitee in accordance with the provisions of this Section 3 if Indemnitee is, or is threatened to be made, a party to or a participant in any Proceeding, other than a Proceeding by or in the right of the Company to procure a judgment in its favor.  Pursuant to this Section 3, Indemnitee shall be indemnified to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law against all Expenses, judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement (including all interest, assessments and other charges paid or payable in connection with or in respect of such Expenses, judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement) actually and reasonably incurred by Indemnitee or on his behalf in connection with such Proceeding or any claim, issue or matter therein, if Indemnitee acted in good faith and in a manner he reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Company and, in the case of a criminal Proceeding had no reasonable cause to believe that his conduct was unlawful.  The parties intend that this Agreement shall provide to the fullest extent permitted by law for indemnification in excess of that expressly permitted by statute, including, without limitation, any indemnification provided by the Certificate of Incorporation, the By-laws, vote of its stockholders or disinterested directors or applicable law.
Indemnity in Third-Party Proceedings.
 
Section 4.
 
   The Company shall indemnify Indemnitee in accordance with the provisions of this Section 4 if Indemnitee is, or is threatened to be made, a party to or a participant in any Proceeding by or in the right of the Company to procure a judgment in its favor.  Pursuant to this Section 4, Indemnitee shall be indemnified to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law against all Expenses actually and reasonably incurred by him or on his behalf in connection with such Proceeding or any claim, issue or matter therein, if Indemnitee acted in good faith and in a manner he reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Company.  No indemnification for Expenses shall be made under this Section 4 in respect of any claim, issue or matter as to which Indemnitee shall have been finally adjudged by a court to be liable to the Company, unless and only to the extent that any court in which the Proceeding was brought shall determine upon application that, despite the adjudication of liability but in view of all the circumstances of the case, Indemnitee is fairly and reasonably entitled to indemnification.
Indemnity in Proceedings by or in the Right of the Company.
 
Section 5.
 
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Agreement, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law and to the extent that Indemnitee is a party to (or a participant in) and is successful, on the merits or otherwise, in any Proceeding or in defense of any claim, issue or matter therein, in whole or in part, the Company shall indemnify Indemnitee against all Expenses actually and reasonably incurred by him in connection therewith.  If Indemnitee is not wholly successful in such Proceeding but is successful, on the merits or otherwise, as to one or more but less than all claims, issues or matters in such Proceeding, the Company shall indemnify Indemnitee against all Expenses actually and reasonably incurred by him or on his behalf in connection with or related to each successfully resolved claim, issue or matter to the fullest extent permitted by law.  For purposes of this Section and without limitation, the termination of any claim, issue or matter in such a Proceeding by dismissal, with or without prejudice, shall be deemed to be a successful result as to such claim, issue or matter.
Indemnification for Expenses of a Party Who is Wholly or Partly Successful.
 
Section 6.
 
  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law and to the extent that Indemnitee is, by reason of his Corporate Status, a witness or otherwise asked to participate in any Proceeding to which Indemnitee is not a party, he shall be indemnified against all Expenses actually and reasonably incurred by him or on his behalf in connection therewith.
Indemnification For Expenses of a Witness.
 
Section 7.
 
  If Indemnitee is entitled under any provision of this Agreement to indemnification by the Company for some or a portion of Expenses, but not, however, for the total amount thereof, the Company shall nevertheless indemnify Indemnitee for the portion thereof to which Indemnitee is entitled.
Partial Indemnification.
 
Section 8.
 
Additional Indemnification.
 
(a)
 
Notwithstanding any limitation in Sections 3, 4, or 5, the Company shall indemnify Indemnitee to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law if Indemnitee is a party to or threatened to be made a party to any Proceeding (including a Proceeding by or in the right of the Company to procure a judgment in its favor) against all Expenses, judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement (including all interest, assessments and other charges paid or payable in connection with or in respect of such Expenses, judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement) actually and reasonably incurred by Indemnitee in connection with the Proceeding.
 
(b)
 
For purposes of Section 8(a), the meaning of the phrase "to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law" shall include, but not be limited to:
 
i.
 
to the fullest extent permitted by the provision of the Oklahoma Law that authorizes or contemplates additional indemnification by agreement, or the corresponding provision of any amendment to or replacement of the Oklahoma Law, and
 
ii.
 
to the fullest extent authorized or permitted by any amendments to or replacements of the Oklahoma Law adopted after the date of this Agreement that increase the extent to which a corporation may indemnify its officers and directors.
 
Section 9.
 
   Notwithstanding any provision in this Agreement, the Company shall not be obligated under this Agreement to make any indemnification payment in connection with any claim made against Indemnitee:
Exclusions.
 
(a)
 
for which payment has actually been made to or on behalf of Indemnitee under any insurance policy or other indemnity provision, except with respect to any excess beyond the amount paid under any insurance policy or other indemnity provision; or
 
(b)
 
for (i) an accounting of profits made from the purchase and sale (or sale and purchase) by Indemnitee of securities of the Company within the meaning of Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act (as defined in Section 2(b) hereof) or similar provisions of state statutory law or common law, or (ii) any reimbursement of the Company by the Indemnitee of any bonus or other incentive-based or equity-based compensation or of any profits realized by the Indemnitee from the sale of securities of the Company, as required in each case under the Exchange Act (including any such reimbursements that arise from an accounting restatement of the Company pursuant to Section 304 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the "Sarbanes-Oxley Act"), or the payment to the Company of profits arising from the purchase and sale by Indemnitee of securities in violation of Section 306 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act); or
 
(c)
 
except as provided in Section 14(d) of this Agreement, in connection with any Proceeding (or any part of any Proceeding) initiated by Indemnitee, including any Proceeding (or any part of any Proceeding) initiated by Indemnitee against the Company or its directors, officers, employees or other indemnitees, unless (i) the Board authorized the Proceeding (or any part of any Proceeding) prior to its initiation or (ii) the Company provides the indemnification, in its sole discretion, pursuant to the powers vested in the Company under applicable law.
 
Section 10.
 
   Notwithstanding any provision of this Agreement to the contrary (other than Section 14(d)), the Company shall advance, to the extent not prohibited by law, the Expenses incurred by Indemnitee in connection with any Proceeding (or any part of any Proceeding) not initiated by Indemnitee, and such advancement shall be made within thirty (30) days after the receipt by the Company of a statement or statements requesting such advances from time to time, whether prior to or after final disposition of any Proceeding.  Advances shall be unsecured and interest free.  Advances shall be made without regard to Indemnitee's ability to repay the Expenses and without regard to Indemnitee's ultimate entitlement to indemnification under the other provisions of this Agreement.  In accordance with Section 14(d), advances shall include any and all reasonable Expenses incurred pursuing an action to enforce this right of advancement, including Expenses incurred preparing and forwarding statements to the Company to support the advances claimed.  The Indemnitee shall qualify for advances upon the execution and delivery to the Company of this Agreement, which shall constitute an undertaking providing that the Indemnitee undertakes to repay the amounts advanced (without interest) to the extent that it is ultimately determined that Indemnitee is not entitled to be indemnified by the Company.  No other form of undertaking shall be required other than the execution of this Agreement.  This Section 10 shall not apply to any claim made by Indemnitee for which indemnity is excluded pursuant to Section 9.
Advances of Expenses.
 
Section 11.
 
Procedure for Notification and Defense of Claim.
 
(a)
 
Indemnitee shall notify the Company in writing of any matter with respect to which Indemnitee intends to seek indemnification or advancement of Expenses hereunder as soon as reasonably practicable following the receipt by Indemnitee of written notice.  The written notification to the Company shall include a description of the nature of the Proceeding and the facts underlying the Proceeding.  To obtain indemnification under this Agreement, Indemnitee shall submit to the Company a written request, including such documentation and information as is reasonably available to Indemnitee and is reasonably necessary to determine whether and to what extent Indemnitee is entitled to indemnification following the final disposition of such Proceeding.  The omission by Indemnitee to notify the Company hereunder will not relieve the Company from any liability which it may have to Indemnitee under this Agreement or otherwise, and any delay in so notifying the Company shall not constitute a waiver by Indemnitee of any rights under this Agreement.  The Secretary of the Company shall, promptly upon receipt of such a request for indemnification, advise the Board in writing that Indemnitee has requested indemnification.
 
(b)
 
The Company will be entitled to participate in the Proceeding at its own expense.
 
Section 12.
 
Procedure Upon Application for Indemnification.
 
(a)
 
Upon written request by Indemnitee for indemnification pursuant to Section 11(a), a determination, if required by applicable law, with respect to Indemnitee's entitlement thereto shall be made in the specific case:  (i) if a Change in Control shall have occurred, by Independent Counsel in a written opinion to the Board, a copy of which shall be delivered to Indemnitee; or (ii) if a Change in Control shall not have occurred, (A) by a majority vote of the Disinterested Directors, even though less than a quorum of the Board, (B) by a committee of Disinterested Directors designated by a majority vote of the Disinterested Directors, even though less than a quorum of the Board, (C) if there are no such Disinterested Directors or, if such Disinterested Directors so direct, by Independent Counsel in a written opinion to the Board, a copy of which shall be delivered to Indemnitee or (D) if so directed by the Board, by the stockholders of the Company; and, if it is so determined that Indemnitee is entitled to indemnification, payment to Indemnitee shall be made within ten (10) days after such determination.  Indemnitee shall reasonably cooperate with the person, persons or entity making such determination with respect to Indemnitee's entitlement to indemnification, including providing to such person, persons or entity upon reasonable advance request any documentation or information which is not privileged or otherwise protected from disclosure and which is reasonably available to Indemnitee and reasonably necessary to such determination.  Any costs or Expenses (including attorneys' fees and disbursements) incurred by Indemnitee in so cooperating with the person, persons or entity making such determination shall be borne by the Company (irrespective of the determination as to Indemnitee's entitlement to indemnification) and the Company indemnifies and agrees to hold Indemnitee harmless from any such costs or Expenses.  The Company promptly will advise Indemnitee in writing with respect to any determination that Indemnitee is or is not entitled to indemnification, including a description with specificity of any reason or basis for which indemnification has been denied.
 
(b)
 
In the event the determination of entitlement to indemnification is to be made by Independent Counsel pursuant to Section 12(a) hereof, the Independent Counsel shall be selected as provided in this Section 12(b).  If a Change in Control shall not have occurred, the Independent Counsel shall be selected by the Board, and the Company shall give written notice to Indemnitee advising him of the identity of the Independent Counsel so selected.  If a Change in Control shall have occurred, the Independent Counsel shall be selected by Indemnitee (unless Indemnitee shall request that such selection be made by the Board, in which event the preceding sentence shall apply), and Indemnitee shall give written notice to the Company advising it of the identity of the Independent Counsel so selected.  In either event, Indemnitee or the Company, as the case may be, may, within ten (10) days after such written notice of selection shall have been given, deliver to the Company or to Indemnitee, as the case may be, a written objection to such selection; , , that such objection may be asserted only on the ground that the Independent Counsel so selected does not meet the requirements of "Independent Counsel" as defined in Section 2 of this Agreement, and the objection shall set forth with particularity the factual basis of such assertion.  Absent a proper and timely objection, the person so selected shall act as Independent Counsel.  If such written objection is so made and substantiated, the Independent Counsel so selected may not serve as Independent Counsel unless and until such objection is withdrawn or a court has determined that such objection is without merit.  If, within twenty (20) days after the later of submission by Indemnitee of a written request for indemnification pursuant to Section 11(a) hereof and the final disposition of the Proceeding, no Independent Counsel shall have been selected and not objected to, either the Company or Indemnitee may petition a court for resolution of any objection which shall have been made by the Company or Indemnitee to the other's selection of Independent Counsel and/or for the appointment as Independent Counsel of a person selected by such court or by such other person as such court shall designate, and the person with respect to whom all objections are so resolved or the person so appointed shall act as Independent Counsel under Section 12(a) of this Agreement.  Upon the due commencement of any judicial proceeding or arbitration pursuant to Section 14(a) of this Agreement, Independent Counsel shall be discharged and relieved of any further responsibility in such capacity (subject to the applicable standards of professional conduct then prevailing).
provided
however
 
Section 13.
 
Presumptions and Effect of Certain Proceedings.
 
(a)
 
In making a determination with respect to entitlement to indemnification under this Agreement, the person or persons or entity making such determination shall, to the fullest extent not prohibited by law, presume that Indemnitee is entitled to indemnification under this Agreement if Indemnitee has submitted a request for indemnification in accordance with Section 11(a) of this Agreement, and the Company shall, to the fullest extent not prohibited by law, have the burden of proof to overcome that presumption in connection with the making by any person, persons or entity of any determination contrary to that presumption.  Neither the failure of the Company (including by its directors or Independent Counsel) to have made a determination prior to the commencement of any action pursuant to this Agreement that indemnification is proper in the circumstances because Indemnitee has met the applicable standard of conduct, nor an actual determination by the Company (including by its directors or Independent Counsel) that Indemnitee has not met such applicable standard of conduct, shall be a defense to the action or create a presumption that Indemnitee has not met the applicable standard of conduct.
 
(b)
 
Subject to Section 14(e), if the person, persons or entity empowered or selected under Section 12 of this Agreement to determine whether Indemnitee is entitled to indemnification shall not have made a determination within sixty (60) days after receipt by the Company of the request therefor, the requisite determination of entitlement to indemnification shall, to the fullest extent not prohibited by law, be deemed to have been made and Indemnitee shall be entitled to such indemnification, absent (i) a misstatement by Indemnitee of a material fact, or an omission of a material fact necessary to make Indemnitee's statement not materially misleading, in connection with the request for indemnification, or (ii) a prohibition of such indemnification under applicable law; provided, however, that such 60-day period may be extended for a reasonable time, not to exceed an additional thirty (30) days, if the person, persons or entity making the determination with respect to entitlement to indemnification in good faith requires such additional time for the obtaining or evaluating of documentation and/or information relating thereto; and provided, further, that the foregoing provisions of this Section 13(b) shall not apply (i) if the determination of entitlement to indemnification is to be made by the stockholders pursuant to Section 12(a) of this Agreement and if (A) within fifteen (15) days after receipt by the Company of the request for such determination the Board has resolved to submit such determination to the stockholders for their consideration at an annual meeting thereof to be held within seventy-five (75) days after such receipt and such determination is made thereat, or (B) a special meeting of stockholders is called within fifteen (15) days after such receipt for the purpose of making such determination, such meeting is held for such purpose within sixty (60) days after having been so called and such determination is made thereat, or (ii) if the determination of entitlement to indemnification is to be made by Independent Counsel pursuant to Section 12(a) of this Agreement.
 
(c)
 
The termination of any Proceeding or of any claim, issue or matter therein, by judgment, order, settlement or conviction, or upon a plea of or its equivalent, shall not (except as otherwise expressly provided in this Agreement) of itself adversely affect the right of Indemnitee to indemnification or create a presumption that Indemnitee did not act in good faith and in a manner which he reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Company or, with respect to any criminal Proceeding, that Indemnitee had reasonable cause to believe that his conduct was unlawful.
nolo
contendere
 
(d)
 
For purposes of any determination of good faith, Indemnitee shall be deemed to have acted in good faith if Indemnitee's action is based on the records or books of account of the Enterprise, including financial statements, or on information supplied to Indemnitee by the directors or officers of the Enterprise in the course of their duties, or on the advice of legal counsel for the Enterprise or on information or records given or reports made to the Enterprise by an independent certified public accountant or by an appraiser or other expert selected with the reasonable care by  the Enterprise.  The provisions of this Section 13(d) shall not be deemed to be exclusive or to limit in any way the other circumstances in which the Indemnitee may be deemed to have met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in this Agreement.
 
(e)
 
The knowledge and/or actions, or failure to act, of any director, officer, trustee, partner, managing member, fiduciary, agent or employee of the Enterprise shall not be imputed to Indemnitee for purposes of determining the right to indemnification under this Agreement.
 
Section 14.
 
Remedies of Indemnitee.
 
(a)
 
Subject to Section 14(e), in the event that (i) a determination is made pursuant to Section 12 of this Agreement that Indemnitee is not entitled to indemnification under this Agreement, (ii) advancement of Expenses is not timely made pursuant to Section 10 of this Agreement, (iii) no determination of entitlement to indemnification shall have been made pursuant to Section 12(a) of this Agreement within ninety (90) days after receipt by the Company of the request for indemnification, (iv) payment of indemnification is not made pursuant to Section 5, 6 or 7 or the last sentence of Section 12(a) of this Agreement within ten (10) days after receipt by the Company of a written request therefor, (v) payment of indemnification pursuant to Section 3, 4 or 8 of this Agreement is not made within ten (10) days after a determination has been made that Indemnitee is entitled to indemnification, or (vi) in the event that the Company or any other person takes or threatens to take any action to declare this Agreement void or unenforceable, or institutes any litigation or other action or Proceeding designed to deny, or to recover from, the Indemnitee the benefits provided or intended to be provided to the Indemnitee hereunder, Indemnitee shall be entitled to an adjudication by a court of his entitlement to such indemnification or advancement of Expenses.  Alternatively, Indemnitee, at his option, may seek an award in arbitration to be conducted by a single arbitrator pursuant to the Commercial Arbitration Rules of the American Arbitration Association.  Indemnitee shall commence such proceeding seeking an adjudication or an award in arbitration within 180 days following the date on which Indemnitee first has the right to commence such proceeding pursuant to this Section 14(a); , , that the foregoing clause shall not apply in respect of a proceeding brought by Indemnitee to enforce his rights under Section 5 of this Agreement.  The Company shall not oppose Indemnitee's right to seek any such adjudication or award in arbitration.
provided
however
 
(b)
 
In the event that a determination shall have been made pursuant to Section 12(a) of this Agreement that Indemnitee is not entitled to indemnification, any judicial proceeding or arbitration commenced pursuant to this Section 14 shall be conducted in all respects as a trial, or arbitration, on the merits and Indemnitee shall not be prejudiced by reason of that adverse determination.  In any judicial proceeding or arbitration commenced pursuant to this Section 14 the Company shall have the burden of proving Indemnitee is not entitled to indemnification or advancement of Expenses, as the case may be.
de
novo
 
(c)
 
If a determination shall have been made pursuant to Section 12(a) of this Agreement that Indemnitee is entitled to indemnification, the Company shall be bound by such determination in any judicial proceeding or arbitration commenced pursuant to this Section 14, absent (i) a misstatement by Indemnitee of a material fact, or an omission of a material fact necessary to make Indemnitee's statement not materially misleading, in connection with the request for indemnification, or (ii) a prohibition of such indemnification under applicable law.
 
(d)
 
The Company shall, to the fullest extent not prohibited by law, be precluded from asserting in any judicial proceeding or arbitration commenced pursuant to this Section 14 that the procedures and presumptions of this Agreement are not valid, binding and enforceable and shall stipulate in any such court or before any such arbitrator that the Company is bound by all the provisions of this Agreement.  It is the intent of the Company that, to the fullest extent permitted by law, the Indemnitee not be required to incur legal fees or other Expenses associated with the interpretation, enforcement or defense of Indemnitee's rights under this Agreement by litigation or otherwise because the cost and expense thereof would substantially detract from the benefits intended to be extended to the Indemnitee hereunder.  The Company shall, to the fullest extent permitted by law, indemnify Indemnitee against any and all Expenses and, if requested by Indemnitee, shall (within ten (10) days after receipt by the Company of a written request therefor) advance, to the extent not prohibited by law, such Expenses to Indemnitee, which are incurred by Indemnitee in connection with any action brought by Indemnitee for indemnification or advance of Expenses from the Company under this Agreement or under any directors' and officers' liability insurance policies maintained by the Company if, in the case of indemnification, Indemnitee is wholly successful on the underlying claims; if Indemnitee is not wholly successful on the underlying claims, then such indemnification shall be only to the extent Indemnitee is successful on such underlying claims or otherwise as permitted by law, whichever is greater.
 
(e)
 
Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, no determination as to entitlement of Indemnitee to indemnification under this Agreement shall be required to be made prior to the final disposition of the Proceeding.
 
Section 15.
 
Non-exclusivity; Survival of Rights; Insurance; Subrogation.
 
(a)
 
The rights of indemnification and to receive advancement of Expenses as provided by this Agreement shall not be deemed exclusive of any other rights to which Indemnitee may at any time be entitled under applicable law, the Certificate of Incorporation, the By-laws, any agreement, a vote of stockholders or a resolution of directors, or otherwise.  No amendment, alteration or repeal of this Agreement or of any provision hereof shall limit or restrict any right of Indemnitee under this Agreement in respect of any action taken or omitted by such Indemnitee in his Corporate Status prior to such amendment, alteration or repeal.  To the extent that a change in Oklahoma Law, whether by statute or judicial decision, permits greater indemnification or advancement of Expenses than would be afforded currently under the By-laws, Certificate of Incorporation and this Agreement, it is the intent of the parties hereto that Indemnitee shall enjoy by this Agreement the greater benefits so afforded by such change.  No right or remedy herein conferred is intended to be exclusive of any other right or remedy, and every other right and remedy shall be cumulative and in addition to every other right and remedy given hereunder or now or hereafter existing at law or in equity or otherwise.  The assertion or employment of any right or remedy hereunder, or otherwise, shall not prevent the concurrent assertion or employment of any other right or remedy.
 
(b)
 
To the extent that the Company maintains an insurance policy or policies providing liability insurance for directors, officers, employees, or agents of the Enterprise, Indemnitee shall be covered by such policy or policies in accordance with its or their terms to the maximum extent of the coverage available for any such current or former director, officer, employee or agent under such policy or policies.  If, at the time of the receipt of a notice of a claim pursuant to the terms hereof, the Company has director and officer liability insurance in effect, the Company shall give prompt notice of such claim or of the commencement of a Proceeding, as the case may be, to the insurers in accordance with the procedures set forth in the respective policies.  The Company shall thereafter take all necessary or desirable action to cause such insurers to pay, on behalf of the Indemnitee, all amounts payable as a result of such Proceeding in accordance with the terms of such policies.
 
(c)
 
In the event of any payment under this Agreement, the Company shall be subrogated to the extent of such payment to all of the rights of recovery of Indemnitee, who shall execute all papers required and take all action necessary to secure such rights, including execution of such documents as are necessary to enable the Company to bring suit to enforce such rights.
 
(d)
 
The Company shall not be liable under this Agreement to make any payment of amounts otherwise indemnifiable (or for which advancement is provided under this Agreement) under this Agreement if and to the extent that Indemnitee has otherwise actually received such payment under any insurance policy, contract, agreement or otherwise.
 
(e)
 
The Company's obligation to indemnify or advance Expenses under this Agreement to Indemnitee who is or was serving at the request of the Company as a director, officer, trustee, partner, managing member, fiduciary, employee or agent of any other corporation, limited liability company, partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise shall be reduced by any amount Indemnitee has actually received as indemnification or advancement of Expenses from such other corporation, limited liability company, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise.
 
Section 16.
 
  This Agreement shall continue until and terminate upon the later of: (a) ten (10) years after the date that Indemnitee shall have ceased to serve in any position of Corporate Status or (b) one (1) year after the final termination of any Proceeding then pending in respect of which Indemnitee is granted rights of indemnification or advancement of Expenses hereunder and of any proceeding commenced by Indemnitee pursuant to Section 14 of this Agreement relating thereto.  The indemnification and advancement of expenses rights provided by or granted pursuant to this Agreement shall be binding upon and be enforceable by the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns (including any direct or indirect successor by purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise to all or substantially all of the business or assets of the Company), shall continue as to an Indemnitee who has ceased to be a director, officer, employee or agent of the Company or of any other Enterprise, and shall inure to the benefit of Indemnitee and his or her spouse, assigns, heirs, devisees, executors and administrators and other legal representatives.
Duration of Agreement.
 
Section 17.
 
  If any provision or provisions of this Agreement shall be held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable for any reason whatsoever: (a) the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions of this Agreement (including without limitation, each portion of any Section of this Agreement containing any such provision held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, that is not itself invalid, illegal or unenforceable) shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby and shall remain enforceable to the fullest extent permitted by law; (b) such provision or provisions shall be deemed reformed to the extent necessary to conform to applicable law and to give the maximum effect to the intent of the parties hereto; and (c) to the fullest extent possible, the provisions of this Agreement (including, without limitation, each portion of any Section of this Agreement containing any such provision held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, that is not itself invalid, illegal or unenforceable) shall be construed so as to give effect to the intent manifested thereby.
Severability.
 
Section 18.
 
Enforcement.
 
(a)
 
The Company expressly confirms and agrees that it has entered into this Agreement and assumed the obligations imposed on it hereby in order to induce Indemnitee to serve as a director or officer of the Company, and the Company acknowledges that Indemnitee is relying upon this Agreement in serving as a director or officer of the Company.
 
(b)
 
This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement between the parties hereto with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersedes all prior agreements and understandings, oral, written and implied, between the parties hereto with respect to the subject matter hereof; provided, however, that this Agreement is a supplement to and in furtherance of the Certificate of Incorporation, the By-laws and applicable law, and shall not be deemed a substitute therefor, nor to diminish or abrogate any rights of Indemnitee thereunder.
 
Section 19.
 
  No supplement, modification or amendment of this Agreement shall be binding unless executed in writing by the parties hereto.  No waiver of any of the provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed or shall constitute a waiver of any other provisions of this Agreement nor shall any waiver constitute a continuing waiver.
Modification and Waiver.
 
Section 20.
 
  Indemnitee agrees to notify the Company in writing as soon as reasonably practicable upon being served with any summons, citation, subpoena, complaint, indictment, information or other document relating to any Proceeding or matter which may be subject to indemnification or advancement of Expenses covered hereunder.  The failure of Indemnitee to so notify the Company shall not relieve the Company of any obligation which it may have to the Indemnitee under this Agreement or otherwise.
Notice by Indemnitee.
 
Section 21.
 
All notices, requests, demands and other communications under this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given if (a) delivered by hand and receipted for by the party to whom said notice or other communication shall have been directed, (b) mailed by certified or registered mail with postage prepaid, on the third business day after the date on which it is so mailed, (c) mailed by reputable overnight courier and receipted for by the party to whom said notice or other communication shall have been directed or (d) sent by facsimile transmission, with receipt of oral confirmation that such transmission has been received:
Notices.
 
 
(a)
 
If to Indemnitee, at the address indicated on the signature page of this Agreement, or such other address as Indemnitee shall provide to the Company.
 
(b)
 
If to the Company to
 
Chesapeake Energy Corporation
6100 North Western Avenue
Oklahoma City, Oklahoma 73118
or to any other address as may have been furnished to Indemnitee by the Company.
 
Section 22.
 
  To the fullest extent permissible under applicable law, if the indemnification provided for in this Agreement is unavailable to Indemnitee for any reason whatsoever, the Company, in lieu of indemnifying Indemnitee, shall contribute to the amount incurred by Indemnitee, whether for judgments, fines, penalties, excise taxes, amounts paid or to be paid in settlement and/or for Expenses, in connection with any claim relating to an indemnifiable event under this Agreement, in such proportion as is deemed fair and reasonable in light of all of the circumstances of such Proceeding in order to reflect (i) the relative benefits received by the Company and Indemnitee as a result of the event(s) and/or transaction(s) giving cause to such Proceeding; and/or (ii) the relative fault of the Company (and its directors, officers, employees and agents) and Indemnitee in connection with such event(s) and/or transaction(s).
Contribution.
 
Section 23.
 
  This Agreement and the legal relations among the parties shall be governed by, and construed and enforced in accordance with, the laws of the State of Oklahoma, without regard to its conflict of laws rules.  The Company and Indemnitee hereby irrevocably and unconditionally (i) agree that any action or proceeding arising out of or in connection with this Agreement shall be brought only in a state or federal court in Oklahoma County, Oklahoma and not any other court, (ii) consent to submit to the exclusive jurisdiction of any court in Oklahoma County for purposes of any action or proceeding arising out of or in connection with this Agreement, (iii) waive any objection to the laying of venue of any such action or proceeding in any court in Oklahoma County, and (iv) waive, and agree not to plead or to make, any claim that any such action or proceeding brought in any court in Oklahoma County has been brought in an improper or inconvenient forum.
Applicable Law and Consent to Jurisdiction.
 
Section 24.
 
  This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, each of which shall for all purposes be deemed to be an original but all of which together shall constitute one and the same Agreement.  Only one such counterpart signed by the party against whom enforceability is sought needs to be produced to evidence the existence of this Agreement.
Identical Counterparts.
 
Section 25.
 
    Use of the masculine pronoun shall be deemed to include usage of the feminine pronoun where appropriate.  The headings of this Agreement are inserted for convenience only and shall not be deemed to constitute part of this Agreement or to affect the construction thereof.
Miscellaneous.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have caused this Agreement to be signed as of the day and year first above written.
 
                                                                   
                      

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
 
OKLAHOMA CITY, OKLAHOMA, JUNE 21, 2012  Chesapeake Energy Corporation (NYSE:CHK) today announced the appointment of five new independent directors to its reconstituted nine-member Board of Directors.
 
Archie W. Dunham, former Chairman of ConocoPhillips and former Chief Executive Officer of Conoco, has been appointed by the Board as Chesapeakes new independent Non-Executive Chairman.  Mr. Dunham has had no previous relationship with Chesapeake.  Aubrey K. McClendon has relinquished the position of Chairman but remains a Director and will continue to serve as Chesapeakes Chief Executive Officer and as President.
 
Chesapeakes Board also appointed four other new independent directors: three proposed by Southeastern Asset Management (SAM), its largest shareholder with a 13.9% ownership stake, and one proposed by Carl C. Icahn, its second largest shareholder with a 7.6% stake.  The new directors proposed by SAM are Bob G. Alexander, R. Brad Martin and Frederic M. Poses.  The new director proposed by Mr. Icahn is Vincent J. Intrieri.
 
These five new directors replace Richard K. Davidson, Kathleen M. Eisbrenner, Frank Keating and Don Nickles who have resigned and Charles T. Maxwell who retired at the annual meeting on June 8, 2012.  Following the annual meeting, Mr. Davidson and V. Burns Hargis submitted their resignations when they did not receive support of a majority of the shares voted.  The Board accepted Mr. Davidsons resignation, but given Mr. Hargis current role as Chairman of the Audit Committee, and reflecting input from SAM and Mr. Icahn, the Board has declined to accept his resignation, at this time, to permit completion of the previously announced review of the financing arrangements between Mr. McClendon (and the entities through which he participates in the Founder Well Participation Program) and any third party that has had or may have a relationship with the company in any capacity.  Mr. Hargis will continue to lead the review, but is not expected to remain Chairman of the Audit Committee.  Upon completion of the review, the Board will revisit his resignation.
 
The other directors remaining on the Chesapeake Board are Mr. McClendon, Louis A. Simpson, who was proposed by SAM in 2011 and will now become Chairman of the Nominating and Governance Committee, and Merrill A. (Pete) Miller who was serving as Lead Independent Director.  With the appointment of an independent Non-Executive Chairman, the role of Lead Independent Director has been eliminated and Mr. Miller will become Chairman of the Compensation Committee.  Final Board Committee assignments will be made by the reconstituted Board.  As previously announced, the Board will also take the necessary actions to enable shareholders to elect the entire Board of Directors at the 2013 annual meeting of shareholders.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pete Miller said, On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank Dick, Kathleen, Frank and Don for their substantial contributions to Chesapeake.  I also want to welcome Archie Dunham as Non-Executive Chairman.  During the search process, it became readily apparent to the entire Board, and to SAM and the other shareholders with whom we consulted, that Archie is the right leader for this Board based on his deep knowledge of the energy industry, experience as an outside director of major natural resources companies and, most importantly, his reputation for integrity, independence, strong leadership and a focus on shareholder value.  We look forward to working with Archie and our four other new Board members, all of whom have the right blend of broad experience and sound judgment to guide Chesapeake and provide strong accountability going forward.
Archie W. Dunham said, I am honored to join the Chesapeake Board in the new role of independent Non-Executive Chairman and I am excited about the exceptional opportunities ahead for this high-potential company.  Under Aubreys leadership, Chesapeake has built an extraordinary portfolio of natural gas and oil assets in creating one of the worlds leading energy companies.  As I evaluated this opportunity, I was attracted by the clear mandate to provide strong oversight while working closely with the companys exceptional management team, talented employees, and reconstituted Board in a situation where we have the opportunity to create substantial value for all shareholders in the years ahead.
 
Aubrey K. McClendon, Chesapeakes Chief Executive Officer, said, I am pleased to welcome Archie Dunham to Chesapeakes Board and look forward to working with him, our continuing Board members and our new Board members, Bob Alexander, Brad Martin, Fred Poses and Vince Intrieri, in our common mission to deliver to our shareholders the substantial net asset value we have created in the past seven years as Chesapeake has helped lead the unconventional resource revolution in the energy industry.  Archie is extraordinarily well regarded both inside and outside of the industry, and we are confident he is the right person to lead our Board as we complete the transition from the asset identification and capture phase of Chesapeakes history to now harvesting those assets.  I also want to express my deep appreciation to Dick, Kathleen, Frank and Don for their professionalism and dedication while serving on our Board  they have made substantial contributions to Chesapeakes development and we will miss them.
 
O. Mason Hawkins, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Southeastern Asset Management, the Companys largest shareholder, said, Chesapeake has the assets and the opportunity to become the U.S.'s pre-eminent, low cost energy producer and to significantly grow its value per share.  We believe this board will prudently guide, assist and complement management's efforts to capture its potential.
 
Carl C. Icahn, Chesapeakes second largest shareholder, said, We believe Chesapeake is now heading in the right direction.  With the Board providing strong oversight, the management team will be sharply focused on realizing the value of its assets and the company will be well positioned to create substantial value for shareholders going forward.
 
 
 
 
 
Biographies of New Directors
, 73, is the retired Chairman of ConocoPhillips.  He was Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Conoco Inc. from 1999-2002, after being elected President and CEO in 1996.  He became Chairman of ConocoPhillips Company in 2002.  He was instrumental in orchestrating Conocos IPO separation from DuPont in 1998, the largest in US history, and in negotiating the merger of equals between Conoco Inc. and Phillips Petroleum Company in 2002.  Mr. Dunham currently serves on the Board of Directors of Union Pacific Corp and Louisiana-Pacific Corp, where he is the Chair of the Finance and Audit Committees.  He is also a member of Deutsche Banks Americas Advisory Board.  Previously, Mr. Dunham served on the boards of DuPont, Conoco, ConocoPhillips, Phelps Dodge and Pride International where he chaired essentially all the major board Committees.  He has continuously served on major corporate boards for nearly 30 years.  Mr. Dunham currently serves on the Commission on National Energy Policy and is a Board member of the CEO Forum.  He is the past Chairman of the National Association of Manufacturers, the United States Energy Association and the National Petroleum Council.  In 2005, he was appointed by President Bush to the Presidents Commission on White House Fellowships.  In 2002, he was appointed by President Bush to the Presidents Commission on Critical Infrastructure.  He served in the US Marine Corps from 1960-64 and currently serves as a member of the Marine Corps Heritage Foundation.  Mr. Dunham holds a Bachelors degree in geological engineering and a Masters degree in Business Administration from the University of Oklahoma
Archie W. Dunham
, 78, is the founder of Alexander Energy Corporation and served as its Chairman and Chief Executive Officer from 1980 until its sale to National Energy Group in 1996, at which time he became a Director of National Energy Group.  He later served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of National Energy Group from 1998 until its sale in 2006 to SandRidge Energy. Earlier in his career, Mr. Alexander was Vice President and General Manager of the Northern Division of Reserve Oil, Inc. and President of Basin Drilling Corp., subsidiaries of Reserve Oil and Gas Company.  He currently serves on the Board of Directors of Transatlantic Petroleum Corporation and CVR Energy, Inc.  Mr. Alexander received a Bachelor of Science degree in Geological Engineering from the University of Oklahoma.
Bob G.
 
Alexander
, 55, has been employed by Icahn related entities since October 1998 in various investment related capacities. Since January 1, 2008, he has served as Senior Managing Director of Icahn Capital L.P, the entity through which Carl C. Icahn manages investment funds, and since October 1, 2011, he has served as Senior Vice President of Icahn Enterprises G.P. Inc., the general partner of Icahn Enterprises L.P.  He has been a director of Icahn Enterprises G.P. Inc. since 2006. In addition, since November 2004, he has been a Senior Managing Director of Icahn Onshore LP, the general partner of Icahn Partners, and Icahn Offshore, the general partner of Icahn Master, Icahn Master II and Icahn Master III, entities through which Mr. Icahn invests in securities.  He is currently the chairman of CVR Energy, Inc., and also serves on the boards of FederalMogul Corporation, and Dynegy Inc.  He is also chairman of the board and a director of PSC Metals, Inc., (a privately held, non-listed company).  He is a former director of Motorola Solutions, Inc., Lear Corporation, WCI Communities, Inc., WestPoint International, Inc., National Energy Group, Inc., XO Holdings LLC, American Railcar Industries, Inc. and Viskase Companies, Inc.  Mr. Intrieri received his Bachelors degree in Accounting from The Pennsylvania State University and was a certified public accountant.
Vincent J. Intrieri
, 60, is former Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Saks Incorporated, a position he held from 1989 to 2007. Mr. Martin currently serves on the Boards of Directors of FedEx Corporation, First Horizon National Corporation and Dillards Inc, where he is Chairman of the Audit Committee.  He is a former Director of lululemon athletica, Gaylord Entertainment, Inc. and Ruby Tuesday, Inc.  Mr. Martin received his Bachelor of Science in Political Science from the University of Memphis and an MBA from Vanderbilt University.
R. Brad Martin
, 69, is the Chief Executive Officer of Ascend Performance Materials, a private company.  Previously, he was Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Trane Inc. (formerly American Standard Companies, Inc.) from 1999 until its acquisition by Ingersoll Rand in 2008.  He previously spent 30 years at AlliedSignal, Inc. and predecessor companies from 1969 to 1999, most recently as President and Chief Operating Officer.  He is Non-Executive Chairman of the Board of Directors of TE Connectivity Ltd. and a Director of Raytheon Company.  He is a former director of Centex Corporation and WABCO Holdings Inc.  Mr. Poses received his Bachelor's degree in Business Administration from New York University.
Frederic M. Poses
 
 
 
 
Chesapeake Energy Corporation (NYSE:CHK) is the second-largest producer of natural gas, a Top 15 producer of oil and natural gas liquids and the most active driller of new wells in the U.S.  Headquartered in Oklahoma City, the company's operations are focused on discovering and developing unconventional natural gas and oil fields onshore in the U.S.  Chesapeake owns leading positions in the Marcellus, Haynesville, Bossier, and Barnett natural gas shale plays and in the Eagle Ford, Utica, Mississippi Lime, Granite Wash, Cleveland, Tonkawa, Niobrara, Bone Spring, Avalon, Wolfcamp and Wolfberry unconventional liquids plays.  The company has also vertically integrated its operations and owns substantial marketing, midstream and oilfield services businesses directly and indirectly through its subsidiaries Chesapeake Energy Marketing Inc., Chesapeake Midstream Development, L.P. and Chesapeake Oilfield Services, L.L.C. and its affiliate Chesapeake Midstream Partners, L.P. (NYSE:CHKM).  Further information is available at www.chk.com where Chesapeake routinely posts announcements, updates, events, investor information, presentations and news releases.
This news release includes "forward-looking statements" that give Chesapeake's current expectations or forecasts of future events.  Although we believe the expectations and forecasts reflected in our forward-looking statements are reasonable, we can give no assurance they will prove to have been correct.  They can be affected by inaccurate assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties, and actual results may differ from the expectation expressed.  We caution you not to place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this news release, and we undertake no obligation to update this information.


