FILE:CHK/CHK-8K-20120125164012.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
           Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
*
 
           Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
*
 
           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
*
 
           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
*
 
 
 
 
Section 7  Regulation FD
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
On January 19,
2012, Chesapeake Energy Corporation (the Company) issued a press release announcing that for the fifth consecutive year FORTUNE magazine named the Company to its list of 100 Best Companies to Work For.  A copy of this press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report.
 
On January 23, 2012, the Company issued a press release announcing updates to its 2012 operating plan in response to low natural gas prices.  A copy of this press release is attached as Exhibit 99.2 to this Current Report.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)
 
Exhibits.  See "Exhibit Index" attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K, which is incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date:           January 25, 2012
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
OKLAHOMA CITY, OKLAHOMA, JANUARY 19, 2012  For the fifth consecutive year FORTUNE Magazine named Chesapeake Energy Corporation (NYSE:CHK) to its list of
100 Best Companies to Work For.  Moving up 14 spots from 2011, Chesapeake ranked #18; the highest listed Oklahoma-based employer and the top ranked natural gas and oil producer.  FORTUNE specifically noted Chesapeakes high-paying career opportunities and employee perks and benefits as reasons for Chesapeakes strong showing in the annual list.  The full list and related stories will appear in the February 6 issue of FORTUNE and is now available at .
www.Fortune.com/BestCompanies
While we celebrate any recognition of Chesapeakes dynamic corporate culture, we are most proud of the people who work for this company, said Aubrey McClendon, Chesapeake Chief Executive Officer.  Our more than 12,500 employees are what make Chesapeake a great place to work.  Through teamwork and a commitment to quality and safety, the Chesapeake team is fueling a brighter energy future for our country.
Last year Chesapeake ranked #32 on FORTUNEs list.  Chesapeakes climb in rank recognizes the companys continued efforts to offer the best in career growth, benefits and work environment.
In 2011, Chesapeake added new benefits for its employees, including a state-of the-art, 63,000-square-foot child development facility in Oklahoma City, two full-time chaplains available to all employees and a comprehensive pregnancy wellness program for expectant mothers in all of the companys operating areas.
These benefits are in addition to a $1,500 cash incentive for employees to practice healthy lifestyles, four hours of company time for volunteer work with nonprofit organizations and a full company match of 401(k) contributions up to 15% of an employees salary, including performance bonuses.  The company emphasizes career growth, and employees receive performance reviews, with opportunity for raises and bonuses, twice per year.
Oklahoma City employees also enjoy a 72,000-square-foot fitness center, a health center serving employees and their families, four on-campus restaurants and a sustainable employee garden stretching across an entire block.
 
It is Chesapeakes goal to be the most competitive employer in both our industry and the country, said Martha Burger, Chesapeake Senior Vice President  Human & Corporate Resources.  The benefits we offer, in addition to our outstanding career opportunities, allow us to recruit and retain top talent.  Chesapeakes employees are the driving force behind the success of our company.  We are committed to caring for each other as colleagues and caring for the communities where we do business.
 
 
 
 
 
In 2011, Chesapeake hired approximately 4,800 employees.  As energy demands increase, and domestic oil and natural gas production continues to grow, the company plans to hire 5,000 employees in 2012 in operating areas across the country.  In Oklahoma alone, Chesapeake expects to hire more than 1,000 team members  from truck drivers and righands to engineers and geologists.  More information about Chesapeake careers can be found at .
www.chk.com/careers
To pick the 100 Best Companies to Work For, Fortune partners with the Great Place to Work Institute to conduct the most extensive employee survey in corporate America; 280 firms participated in this years survey.  More than 246,000 employees at those companies responded to a survey created by the institute, a global research and consulting firm operating in 45 countries around the world.  Two-thirds of a companys score is based on the results of the institutes Trust Index survey, which is sent to a random sample of employees from each company.  The survey asks questions related to their attitudes about managements credibility, job satisfaction, and camaraderie.  The other third is based on responses to the institutes Culture Audit, which includes detailed questions about pay and benefit programs and a series of open-ended questions about hiring practices, methods of internal communication, training, recognition programs, and diversity efforts.  After evaluations are completed, if news about a company comes to light that may significantly damage employees faith in management, we may exclude it from the list.  Any company that is at least five years old and has more than 1,000 U.S. employees is eligible.  For information on how to apply, visit .
www.greatplacetowork.com
 
Chesapeake Energy Corporation (NYSE:CHK) is the second-largest producer of natural gas, a Top 15 producer of oil and natural gas liquids and the most active driller of new wells in the U.S.  Headquartered in Oklahoma City, the company's operations are focused on discovering and developing unconventional natural gas and oil fields onshore in the U.S.  Chesapeake owns leading positions in the Barnett, Haynesville, Bossier, Marcellus and Pearsall natural gas shale plays and in the Granite Wash, Cleveland, Tonkawa, Mississippi Lime, Bone Spring, Avalon, Wolfcamp, Wolfberry, Eagle Ford, Niobrara, Three Forks/Bakken and Utica unconventional liquids plays.  The company has also vertically integrated its operations and owns substantial midstream, compression, drilling, trucking, pressure pumping and other oilfield service assets directly and indirectly through its subsidiaries Chesapeake Midstream Development, L.P. and Chesapeake Oilfield Services, L.L.C. and its affiliate Chesapeake Midstream Partners, L.P. (NYSE:CHKM)  Further information is available at where Chesapeake routinely posts announcements, updates, events, investor information, presentations and news releases.
www.chk.com

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
OKLAHOMA CITY, OKLAHOMA, JANUARY 23, 2012  Chesapeake Energy Corporation (NYSE:CHK) today provided an update on additional steps it is taking to continue creating shareholder value in response to the lowest natural gas prices in the past 10 years.
First, Chesapeake plans to further reduce its operated dry gas drilling activity by 50% to approximately 24 rigs by the 2012 second quarter from 47 dry gas rigs currently in use and by 67% from an average of approximately 75 dry gas rigs used during 2011.  Chesapeakes operated dry gas drilling capital expenditures in 2012, net of drilling carries, are expected to decrease to $0.9 billion, a decrease of approximately 70% from similar expenditures of $3.1 billion in 2011.  This anticipated level of dry gas drilling capital expenditures is the companys lowest since 2005.  Specifically, during the 2012 second quarter, Chesapeake plans to have reduced its drilling activity in both the Haynesville and Barnett shales to six operated rigs each and to 12 operated rigs in the dry gas area of the Marcellus Shale in northeastern Pennsylvania.
Second, the company plans to immediately curtail approximately 0.5 billion cubic feet (bcf) per day, or 8%, of its current operated gross gas production of 6.3 bcf per day, which is about 9% of the nations natural gas production.  If conditions warrant, the company is prepared to double this production curtailment to as much as 1.0 bcf per day.  In addition, wherever possible, Chesapeake plans to defer completions of dry gas wells that have been drilled but not yet completed, and also plans to defer pipeline connections of dry gas wells that have already been completed.
 
 
 
 
As a result of lower drilling and completion activity and production curtailments in the Haynesville and Barnett shales, Chesapeake projects that its combined gross operated gas production in these plays will decline during 2012.  Because the Haynesville and Barnett shales have accounted for virtually all of the nations approximate 14 bcf per day of gas production growth during the past five years, lower production in these two plays will likely lead to flat or lower total natural gas production in the U.S. in 2012.
Third, the company intends to reallocate the capital savings from reduced dry gas drilling, well completion and pipeline connection activities to its liquids-rich plays that offer superior returns in the current strong liquids price environment.  This reallocation will result in increased expenditures in certain of Chesapeakes liquids-rich plays, including the Eagle Ford Shale, Utica Shale, Mississippi Lime, Granite Wash, Cleveland, Tonkawa, Niobrara, Bone Spring, Avalon, Wolfcamp, and Wolfberry.  The company estimates that approximately 85% of its 2012 total net operated drilling capital expenditures will be invested in its liquids-rich plays.
Fourth, Chesapeake plans to further reduce its undeveloped leasehold expenditures, the majority of which have been focused on liquids-rich plays during the past three years.  The company is now targeting to invest approximately $1.4 billion in undeveloped leasehold expenditures in 2012 (net of joint venture partner reimbursements), of which approximately 90% will target liquids-rich plays and 100% will be in plays where the company is already active.  This compares to undeveloped leasehold expenditures, net of joint venture partner reimbursements, of approximately $3.4 billion and $5.8 billion in 2011 and 2010, respectively.
Aubrey K. McClendon, Chesapeakes Chief Executive Officer, commented, An exceptionally mild winter to date has pressured U.S. natural gas prices to levels below our prior expectations and below levels that are economically attractive for developing dry gas plays in the U.S., shale or otherwise.  Having led the industry in natural gas production growth over the past 10 and five years, we recognize the need to demonstrate leadership and take action now in order to protect value for our shareholders.  During the past five years, our gross operated natural gas production has increased from approximately 2.1 bcf per day to 6.3 bcf per day currently, and accounted for approximately 30% of the nations total growth in natural gas production.
In addition, we have elected to further increase the percentage of our total net operated drilling capital expenditures allocated to liquids-rich plays to approximately 85% in order to capture returns that are currently far superior to dry gas plays.  We have committed to cut our dry gas drilling to bare minimum levels that are likely to be maintained until expected drilling economics on dry gas plays return to levels competitive with expected returns in Chesapeakes lineup of liquids-rich plays, which we believe is the best in the industry.  As in previous natural gas pricing downturns, Chesapeake is promptly responding to rapidly changing market conditions, and we hope todays announcement helps disprove the view held by some industry observers that producers fail to act rationally in times of unusually low natural gas prices.
Furthermore, we are very pleased that our strategic decisions over the past four years have created the opportunity and flexibility for Chesapeake to shift its focus from dry gas plays to liquids-rich plays.  Our liquids production has increased from an average of approximately 32,000 barrels (bbls) per day in 2009 to current production of almost 110,000 bbls per day.  This performance is the second-best U.S. liquids growth rate in the industry, both on an absolute and a relative basis.  As a result, we anticipate that more than 50% of Chesapeakes 2012 revenue will come from its oil and natural gas liquids production, based on current NYMEX strip prices and Chesapeakes current hedging positions.
Finally, we remain on track to meet our debt reduction target of $9.5 billion by year-end 2012 and to increase our liquids production to more than 250,000 bbls per day by 2015, which should represent one of the industrys best liquids production growth stories during the next four years.   We have also captured the nations best natural gas resource base, which will become increasingly valuable in the years ahead as demand initiatives in the power generation, transportation, industrial and export sectors gain further traction and enable consumers to more completely embrace natural gas as a clean, affordable, abundant, American resource to fuel an increasing portion of their energy futures.
 
 
 
 
 
Chesapeake Energy Corporation is the second-largest producer of natural gas, a Top 15 producer of oil and natural gas liquids and the most active driller of new wells in the U.S.  Headquartered in Oklahoma City, the company's operations are focused on discovering and developing unconventional natural gas and oil fields onshore in the U.S.  Chesapeake owns leading positions in the Barnett, Haynesville, Bossier, Marcellus and Pearsall natural gas shale plays and in the Granite Wash, Cleveland, Tonkawa, Mississippi Lime, Bone Spring, Avalon, Wolfcamp, Wolfberry, Eagle Ford, Niobrara, Three Forks/Bakken and Utica unconventional liquids-rich plays.  The company has also vertically integrated its operations and owns substantial midstream, compression, drilling, trucking, pressure pumping and other oilfield service assets directly and indirectly through its subsidiaries Chesapeake Midstream Development, L.P. and Chesapeake Oilfield Services, L.L.C. and its affiliate Chesapeake Midstream Partners, L.P. (NYSE:CHKM).  Chesapeakes stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol CHK.  Further information is available at where Chesapeake routinely posts announcements, updates, events, investor information, presentations and news releases.
www.chk.com
This news release includes "forward-looking statements" that give Chesapeake's current expectations or forecasts of future events, including anticipated reductions in drilling and completion activities in natural gas plays, curtailment of natural gas production, capital reallocation to liquids-rich plays and further reductions in undeveloped leasehold expenditures. Although Chesapeake believes the expectations and forecasts reflected in these forward-looking statements are reasonable, it can give no assurance they will prove to have been correct. They can be affected by inaccurate assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties.  Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from expected results include a sudden rebound in U.S. natural gas prices, changes in market demand and operational constraints.  Factors affecting Chesapeakes business are described under "Risk Factors" in Chesapeake's 2010 Form 10-K filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on March 1, 2011. Chesapeake cautions you not to place undue reliance on its forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this news release, and undertakes no obligation to update this information.


