FILE:CHK/CHK-8K-20120503175857.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
           Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
*
 
           Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
*
 
           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
*
 
           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
*
 
 
 
 
Section 8  Other Events
Item 8.01 Other Events.
On May 3, 2012, Chesapeake Energy Corporation issued a press release confirming that the company and its Chairman and CEO, Aubrey K. McClendon, have been notified by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) that its Fort Worth Regional Office has commenced an informal inquiry and requested that the company and Mr. McClendon retain certain documents. The SEC noted in its request, which was received yesterday, that its inquiry should not be construed as an indication that any violation of the federal securities laws has occurred.  The company and Mr. McClendon intend to cooperate with the SEC in responding to its inquiry.  A copy of this press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)
 
Exhibits.  See "Exhibit Index" attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K, which is incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date:           May 3, 2012
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
OKLAHOMA CITY, OKLAHOMA, MAY 3, 2012  Chesapeake Energy Corporation (NYSE: CHK) today confirmed that the company and its Chairman and CEO, Aubrey K. McClendon, have been notified by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) that its Fort Worth Regional Office has commenced an informal inquiry and requested that the company and Mr. McClendon retain certain documents. The SEC noted in its request, which was received yesterday, that its inquiry should not be construed as an indication that any violation of the federal securities laws has occurred.  The company and Mr. McClendon intend to cooperate with the SEC in responding to its inquiry.
Chesapeake Energy Corporation (NYSE:CHK) is the second-largest producer of natural gas, a Top 15 producer of oil and natural gas liquids and the most active driller of new wells in the U.S.  Headquartered in Oklahoma City, the company's operations are focused on discovering and developing unconventional natural gas and oil fields onshore in the U.S.  Chesapeake owns leading positions in the Barnett, Haynesville, Bossier, Marcellus and Pearsall natural gas shale plays and in the Eagle Ford, Utica, Granite Wash, Cleveland, Tonkawa, Mississippi Lime, Bone Spring, Avalon, Wolfcamp, Wolfberry and Niobrara unconventional liquids plays.  The company has also vertically integrated its operations and owns substantial marketing, midstream and oilfield services businesses directly and indirectly through its subsidiaries Chesapeake Energy Marketing Inc., Chesapeake Midstream Development, L.P. and Chesapeake Oilfield Services, L.L.C. and its affiliate Chesapeake Midstream Partners, L.P. (NYSE:CHKM).  Further information is available at where Chesapeake routinely posts announcements, updates, events, investor information, presentations and news releases.
www.chk.com
This news release includes "forward-looking statements" that give Chesapeake's current expectations.  Although we believe the expectations reflected in our forward-looking statements are reasonable, we can give no assurance they will prove to have been correct.  They can be affected by inaccurate assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties, and actual results may differ from the expectation expressed.  We caution you not to place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this news release, and we undertake no obligation to update this information.


