FILE:CHK/CHK-8K-20121001170525.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
           Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
*
 
           Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
*
 
           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
*
 
           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
*
 
 
 
 
Section 1  Registrants Business and Operations
 
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On September 25, 2012, Chesapeake Energy Corporation (the Company) entered into an amendment (the Amendment) to the Eighth Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (the Credit Agreement), dated as of December 2, 2010, among the Company, Chesapeake Exploration, L.L.C., as Borrower, Union Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent, Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, The Royal Bank of Scotland plc and BNP Paribas, as Co-Syndication Agents, Credit Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank, as Documentation Agent, and the several lenders party thereto. The Amendment, among other things:
The foregoing description of the Amendment does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Amendment filed as Exhibit 4.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and incorporated by reference into this Item 1.01.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date:           October 1, 2012
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 4.1
THIS THIRD AMENDMENT TO EIGHTH AMENDED AND RESTATED CREDIT AGREEMENT (this ) is dated as of September 25, 2012 (but effective on the Effective Date, defined below) by and among Chesapeake Energy Corporation (the ), Chesapeake Exploration, L.L.C. (the ), Union Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent (), and the Lenders parties hereto.
Amendment
Company
Borrower
Agent
 
 
WHEREAS, the Borrower, the Company, Agent and the Lenders entered into that certain Eighth Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of December 2, 2010 (as amended or supplemented from time to time prior to the date hereof, the ), for the purpose and consideration therein expressed, whereby the Lenders became obligated to make loans and extend credit to the Borrower as therein provided;
Original Agreement
WHEREAS, the Borrower, the Company, Agent and Majority Lenders desire to amend the Original Agreement as set forth herein;
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and the mutual covenants and agreements contained herein and in the Original Agreement, in consideration of the loans and other credit which may hereafter be made by the Lenders to the Borrower, and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto do hereby agree as follows:
 
 
 
Section 1.1.
 
.  Unless the context otherwise requires or unless otherwise expressly defined herein, the terms defined in the Original Agreement shall have the same meanings whenever used in this Amendment.
Terms Defined in the Original Agreement
 
Section 1.2.
 
.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the following terms when used in this Amendment shall have the meanings assigned to them in this Section 1.2.
Other Defined Terms
 
  means this Amendment, the Consent and Agreement of the Guarantors relating to this Amendment, and all other documents or instruments delivered in connection herewith or therewith.
Amendment Documents
 
 means the Original Agreement as amended hereby.
Credit Agreement
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 2.1.
 
Definitions.
 
(a)
 
Effective on the Effective Date as defined herein, the following definitions are hereby added to of the Original Agreement in correct alphabetical order to read as follows:
Section 1.1
 
 means the period beginning as of September 30, 2012 and ending as of (but not including) the earlier to occur of (a) December 31, 2013 and (b) the date upon which the Borrower delivers an irrevocable notice to Administrative Agent of its election to terminate the Amendment Effective Period.
Amendment Effective Period
 means (a) 4.0 to 1.0, except during the Amendment Effective Period, and (b) so long as the Amendment Effective Period is in effect, 6.00 to 1.00 as of September 30, 2012, reducing effective as of each following date to the ratio corresponding to such date:
Maximum Leverage Ratio
 means, as of any day, the fraction expressed as a percentage, the numerator of which is Total Revolving Extensions of Credit on such day, and the denominator of which is the lesser of (a) the Borrowing Base in effect on such day and (b) the Total Revolving Commitments in effect on such day.
Utilization Percentage
(b)
 
Effective on the Effective Date as defined herein, the definition of Applicable Margin in of the Original Agreement is hereby amended by adding the following sentence to the end thereof:
Section 1.1
 
Further, on any day during the Amendment Effective Period that the Utilization Percentage exceeds 50%, each rate per annum set forth above as the Applicable Margin, whether for Base Rate Loans or Eurodollar Loans, shall be increased by 0.25%.
Section 2.2.
 
. Effective on the Effective Date as defined herein, of the Original Agreement is hereby amended by adding the following :
Fees
Section 2.3
Section 2.3(c)
 
(c)  In the event that the Amendment Effective Period is in effect on June 30, 2013, on such day the Borrower will pay to the Administrative Agent, for the account of each Lender, a fee of 0.05% of such Lenders Revolving Commitment in effect on such day.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 2.3.
 
. Effective on the Effective Date as defined herein, of the Original Agreement is hereby amended to change the phrase fifteen Business Days to ten Business Days.
Swing Line
Section 2.17(i)
 
Section 2.4.
 
. Effective on the Effective Date as defined herein, of the Original Agreement is hereby amended by adding the following to read as follows:
Collateral Value
Section 2.14
Section 2.14(k)
 
(k) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement to the contrary, during the Amendment Effective Period, the Borrower shall not at any time permit, whether in connection with any determination of the Collateral Value, or any substitution or any release of Collateral or otherwise, the Collateral Value to be more than seventy-five million dollars ($75,000,000.00) below the Collateral Value that is in effect as of September 30, 2012.
Section 2.5.
 
.  Effective on the Effective Date as defined herein, of the Original Agreement is hereby amended to change the phrase 4.0 to 1.0 to the Maximum Leverage Ratio.
Consolidated Indebtedness to Consolidated EBITDA Ratio
Section 7.1(b)
 
 
 
Section 3.1.
 
  This Amendment shall become effective as of September 30, 2012 if and only if prior to such date the Agent shall have received executed counterparts of this Amendment from the Majority Lenders and the following conditions precedent have been satisfied (September 30, 2012, if such conditions are so satisfied herein called the ):
Conditions to Effectiveness of Amendment.
Effective Date
 
(a)
 
The Agents receipt of the following, each of which shall be originals or telecopies (followed promptly by originals) unless otherwise specified, each properly executed by a Responsible Officer of the signing Loan Party and each in form and substance satisfactory to the Agent and in such number of counterparts as may be requested by the Agent:
   
   
 (i)
   
   
   
 
counterparts of the Amendment Documents executed by the applicable Loan Parties.
 
 (ii)
   
   
   
 
a certificate on behalf of each applicable Loan Party certifying that none of the resolutions, incumbency certificates, Organization Documents and/or certificates of Responsible Officers of each Loan Party as the Agent has previously required evidencing the identity, authority and capacity of each Responsible Officer thereof authorized to act as a Responsible Officer in connection with the Loan Documents to which such Loan Party is a party have been amended or are otherwise inaccurate since they were delivered and certifying resolutions authorizing this Amendment.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (iii)
   
   
   
 
such other documents or certificates as the Agent shall reasonably request.
 
(b)
 
Any fees required to be paid to the Agent or any Lenderon or before the Effective Date shall have been paid.
 
 
(c)
 
Unless waived by the Agent, the Borrower shall have paid all fees, charges and disbursements of counsel to the Agent to the extent invoiced prior to or on the Effective Date, plus such additional amounts of such fees, charges and disbursements as shall constitute its reasonable estimate of such fees, charges and disbursements incurred or to be incurred by it through the closing proceedings (provided that such estimate shall not thereafter preclude a final settling of accounts between the Borrower and the Agent).
 
 
 
Section 4.1.
 
.  In order to induce each Lender party hereto to enter into this Amendment, each of the Borrower and the Company hereby certify that the representations and warranties made by it contained in Article 4 of the Original Agreement or in any other Loan Document are true and correct in all material respects on and as of the date hereof, except to the extent that such representations and warranties specifically refer to an earlier date, in which case they shall be true and correct in all material respects as of such earlier date, and agrees to execute, or cause to be executed, such other instruments or further amendments to Loan Documents as the Agent may reasonably request from time to time to give further effect to this Amendment.
Representations and Warranties
 
 
 
Section 5.1.
 
.  The Original Agreement as hereby amended is hereby ratified and confirmed in all respects.  The other Loan Documents, as they may be amended or affected by the various Amendment Documents, are hereby ratified and confirmed in all respects.  Any reference to the Credit Agreement in any Loan Document shall be deemed to be a reference to the Original Agreement as hereby amended.  The execution, delivery and effectiveness of this Amendment and the other Amendment Documents shall not, except as expressly provided herein or therein, operate as a waiver of any right, power or remedy of the Agent or the Lenders under the Credit Agreement, or any other Loan Document nor constitute a waiver of any provision of the Credit Agreement, or any other Loan Document.
Ratification of Agreements
 
Section 5.2.
 
.  All representations, warranties, covenants and agreements of any Loan Party herein shall survive the execution and delivery of this Amendment and the performance hereof, and shall further survive until all of the Obligations are paid in full.  All statements and agreements contained in any certificate or instrument delivered by any Loan Party hereunder or under the Credit Agreement to the Agent or any Lender shall be deemed to constitute representations and warranties by, or agreements and covenants of such Loan Party under this Amendment and under the Credit Agreement.
Survival of Agreements
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 5.3.
 
.  This Amendment is and the other Amendment Documents are each a Loan Document, and all provisions in the Credit Agreement pertaining to Loan Documents apply hereto and thereto.
Loan Documents
 
Section 5.4.
 
.  This Amendment shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the Laws applicable to the Original Agreement.
Governing Law
 
Section 5.5.
 
.  This Amendment may be separately executed in counterparts and by the different parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to constitute one and the same Amendment.  This Amendment and the other Amendment Documents may be validly executed by facsimile or other electronic transmission.
Counterparts; Fax
 
THIS AMENDMENT AND THE OTHER LOAN DOCUMENTS REPRESENT THE FINAL AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE PARTIES AND MAY NOT BE CONTRADICTED BY EVIDENCE OF PRIOR, CONTEMPORANEOUS, OR SUBSEQUENT ORAL AGREEMENTS OF THE PARTIES.  THERE ARE NO UNWRITTEN ORAL AGREEMENTS OF THE PARTIES.
 
 
 
 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Amendment is executed as of the date first above written.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By its execution below, each of the undersigned hereby (i) consents to the provisions of this Amendment and the transactions contemplated herein, (ii) ratifies and confirms the Sixth Amended and Restated Guarantee Agreement dated as of December 2, 2010 made by it for the benefit of Agent and Lenders (as modified by certain Assumption Agreements) and the other Loan Documents executed pursuant to the Credit Agreement (or any prior amendment or supplement to the Credit Agreement), (iii) agrees that all of its respective obligations and covenants thereunder shall remain unimpaired by the execution and delivery of this Amendment and the other documents and instruments executed in connection herewith, and (iv) agrees that the Sixth Amended and Restated Guarantee Agreement and such other Loan Documents shall remain in full force and effect.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


