FILE:CHK/CHK-8K-20120706160351.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
           Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
*
 
           Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
*
 
           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
*
 
           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
*
 
 
 
 
 
Section 7  Regulation FD
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
On July 2, 2012, Chesapeake Energy Corporation (the Company) issued a press release announcing the completion of the CHKM Transaction (as defined below).  A copy of this press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report.
 
 
Section 8  Other Events
Item 8.01 Other Events.
On June 29, 2012, the Company completed  the sale of its interests in Chesapeake Midstream Partners, L.P. (CHKM) to funds managed by Global Infrastructure Management, LLC (the CHKM Transaction).  The sale closed in two separate transactions and resulted in aggregate proceeds of $2.0 billion in cash.  The interests sold by the Company in the CHKM Transaction consisted of 33,704,666 common units representing limited partner interests in CHKM, 34,538,061 subordinated units representing limited partner interests in CHKM and the Companys 50% interest in Chesapeake Midstream Ventures, L.L.C., the sole member of Chesapeake Midstream GP, L.L.C., the general partner of CHKM (the General Partner).  In connection with the CHKM Transaction, the Company has agreed (i) to continue to provide certain general and administrative services to the General Partner and CHKM until December 31, 2013 and (ii) to the continued secondment to the General Partner, pending permanent transfer to the General Partner, of certain personnel that perform services for the General Partner and CHKM until December 31, 2012, which date may be extended to March 31, 2013 by the General Partner, in each case on terms generally consistent with the terms upon which such services and personnel were provided to the General Partner and CHKM prior to the CHKM Transaction.
 
 
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)
 
Exhibits.  See Exhibit Index attached to this Current Report, which is incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date:           July 6, 2012
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
OKLAHOMA CITY, OKLAHOMA, JULY 2, 2012  Chesapeake Energy Corporation (NYSE:CHK) today announced that Global Infrastructure Partners (GIP) has closed the previously announced acquisition of all of Chesapeakes ownership interests in Chesapeake Midstream Partners, L.P. (NYSE:CHKM) for $2.0 billion, resulting in an anticipated pretax gain to Chesapeake of approximately $1.0 billion.
of certain Mid-Continent gathering and processing assets to CHKM and a separate transaction to sell the companys interests in its wholly owned subsidiary, Chesapeake Midstream Development, L.P. (CMD), to GIP.
As previously disclosed, Chesapeake is also negotiating the sale
Chesapeake Energy Corporation (NYSE:CHK) is the second-largest producer of natural gas, a Top 15 producer of oil and natural gas liquids and the most active driller of new wells in the U.S.  Headquartered in Oklahoma City, the company's operations are focused on discovering and developing unconventional natural gas and oil fields onshore in the U.S.  Chesapeake owns leading positions in the Marcellus, Haynesville, Bossier, and Barnett natural gas shale plays and in the Eagle Ford, Utica, Mississippi Lime, Granite Wash, Cleveland, Tonkawa, Niobrara, Bone Spring, Avalon, Wolfcamp and Wolfberry unconventional liquids plays.  The company has also vertically integrated its operations and owns substantial marketing, midstream and oilfield services businesses directly and indirectly through its subsidiaries Chesapeake Energy Marketing, Inc., Chesapeake Midstream Development, L.P. and Chesapeake Oilfield Services, L.L.C.  Further information is available at where Chesapeake routinely posts announcements, updates, events, investor information, presentations and news releases.
www.chk.com
Forward-looking statements give our current expectations or forecasts of future events.  Although we believe the expectations and forecasts reflected in our forward-looking statements are reasonable, we can give no assurance they will prove to be correct.  They can be affected by inaccurate assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties, and actual results may differ from the expectations expressed.  The terms of the sale of our Mid-Continent gathering and processing assets and our wholly owned subsidiary, Chesapeake Midstream Development, L.P., are subject to negotiation and may not be completed in the time frame anticipated or at all.  We caution you not to place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this news release, and we undertake no obligation to update this information.
This press release includes forward-looking statements.


