FILE:CHK/CHK-8K-20120608165556.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 5  Corporate Governance and Management
Item 5.02 Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On June 8, 2012, at the annual meeting of shareholders of Chesapeake Energy Corporation (the Company), the Companys shareholders voted to (i) increase the number of shares of common stock which are available for awards under the Long Term Incentive Plan (the LTIP) by 6,500,000 shares and (ii) make certain revisions to clarify the treatment of performance share units under the LTIP.  The LTIP, as amended, is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1.14.  The description of the LTIP under the caption "Plan Features" on pages 40-45 of the proxy statement for the meeting, which is a part of the discussion of Voting Item 4: Proposal to Amend Long Term Incentive Plan, is incorporated by reference herein.
 
Item 5.03 Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
Effective June 8, 2012, although the Company's shareholders did not approve a similar shareholder proposal on the subject, the Board of Directors (the "Board") voluntarily approved an amendment to the Company's bylaws to require that all director nominees in uncontested elections receive the affirmative vote of a majority of votes cast in order to be elected or reelected to the Board.
 If a director does not receive the requisite vote, the bylaws require the director to comply with the Company's director resignation procedures. In addition, the Board approved further amendments to the Companys bylaws, which included:
 The foregoing description of the amendments to the Companys bylaws does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Companys Amended and Restated Bylaws filed as Exhibit 3.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
   
Item 5.07 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.
The Company held its annual meeting of shareholders on Friday, June 8, 2012.  The matters voted upon and the final voting results are as stated below.
 
 
 
 
 
Section 7  Regulation FD
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
On June 8, 2012, the Company issued a press release announcing the preliminary voting results for the Companys 2012 annual meeting of shareholders. A copy of this press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)
 
Exhibits.  See "Exhibit Index" attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K, which is incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date:                      June 8, 2012
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 3.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
              Section 1.  .  Meetings of shareholders for all purposes may be held at such time and place, either within or without the State of Oklahoma, or by means of remote communication in the manner provided by statute as the board of directors in its sole discretion may determine, as shall be stated in the corporations notice of the meeting.
Place of Meetings
              Section 2.  .  The annual meeting of shareholders for the election of directors and the transaction of such other business as may properly come before the meeting in accordance with these Bylaws shall be held within six (6) months following the end of the fiscal year of the corporation at such time, date and place as shall be determined by the board of directors in its sole discretion.
Annual Meeting
              Section 3.  .  Special meetings of shareholders may be called for any purpose or purposes, unless otherwise prescribed by the Oklahoma General Corporation Act (the Act), and may be called only by the chairman of the board or the chief executive officer, or shall be called by the president or secretary, at the request, in writing, of a majority of the directors then in office.  Business transacted at any special meeting of shareholders shall be limited to the purposes stated in the corporations notice of meeting.
Special Meeting
Section 4.  .  Unless otherwise provided in the Act, written notice of every meeting of shareholders stating the place, if any, date, hour, the means of remote communications, if any, by which shareholders and proxyholders may be deemed to be present in person and vote at such meeting and, in the case of a special meeting, purposes thereof, shall, except when otherwise required by law, be given not less than ten (10) nor more than sixty (60) days before the date of the meeting to each shareholder entitled to vote thereat.
Notice of Meetings
              At any meeting at which a quorum of shareholders is present, in person or represented by proxy, the chairman of the meeting or the holders of the majority of the shares of stock present or represented by proxy may adjourn from time to time until its business is completed.  When a meeting is adjourned to another time or place, notice need not be given of the adjourned meeting if the time, place, if any, thereof, and the means of remote communications, if any, by which shareholders and proxyholders may be deemed to be present in person and vote at such adjourned meeting are announced at the meeting at which the adjournment is taken.  At the adjourned meeting, the corporation may transact any business which might have been transacted at the original meeting.  If the adjournment is for more than thirty (30) days, or if after the adjournment a new record date is fixed for the adjourned meeting, a notice of the adjourned meeting shall be given to each shareholder of record entitled to vote at the meeting.  Otherwise, no notice need be given.  Any previously scheduled annual meeting of shareholders may be postponed, and any previously scheduled special meeting of shareholders may be postponed or cancelled, by resolution of the board of directors upon public notice given prior to the time previously scheduled for such meeting of shareholders.
Attendance of a person at a meeting shall constitute a waiver of notice of such meeting, except when the person attends the meeting for the express purpose of objecting, at the beginning of the meeting, to the transaction of any business because the meeting is not lawfully called or convened.
              Section 5.  .  The holders of a majority of the shares of stock entitled to vote, present in person or by proxy, shall, except as otherwise provided by law, constitute a quorum for the transaction of business at all meetings of the shareholders.
Quorum
              Section 6.  .
Action Without Meeting
                         (a)         Unless otherwise provided in the Act or the corporations Certificate of Incorporation and any amendments or supplements thereto or certificates of designation (the Certificate of Incorporation), any action required or permitted to be taken at a meeting of the shareholders of the corporation may be taken without a meeting, without prior notice and without a vote, if a consent or consents in writing, setting forth the action so taken, shall be signed by the holders of outstanding stock having not less than the minimum number of votes that would be necessary to authorize or take such action at a meeting at which all shares entitled to vote thereon were present and voted.  Such consent or consents shall be delivered to the corporation at its registered office in Oklahoma, at its principal place of business, or to an officer or agent of the corporation having custody of the book in which proceedings of meetings of shareholders are recorded.  Delivery made to the corporations registered office shall be by hand or by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested.
                         (b)         Every written consent shall bear the date of signature of each shareholder who signs the written consent, and no consent shall be effective to take the corporate action referred to therein unless, within sixty (60) days of the earliest dated consent delivered in the manner required by this Section 6 to the corporation, written consents signed by a sufficient number of shareholders to take action are delivered to the corporation in the manner required by this Section 6.
                         (c)         A telegram, cablegram or other electronic transmission consenting to an action to be taken and transmitted by a shareholder or proxyholder, or by a person or persons authorized to act for a shareholder or proxyholder, shall be deemed to be written, signed and dated for the purposes of this Section 6, provided that any such telegram, cablegram or other electronic transmission sets forth or is delivered with information from which the corporation can determine:  (i) that the telegram, cablegram or other electronic transmission was transmitted by the shareholder or proxyholder or by a person or persons authorized to act for the shareholder or proxyholder and (ii) the date on which such shareholder or proxyholder or authorized person or persons transmitted such telegram, cablegram or electronic transmission.  The date on which such telegram, cablegram or electronic transmission is transmitted shall be deemed to be the date on which such consent was signed.  No consent given by telegram, cablegram or other electronic transmission shall be deemed to have been delivered until such consent is reproduced in paper form and until such paper form shall be delivered to the corporation by delivery to its registered office in Oklahoma, its principal place of business, or an officer or agent of the corporation having custody of the book in which proceedings of meetings of shareholders are recorded.  Delivery made to the corporations registered office shall be made by hand or by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested.  Notwithstanding the foregoing limitations on delivery, consents given by telegram, cablegram or other electronic transmission may be otherwise delivered to the principal place of business of the corporation or to an officer or agent of the corporation having custody of the book in which proceedings of meetings of shareholders are recorded, if to the extent and in the manner provided by resolution of the board of directors of the corporation.
                         (d)         In the event of the delivery, in the manner provided in this Section 6, to the corporation of the requisite written consent or consents to take corporate action and/or any related revocation or revocations, the corporation shall engage a nationally recognized independent inspector or inspectors of elections for the purpose of promptly performing a ministerial review of the validity of the consents and revocations.  For the purpose of permitting the inspector(s) to perform such review, no action by written consent without a meeting shall be effective until such date as the independent inspector(s) certify to the corporation that the consents delivered to the corporation in accordance with this Section 6 represent at least the minimum number of votes that would be necessary to take the corporate action.  Nothing contained in this paragraph shall in any way be construed to suggest or imply that the board of directors or any shareholder shall not be entitled to contest the validity of any consent or revocation thereof, whether before or after such certification by the independent inspector(s), or to take any other action (including, without limitation, the commencement, prosecution or defense of any litigation with respect thereto, and the seeking of injunctive relief in such litigation).
 
     (e)         Prompt notice of the taking of corporate action without a meeting by less than unanimous written consent shall be given by the corporation to those shareholders who have not consented to the action in writing and who are entitled to receive such notice as provided in the Act.
   
   
              Section 7.  .
Voting
     (a)
   
   
 
  
Unless otherwise provided by the Certificate of Incorporation, at every meeting of shareholders or, if action is to be taken by written consent without a meeting, each shareholder shall be entitled to one vote, in person or by proxy, for each share of stock having voting power held by such shareholder.  Unless otherwise provided by law, no proxy shall be voted on or after three (3) years from its date unless the proxy provides for a longer period.  All elections and questions shall be decided by a plurality of the votes cast, in person or by proxy, except as provided in Section 7(b) of this Article or otherwise required by law, or any stock exchange requirements or as set forth in the Certificate of Incorporation, these Bylaws or the terms of any series of outstanding preferred stock.
 
     (b)
   
   
 
  
In an uncontested director election on or after June 8, 2012, (i) any non-incumbent director nominee standing for election by the shareholders who receives a greater number of votes cast against such nominees election than votes for such nominees election (a Majority Against Vote) shall not be elected a director; and (ii) any incumbent director nominee standing for election by the shareholders who receives a Majority Against Vote shall, following certification of the shareholder vote by the inspector of elections, promptly comply with the resignation procedures established by the nominating and corporate governance committee and published on the corporations corporate website or in a public disclosure.
              Section 8.  .  Unless otherwise provided in the Act, at least ten (10) days before every meeting of shareholders, a complete list of the shareholders entitled to vote at the meeting, arranged in alphabetical order, and showing the address of each shareholder, and the number of shares registered in the name of each shareholder, shall be prepared by the officer in charge of the stock ledger.  Such list shall be open to the examination of any shareholder, for any purpose germane to the meeting, for a period of at least ten (10) days prior to the meeting:  (i) on a reasonably accessible electronic network, provided that the information required to gain access to such list is provided with the notice of the meeting, or (ii) during ordinary business hours, at the principal place of business of the corporation.  In the event that the corporation determines to make the list available on an electronic network, the corporation may take reasonable steps to ensure that such information is available only to shareholders of the corporation.  If the meeting is to be held at a place, then the list shall be produced and kept at the time and place of the meeting during the whole time of the meeting and may be inspected by any shareholder who is present.  If the meeting is to be held solely by means of remote communication, then the list shall also be open to the examination of any shareholder during the whole time of the meeting on a reasonably accessible electronic network, and the information required to access such list shall be provided with the notice of the meeting.  The stock ledger shall be the only evidence as to which shareholders are entitled to examine the stock ledger, the list required by this section or the books of the corporation, or to vote in person or by proxy at any meeting of shareholders.
List of Shareholders
              Section 9.  .  At each meeting of shareholders, the chairman of the board of directors, if one shall have been elected (or in his or her absence or if one shall not have been elected, the chief executive officer), shall act as chairman of the meeting.  The secretary (or in his or her absence or inability to act, the person whom the chairman of the meeting shall appoint secretary of the meeting) shall act as secretary of the meeting and keep the minutes thereof.
Organization
              Section 10.  .  The chairman of the meeting shall determine the order of business and the procedure at the meeting, including regulation of the manner of voting and the conduct of discussion.
Order of Business
              Section 11.  .
Nomination of Directors
(a)         
Nominations of persons for election to the board of directors of the corporation may
only be made at an annual meeting of shareholders.  Such nominations may be made (i) by or at the direction of the board of directors or (ii) by a shareholder of the corporation who (A) was a shareholder of record at the time of giving of the notice provided for in this Section 11 and at the time of the annual meeting (including any adjournment or postponement thereof), (B) is entitled to vote at such meeting and (C) complies with the procedures set forth below as to such nomination.  For the avoidance of doubt, clause (ii) of this Section 11(a) shall be the exclusive means for a shareholder to make nominations before an annual meeting of shareholders.
  (b)        
 
For any director nominations to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a shareholder pursuant to these Bylaws, the shareholder must have given timely notice
thereof in writing to the secretary of the corporation
.  To be timely, a shareholders notice must be delivered to or mailed and received at the principal executive offices of the corporation not earlier than the close of business on the 120th day and not later than the close of business on the 90th day prior to the first anniversary of the preceding years annual meeting; provided, however, that in the event that the date of the annual meeting is more than thirty (30) days before or more than sixty (60) days after such anniversary date, notice by the shareholder to be timely must be so delivered not earlier than the close of business on the 120th day prior to the date of such annual meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the 90th day prior to the date of such annual meeting or, if the first public announcement of the date of such annual meeting is less than one hundred (100) days prior to the date of such annual meeting, the tenth day following the day on which public announcement of the date of such meeting is first made by the corporation
.  In no event shall any adjournment or postponement of an annual meeting or the announcement thereof commence a new time period for the giving of a shareholders notice as described above.  In order to be effective, the shareholders notice shall set forth:
 
 (i)           as to the shareholder giving the notice and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination is made:  (A) the name and address of such shareholder, as they appear on the corporations books, and of such beneficial owner, if any, (B) the class or series and number of shares of the corporation which are, directly or indirectly, owned beneficially and of record by such shareholder and such beneficial owner, (C) any option, warrant, convertible security, stock appreciation right or similar right with an exercise or conversion privilege or a settlement payment or mechanism at a price related to any class or series of shares of the corporation or with a value derived in whole or in part from the value of any class or series of shares of the corporation, whether or not such instrument or right shall be subject to settlement in the underlying class or series of capital stock of the corporation or otherwise (a Derivative Instrument) directly or indirectly owned beneficially by such shareholder or such beneficial owner, if any, and any other direct or indirect opportunity to profit or share in any profit derived from any increase or decrease in the value of shares of the corporation, (D) any proxy, contract, arrangement, understanding, or relationship pursuant to which such shareholder or such beneficial owner, if any, has a right to vote any shares of any security of the corporation, (E) any short interest in any security of the corporation directly or indirectly owned beneficially by such shareholder or such beneficial owner, if any (for purposes of this clause a person shall be deemed to have a short interest in a security if such person directly or indirectly, through any contract, arrangement, understanding, relationship or otherwise, has the opportunity to profit or share in any profit derived from any decrease in the value of the subject security), (F) any rights to dividends on the shares of the corporation owned beneficially by such shareholder or such beneficial owner, if any, that are separated or separable from the underlying shares of the corporation, (G) any proportionate interest in shares of the corporation or Derivative Instruments held, directly or indirectly, by a general or limited partnership in which such shareholder or such beneficial owner, if any, is a general partner or, directly or indirectly, beneficially owns an interest in a general partner, (H) any performance-related fees (other than an asset-based fee) that such shareholder or such beneficial owner, if any, is entitled to based on any increase or decrease in the value of shares of the corporation or Derivative Instruments, if any, as of the date of such notice, including any such interests held by members of the immediate family of such shareholder or such beneficial owner, if any, sharing the same household (which information shall be supplemented by such shareholder and beneficial owner, if any, not later than ten (10) days after the record date for the meeting to disclose such ownership as of the record date), (I) a description of all agreements, arrangements and understandings between such shareholder and such beneficial owner, if any, and any other person or persons (including their names) in connection with the nomination (or, in the case of the application of this clause to Section 12(b)(i), other business) and (J) any other information relating to such shareholder and beneficial owner, if any, that would be required to be disclosed in a proxy statement or other filings required to be made in connection with solicitations of proxies for, as applicable, the proposal and/or for the election of directors in a contested election pursuant to Section 14 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder (the Exchange Act);
   
 
 (ii)           
   
as to each person whom the shareholder proposes to nominate for election or reelection to the board of directors (A) all information relating to such person that would be required to be disclosed in a proxy statement or other filings required to be made in connection with solicitations of proxies for election of directors in a contested election pursuant to Section 14 of the Exchange Act (including such persons written consent to being named in the proxy statement as a nominee and to serving as a director if elected), (B) a description of all direct and indirect compensation and other material monetary agreements, arrangements and understandings during the past three (3) years, and any other material relationships, between or among such shareholder and beneficial owner, if any, and their respective affiliates and associates, or others acting in concert therewith, on the one hand, and each proposed nominee, and his or her respective affiliates and associates, or others acting in concert therewith, on the other hand, including, without limitation all information that would be required to be disclosed pursuant to Rule 404 promulgated under Regulation S-K if the shareholder making the nomination and any beneficial owner on whose behalf the nomination is made, if any, or any affiliate or associate thereof or person acting in concert therewith, were the registrant for purposes of such rule and the nominee were a director or executive officer of such registrant and (C) a statement in support of the nominee stating why the person should be nominated for election to the board of directors; and
 
 (iii)           with respect to each nominee for election or reelection to the board of directors, a completed and signed questionnaire, representation and agreement required by Section 11(e) of this Article I.  The corporation may require any proposed nominee to furnish such other information as may reasonably be required by the corporation to determine the eligibility of such proposed nominee to serve as an independent director of the corporation or that could be material to a reasonable shareholders understanding of the independence, or lack thereof, of such nominee.
   
 
(c)           At the request of the board of directors, any person nominated by the board of directors for election as a director shall furnish to the secretary of the corporation that information required to be set forth in a shareholders notice of nomination which pertains to the nominee.  If the chairman of the meeting shall determine, based on the facts, that a nomination was not made in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 11, the chairman of the board or the chairman of the nominating committee of the board of directors may declare the nomination defective and the nomination will be disregarded.  Each person validly nominated in accordance with this Section 11 (regardless of the source of recommendation) will be evaluated consistently in accordance with the board of directors policy regarding the identification, evaluation and nomination of directors.  Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 11, a shareholder shall also comply with all applicable requirements of the Exchange Act with respect to the matters set forth in this Section 11.
   
   
 
 
(d)         Notwithstanding anything in Section 11(b) of this Article I to the contrary, in the event that the number of directors to be elected to the board of directors is increased and there is no public announcement by the corporation naming all of the nominees for director or specifying the size of the increased board of directors at least one hundred (100) days prior to the first anniversary of the preceding years annual meeting, a shareholders notice required by this Article I shall also be considered timely, but only with respect to nominees for any new positions created by such increase, if it shall be delivered to the secretary of the corporation at the principal executive offices of the corporation not later than the close of business on the tenth day following the day on which such public announcement is first made by the corporation.
   
   
 
 
(e)         To be eligible to be a nominee for election or reelection as a director of the corporation, a person must complete and deliver (in accordance with the time periods prescribed for delivery of notice under this Section 11) to the secretary of the corporation at the principal executive offices of the corporation a written questionnaire with respect to the background and qualification of such person and the background of any other person or entity on whose behalf the nomination is being made (which questionnaire shall be in the form provided by the corporation, and shall be provided by the secretary of the corporation upon written request) and a written representation and agreement (in the form provided by the secretary of the corporation upon written request) that such person (i) is not and will not become a party to (A) any agreement, arrangement or understanding with, and has not given any commitment or assurance to, any person or entity as to how such person, if elected as a director of the corporation, will act or vote on any issue or question (a Voting Commitment) that has not been disclosed to the corporation or (B) any Voting Commitment that could limit or interfere with such persons ability to comply, if elected as a director of the corporation, with such persons fiduciary duties under applicable law, (ii) is not and will not become a party to any agreement, arrangement or understanding with any person or entity other than the corporation with respect to any direct or indirect compensation, reimbursement or indemnification in connection with service or action as a director that has not been disclosed therein and (iii) in such persons individual capacity and on behalf of any person or entity on whose behalf the nomination is being made, would be in compliance, if elected as a director of the corporation, and will comply with all applicable publicly disclosed corporate governance, conflict of interest, confidentiality and stock ownership and trading policies and guidelines of the corporation.
   
   
 
              Section 12.  .
Notice of Other Business; Shareholder Proposals
(a)         At any annual meeting of the shareholders, only such business (other than the nomination of directors, which shall be governed by Section 11 of this Article I) shall be conducted as shall have been brought before the meeting (i) by or at the direction of the board of directors or (ii) by any shareholder of the corporation who (A) was a shareholder of record at the time of giving of the notice provided for in this Section 12 and at the time of the annual meeting (including any adjournment or postponement thereof), (B) is entitled to vote at such meeting and (C) complies with the procedures set forth below as to the presentation of business at the meeting.  For the avoidance of doubt, clause (ii) of this Section 12(a) shall be the exclusive means for a shareholder to present business (other than director nominations, which shall be governed by Section 11 of this Article I) before an annual meeting of shareholders.
  (b)         For business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a shareholder, the shareholder must have given timely notice thereof in writing to the secretary of the corporation.  To be timely, a shareholders notice must be delivered to or mailed and received at the principal executive offices of the corporation not earlier than the close of business on the 120th day and not later than the close of business on the 90th day prior to the first anniversary of the preceding years annual meeting; provided, however, that in the event that the date of the annual meeting is more than thirty (30) days before or more than sixty (60) days after such anniversary date, notice by the shareholder to be timely must be so delivered not earlier than the close of business on the 120th day prior to the date of such annual meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the 90th day prior to the date of such annual meeting or, if the first public announcement of the date of such annual meeting is less than one hundred (100) days prior to the date of such annual meeting, the tenth day following the day on which public announcement of the date of such meeting is first made by the corporation.  In no event shall any adjournment or postponement of an annual meeting or the announcement thereof commence a new time period for the giving of a shareholders notice as described above.  In order to be effective the shareholders notice shall set forth:
    (i)           as to the shareholder giving notice and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the business is to be brought before the meeting, the information set forth in Section 11(b)(i) above; and
   (ii)           as to each matter the shareholder purposes to bring before the meeting:  (A) a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the meeting and the reasons for conducting such business at the meeting and (B) any material interest of the shareholder (and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the business is to be brought before the meeting) in such business.
(c)         If the chairman of the meeting shall determine, based on the facts, that business was not properly brought before the meeting in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 12, he or she shall so declare to the meeting and any such business not properly brought before the meeting shall not be transacted.
(d)         Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 12, a shareholder shall also comply with all applicable requirements of the Exchange Act with respect to the matters set forth in this Section 12.  Nothing in these Bylaws shall be deemed to affect any rights of shareholders to request inclusion of proposals in the corporations proxy statement pursuant to Rule 14a-8 under the Exchange Act.
              Section 13.  .  If authorized by the board of directors in its sole discretion, and subject to such guidelines and procedures as the board of directors may adopt, shareholders and proxyholders not physically present at a meeting of shareholders may, by means of remote communication:  (i) participate in a meeting of shareholders and (ii) be deemed present in person and vote at a meeting of shareholders, whether such meeting is to be held at a designated place or solely by means of remote communication, provided that (A) the corporation shall implement reasonable measures to verify that each person deemed present and permitted to vote at the meeting by means of remote communication is a shareholder or proxyholder, (B) the corporation shall implement reasonable measures to provide such shareholders and proxyholders a reasonable opportunity to participate in the meeting and to vote on matters submitted to the shareholders, including an opportunity to read or hear the proceedings of the meeting substantially concurrently with such proceedings and (C) if any shareholder or proxyholder votes or takes other action at the meeting by means of remote communication, a record of such vote or other action shall be maintained by the corporation.
Action by Remote Communication
              Section 14.  .  The corporation shall, in advance of any meeting of shareholders, appoint one or more inspectors to act at the meeting and make a written report thereof.  The corporation may designate one or more persons as alternate inspectors to replace any inspector who fails to act.  If no inspector or alternate is able to act at a meeting of shareholders, the person presiding at the meeting shall appoint one or more inspectors to act at the meeting.  Each inspector, before entering upon the discharge of the duties of inspector, shall take and sign an oath faithfully to execute the duties of inspector with strict impartiality and according to the best of the inspectors ability.  The inspectors shall ascertain the number of shares outstanding and the voting power of each, determine the number of shares represented at a meeting and the validity of proxies and ballots, count all votes and ballots, determine and retain for a reasonable period a record of the disposition of any challenges made to any determination by the inspectors, and certify their determination of the number of shares represented at the meeting and their count of all votes and ballots.  The inspectors may appoint or retain other persons or entities to assist the inspectors in the performance of the duties of the inspectors.
Inspectors of Elections
Section 15.  .
Fixing Date for Determination of Shareholders of Record
(a)           In order that the corporation may determine the shareholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of shareholders or any adjournment thereof, or entitled to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment of any rights, or entitled to exercise any rights in respect of any change, conversion or exchange of stock or for the purpose of any other lawful action, the board of directors may fix, in advance, a record date, which shall not be more than sixty (60) nor less than ten (10) days before the date of such meetings, nor more than sixty (60) days prior to any other action.  A determination of shareholders of record entitled to notice of and to vote at a meeting of shareholders shall apply to any adjournment or postponement of the meeting; provided, however, that the board may fix a new record date for the adjourned or postponed meeting.
(b)           In order that the corporation may determine the shareholders entitled to consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting, the board of directors may fix a record date, which shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the board of directors, and which date shall not be more than ten (10) days after the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the board of directors.  Any shareholder of record seeking to have the shareholders authorize or take corporate action by written consent shall, by written notice to the secretary of the corporation, request the board of directors to fix a record date.  The board of directors shall promptly, but in all events within ten (10) days after the date on which such a request is received, adopt a resolution fixing the record date (unless a record date has previously been fixed by the board of directors pursuant to the first sentence of this Bylaw).  If no record date has been fixed by the board of directors, pursuant to this Bylaw or otherwise within ten (10) days of the date on which such a request is received, the record date for determining shareholders entitled to consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting, when no prior action by the board of directors is required by statute, shall be the first date on which a signed written consent setting forth the action taken or proposed to be taken is delivered to the corporation in accordance with the provisions of Section 6 of this Article I.  If no record date has been fixed by the board of directors and prior action by the board of directors is required by statute, the record date for determining shareholders entitled to consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting shall be at the close of business on the day on which the board of directors adopts the resolution taking such prior action.
              Section 1.   .  The business and affairs of the corporation shall be managed by or under the direction of its board of directors.
Powers
              Section 2.   .  The number of directors which shall constitute the whole board shall not be less than three nor more than nine, and shall be determined by resolution adopted by a vote of two-thirds (2/3) of the entire board, or at an annual or special meeting of shareholders by the affirmative vote of sixty-six and two-thirds percent (66-2/3%) of the outstanding stock entitled to vote.  No reduction in number shall have the effect of removing any director prior to the expiration of his or her term.  In the event the number of directors which constitute the whole board shall be three or more, the board of directors shall be divided into three classes as nearly equal in number as possible with the term of office of one class expiring each year.  At the first shareholders meeting following the election or appointment of three or more directors which constitute the whole board, the term of office of those of the first class shall expire at the first annual meeting after their election; the term of office of those of the second class shall expire at the second annual meeting after their election; and the term of office of those of the third class shall expire at the third annual meeting after their election.  At each annual meeting held after such classification and election, directors shall be chosen for a full term of three years to succeed those whose terms expire.
Number; Election
              No person may stand for election to, or be elected to, the board of directors or be appointed by the directors to fill a vacancy on the board of directors who shall have made, or be making, improper or unlawful use of the corporations confidential information.  Directors need not be shareholders at the time of election but must be less than 80 years of age.
              All elections of directors shall be by written ballot unless otherwise provided in the Certificate of Incorporation.  However, if authorized by the board of directors in its sole discretion, the ballot may be submitted by electronic transmission, provided that any such electronic transmission must either set forth, or be submitted with, information from which it can be determined that the electronic transmission was authorized by the shareholder or proxyholder.
              Section 3.  .  Vacancies and newly created directorships resulting from any increase in the authorized number of directors may be filled by a majority of the directors then in office, though less than a quorum, and the directors so chosen shall hold office until the next annual election of the class for which each such director has been chosen and until his or her successor is duly elected and qualified, or until his or her earlier resignation or removal.
Vacancies
              Section 4.  .  Board meetings may be held at such places as the board may, from time to time, determine or as may be specified in the call of any meetings.
Place of Meetings
Section 5.  .  The annual meeting of the board shall be held without call or notice as soon as practicable after and at the same general place as the annual meeting of the shareholders, for the purpose of electing officers and transacting any other business that may properly come before the meeting.  Additional regular meetings of the board may be held without call or notice at such place and at such time as shall be fixed by resolution of the board but in the absence of such resolution shall be held upon call by the chairman of the board, the chief executive officer or the president or a majority of the directors then in office by providing the notice required by Section 6 of this Article II.
   
 
Regular Meetings
 
Section 6.   .  Special meetings of the board may be called by the chairman of the board, the chief executive officer or the president or by a majority of the directors then in office.  Notice of special meetings to each director shall be (a) delivered personally by hand, by courier or by telephone; (b) sent by United States first-class mail, postage prepaid; (c) sent by facsimile; or (d) sent by electronic mail or any other form of electronic communication, directed to each director at that directors address, telephone number, facsimile number or electronic mail address, as the case may be, as shown on the corporations records.  If the notice is delivered by telephone, it shall be communicated at least twelve (12) hours before the time of the holding of the meeting to each director individually or, as applicable, to any person designated by a director to receive such notice.  If the notice is (x) delivered personally by hand or by courier, (y) sent by facsimile or (z) sent by electronic mail or any other form of electronic communication, it shall be delivered or sent at least twelve (12) hours before the time of the holding of the meeting. If the notice is sent by United States mail, it shall be deposited in the United States mail at least three (3) days before the time of the holding of the meeting.
Special Meetings
 
Such notice shall include the time and place of such meeting, but need not, unless otherwise required by law, state the purposes of the meeting.  A majority of the directors present at any meeting may adjourn the meeting from time to time without notice other than announcement at the meeting.
              Section 7.  .  A majority of the total number of directors, excluding any vacancies, shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business at any meeting of the board.  If at any meeting a quorum is not present, a majority of the directors present may adjourn the meeting from time to time without notice other than announcement at the meeting until a quorum is present.  The act of a majority of directors present in person at a meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of the board of directors.
Quorum
Section 8.  .  Members of the board of directors, or of any committee thereof, may participate in a meeting of such board or committee by means of conference telephone or other communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other, and such participation shall be deemed presence in person at such meeting.
Presence at Meeting
              Section 9.  .  Any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the board of directors, or of any committee thereof, may be taken without a meeting if all members of the board or such committee, as the case may be, consent thereto in writing or by electronic transmission, and such writing or electronic transmission is filed with the minutes of the proceedings of the board or such committee.  Such filing shall be in paper form if the minutes are maintained in paper form and shall be in electronic form if the minutes are maintained in electronic form.
Action Without Meeting
              Section 10.  .  The board of directors may, by resolution passed by a majority of the directors then in office, designate one or more committees, each such committee to consist of one or more of the directors of the corporation and shall have such name or names as may be determined from time to time by resolution adopted by the board.  The board may designate one or more directors as alternate members of any committee who may replace any absent or disqualified member at any meeting of the committee.  Any such committee, to the extent provided in the resolution, shall have and may exercise the powers of the board of directors in the management of the business and affairs of the corporation, and generally perform such duties and exercise such powers as may be directed or delegated by the board of directors from time to time and, furthermore, may authorize the seal of the corporation to be affixed to all papers which may require it; but no such committee shall have the power or authority in reference to amending the Certificate of Incorporation (except that a committee may, to the extent authorized in the resolution(s) providing for the issuance of shares of stock adopted by the board of directors as provided in Section 1032(A) of the Act, fix the designations and any of the preferences or rights of such shares relating to dividends, redemption, dissolution, any distribution of assets of the corporation or the conversion into, or the exchange of such shares for shares of any other class or classes or any other series of the same or any other class or classes or stock of the corporation or fix the number of shares of any series of stock or authorize the increase or decrease of the shares of any series), adopting an agreement of merger or consolidation, recommending to the shareholders the sale, lease or exchange of all or substantially all of the corporations property and assets, recommending to the shareholders a dissolution of the corporation or a revocation of a dissolution, or amending the bylaws of the corporation; and unless the resolution of the board of directors, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws expressly so provide, no such committee shall have the power or authority to declare a dividend or to authorize the issuance of stock or to adopt a certificate of ownership and merger pursuant to the Act.  In the absence or disqualification of any member of such committee or committees, the member or members thereof present at any meeting and not disqualified from voting, whether or not he, she or they constitute a quorum, may unanimously appoint another member of the board to act at the meeting in the place of such absent or disqualified member.  Each such committee shall keep regular minutes of its proceedings and report the same to the board of directors as and when required.
Committees of the Board
              Section 11.  .  Each director shall be reimbursed for reasonable expenses incurred in attending any meeting of the board or of any committee of which such director shall be a member.  The board may, by resolution, allow reasonable fees to some or all of the directors for attendance at any board or committee meeting.  No such payment shall preclude any directors from serving the corporation in any other capacity and receiving compensation therefor.
Compensation
              Section 12.  .  If as a result of a catastrophe or other emergency condition a quorum of any committee of the board of directors having power to act in the premises cannot readily be convened and a quorum of the board of directors cannot readily be convened, then all the powers and duties of the board of directors shall automatically vest and continue, until a quorum of the board of directors can be convened, in the Emergency Management Committee, which shall consist of all readily available members of the board of directors and two of whose members shall constitute a quorum.  The Emergency Management Committee shall call a meeting of the board of directors as soon as circumstances permit for the purpose of filling any vacancies on the board of directors and its committees and taking such other action as may be appropriate.
Emergency Management Committee
 
Section 13.  .  Any director may resign at any time upon notice given in writing or by electronic transmission to the board of directors or to the secretary of the corporation.  The resignation of any director shall take effect upon receipt of notice thereof or at such later time as shall be specified in such notice; and unless otherwise specified therein, the acceptance of such resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective.
Resignation
              Section 14.  .  No director may be removed from office by the shareholders except for cause. A director may be removed from office by the shareholders for cause upon the affirmative vote of the holders of not less than a majority of the total voting power of all outstanding securities of the corporation then entitled to vote generally in the election of directors voting together as a single class.
Removal
 
 
              Section 15.  .  Notwithstanding anything else contained herein, whenever the holders of one or more classes or series of preferred stock shall have the right, voting separately as a class or series, to elect directors, the nomination, election, term of office, filling of vacancies, removal and other features of such directorships shall be governed by the terms of the certificate of designation for such classes or series, and such directors so elected shall not be subject to the provisions of Sections 2, 3 and 14 of this Article II unless otherwise provided therein.
Preferred Directors
              Section 1.   .  The board shall elect annually such officers as may be necessary to enable the corporation to sign instruments and stock certificates which comply with the Act.  Such officers may include a chairman of the board, chief executive officer, vice chairman of the board, a president, one or more vice presidents (who may be designated by different classes), a secretary, a treasurer and other officers.  No officer need be a director.  Two or more offices may be held by the same person.
Election
              Section 2.  .  All officers shall serve at the pleasure of the board.  Any officer elected or appointed by the board may be removed at any time by the board whenever in its judgment the best interests of the corporation would be served thereby, but such removal shall be without prejudice to the contract rights, if any, of the person so removed.  A vacancy in any office shall be filled by the board of directors.
Term, Removal and Vacancies
              Section 3.  .  The chairman of the board, if one has been elected, shall preside at all meetings of the board, shareholders and committees of which he or she is a member.  He or she shall have such powers and perform such duties as may be authorized by the board of directors.
Chairman of the Board
              Section 4.  .  If the board of directors has elected a chairman of the board, it may designate the chairman of the board as the chief executive officer of the corporation.  If no chairman of the board has been elected, or in his or her absence or inability to act, or if no such designation has been made by the board of directors, the board of directors shall elect a chief executive officer of the corporation.  The chief executive officer shall (i) have the overall supervision of the business of the corporation and shall direct the affairs and policies of the corporation, subject to any directions which may be given by the board of directors, (ii) have authority to designate the duties and powers of officers and delegate special powers and duties to specified officers, so long as such designations shall not be inconsistent with the laws of the State of Oklahoma, these Bylaws or action of the board of directors, and (iii) in general have all other powers and shall perform all other duties incident to the chief executive officer of a corporation and such other powers and duties as may be prescribed by the board of directors from time to time.
Chief Executive Officer
              Section 5.  .  The vice chairman of the board, if one has been elected, shall, in the absence or inability of the chairman of the board to act, preside at all meetings of shareholders, the board of directors and committees of which the chairman of the board is a member.  The vice chairman of the board shall be subject to the control of the board of directors and chairman of the board.  He or she shall have such powers and perform such duties as from time to time may be assigned to him or her by the board of directors or the chairman of the board.
Vice Chairman of the Board
              Section 6.  .  If the board of directors has not designated the chairman of the board as the chief executive officer of the corporation or otherwise elected a chief executive officer, then the president shall be the chief executive officer of the corporation with the powers and duties provided in Section 4 of this Article III.  If the board of directors has designated the chairman of the board as the chief executive officer of the corporation or if the board of directors has elected a chief executive officer who is not also the president, the president shall serve as chief operating officer and be subject to the control of the board of directors and the chief executive officer.  In any event, the president shall have the power to execute, and shall execute, bonds, deeds, mortgages, extensions, agreements, modification of mortgage agreements, leases and contracts or other instruments of the corporation except where required or permitted by law to be otherwise signed and executed and except where the signing and execution thereof shall be expressly delegated by the board of directors, the chief executive officer or by the president to some other officer or agent of the corporation.  The president, in general, shall have all other powers and shall perform all other duties as may be prescribed by the board of directors from time to time.
President
              Section 7.  .  A vice president shall perform such duties as may from time to time be assigned to him or her by the board, the chief executive officer or the president.  If no president has been elected, or in the absence or inability to act of the president, the vice president (or if there is more than one vice president, in the order designated by the board and, absent such designation, in the order of their first election to that office) shall perform the duties and discharge the responsibilities of the president.
Vice Presidents
              Section 8.  .  The secretary shall be the keeper of the corporate seal and records, and shall give notice of, attend and record minutes of meetings of shareholders and directors.  He or she shall see that the seal is affixed to all documents on which the seal is required by law to be affixed, the execution of which on behalf of the corporation under its seal is duly authorized in accordance with the provisions of these Bylaws.  He or she shall, in general, perform all duties incident to the office of secretary and such other duties as may be assigned to him or her by the board or by the president.  The assistant secretaries, if any, shall have such duties as shall be delegated to them by the secretary and, in the absence of the secretary, the senior of them present shall discharge the duties of the secretary.
Secretary
              Section 9.  .  The treasurer shall be responsible for (i) the custody and safekeeping of all of the funds and securities of the corporation, (ii) the receipt and deposit of all monies paid to the corporation, (iii) where necessary or appropriate, the endorsement for collection on behalf of the corporation of all checks, drafts, notes and other obligations payable to the corporation, (iv) the disbursement of funds of the corporation under such rules as the board may from time to time adopt, (v) maintaining the general books of account of the corporation and (vi) the performance of such further duties as are incident to the office of treasurer or as may be assigned to him or her by the board or by the president.  The assistant treasurers, if any, shall have such duties as shall be delegated to them by the treasurer, and in the absence of the treasurer, the senior one of them present shall discharge the duties of the treasurer.
Treasurer
              Section 10.  .  The board may from time to time appoint officers of various divisions of the corporation.  Divisional officers shall not by virtue of such appointment become officers of the corporation.  Subject to the direction of the chief executive officer of the corporation, the president of a division shall have general charge, control and supervision of all the business operations of his or her division, and the other divisional officers shall have such duties and authority as may be prescribed by the president of the division.
Divisional Officers
 
              Section 1.  .  The shares of the corporation shall be represented by certificates, provided that the board of directors of the corporation may provide by resolution or resolutions that some or all of any or all classes or series of its stock shall be uncertificated shares.  Notwithstanding the adoption of any such resolution, shares represented by a certificate shall not become uncertificated shares until such certificate is surrendered to the corporation.  Any certificates representing shares of stock shall be in such form as the board shall from time to time approve, signed by, or in the name of, the corporation by (i) the chairman of the board, if any, the president or any vice president and (ii) the treasurer, or assistant treasurer, or the secretary or an assistant secretary, certifying the number of shares owned by the shareholder in the corporation.  During the time in which the corporation is authorized to issue more than one class of stock or more than one series of any class, there shall be set forth on the face or back of each certificate issued a statement that the corporation will furnish without charge to each shareholder who so requests, the designations, preferences and relative, participating, option or other special rights of each class of stock or series thereof of the corporation and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions of such preferences and/or rights.
Certificates
              The signatures of any of the officers on a certificate may be facsimiles.  In case any officer who has signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon a certificate shall have ceased to be such officer before such certificate is issued, it may be issued by the corporation with the same effect as if he or she were such officer at the date of issue.
Within a reasonable time after the issuance or transfer of uncertificated stock, the corporation shall send to the registered owner thereof a written notice that shall set forth the name of the corporation, the name of the shareholder, the number and class (and the designation of the series, if any) of the shares represented, and any restrictions on the transfer or registration of such shares imposed by the Certificate of Incorporation, these Bylaws, any agreement among shareholders or any agreement between shareholders and the corporation.
              Section 2.  .  A record of the name and address of each holder of certificated or uncertificated shares, the number of shares held, and the date of issue thereof shall be made on the corporations books.  The corporation shall be entitled to treat the holder of record of any share or shares of stock as the holder in fact thereof, and, accordingly, shall not be bound to recognize any equitable or other claim to or interest in any share on the part of any other person, whether or not it shall have express or other notice thereof, except as required by the laws of Oklahoma.
Record Ownership
              Section 3.  .  The corporation may maintain one or more transfer offices or agencies, each in the charge of a transfer agent designated by the board, where the shares of stock of the corporation shall be transferable.  The corporation may also maintain one or more registry offices, each in the charge of a registrar designated by the board, wherein such shares of stock shall be registered.  To the extent authorized by the board, the same entity may serve both as a transfer agent and registrar.
Transfer Agent and Registrar
              Section 4.  .  Any person claiming a stock certificate or uncertificated shares in lieu of a stock certificate lost, stolen, mutilated or destroyed shall give the corporation an affidavit as to such person's ownership of the certificate and of the facts which go to prove its loss, theft, mutilation or destruction.  Such person shall also, if required by the board, give the corporation a bond, in such form as may be approved by the board, sufficient to indemnify the corporation against any claim that may be made against it on account of the alleged loss or theft of the certificate or the issuance of a new certificate.
Lost Certificates
              Section 5.  .  Transfer of shares shall, except as provided in Section 4 of this Article IV, be made on the books of the corporation only by direction of the holder, whether named in the certificate or on the books of the corporation as a holder of uncertificated shares, or the holders attorney, lawfully constituted in writing, and, if held in certificate form, only upon surrender for cancellation of the certificate therefor, duly endorsed or accompanied by a written assignment of the shares evidenced thereby.
Transfer of Stock
              Section 1.  .  The principal offices of the corporation shall be maintained in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, or at such other place as the board may determine.  The corporation may have such other offices as the board may from time to time determine.
Offices
              Section 2.  .  Unless otherwise ordered by the board, the chief executive officer, the president or any vice president shall have full power and authority, in the name and on behalf of the corporation, to attend, act and vote at any meeting of security holders of any company in which the corporation may hold shares of stock or other securities, and at any such meeting shall possess and may exercise any and all rights and powers incident to the ownership of such shares and which, as the holder thereof, the corporation might possess and exercise if personally present, and may exercise such power and authority through the execution of proxies or may delegate such power and authority to any other officer, agent or employee of the corporation.
Voting of Stock and Other Securities
              Section 3.  .
Notices
                         (a)         Unless otherwise provided herein, whenever notice is required to be given, it shall not be construed to require personal notice, but such notice may be given in writing by depositing the same in the United States mail, addressed to the individual to whom notice is being given at such address as appears on the records of the corporation, with postage thereon prepaid.  Such notice shall be deemed to be given at the time when the same shall be thus deposited.  Notice to directors may be given by any form of electronic transmission and as specified in Article II, Section 6.
                         (b)         Without limiting the manner by which notice otherwise may be given effectively to shareholders, any notice to shareholders given by the corporation under any provision of the Act, the Certificate of Incorporation, or these Bylaws shall be effective if given by a form of electronic transmission consented to by the shareholder to whom the notice is given.  Any such consent shall be revocable by the shareholder by written notice to the corporation.  Any such consent shall be deemed revoked if:  (i) the corporation is unable to deliver by electronic transmission two (2) consecutive notices given by the corporation in accordance with such consent and (ii) such inability becomes known to the secretary or an assistant secretary of the corporation or to the transfer agent, or other person responsible for the giving of notice; provided, however, the inadvertent failure to treat such inability as a revocation shall not invalidate any meeting or other action.
                         (c)         Notice given pursuant to Section 3(b) of this Article V shall be deemed given if by:  (i) facsimile telecommunication, when directed to a number at which the shareholder has consented to receive notice; (ii) electronic mail, when directed to an electronic mail address at which the shareholder has consented to receive notice; (iii) a posting on an electronic network together with separate notice to the shareholder of such specific posting, upon the later of (A) such posting and (B) the giving of such separate notice; and (iv) any other form of electronic transmission, when directed to the shareholder, in accordance with the shareholders consent.
                         (d)         An affidavit of the secretary or an assistant secretary or of the transfer agent or other agent of the corporation that the notice has been given by a form of electronic transmission shall, in the absence of fraud, be evidence of the facts stated therein.
prima facie
 
     (e)         Any notice to shareholders given by the corporation shall be effective if given by a single written notice to shareholders who share an address if consented to by the shareholders at that address to whom such notice is given.  Any such consent shall be revocable by the shareholder by written notice to the corporation.  Any shareholder who fails to object in writing to the corporation, within sixty (60) days of having been given written notice by the corporation of its intention to send the single notice permitted by this section, shall be deemed to have consented to receiving such single written notice.
   
   
              Section 4.  .  Whenever any notice is required to be given, a waiver thereof in writing, signed by the person or persons entitled to the notice, or a waiver by electronic transmission by the person or persons entitled to such notice, whether before or after the time stated therein, shall be deemed equivalent thereto.
Waiver of Notice
              Section 5.  .  The giving of any notice required under any provision of the Act, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws shall not be required to be given to any shareholder to whom:  (i) notice of two consecutive annual meetings and all notices of meetings or of the taking of action by written consent without a meeting to such shareholder during the period between such two consecutive annual meetings, or (ii) all, and at least two, payments (if sent by first class mail) of dividends or interest on securities during a twelve-month period, have been mailed addressed to such person at such persons address as shown on the records of the corporation and have been returned undeliverable.  If any such shareholder shall deliver to the corporation a written notice setting forth such shareholders then current address, the requirement that such notice be given to such shareholder shall be reinstated.  The exception provided for in this Section 5 to the requirement that notice be given shall not be applicable to any notice returned as undeliverable if the notice was given by electronic transmission.
Exception to Notice
   (a)         The corporation shall indemnify any person who was or is a party or is threatened to be made a party to any threatened, pending or completed action, suit or proceeding whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative (other than an action by or in the right of the corporation) by reason of the fact that he or she is or was a director, officer, employee or agent of the corporation or is or was serving at the request of the corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture or other enterprise against expenses (including attorneys fees), judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred by him or her in connection with such action, suit or proceeding, if he or she acted in good faith and in a manner he or she reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interest of the corporation and, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, had no reasonable cause to believe that his or her conduct was unlawful.  The termination of any action, suit or proceeding by judgment, order, settlement, conviction or upon a plea of or its equivalent shall not of itself create a presumption that the person did not act in good faith and in a manner which he or she reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interest of the corporation and with respect to any criminal action or proceeding had reasonable cause to believe that his or her conduct was unlawful.
nolo contendre
   (b)         The corporation shall indemnify any person who was or is a party or is threatened to be made a party to any threatened, pending or completed action or suit by or in the right of the corporation to procure a judgment in its favor by reason of the fact that he or she is or was a director, officer, employee or agent of the corporation or is or was serving at the request of the corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise against expenses (including attorneys fees) actually and reasonably incurred by him or her in connection with the defense or settlement of such action or suit, if he or she acted in good faith and in a manner he or she reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interest of the corporation; except that no indemnification shall be made in respect of any claim, issue or matter as to which such person shall have been adjudged to be liable to the corporation unless and only to the extent that the court in which such action or suit was brought shall determine, upon application, that despite the adjudication of liability, but in the view of all the circumstances of the case, such person is fairly and reasonably entitled to indemnity for such expenses which the court shall deem proper.
   (c)         Expenses incurred in defending a civil or criminal action, suit or proceeding may be paid by the corporation in advance of the final disposition of such action, suit or proceeding upon receipt of an undertaking by or on behalf of the director, officer, employee or agent to repay such amount if it shall ultimately be determined that he or she is not entitled to be indemnified by the corporation as authorized herein.  Such advances shall paid by the corporation within twenty (20) days after the receipt by the corporation of a written statement or statements from the claimant requesting such advance or advances from time to time.
   (d)         To obtain indemnification under this Bylaw, a claimant shall submit to the corporation a written request, including therein or therewith such documentation and information as is reasonably available to the claimant and is reasonably necessary to determine whether and to what extent the claimant is entitled to indemnification.  Upon such written request by a claimant for indemnification, a determination, if required by applicable law, with respect to the claimants entitlement thereto shall be made as follows:  (i) if requested by the claimant, by Independent Counsel (as defined below), or (ii) if no request is made by the claimant for a determination by Independent Counsel, (A) by the board of directors by a majority vote of a quorum consisting of Disinterested Directors (as defined below), or (B) if a quorum of the board of directors consisting of Disinterested Directors is not obtainable or, even if obtainable, such quorum of Disinterested Directors so directs, by Independent Counsel in a written opinion to the board of directors, a copy of which shall be delivered to the claimant or (C) if a quorum of Disinterested Directors so directs, by the shareholders of the corporation.  In the event the determination of entitlement to indemnification is to be made by Independent Counsel at the request of the claimant, the Independent Counsel shall be selected by the board of directors unless there shall have occurred within two (2) years prior to the date of the commencement of the action, suit or proceeding for which indemnification is claimed a Change of Control as defined in the corporations 2005 Long Term Incentive Plan, as amended through the date of these Bylaws, in which case the Independent Counsel shall be selected by the claimant unless the claimant shall request that such selection be made by the board of directors.  If it is so determined that the claimant is entitled to indemnification, payment to the claimant shall be made within ten (10) days after such determination.
 
For purposes of this Article VI:
 
        Disinterested Director means a director of the corporation who is not and was not a party to the matter in respect of which indemnification is sought by the claimant.
   
  
 
    Independent Counsel means a law firm, a member of a law firm, or an independent practitioner, that is experienced in matters of corporation law and shall include any person who, under the applicable standards of professional conduct then prevailing, would not have a conflict of interest in representing either the corporation or the claimant in an action to determine the claimants rights under this Article VI.
   
   
(e)         If a claim under this Bylaw is not paid in full by the corporation within sixty (60) days after a written claim pursuant to paragraph (d) of this Article VI has been received by the corporation, the claimant may at any time thereafter bring suit against the corporation to recover the unpaid amount of the claim and, if successful in whole or in part, the claimant shall be entitled to be paid also the expense of prosecuting such claim.  It shall be a defense to any such action (other than an action brought to enforce a claim for expenses incurred in defending any proceeding in advance of its final disposition where the required undertaking, if any is required, has been tendered to the corporation) that the claimant has not met the standard of conduct which makes it permissible under the Act for the corporation to indemnify the claimant for the amount claimed, but the burden of proving such defense shall be on the corporation.  Neither the failure of the corporation (including its board of directors, Independent Counsel or shareholders) to have made a determination prior to the commencement of such action that indemnification of the claimant is proper in the circumstances because he or she has met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in the Act, nor an actual determination by the corporation (including its board of directors, Independent Counsel or shareholders) that the claimant has not met such applicable standard of conduct, shall be a defense to the action or create a presumption that the claimant has not met the applicable standard of conduct.  If a determination shall have been made pursuant to this paragraph (e) that the claimant is entitled to indemnification, the corporation shall be bound by such determination in any judicial proceeding commenced pursuant to this paragraph (e).  The corporation shall be precluded from asserting in any judicial proceeding commenced pursuant to this paragraph (e) that the procedures and presumptions of this Bylaw are not valid, binding and enforceable and shall stipulate in such proceeding that the corporation is bound by all the provisions of this Bylaw.
(f)         The corporation may purchase (upon resolution duly adopted by the board of directors) and maintain insurance on behalf of any person who is or was a director, officer, employee or agent of the corporation, or is or was serving at the request of the corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise against any liability asserted against him or her and incurred by him or her in any such capacity, or arising out of his or her status as such, whether or not the corporation would have the power to indemnify him or her against such liability.
   (g)         To the extent that a director, officer, employee or agent of the corporation has been successful on the merits or otherwise in defense of any action, suit or proceeding referred to herein or in defense of any claim, issue or matter therein, he or she shall be indemnified against expenses (including attorneys fees) actually and reasonably incurred by him or her in connection therewith.
 
                           (h)         Every such person shall be entitled, without demand by him or her upon the corporation or any action by the corporation, to enforce his or her right to such indemnity in an action at law against the corporation.  The right of indemnification and advancement of expenses conferred by this Article VI shall not be deemed exclusive of any rights to which any such person may now or hereafter be otherwise entitled and specifically, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, shall not be deemed exclusive of any rights pursuant to statute or otherwise, of any such person in any such action, suit or proceeding to have assessed or allowed in his or her favor against the corporation or otherwise, his or her costs and expenses incurred therein or in connection therewith or any part thereof.  The right to indemnification and advancement of expenses conferred by this Article VI (i) shall be a contract right that vests at the time of such persons service to or at the request of the corporation and (ii) cannot be terminated by the corporation, the board of directors or the shareholders of the corporation with respect to a persons service prior to the date of such termination.  No repeal or modification of this Bylaw shall in any way diminish or adversely affect the rights of any current or former director, officer, employee or agent of the corporation hereunder in respect of any occurrence or matter arising prior to any such repeal or modification.
(i)         If any provision or provisions of this Article VI shall be held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable for any reason whatsoever:  (i) the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions of this Article VI (including each portion of any paragraph of this Article VI containing any such provision held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, that is not itself held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable) shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby; and (ii) to the fullest extent possible, the provisions of this Article VI (including each such portion of any paragraph of this Article VI containing any such provision held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable) shall be construed so as to give effect to the intent manifested by the provision held invalid, illegal or unenforceable.
              These Bylaws may be altered, amended or repealed or new Bylaws may be adopted in accordance with the Certificate of Incorporation and the Act.
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a full, true and correct copy of the Bylaws of Chesapeake Energy Corporation, an Oklahoma corporation, as in effect on the date hereof.
               Dated this 8 day of June, 2012.
th
 
 

Exhibit 10.1.14
 
CHESAPEAKE ENERGY CORPORATION
AMENDED AND RESTATED LONG TERM INCENTIVE PLAN
 
1
.  PURPOSE
 
Section 1.1
 
Background
.  The original Long Term Incentive Plan was approved by shareholders on June 10, 2005, and amendments to the Plan were approved by shareholders on June 9, 2006, June 8, 2007, June 6, 2008, June 12, 2009, June 11, 2010, June 10, 2011 and June 8, 2012.
 
Section 1.2
 
  This Long Term Incentive Plan is established by Chesapeake Energy Corporation (the Company) to foster and promote the sustained progress, growth and profitability of the Company by:
Purpose.
 
(a)
 
Attracting, retaining and motivating Employees, Non-Employee Directors and Consultants;
 
(b)
 
allowing Employees, Non-Employee Directors and Consultants to acquire a proprietary and vested interest in the growth and performance of the Company;
 
(c)
 
providing incentives and rewards to Employees, Non-Employee Directors and Consultants who are in a position to contribute materially to the success and long-term objectives of the Company; and
 
(d)
 
aligning the financial interests of Employees, Non-Employee Directors and Consultants with those of the Companys shareholders.
 
Section 1.3
 
Effective Date. 
The Plan was effective as of October 1, 2004.  The authority to issue Awards under the Plan will terminate on September 30, 2014 and the remaining terms of the Plan will continue in effect thereafter until all matters relating to the exercise and settlement of Awards and administration of the Plan have been completed.
 
2
.  DEFINITIONS
 
Section 2.1
 
means any partnership or limited liability company in which at least 50% of voting power thereof is owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by the Company or one or more of its Subsidiaries or Affiliated Entities or a combination thereof.
Affiliated Entity
 
Section 2.2
 
means, with respect to a SAR (as hereafter defined), the amount by which the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock on the date of exercise of the SAR exceeds either (i) the exercise price of the Option to which a tandem SAR relates, in the case of a tandem SAR, or (ii) the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock on the Date of Grant of the SAR, in the case of a stand-alone SAR.
Appreciation
 
Section 2.3
 
means, individually or collectively, any Option, SAR, Performance Share, Restricted Stock, Other Stock Award  or Cash Award granted under the Plan to an Eligible Person pursuant to such terms, conditions, restrictions, and/or limitations, if any, as the applicable Committee may establish by the Award Agreement or otherwise.
Award
 
Section 2.4
 
means any written or electronic instrument that establishes the terms, conditions, restrictions, and/or limitations applicable to an Award in addition to those established by this Plan and by the Committees exercise of its administrative powers.
Award Agreement
 
Section 2.5
 
means the Board of Directors of the Company.
Board
 
Section 2.6
 
means the occurrence of any of the following:
Change of Control
 
(i)           the acquisition by any individual, entity or group (within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Exchange Act) (a Person) of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act) of 30% or more of either (A) the then outstanding shares of common stock of the Company (the Outstanding Company Common Stock) or (B) the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of the Company entitled to vote generally in the election of directors (the Outstanding Company Voting Securities).  For purposes of this Section 2.6 the following acquisitions by a Person will not constitute a Change of Control: (1) any acquisition directly from the Company; (2) any acquisition by the Company; (3) any acquisition by any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company or any corporation controlled by the Company; or (4) any acquisition by any corporation pursuant to a transaction which complies with clauses (A), (B) and (C) of paragraph (iii) below;
 
(ii)           the individuals who, as of the later of the date hereof or the last amendment to this Plan approved by the Board, constitute the board of directors (the Incumbent Board) cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the board of directors.  Any individual becoming a director subsequent to the later of the date hereof or the last amendment to this Plan approved by the Board whose election, or nomination for election by the Companys shareholders, is approved by a vote of at least a majority of the directors then comprising the Incumbent Board will be considered a member of the Incumbent Board as of the later of the date hereof or the last amendment to this Plan approved by the Board, but any such individual whose initial assumption of office occurs as a result of an actual or threatened election contest with respect to the election or removal of directors or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a Person other than the Incumbent Board will not be deemed a member of the Incumbent Board as of the later of the date hereof or the last amendment to this Plan approved by the Board;
 
(iii)           the consummation of a reorganization, merger, consolidation or sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company (a Business Combination), unless following such Business Combination: (A) all or substantially all of the individuals and entities who were the beneficial owners, respectively, of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and Outstanding Company Voting Securities immediately prior to such Business Combination beneficially own, directly or indirectly, more than 60% of, respectively, the then outstanding shares of common stock and the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, as the case may be, of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination (including, without limitation, a corporation which as a result of such transaction owns the Company or all or substantially all of the Companys assets either directly or through one or more subsidiaries) in substantially the same proportions as their ownership, immediately prior to such Business Combination of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and Outstanding Company Voting Securities, as the case may be, (B) no Person (excluding any corporation resulting from such Business Combination or any employee benefit plan (or related trust) of the Company or such corporation resulting from such Business Combination) beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, 30% or more of, respectively, the then outstanding shares of common stock of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination or the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of such corporation except to the extent that such ownership existed prior to the Business Combination and (C) at least a majority of the members of the board of directors of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination were members of the Incumbent Board at the time of the execution of the initial agreement, or of the action of the Board, providing for such Business Combination; or
 
(iv)           the approval by the shareholders of the Company of a complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company.
 
Section 2.7
 
means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.  Reference in the Plan to any Section of the Code shall be deemed to include any amendments or successor provisions to such Section and any regulations under such Section.
Code
 
Section 2.8
 
means the Compensation Committee of the Board (or any successor committee) or any other committee designated by the Board.
Committee
 
Section 2.9
 
means the common stock, par value $.01 per share, of the Company and, after substitution, such other stock as shall be substituted therefor as provided in Section 3.3(b) of the Plan.
 Common Stock
 
Section 2.10
 
means any person who is engaged by the Company, a Subsidiary or an Affiliated Entity to render consulting or advisory services.
 Consultant
 
Section 2.11
 
means the date on which the grant of an Award is made by the Committee.
 Date of Grant
 
Section 2.12
 
has the meaning set forth in Section 409(A)(a)(2)(C) of the Code.
 Disability
 
Section 2.13
 
means any Employee, Non-Employee Director, or Consultant.
 Eligible Person
 
Section 2.14
 
means any employee of the Company, a Subsidiary or an Affiliated Entity or any person to whom an offer of employment with the Company, a Subsidiary or an Affiliated Entity is extended, as determined by the Committee.
 Employee
 
Section 2.15
 
means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
 Exchange Act
 
Section 2.16
 
means Participants who are subject to the provisions of Section 16 of the Exchange Act with respect to the Common Stock.
 Executive Officer Participants
 
Section 2.17
 
means, as of any day, the closing price of the Common Stock on such day (or on the next preceding business day, if such day is not a business day or if no trading occurred on such day) as reported on the New York Stock Exchange or on such other securities exchange or reporting system as may be designated by the Committee.  In the event that the price of a share of Common Stock shall not be so reported, the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock shall be determined by the Committee in its absolute discretion.
 Fair Market Value
 
Section 2.18
 
means an Option within the meaning of Section 422 of the Code.
 Incentive Stock Option
 
Section 2.19
 
means Participants who are not subject to the provisions of Section 16 of the Exchange Act.
 Non-Executive Officer Participants
 
Section 2.20
 
 shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 16b-3, or any successor rule, promulgated under Section 16 of the Exchange Act.
Non-Employee Director
 
Section 2.21
 
means an Option to purchase shares of Common Stock which is not an Incentive Stock Option within the meaning of Section 422(b) of the Code.
 Nonqualified Stock Option
 
Section 2.22
 
means an Incentive Stock Option or Nonqualified Stock Option.
 Option
 
Section 2.23
 
means any right granted to a Participant by the Committee under Section 7 of the Plan.
 Other Stock Award
 
Section 2.24
 
means an Eligible Person to whom an Award has been granted by the Committee under the Plan.
 Participant
 
Section 2.25
 
means any award of Performance Shares granted by the Committee under Section 6 of the Plan.
 Performance Award
 
Section 2.26
 
means the Companys achievement of target levels of aggregate earnings, earnings per share, share price, net income, operating income, gross revenue, cash flows, reserve additions or replacements, progress toward debt reduction goals, credit rating upgrades, production volume, meeting geographic expansion goals, objectively identified project milestones, market share, expense levels, finding costs, operating costs, overhead or other costs, drilling results, new discoveries, development or use of new technology, acquisitions and divestitures, risk management activities, asset monetization strategies, environmental compliance and safety and accident rates, return on equity, total or comparative shareholder return, changes in capital structure, a combination of or interrelationship among any of the foregoing, or other criteria, as determined by the Committee.
 Performance Measures
 
Section 2.27
 
means the Common Stock or a unit having a value equivalent to the value of a share of Common Stock subject to a Performance Award granted under Section 6 of the Plan, which may be delivered or, with respect to a unit, the value of which may be delivered, to the Participant upon the achievement of such performance goals during the Performance Period as specified by the Committee.
 Performance Share
 
Section 2.28
 
means the Chesapeake Energy Corporation Long Term Incentive Plan.
 Plan
 
Section 2.29
 
means the Common Stock issued under Section 5 which is subject to any restrictions that the Committee, in its discretion, may impose.
 Restricted Stock
 
Section 2.30
 
means a Stock Appreciation Right.
 SAR
 
Section 2.31
 
means approval by the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of Common Stock, present or represented and entitled to vote at a meeting called for such purposes.
 Shareholder Approval
 
Section 2.32
 
means a right, granted under Section 4, to an amount in Common Stock equal to any increase in the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock between the date on which the Stock Appreciation Right is granted and the date on which the right is exercised.
 Stock Appreciation Right
 
Section 2.33
 
shall have the same meaning set forth in Section 424(f) of the Code.
 Subsidiary
 
3
.  ADMINISTRATION
 
Section 3.1
 
Administration of the Plan; the Committee
. The Compensation Committee shall have overall authority to administer the Plan. The Board may designate another committee or committees to administer the Plan with respect to Non-Executive Officer Participants, subject to any terms or conditions established by the Committee. Hereafter, Committee shall mean the Compensation Committee, except when used in reference to Awards granted to Non-Executive Officer Participants, Committee shall mean any applicable committee designated by the Board.
 
Unless otherwise provided in the bylaws of the Company or resolutions adopted from time to time by the Board establishing the Committee, the Board may from time to time remove members from, or add members to, the Committee.  Vacancies on the Committee, however caused, shall be filled by the Board.  The Committee shall hold meetings at such times and places as it may determine.  A majority of the Committee shall constitute a quorum, and the acts of a majority of the members present at any meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the valid acts of the Committee.  Any action which may be taken at a meeting of the Committee may be taken without a meeting if all the members of the Committee consent to the action in writing. Although the Committee is generally responsible for the administration of the Plan, the Board in its sole discretion may take any action under the Plan that would otherwise be the responsibility of the Committee, except as such action pertains to the administration of Awards to Non-Employee Directors.
Subject to the provisions of the Plan, the Committee shall have the authority to:
 
(a)
 
Select the Eligible Persons to participate in the Plan.
 
(b)
 
Determine the time or times when Awards will be granted.
 
(c)
 
Determine the form of Award, the number of shares of Common Stock subject to any Award, all the terms, conditions (including performance requirements), restrictions and/or limitations, if any, of an Award, including the time and conditions of exercise or vesting, and the terms of any Award Agreement, which may include the waiver or amendment of prior terms and conditions or acceleration of the vesting or exercise of an Award under certain circumstances determined by the Committee (subject to Section 9.2 of the Plan).  However, nothing in this Section 3.1 shall be construed to permit the repricing of any outstanding Award in violation of Section 4.3.
 
(d)
 
Determine whether Awards will be granted singly or in combination.
 
(e)
 
Determine whether, to what extent and under what circumstances Awards may be settled in cash or Common Stock.
 
(f)
 
Determine whether any conditions applicable to an Award have been met and whether an Award will be paid at the end of a Performance Period.
 
(g)
 
Employ attorneys, consultants, accountants and other advisors as deemed necessary or appropriate by the Committee.
 
(h)
 
Take any and all other action it deems necessary or advisable for the proper operation or administration of the Plan.
 
Section 3.2
 
Committee to Make Rules and Interpret Plan
.  The Committee in its sole discretion shall have the authority, subject to the provisions of the Plan, to establish, adopt, or revise such rules and regulations and to make all such determinations relating to the Plan as it may deem necessary or advisable for the administration of the Plan. The Committees interpretation of the Plan or any Awards granted pursuant hereto and all decisions and determinations by the Committee with respect to the Plan shall be final, binding, and conclusive on all parties, unless otherwise determined by the Board.
 
Section 3.3
 
Shares Subject to the Plan
.  Subject to adjustment as provided in paragraph (b) below and subject to Section 3.4, the aggregate number of shares of Common Stock which are available for Awards under the Plan will not exceed forty nine-million five-hundred thousand (49,500,000) shares.  Any of the authorized shares of Common Stock may be used for any of the types of Awards described in the Plan, except that no more than 3,000,000 shares of Common Stock may be issued pursuant to Incentive Stock Options.  Common Stock delivered pursuant to an Award under the Plan may consist, in whole or in part, of authorized and unissued shares or treasury shares.  The Committee, in its sole discretion, shall determine the manner in which fractional shares arising under this Plan are treated.  Additional restrictions or adjustments with respect to shares subject to the Plan are as follows:
 
(a)
 
Subject to (b) below, the aggregate number of shares of Common Stock pursuant to Options and SARs granted to any Employee or Non-Employee Director in any calendar year under this Plan may not exceed 1,000,000 shares and the aggregate number of shares of Common Stock pursuant to Restricted Stock, Performance Awards and Other Stock Awards granted to any Employee or Non-Employee Director in any calendar year may not exceed 1,000,000 shares; , , that the number of shares of Common Stock attributed to a Performance Award for the purpose of the annual grant limit described in this clause (a) shall be the target allocation of such Award; that the maximum amount payable to a Participant pursuant to a Performance Award with respect to a Performance Period shall not exceed the value of 3,000,000 shares of Common Stock.
provided
however
provided
further
 
(b)
 
In the event that the shares of Common Stock, as presently constituted, shall be changed into or exchanged for a different number or kind or shares of stock or other securities of the Company or of another corporation (whether by reason of merger, consolidation, recapitalization, reclassification, stock split, combination of shares or other corporate event of similar nature), or if the number of such shares of Common Stock shall be increased through the payment of a stock dividend, then there shall be substituted for or added to each share available under and subject to the Plan as provided herein, the number and kind of shares of stock or other securities into which each outstanding share of Common Stock shall be so changed or for which each such share shall be exchanged or to which each such share shall be entitled, as the case may be, to reflect any increase or decrease in the number of, or change in the kind or value of, issued shares of Common Stock to preclude, to the extent practicable, the enlargement or dilution of rights under such Awards.  In the event there shall be any other change in the number or kind of the outstanding shares of Common Stock, or any stock or other securities into which the Common Stock shall have been changed or for which it shall have been exchanged, then if the Committee shall, in its sole discretion, determine that such change equitably requires an adjustment in the shares available under and subject to the Plan, or in any Award theretofore granted or which may be granted under the Plan, such adjustments shall be made in accordance with such determination.
 
No fractional shares of Common Stock or units of other securities shall be issued pursuant to any such adjustment, and any fractions resulting from any such adjustment shall be eliminated in each case by rounding downward to the nearest whole share.
 
Section 3.4
 
Share Counting
 
(a)
 
The following shares of Common Stock related to Awards will be available for issuance again under the Plan:
 
(i)
 
Common Stock related to Awards that are payable in cash or Common Stock as provided in an Award Agreement but are paid in cash;
 
(ii)
 
Common Stock related to Awards that expire, are forfeited or cancelled or terminate for any other reason without the delivery of the Common Stock;
 
(iii)
 
Common Stock equal in number to the shares of Common Stock surrendered in payment of the exercise price of an Option; and
 
(iv)
 
Common Stock tendered or withheld in order to satisfy withholding tax obligations.
 
(b)
 
Shares of Common Stock related to Performance Awards or Other Stock Awards that are payable exclusively in cash as provided in an Award Agreement will not be counted against the aggregate number of shares of Common Stock available for Awards under the Plan.
 
4
.  STOCK OPTIONS AND STOCK APPRECIATION RIGHTS
 
Section 4.1
 
Grant of Options and SARs
  The Committee may, from time to time, subject to the provisions of the Plan and such other terms and conditions as it may determine, grant Nonqualified Stock Options and Stock Appreciation Rights (SARs) to Eligible Persons and Incentive Stock Options to Employees.  SARs may be granted either alone or in tandem with concurrently or previously issued Options.  Each grant of an Option or SAR shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement and shall contain such terms and conditions and be in such form as the Committee may from time to time approve, subject to the requirements of Section 4.2.
.
 
Section 4.2
 
Conditions of Options and SARs
.  Each Option and SAR so granted shall be subject to the following conditions:
 
(a)
 
.  As limited by Section 4.2(e) below, the Award Agreement for each Option and SAR shall state the exercise price set by the Committee on the Date of Grant.  No Option or SAR shall be granted at an exercise price which is less than the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock on the Date of Grant.
Exercise Price
 
(b)
 
.  Options and SARs granted under the Plan shall be exercisable, in whole or in such installments and at such times, and shall expire at such time, as shall be provided by the Committee in the Award Agreement.  An SAR issued in tandem with an Option is only exercisable to the extent the related Option is exercisable and is subject to the conditions applicable to such Option.  When a tandem SAR is exercised, the Option to which it relates shall cease to be exercisable to the extent of the number of shares with respect to which the tandem SAR is exercised.  Similarly when the Option is exercised, the tandem SARs relating to the shares covered by such Option exercise shall terminate.
Exercise of Options and SARs
 
(c)
 
.  The payment of the exercise price of an Option by the Participant shall be made in cash, shares of Common Stock, a combination thereof or in such other manner as the Committee may specify in the applicable Award Agreement.  The payment of the Appreciation associated with the exercise of a SAR shall be made by the Company in shares of Common Stock.
Form of Payment
 
(d)
 
.  The term of an Option or SAR shall be determined by the Committee and specified in the applicable Award Agreement, except that no Option or SAR shall be exercisable after the expiration of ten years from the Date of Grant.
Term of Option or SAR
 
(e)
 
  Options issued in the form of Incentive Stock Options shall only be granted to Employees of the Company or a Subsidiary and not to Employees of an Affiliated Entity unless such entity is classified as a disregarded entity of the Company or the applicable Subsidiary under the Code.  In addition to being subject to all applicable terms, conditions, restrictions and/or limitations established by the Committee, Options issued in the form of Incentive Stock Options shall comply with the requirements of Section 422 of the Code (or any successor Section thereto), including, without limitation, the requirement that the exercise price of an Incentive Stock Option not be less than 100% of the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock on the Date of Grant, the requirement that each Incentive Stock Option, unless sooner exercised, terminated or canceled, expire no later than ten years from its Date of Grant, and the requirement that the aggregate Fair Market Value (determined on the Date of Grant) of the Common Stock with respect to which Incentive Stock Options are exercisable for the first time by a Participant during any calendar year (under this Plan or any other plan of the Company or any Subsidiary) not exceed $100,000.  Incentive Stock Options which are in excess of the applicable $100,000 limitation will be automatically recharacterized as Nonqualified Stock Options.  No Incentive Stock Options shall be granted to any Employee if, immediately before the grant of an Incentive Stock Option, such Employee owns more than 10% of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock of the Company or its Subsidiaries (as determined in accordance with the stock attribution rules contained in Sections 422 and 424(d) of the Code) unless  the exercise price is at least 110% of the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock subject to the Incentive Stock Option, and such Incentive Stock Option by its terms is exercisable no more than five years from the date such Incentive Stock Option is granted.
Special Restrictions Relating to Incentive Stock Options.
 
(f)
 
.  No Participant shall have any rights as a shareholder with respect to any share of Common Stock subject to an Option or SAR prior to the purchase or receipt of such share of Common Stock by exercise of the Option or SAR.  In addition, no Option or SAR granted under the Plan shall include any dividend equivalents.
Shareholder Rights
 
Section 4.3
 
.  Except for adjustments made pursuant to Section 3.3(b), in no event will the Committee, without first obtaining Shareholder Approval, (i) decrease the exercise price of an Option or SAR after the Date of Grant; (ii) accept for surrender to the Company any outstanding Option or SAR granted under the Plan as consideration for the grant of a new Option or SAR with a lower exercise price; or (iii) repurchase from Participants any outstanding Options or SARs that have an exercise price per share higher than the then current Fair Market Value of a Share.
No Repricing
 
5
.  RESTRICTED STOCK AWARDS
 
Section 5.1
 
Grant of Restricted Stock
.  The Committee may, from time to time, subject to the provisions of the Plan and such other terms and conditions as it may determine, grant Restricted Stock to any Eligible Person.  Restricted Stock shall be awarded in such number, for such purchase price (if any) and at such times during the term of the Plan as the Committee shall determine.  Each grant of Restricted Stock shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement and shall contain such terms and conditions and be in such form as the Committee may from time to time approve, subject to the requirements of Section 5.2.  Restricted Stock issued pursuant to a Restricted Stock Award may be evidenced in such manner as the Committee deems appropriate, including, without limitation, a book-entry registration or issuance of a stock certificate or certificates into escrow until the restrictions associated with such Award are satisfied.
 
Section 5.2
 
Conditions of Restricted Stock Awards
.  The grant of Restricted Stock shall be subject to the following:
 
(a)
 
Each Restricted Stock Award shall require the holder to remain in the employment or otherwise be classified as an Eligible Person (or in the case of a Non-Employee Director, remain a director or consultant or be classified as another category of Eligible Person) of the Company, a Subsidiary, or an Affiliated Entity for a prescribed period (the Restriction Period).  The Committee shall determine the Restriction Period or Periods that shall apply to the shares of Common Stock covered by each Award or portion thereof.  In addition to any time vesting conditions determined by the Committee, Restricted Stock may be subject to the achievement by the Company of specified Performance Measures or other individual criteria as determined by the Committee.  At the end of the Restriction Period, assuming the fulfillment of any other specified vesting conditions, the restrictions imposed by the Committee shall lapse with respect to the shares of Common Stock covered by the Award or portion thereof.
Restriction Period.  
 
(b)
 
  If the Committee intends for a Restricted Stock Award to be granted and administered in a manner designed to preserve the deductibility of the resulting compensation in accordance with Section 162(m) of the Code, then Performance Measures applicable to such Award shall be established in writing by the Committee no later than the earlier of (i) 90 days after the commencement of the relevant Performance Period and (ii) the date as of which 25% of the Performance Period has elapsed.  The Committees discretion to modify or waive the Performance Measures related to the vesting of the Award may be restricted in order to comply with Section 162(m).
Code Section 162(m).
 
(c)
 
  Except as otherwise determined by the Committee, upon termination of service or employment during the Restriction Period, all shares of Restricted Stock still subject to forfeiture shall be forfeited by the Participant and any purchase price paid by the Participant shall be returned to such Participant.
Forfeiture.
 
(d)
 
During any Restriction Period, the Committee may, in its discretion, grant to or withhold from the holder of Restricted Stock all or any of the rights of a shareholder with respect to the shares, including, but not by way of limitation, the right to vote such shares or to receive dividends.  If any dividends or other distributions are paid in shares of Common Stock and distributed to the holder of Restricted Stock, all such shares shall be subject to the same restrictions on transferability as the shares of Common Stock subject to the Award with respect to which they were paid.
Shareholder Rights.  
 
(e)
 
  The minimum Restriction Period applicable to any Restricted Stock that is not subject to performance criteria restricting the vesting of the Award shall be three years from the Date of Grant (subject to the provisions of Section 9.2).
Minimum Vesting Condition.
 
6
.  PERFORMANCE AWARDS
 
Section 6.1
 
.  The Committee may, from time to time, subject to the provisions of the Plan and such other terms and conditions as it may determine, grant Performance Shares to any Eligible Person.  Performance Shares shall be awarded in such number and at such times during the term of the Plan as the Committee shall determine.  Each Performance Award shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement and shall contain such terms and conditions and be in such form as the Committee may from time to time approve, subject to the requirements of Section 6.2.
Grant of Performance Shares
 
Section 6.2
 
The grant of Performance Shares shall be subject to the following:
Conditions of Performance Awards.  
 
(a)
 
.  Performance Shares will be subject to the achievement of one or more performance goals by the Company or the Participant individually, measured for a prescribed period (the Performance Period), as specified by the Committee, such Performance Period to be not less than one year in duration.  Such performance goals may be based upon the Companys achievement of Performance Measures or other individual criteria.
Performance Period
 
(b)
 
.  If the Committee intends for a Performance Award to be granted and administered in a manner designed to preserve the deductibility of the resulting compensation in accordance with Section 162(m) of the Code, then the Performance Measures applicable to such Award shall be established in writing by the Committee no later than the earlier of (i) 90 days after the commencement of the relevant Performance Period and (ii) the date as of which 25% of the Performance Period has elapsed.  The Committees discretion to modify or waive the Performance Measures to the vesting of the Award may be restricted in order to comply with Section 162(m).
Code Section 162(m)
 
(c)
 
.  Performance Shares shall be earned to the extent that their terms and conditions are met, as certified by the Committee.  The form and timing of payment for Performance Shares earned shall be determined by the Committee and specified in the Award Agreement; however, in no event shall the payment for Performance Shares, to the extent vested, be made on a date that is later than 60 days after the payment date determined by the Committee.
Payment Respecting Performance Shares
 
(d)
 
.  The Committee, in its sole discretion, may (i) permit a Participant who ceases to be an Eligible Person before the end of any Performance Period, or the personal representative of a deceased Participant, to continue to be subject to a Performance Award relative to the current Performance Period until such Awards are forfeited or earned pursuant to their terms and conditions or (ii) authorize the payment to such Participant, or the personal representative of a deceased Participant, of the Performance Shares which would have been paid to the Participant had the Participant remained an Eligible Person to the end of the Performance Period.  In the absence of such permission by the Committee, any unvested Performance Shares shall be forfeited when a Participant ceases to be an Eligible Person.
Termination of Employment
 
7
.  OTHER STOCK AWARDS
Section 7.1
 
The Committee may, from time to time, subject to the provisions of the Plan and such other terms and conditions as it may determine, specify the terms and provisions of other forms of equity-based or equity-related awards not described above which the Committee determines to be consistent with the purpose of the Plan and the interests of the Company, which awards may provide for cash payments based in whole or in part on the value or future value of Common Stock, for the acquisition or future acquisition of Common Stock, or any combination thereof.  Each Other Stock Award shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement and shall contain such terms and conditions and be in such form as the Committee may from time to time approve, subject to the requirements of Section 7.2.
Grant of Other Stock Awards.  
 
Section 7.2
 
Other Stock Awards subject to performance criteria shall not vest in less than one year and Other Stock Awards which are subject to time vesting shall not vest in less than three years.
Minimum Vesting Condition.
 
8
.  FUNDAMENTAL TRANSACTION; CHANGE OF CONTROL
Section 8.1
 
.  If the Company merges with another entity in a transaction in which the Company is not the surviving entity or if, as a result of a merger, other business combination or any other transaction or event, other securities are substituted for the Common Stock or the Common Stock may no longer be issued (each, a Fundamental Transaction), then notwithstanding any other provisions of the Plan, (i) all outstanding Options and SARs shall be fully exercisable and any unexercised Options and SARs shall terminate upon the closing of the Fundamental Transaction, (ii) restrictions on outstanding Restricted Stock, Other Stock Awards and Cash Awards shall lapse; and (iii) each outstanding Performance Award shall be deemed to have achieved a level of performance that would cause all of the Performance Shares to become payable.
Fundamental Transaction
 
Section 8.2
 
.  Notwithstanding any other provisions of the Plan to the contrary, upon the occurrence of a Change of Control, (i) all outstanding Options and SARs shall be fully exercisable and any unexercised Options and SARs shall terminate upon the closing of the Change of Control, (ii) restrictions on outstanding Restricted Stock, Other Stock Awards and Cash Awards shall lapse; and (iii) each outstanding Performance Award shall be deemed to have achieved a level of performance that would cause all of the Performance Shares to become payable.
Change of Control
 
9
.  GENERAL
 
Section 9.1
 
 Amendment or Termination of Plan
.  The Board may suspend or terminate the Plan at any time.  In addition, the Board may, from time to time, amend the Plan in any manner, but may not adopt any amendment without Shareholder Approval if (i) such approval is necessary or desirable to qualify or comply with any tax or regulatory requirement for which or with which the Board deems it necessary or desirable to qualify or comply, or (ii) in the opinion of counsel to the Company, Shareholder Approval is required by any federal or state laws or regulations or the rules of any stock exchange on which the common stock may be listed.
 
Section 9.2
 
 Acceleration of Awards on Disability, Death, Retirement or Involuntary Termination
.  With respect to (i) a Participant who ceases to be an Eligible Person due to a Disability, (ii) the personal representative of a deceased Participant, or (iii) any other Participant who ceases to be an Eligible Person due to the Participants retirement or involuntary termination (as defined by the Committee), the Committee, in its sole discretion, may permit the purchase of all or any part of the shares subject to any unvested Option or waive the vesting requirements of any Award on the date the Participant ceases to be an Eligible Person due to Disability or death, or, except to the extent that such action would cause an Award intended to qualify as performance-based compensation for purposes of Section 162(m) of the Code to not so qualify, retirement or involuntary termination.  With respect to Options which have already vested at such date or the vesting of which is accelerated by the Committee in accordance with the foregoing provision, the Participant or the personal representative of a deceased Participant shall have the right to exercise such vested Options within such period(s) as the Committee shall determine.The purchase of all or any part of the shares subject to any unvested Option or the waiver the vesting requirements of any Award on the date the Participant ceases to be an Eligible Person due to an involuntary termination pursuant to this Section 9.2 will be limited to 5% of the aggregate number of shares of Common Stock which are available for Awards under the Plan pursuant to Section 3.3 of the Plan. 
 
 
Section 9.3
 
.  A Participant must pay in cash to the Company the amount of taxes required to be withheld by law upon the exercise of an Option.  Required withholding taxes associated with Restricted Stock, Performance Shares, Cash or Other Stock Awards must also be paid in cash unless the Committee requires a Participant to pay the amount of taxes required by law to be withheld from such Awards by directing the Company to withhold from any Award the number of shares of Common Stock having a Fair Market Value on the date of vesting equal to the amount of required withholding taxes.
Withholding Taxes
 
Section 9.4
 
.  The Company, its Subsidiaries and Affiliated Entities have no responsibility for a Participants election, attempt to elect or failure to elect to include the value of an Award subject to Section 83 in the Participants gross income for the year of grant pursuant to Section 83(b) of the Code.  Any Participant who makes an election pursuant to Section 83(b) will promptly provide the Committee with a copy of the election form.
Code Section 83(b) Elections
 
Section 9.5
 
.  It is the intent of the Company that the Plan comply in all respects with Section 162(m) of the Code and that any ambiguities or inconsistencies in construction of the Plan be interpreted to give effect to such intention.
Code Section 162(m)
 
Section 9.6
 
.  It is the intent of the Company that no Award under the Plan be subject to Section 409A of the Code.  The Plan and all Awards shall be administered, interpreted, and construed in a manner consistent with Code Section 409A or an exemption therefrom.  Should any provision of the Plan, any Award hereunder, or any other agreement or arrangement contemplated by the Plan be found not to comply with, or otherwise be exempt from, the provisions of the Code Section 409A, such provision shall be modified and given effect (retroactively if necessary), in the sole discretion of the Committee, and without the consent of the Participant, in such manner as the Committee determines to be necessary or appropriate to comply with, or to effectuate an exemption from, Code Section 409A.  Without limiting the foregoing and notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, to the extent required in order to avoid accelerated taxation or tax penalties under Section 409A, amounts that would otherwise be payable and benefits that would otherwise be provided pursuant to this Plan during the six-month period immediately following the Participants separation from service shall instead be paid on the first business day after the date that is six months following the Participants termination date (or death, if earlier), with interest from the date such amounts would otherwise have been paid at the short-term applicable federal rate, compounded semi-annually, as determined under Section 1274 of the Code, for the month in which payment would have been made but for the delay in payment required to avoid the imposition of an additional rate of tax on the Participant under Section 409A. In the event an Award is subject to Section 409A, any payments to be made under this Plan upon a termination of employment shall only be made if such termination of employment constitutes a separation from service under Section 409A. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company makes no representations that the payments and benefits provided under this Plan comply with Section 409A and in no event shall the Company be liable for all or any portion of any taxes, penalties, interest or other expenses that may be incurred by the Employee on account of non-compliance with Section 409A.
Code Section 409A
 
Section 9.7
 
Subject to other provisions of the Plan and any applicable Award Agreement, Awards are not transferable other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution.  Any attempted sale, transfer, assignment, pledge, hypothecation or other disposition of, or the levy of execution, attachment or similar process upon, any Award contrary to the provisions hereof shall be void and ineffective, shall give no right to any purported transferee, any may, at the sole discretion of the Committee, result in forfeiture of the Award involved in such attempt.  The Committee shall impose such other restrictions and conditions on any shares of Common Stock covered by an Award as it may deem advisable including, without limitation, restrictions under applicable Federal or state securities laws, and may legend the certificates representing the shares of Common Stock subject to the Award to give appropriate notice of such restrictions.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, an Award held by a Non-Employee Director may be transferable under certain circumstances as specified by the Committee in the Award Agreement.
Non-Transferability.  
 
Section 9.8
 
The Committees determinations under the Plan, including without limitation, (i) the determination of the Eligible Persons to receive Awards, (ii) the form, amount and timing of such Awards, (iii) the terms and provisions of such Awards, (iv) minimum employment or service periods, and (v) agreements evidencing the same, need not be uniform and, subject to any restrictions set forth in the Plan, may be made by the Committee selectively among Participants who receive, or who are eligible to receive, Awards under the Plan, whether or not such Participants are similarly situated.
 Non-Uniform Determinations.  
 
Section 9.9
 
The Committee shall be entitled to make such rules, regulations and determinations as it deems appropriate under the Plan in respect of any suspension of employment or leave of absence from the Company granted to a Participant whether such suspension or leave is paid or unpaid and whether due to a Disability or otherwise.  Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Committee shall be entitled to determine (i) whether or not any such suspension or leave of absence shall be treated as if the Participant ceased to be an employee of the Company and (ii) the impact, if any, of any such suspension or leave of absence on Awards under the Plan.
 Leaves of Absence, Suspensions.  
 
Section 9.10
 
Notwithstanding anything in the Plan to the contrary, the Committee shall have the authority under the Plan to determine that in the event of serious misconduct by the Participant (including violations of employment agreements, confidentiality or other proprietary matters) or any activity of a Participant in competition with the business of the Company or any Subsidiary or Affiliated Entity, any outstanding Award granted to such Participant may be cancelled, in whole or in part, whether or not vested.  The determination of whether a Participant has engaged in a serious breach of conduct or any activity in competition with the business of the Company or any Subsidiary or Affiliated Entity shall be determined by the Committee in good faith and in its sole discretion.  This Section 9.10 shall have no effect and be deleted from the Plan following a Change of Control.
Participant Misconduct.  
 
Section 9.11
 
Regulatory Approval and Listings
.  The Company shall use its best efforts to file with the Securities and Exchange Commission as soon as practicable following the date this Plan is effective, and keep continuously effective and usable, a Registration Statement on Form S-8 with respect to shares of Common Stock subject to Awards hereunder.  Notwithstanding anything contained in this Plan to the contrary, the Company shall have no obligation to issue or deliver certificates representing shares of Common Stock evidencing Awards prior to:
 
(a)
 
the obtaining of any approval from, or satisfaction of any waiting period or other condition imposed by, any governmental agency which the Committee shall, in its sole discretion, determine to be necessary or advisable;
 
(b)
 
the listing of such shares on any exchange on which the Common Stock may be listed; and
 
(c)
 
the completion of any registration or other qualification of such shares under any state or federal law or regulation of any governmental body which the Committee shall, in its sole discretion, determine to be necessary or advisable.
 
Section 9.12
 
Right to Continued Employment or Board Membership
.  Participation in the Plan shall not give any Participant any right to remain in the employ of the Company, a Subsidiary or an Affiliated Entity or any right to remain on the Board of the Company.  Further, the adoption of this Plan shall not be deemed to give any Employee, Non-Employee Director or Consultant or any other individual any right to be granted an Award.
 
Section 9.13
 
The existence and terms of the Plan shall not limit the authority of the Board in compensating Employees and Non-Employee Directors in such other forms and amounts, including compensation pursuant to any other plans as may be currently in effect or adopted in the future, as it may determine from time to time.
Other Compensation Programs.  
 
Section 9.14
 
Reliance on Reports
.  Each member of the Committee and each member of the Board shall be fully justified in relying or acting in good faith upon any report made by the independent public accountants of the Company and its Subsidiaries and upon any other information furnished in connection with the Plan by any person or persons other than the Committee or Board member.  In no event shall any person who is or shall have been a member of the Committee or the Board be liable for any determination made or other action taken or any omission to act in reliance upon any such report or information, including the furnishing of information, or failure to act, if in good faith.
 
Section 9.15
 
Construction
.  The titles and headings of the sections in the Plan are for the convenience of reference only, and in the event of any conflict, the text of the Plan, rather than such titles or headings, shall control.
 
Section 9.16
 
Governing Law, Severability
.  The Plan shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Oklahoma except as superseded by applicable federal law.  If any provision of the Plan is held unlawful or otherwise invalid or unenforceable in whole or in part, the unlawfulness, invalidity or unenforceability will not affect any other parts of the Plan, which will remain in full force and effect.
 
Section 9.17
 
.  Upon receipt of Board approval or, to the extent required, Shareholder Approval, this Plan supersedes and replaces in all respects the Initial Plan and any Award Agreement issued pursuant to the Plan after the effective date of this Plan will be governed by the terms of this Plan and not by the Initial Plan or any other plans or agreements, oral or otherwise.
Supersession

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
CHESAPEAKE ENERGY CORPORATION ANNOUNCES PRELIMINARY
VOTING RESULTS FROM ANNUAL SHAREHOLDER MEETING
OKLAHOMA CITY, OKLAHOMA, JUNE 8, 2012  Chesapeake Energy Corporation (NYSE:CHK) announced preliminary voting results from its Annual Meeting of Shareholders held today at the companys Oklahoma City headquarters.  The voting results are as follows:
Item 1:  Election of Directors:
Directors V. Burns Hargis and Richard K. Davidson were re-elected to the Board of Directors. However, since Messrs. Hargis and Davidson received the support of approximately 26% and 27%, respectively, of the votes cast, they have tendered their resignations as required by the Companys new majority voting bylaw.  The Board will review the resignations in due course.
Item 2: Proposal to amend bylaws to implement majority voting in director elections:
The proposal received the support of 97% of the votes cast but received only 64% of the shares outstanding, which was less than the two-thirds required for shareholder approval of a bylaw amendment.  However, today the Board adopted the majority voting bylaw presented to the shareholders, even though it did not receive the requisite vote for shareholder approval, and made majority voting effective immediately.
Item 3: Shareholder advisory vote to approve named executive officer compensation:
The proposal did not pass, receiving the support of 20% of the votes cast.
Item 4: Proposal to amend long term incentive plan:
The proposal passed, receiving the support of 86% of the votes cast.
Item 5: Proposal to approve annual incentive plan:
The proposal did not pass, receiving the support of 31% of the votes cast.
Item 6: Ratification of independent registered public accounting firm:
The proposal passed, receiving the support of 93% of the votes cast.
Item 7: Shareholder proposal relating to re-incorporation in Delaware:
The proposal passed, receiving the support of 53% of the votes cast.
Item 8: Shareholder proposal relating to political lobbying expenditures:
The proposal did not pass, receiving the support of 36% of the votes cast.
Item 9: Shareholder proposal relating to the supermajority voting standard:
The proposal passed, receiving the support of 86% of the votes cast.
Item 10: Shareholder proposal relating to proxy access:
The proposal passed, receiving the support of 60% of the votes cast.
 
 
 
Regarding todays voting results, the Company commented, Chesapeake appreciates shareholder feedback and will act appropriately with regard to the matters voted on today.  Chesapeake has recently taken important actions to enhance corporate governance and increase management oversight by, among other things, reconstituting the Board of Directors.  As previously announced, Chesapeake will add a new independent Non-Executive Chairman and four new independent directors proposed by shareholders to its nine-member Board within the next two weeks.  Chesapeake will also take the necessary actions so that shareholders will have the opportunity to elect the entire Board of Directors at the 2013 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.
The preliminary results were tabulated by the Companys independent Inspector of Elections, and final results will be disclosed upon certification by the Inspector.
Chesapeake Energy Corporation (NYSE:CHK) is the second-largest producer of natural gas, a Top 15 producer of oil and natural gas liquids and the most active driller of new wells in the U.S.  Headquartered in Oklahoma City, the company's operations are focused on discovering and developing unconventional natural gas and oil fields onshore in the U.S.  Chesapeake owns leading positions in the Marcellus, Haynesville, Bossier, and Barnett natural gas shale plays and in the Eagle Ford, Utica, Mississippi Lime, Granite Wash, Cleveland, Tonkawa, Niobrara, Bone Spring, Avalon, Wolfcamp and Wolfberry unconventional liquids plays.  The company has also vertically integrated its operations and owns substantial marketing, midstream and oilfield services businesses directly and indirectly through its subsidiaries Chesapeake Energy Marketing, Inc., Chesapeake Midstream Development, L.P. and Chesapeake Oilfield Services, L.L.C. and its affiliate Chesapeake Midstream Partners, L.P. (NYSE:CHKM).  Further information is available at where Chesapeake routinely posts announcements, updates, events, investor information, presentations and news releases.
www.chk.com
 
This news release includes "forward-looking statements" that give Chesapeake's current expectations or forecasts of future events.  Although we believe the expectations and forecasts reflected in our forward-looking statements are reasonable, we can give no assurance they will prove to have been correct.  They can be affected by inaccurate assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties, and actual results may differ from the expectation expressed.  We caution you not to place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this news release, and we undertake no obligation to update this information.
 


