FILE:CHK/CHK-8K-20121003160516.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
           Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
*
 
           Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
*
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 5  Corporate Governance and Management
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On September 28, 2012, Chesapeake Energy Corporation (the Company) entered into amendments to its employment agreements with executive vice presidents and senior vice presidents of the Company which extended the term of such agreements through December 31, 2012. The employment agreements are being extended in their current form to allow the Compensation Committee of the Company's Board of Directors sufficient time to complete the comprehensive review it is undertaking with respect to executive compensation matters. A form of the amendment is filed as Exhibit 10.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Section 7  Regulation FD
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
On September 27, 2012, Douglas J. Jacobson, Executive Vice President  Acquisitions and Divestitures of the Company, entered into a sales trading plan pursuant to Rule 10b5-1 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934. The plan expires on March 29, 2013 and has been approved by the Company in accordance with its Insider Trading Policy. The plan is part of Mr. Jacobsons long-term strategy to diversify assets. Other Company executives may enter into Rule 10b5-1 trading plans in the future from time to time, and some Company executives have previously entered into such trading plans.
 
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date:                      October 3, 2012
 
 
 
 

 
This Amendment to Employment Agreement dated effective [Employment Agreement Date] (the Amendment) is effective September 29, 2012 (the Effective Date), by and between Chesapeake Energy Corporation, an Oklahoma corporation (the Company), and [Executive], an individual (the Executive).  The Company and the Executive are referred to collectively in this Amendment as the Parties.
 
WHEREAS, the Parties have entered into an employment agreement (the Employment Agreement); and
 
WHEREAS, the Parties desire to amend the Employment Agreement.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the promises and mutual agreements herein contained and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the Parties hereby agree as follows:
 
1.           All capitalized terms used in this Amendment and not otherwise defined shall have the same meaning in this Amendment as in the Employment Agreement.
 
2.           The last sentence of Section 5 to the Employment Agreement is hereby amended and restated as follows:
 
In the absence of such termination, this Agreement will commence on [Employment Agreement Date] and end on December 31, 2012 (the Expiration Date).
 
3.           Except as otherwise amended by this Amendment, the remaining terms of the Employment Agreement remain in full force and effect.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties have executed this Amendment to Employment Agreement as of the Effective Date.
 


