FILE:CHK/CHK-8K-20120426171802.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
           Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
*
 
           Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
*
 
           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
*
 
           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
*
 
 
 
 
Section 7  Regulation FD
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
As described below in Item 8.01, the supplemental information provided separately by Mr. McClendon was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 26, 2012 and can be found by searching McClendon Aubrey on the SECs website at .
www.sec.gov
Section 8  Other Events
Item 8.01 Other Events.
On April 26, 2012, Chesapeake Energy Corporation (the Company) issued a press release announcing that its Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer, Aubrey K. McClendon, agreed to negotiate the early termination of the Founder Well Participation Program (the FWPP).  The press release also indicates that Mr. McClendon agreed to separately disclose supplemental information regarding his interests in the FWPP, and that the Companys Board of Directors is reviewing the FWPP financing arrangements.  A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report.
 
 
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)
 
Exhibits.  See "Exhibit Index" attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K, which is incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date:           April 26, 2012
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
CHESAPEAKE ENERGY CORPORATIONS BOARD AND CEO AUBREY K.
 
OKLAHOMA CITY, OKLAHOMA, APRIL 26, 2012  Energy Corporation (NYSE:CHK) today announced that its Board of Directors has determined that it does not intend to extend the companys Founder Well Participation Program (FWPP) with its chief executive officer, Aubrey K. McClendon, beyond its present 10-year term ending December 31, 2015.  The Board of Directors and Mr. McClendon have committed to negotiate the early termination of the FWPP and the amendment to Mr. McClendons employment agreement necessary to effectuate the early termination.  The FWPP, which was approved by shareholders for a 10-year term in 2005, in conjunction with Mr. McClendons employment agreement with the company, provides Mr. McClendon a contractual right to participate and invest as a working interest owner (with up to a 2.5% working interest) in new wells drilled on the companys leasehold.
Chesapeake
Following consultation with the companys Board of Directors, Mr. McClendon will separately disclose supplemental information regarding the interests he has acquired through the companys Founder Well Participation Program as of December 31, 2011.  The company also announced the Board of Directors is reviewing the financing arrangements between Mr. McClendon (and the entities through which he participates in the FWPP) and any third party that has had or may have a relationship with the company in any capacity.
Chesapeake also wishes to clarify a statement appearing in its April 18, 2012 press release captioned Chesapeake Energy Corporation General Counsel Henry J. Hood Issues Statement.  The statement that the Board of Directors is fully aware of the existence of Mr. McClendons financing transactions was intended to convey the fact that the Board of Directors is generally aware that Mr. McClendon used interests acquired through his participation in the FWPP as security in personal financing transactions.  The Board of Directors did not review,  approve or have knowledge of the specific transactions engaged in by Mr. McClendon or the terms of those transactions.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Chesapeake Energy Corporation (NYSE:CHK) is the second-largest producer of natural gas, a Top 15 producer of oil and natural gas liquids and the most active driller of new wells in the U.S.  Headquartered in Oklahoma City, the company's operations are focused on discovering and developing unconventional natural gas and oil fields onshore in the U.S.  Chesapeake owns leading positions in the Barnett, Haynesville, Bossier, Marcellus and Pearsall natural gas shale plays and in the Eagle Ford, Utica, Granite Wash, Cleveland, Tonkawa, Mississippi Lime, Bone Spring, Avalon, Wolfcamp, Wolfberry and Niobrara unconventional liquids plays.  The company has also vertically integrated its operations and owns substantial marketing, midstream and oilfield services businesses directly and indirectly through its subsidiaries Chesapeake Energy Marketing Inc., Chesapeake Midstream Development, L.P. and Chesapeake Oilfield Services, L.L.C. and its affiliate Chesapeake Midstream Partners, L.P. (NYSE:CHKM).  Further information is available at where Chesapeake routinely posts announcements, updates, events, investor information, presentations and news releases.
www.chk.com
This news release includes "forward-looking statements" that give Chesapeake's current expectations or forecasts of future events.  Although we believe the expectations and forecasts reflected in our forward-looking statements are reasonable, we can give no assurance they will prove to have been correct.  They can be affected by inaccurate assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties, and actual results may differ from the expectation expressed.  The Board of Directors and Mr. McClendon may be unable to reach agreement on an early termination of the FWPP and a related amendment of his employment agreement.  We caution you not to place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this news release, and we undertake no obligation to update this information.
Additional Information and Where to Find It
The company has filed a preliminary proxy statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission in connection with its 2012 annual meeting of shareholders.  The definitive proxy statement is not currently available. INVESTORS ARE URGED TO READ THE PRELIMINARY PROXY STATEMENT AND, WHEN IT BECOMES AVAILABLE, THE DEFINITIVE PROXY STATEMENT, BECAUSE THESE DOCUMENTS CONTAIN OR WILL CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION.  You may obtain the preliminary proxy statement, the definitive proxy statement (when available) as well as other relevant documents, free of charge, at the website maintained by the SEC at
www.sec.gov
.  Copies of the proxy statement and other filings made by the company with the SEC can also be obtained, free of charge, at
www.chk.com
.


