FILE:CHK/CHK-8K-20120601162615.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
           Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
*
 
           Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
*
 
           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
*
 
           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
*
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 7  Regulation FD
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
On May 25, 2012, Chesapeake Energy Corporation (the Company) issued a press release with the Companys comments regarding the Schedule 13D filed by affiliates of Carl Icahn with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report.
 
On June 1, 2012, the Company issued a press release announcing a significant new discovery in the Hogshooter play in the Anadarko basin of the Texas panhandle and western Oklahoma.  A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.2 to this Current Report.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)
 
Exhibits.  See "Exhibit Index" attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K, which is incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date:                      June 1, 2012
 
 
 
 

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
MAY 25, 2012
 
OKLAHOMA CITY, OKLAHOMA, MAY 25, 2012  Chesapeake Energy Corporation (NYSE: CHK) today issued the following statement regarding the Schedule 13D filed late today by affiliates of Carl Icahn with the Securities and Exchange Commission disclosing ownership of approximately 7.56% of Chesapeakes common stock:
We share Mr. Icahns belief that Chesapeake shares are substantially undervalued by the market today.  The Board and senior management are executing a plan that we believe will deliver a higher stock price and better recognize the underlying value of the companys assets. The Board will carefully review Mr. Icahns letter.  The Boards immediate priority is to name an independent Non-Executive Chairman and it is proceeding expeditiously toward that objective having consulted with shareholders.  After an independent Chairman is named, the Boards Nominating Committee will consult with shareholders and carefully review Mr. Icahns request for Board representation.
Chesapeake has built a premier collection of U.S. E&P assets and we are focused on developing the core plays in which we have a #1 or #2 position, continuing the transition from natural gas to liquids-focused production, reducing capital expenditures and paying down long-term debt.  We believe successful execution of these initiatives will close the large gap between our current enterprise value and the total value of our premier assets.
 
Chesapeake Energy Corporation (NYSE:CHK) is the second-largest producer of natural gas, a Top 15 producer of oil and natural gas liquids and the most active driller of new wells in the U.S.  Headquartered in Oklahoma City, the company's operations are focused on discovering and developing unconventional natural gas and oil fields onshore in the U.S.  Chesapeake owns leading positions in the Marcellus, Haynesville, Bossier, and Barnett natural gas shale plays and in the Eagle Ford, Utica, Mississippi Lime, Granite Wash, Cleveland, Tonkawa, Niobrara, Bone Spring, Avalon, Wolfcamp and Wolfberry unconventional liquids plays.  The company has also vertically integrated its operations and owns substantial marketing, midstream and oilfield services businesses directly and indirectly through its subsidiaries Chesapeake Energy Marketing Inc., Chesapeake Midstream Development, L.P. and Chesapeake Oilfield Services, L.L.C. and its affiliate Chesapeake Midstream Partners, L.P. (NYSE:CHKM).  Further information is available at where Chesapeake routinely posts announcements, updates, events, investor information, presentations and news releases.
www.chk.com
 
This news release includes "forward-looking statements" that give Chesapeake's current expectations or forecasts of future events.  Although we believe the expectations and forecasts reflected in our forward-looking statements are reasonable, we can give no assurance they will prove to have been correct.  They can be affected by inaccurate assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties, and actual results may differ from the expectation expressed.  We caution you not to place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this news release, and we undertake no obligation to update this information.
 
Additional Information and Where to Find It
 
On May 11, 2012, the company filed a definitive proxy statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission in connection with its 2012 annual meeting of shareholders.
INVESTORS ARE URGED TO READ THE DEFINITIVE PROXY STATEMENT, WHICH CONTAINS IMPORTANT INFORMATION. You may obtain the definitive proxy statement as well as other relevant documents, free of charge, at the website maintained by the SEC at
www.sec.gov
. Copies of the proxy statement and other filings made by the company with the SEC can also be obtained, free of charge, at
www.chk.com
.

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
OKLAHOMA CITY, OKLAHOMA, JUNE 1, 2012  Chesapeake Energy Corporation (NYSE: CHK) today announced a significant new discovery in the Hogshooter play in the Anadarko Basin of the Texas Panhandle and western Oklahoma.  Chesapeake owns approximately 30,000 net acres in the play, which are more than 90% held by production (HBP) from its legacy deeper Granite Wash production.
Chesapeake has completed two horizontal wells in the Hogshooter formation to date.  The Thurman Horn 406H well was drilled to a vertical depth of approximately 10,000 feet with a lateral section of approximately 4,900 feet.  This successful exploratory well was drilled more than five miles from established Hogshooter production, but in a section of land where three wells had already been drilled to other formations.  During its first eight days of stabilized production, the well averaged daily production of 5,400 barrels (bbls) of oil, 1,200 bbls of natural gas liquids (NGL) and 4.6 million cubic feet of natural gas (mmcf), or approximately 7,350 bbls of oil equivalent (boe) per day.  Total cumulative production, which includes five days of flowback testing, is 68,400 boe.  Current daily production is approximately 7,000 boe.
The Meek 41 9H well, located approximately five miles from the Thurman Horn 406H, was drilled to a vertical depth of approximately 10,500 feet with a lateral section of approximately 4,800 feet.  During its first 27 days of stabilized production, the well averaged daily production of 1,300 bbls of oil, 365 bbls of NGL and 1.4 mmcf, or approximately 1,900 boe per day.  Total cumulative production, which includes five days of flowback testing, is 53,500 boe.  Current daily production is approximately 1,400 boe.
 
In addition to the wells mentioned above, Chesapeake has drilled two Hogshooter wells that are waiting on completion, the Zybach 6010H and the Hamilton 39 10H. The companys average working interest in the four wells is approximately 88%. The company estimates its acreage position contains at least 65 more Chesapeake-operated Hogshooter locations to drill during the next few years. The drilling and completion of these 65 wells will be a part of the companys already budgeted Anadarko Basin drilling program and should result in no increase to the companys budgeted capital expenditures. Chesapeake had none of the 65 potential future
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hogshooter wells classified as proved reserves in the companys March 31, 2012 reserve report.
 
Aubrey K. McClendon, Chesapeakes Chief Executive Officer, said, We expect this new Hogshooter discovery to provide a significant boost to Chesapeakes focus on harvesting its existing assets for growth and value creation rather than on pursuing new leasehold.  In addition, this new Hogshooter development area should further enhance our growing liquids production, which we expect will have transformational effects on our companys operational and financial performance in the years ahead.  Further, based on production results to date and our research of industry production records, we believe the Thurman Horn 406H well is one of the best oil wells drilled onshore in the Lower 48 in the past several decades. This discovery exemplifies the scale and quality of our world-class asset base and the skill and creativity of our technical teams.  Their hard work and determination is continuing to create significant additional value for our shareholders and other stakeholders.
Chesapeake Energy Corporation (NYSE:CHK) is the second-largest producer of natural gas, a Top 15 producer of oil and natural gas liquids and the most active driller of new wells in the U.S.  Headquartered in Oklahoma City, the company's operations are focused on discovering and developing unconventional natural gas and oil fields onshore in the U.S.  Chesapeake owns leading positions in the Marcellus, Haynesville, Bossier, and Barnett natural gas shale plays and in the Eagle Ford, Utica, Mississippi Lime, Granite Wash, Cleveland, Tonkawa, Niobrara, Bone Spring, Avalon, Wolfcamp and Wolfberry unconventional liquids plays.  The company has also vertically integrated its operations and owns substantial marketing, midstream and oilfield services businesses directly and indirectly through its subsidiaries Chesapeake Energy Marketing, Inc., Chesapeake Midstream Development, L.P. and Chesapeake Oilfield Services, L.L.C. and its affiliate Chesapeake Midstream Partners, L.P. (NYSE:CHKM).  Further information is available at where Chesapeake routinely posts announcements, updates, events, investor information, presentations and news releases.
www.chk.com
 
This news release includes "forward-looking statements" that give Chesapeake's current expectations or forecasts of future events. Although we believe the expectations and forecasts reflected in our forward-looking statements are reasonable, we can give no assurance they will prove to have been correct. Our drilling plans and production projections for the Hogshooter play can be affected by inaccurate assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties, and actual results may differ from the expectation expressed. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from expected results are described under "Risk Factors" in our 2011 Form 10-K filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on February 29, 2012 and include the volatility of oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids prices; the availability of capital on an economic basis; drilling and operating risks, including potential environmental liabilities; legislative and regulatory changes adversely affecting our industry and our business; general economic conditions negatively impacting us and our business counterparties; and transportation capacity constraints and interruptions. We caution you not to place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this news release, and we undertake no obligation to update this information.


