FILE:CHK/CHK-8K-20120925164637.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
           Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
*
 
           Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
*
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 7  Regulation FD
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
On September 19, 2012, Michael A. Johnson, Senior Vice President  Accounting, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer of Chesapeake Energy Corporation (the "Company"), entered into a sales trading plan pursuant to Rule 10b5-1 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934. The plan expires on September 30, 2013 and has been approved by the Company in accordance with its Insider Trading Policy. The plan is part of Mr. Johnsons long-term strategy to diversify assets. Other Company executives may enter into Rule 10b5-1 trading plans in the future from time to time, and some Company executives have previously entered into such trading plans.
 
On September 21, 2012, the Company issued a press release announcing the appointment of James R. Webb as Senior Vice President  Legal and General Counsel.  A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report.
 
 
Section 8  Other Events
Item 8.01 Other Events.
On September 24, 2012, the Company issued a press release announcing that its Board of Directors has declared quarterly common and preferred stock dividends.  A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.2 to this Current Report.
 
 
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date:                      September 25, 2012
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
SEPTEMBER 21, 2012 DRAFT 3
 
OKLAHOMA CITY, OKLAHOMA, SEPTEMBER 21, 2012  Chesapeake Energy Corporation (NYSE:CHK) today announced the appointment of James R. Webb as Senior Vice President  Legal and General Counsel.  Webb joins Chesapeake on a full time basis after serving the past four months on a contract basis as Chief Legal Counsel.  For the past 17 years, Webb has practiced law at McAfee & Taft, Oklahomas largest law firm, and has served as a partner for the past 12 years.  Prior to that, he worked at the law firm of Gorsuch Kirgis in Denver.  Webb graduated with a Bachelor of Arts degree from Austin College in Sherman, Texas and a Juris Doctorate degree from Washington University in St. Louis.
Henry J. Hood, Chesapeakes Senior Vice President  Land and Legal since 1997, will transfer his responsibilities for Chesapeakes legal department to Jim while retaining responsibility for the management of the companys land and regulatory departments.
Aubrey K. McClendon, Chesapeakes Chief Executive Officer, commented, We are extremely pleased for Jim to join Chesapeakes senior management team.  He is exceptionally well known and highly regarded in the legal and business communities of Oklahoma.  During the past four months at Chesapeake, Jim has earned the respect of his colleagues on our senior management team.  I have great confidence that Jim and Henry will continue to work well together and this change in responsibility will allow Henry to focus exclusively on the companys important land and regulatory initiatives currently underway.
 
Chesapeake Energy Corporation (NYSE:CHK) is the second-largest producer of natural gas, a Top 15 producer of oil and natural gas liquids and the most active driller of new wells in the U.S.  Headquartered in Oklahoma City, the company's operations are focused on discovering and developing unconventional natural gas and oil fields onshore in the U.S.  Chesapeake owns leading positions in the Eagle Ford, Utica, Granite Wash, Cleveland, Tonkawa, Mississippi Lime and Niobrara unconventional liquids plays and in the Marcellus, Haynesville/Bossier and Barnett unconventional natural gas shale plays.  The company also owns substantial marketing and oilfield services businesses through its subsidiaries Chesapeake Energy Marketing, Inc. and Chesapeake Oilfield Services, L.L.C.  Further information is available at where Chesapeake routinely posts announcements, updates, events, investor information, presentations and news releases.
www.chk.com
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
SEPTEMBER 24, 2012
 
OKLAHOMA CITY, OKLAHOMA, SEPTEMBER 24, 2012  Chesapeake Energy Corporation (NYSE:CHK) today announced that its Board of Directors has declared a $0.0875 per share quarterly dividend that will be paid on October 31, 2012 to common shareholders of record on October 15, 2012.  Chesapeake has approximately 665 million common shares outstanding.  In addition, Chesapeakes Board has declared dividends on its outstanding convertible preferred stock issues, as stated below.
Chesapeake Energy Corporation (NYSE:CHK) is the second-largest producer of natural gas, a Top 15 producer of oil and natural gas liquids and the most active driller of new wells in the U.S.  Headquartered in Oklahoma City, the company's operations are focused on discovering and developing unconventional natural gas and oil fields onshore in the U.S.  Chesapeake owns leading positions in the Eagle Ford, Utica, Granite Wash, Cleveland, Tonkawa, Mississippi Lime and Niobrara unconventional liquids plays and in the Marcellus, Haynesville/Bossier and Barnett unconventional natural gas shale plays.  The company also owns substantial marketing and oilfield services businesses through its subsidiaries Chesapeake Energy Marketing, Inc. and Chesapeake Oilfield Services, L.L.C.  Further information is available at where Chesapeake routinely posts announcements, updates, events, investor information, presentations and news releases.
www.chk.com
 
 
 
 
 


