FILE:CHK/CHK-8K-20120420163402.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
           Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
*
 
           Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
*
 
           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
*
 
           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
*
 
 
 
 
 
Section 7  Regulation FD
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
On April 18, 2012, Chesapeake Energy Corporation (the Company), issued a press release responding to recently published media reports.  A copy of this press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report.
Section 8  Other Events
Item 8.01 Other Events.
issued a press release announcing that its wholly owned service industry affiliate, Chesapeake Oilfield Services, Inc., filed a registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission relating to the proposed initial public offering of shares of its Class A common stock.  A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.2 to this Current Report.
On April 16, 2012, the Company
 
 
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)
 
Exhibits.  See "Exhibit Index" attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K, which is incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date:           April 20, 2012
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
OKLAHOMA CITY, OKLAHOMA, APRIL 18, 2012  Chesapeake Energy Corporation (NYSE:CHK) General Counsel Henry J. Hood issued the following statement in response to recently published media reports: The Founders Well Participation Program (FWPP) has been in place since the companys founding and was reapproved by shareholders by a wide margin in 2005.  The terms and procedures for the program are clear and detailed in every proxy for all shareholders to see.  Mr. McClendons interests and Chesapeakes are completely aligned.  In addition, there are numerous third-party participants in the companys wells, including some of the largest energy companies in the world, that monitor the actions of the company through a number of processes, including well audits, reporting, governmental filings and hearings, participation in development plans and marketing of production.  The suggestion of any conflicts of interest is unfounded.
Hood also added, The Board of Directors is fully aware of the existence of Mr. McClendons financing transactions and the fact that these occur is disclosed in the proxy.  Additionally, the total amount of his cost obligations and revenue attributable to the FWPP for each year are detailed in the proxy. The FWPP fully aligns the interests of Mr. McClendon with the company and the Board of Directors supports this program as does the majority of its shareholders.
Please visit for more information regarding the companys disclosure on this topic.
www.chk.com/Reuters
 
Headquartered in Oklahoma City, Chesapeake Energy Corporation (NYSE:CHK) is focused on discovering and developing unconventional natural gas and oil fields onshore in the U.S.  Chesapeake owns positions in the Barnett, Haynesville, Bossier, Marcellus and Pearsall natural gas shale plays and in the Eagle Ford, Utica, Granite Wash, Cleveland, Tonkawa, Mississippi Lime, Bone Spring, Avalon, Wolfcamp, Wolfberry and Niobrara unconventional liquids plays.  The company has also vertically integrated its operations and owns substantial marketing, midstream and oilfield services businesses directly and indirectly through its subsidiaries Chesapeake Energy Marketing Inc., Chesapeake Midstream Development, L.P. and COS Holdings,, L.L.C. and its affiliate Chesapeake Midstream Partners, L.P. (NYSE:CHKM). Further information is available at where Chesapeake routinely posts announcements, updates, events, investor information, presentations and news releases.
www.chk.com

Exhibit 99.2
 
 


