FILE:CHK/CHK-8K-20121217170937.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
           Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
*
 
           Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
*
 
           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
*
 
           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
*
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 1  Registrants Business and Operations
 
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
 
On December 11, 2012, Chesapeake Midstream Development, L.L.C. (CMD), an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Chesapeake Energy Corporation (the Company), and Access Midstream Partners, L.P. (ACMP) entered into a Unit Purchase Agreement (the Unit Purchase Agreement). Under the terms of the Unit Purchase Agreement, CMD has agreed to sell, and ACMP has agreed to purchase, 100% of the issued and outstanding equity interests in Chesapeake Midstream Operating, L.L.C. (CMO), which together with its subsidiaries owns certain midstream gas gathering, processing and related assets in the Eagle Ford, Utica, Niobrara, Haynesville and Marcellus shale plays. We refer to this transaction as the CMO Sale.
 
The purchase price for the CMO Sale at closing is expected to be approximately $2.16 billion, subject to post-closing adjustments. The applicable waiting period under the Hart-Scott Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act has expired, and the closing of the CMO Sale is expected to occur prior to December 31, 2012.
 
The obligation of ACMP to consummate the closing of the CMO Sale is subject to certain conditions, including among others, (i) the absence of any law or order prohibiting the consummation of the CMO Sale or any proceeding by a governmental body challenging or that could reasonably be expected to prohibit the CMO Sale, (ii) delivery of certificates and certain transaction agreements (as described further below), and (iii) the absence of a material adverse effect (as defined in the Unit Purchase Agreement) with respect to the business, operations and condition of CMO.
 
The Unit Purchase Agreement contains customary representations and warranties of CMD and ACMP and customary covenants, including covenants with respect to regulatory filings, commercially reasonable efforts to consummate the CMO Sale, and certain covenants with respect to operations of CMO and its subsidiaries between the signing of the Unit Purchase Agreement and the closing.
 
CMD, on the one hand, and ACMP, on the other, have agreed to indemnify each other and their respective affiliates, officers, directors and other representatives against certain losses resulting from any breach of their representations, warranties or covenants contained in the Unit Purchase Agreement, subject to certain limitations and survival periods. CMD also has agreed to indemnify ACMP for certain specified contingencies and liabilities, as well as liabilities related to (i) the operations of CMO and its subsidiaries prior to the closing, (ii) transfers of assets or equity of CMO prior to the closing and (iii) certain excluded assets and entities.
The Unit Purchase Agreement may be terminated by either CMD or ACMP, as applicable, subject to certain exceptions, including (i) the mutual written consent of CMD and ACMP, (ii) if the closing has not occurred by December 31, 2012, (iii) for breaches of representations and warranties or covenants that remain uncured, or (iv) if a governmental body has issued a final order permanently restraining the CMO Sale.
 
The parties have agreed to enter into certain commercial and ancillary transaction agreements upon the closing of the CMO Sale, including, among others, new gathering and processing agreements between CMO and affiliates of the Company, a master recoupment and set-off agreement with respect to obligations under the transaction documents and other ancillary agreements. The Company has agreed to enter into a guaranty at the closing with respect to CMDs and its affiliates respective obligations under the transaction documents and certain legacy agreements, and ACMP has agreed to guarantee CMOs and its subsidiaries obligations under the new gathering and processing agreements.
At the closing of the sale, certain provisions of the omnibus agreement entered into between ACMP and affiliates of the Company at the time of ACMPs initial public offering will be terminated, including ACMPs right of first offer with respect to (i) opportunities to develop or invest in midstream energy projects within five miles of ACMPs acreage dedications in the Barnett Shale and Mid-Continent regions, (ii) opportunities to succeed third parties in expiring midstream energy service contracts within the acreage dedications and within five miles thereof in the Barnett Shale and Mid-Continent regions and (iii) opportunities with respect to future midstream divestitures outside of the acreage dedications.
 
 
 
 
 
In connection with the execution of the Unit Purchase Agreement, CMD also extended until March 1, 2013 the previously announced exclusivity agreement with respect to the potential sale of certain Mid-Continent midstream assets to ACMP.
 
The foregoing description of the Unit Purchase Agreement does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Unit Purchase Agreement filed as Exhibit 2.1 to this Current Report and incorporated into this Item 1.01 by reference.
Section 7  Regulation FD
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
On December 11, 2012, the Company issued a press release announcing the transactions described above in Item 1.01 of this Current Report. A copy of this press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report.
 
On December 14, 2012, the Company issued a press release announcing that it has offered a voluntary separation program to certain Company employees as part of the Companys ongoing efforts to improve efficiencies and reduce costs.  A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.2 to this Current Report.
Section 8  Other Events
Item 8.01 Other Events.
On December 17, 2012, the Company issued a press release announcing that its Board of Directors has declared quarterly common and preferred stock dividends.  A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.3 to this Current Report.
 
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d) Exhibits.  See "Exhibit Index" attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K, which is incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date:                      December 17, 2012
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBITS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SCHEDULES
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This Unit Purchase Agreement is entered into on this 11th day of December, 2012, between Access Midstream Partners, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership (the Buyer) and Chesapeake Midstream Development, L.L.C., an Oklahoma limited liability company (the Seller). Each of the Buyer and the Seller is referred to herein as a Party and collectively as the Parties.
 
 
A.           The Seller owns 100% of the issued and outstanding equity interests in Chesapeake Midstream Operating, L.L.C. (the Company, and such equity interests, the Units).
 
B.           The Company owns, directly or indirectly through its equity interests in the Subsidiaries listed on (the Company Subsidiaries and together with the Company, the Company Group), all or an undivided interest in and operates certain natural gas gathering systems and related compression, dehydration, and stabilization facilities in the United States.
Exhibit A
 
C.           The Seller desires to sell to the Buyer, and the Buyer desires to purchase from the Seller, all of the Units on the terms and conditions set forth herein.
 
D.           The Seller is a wholly-owned indirect Subsidiary of Seller Guarantor, and Seller Guarantor will derive substantial benefits from the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and the other Transaction Documents.
 
E.           After the Closing, each member of the Company Group will be a wholly-owned indirect Subsidiary of the Buyer and the Buyer will derive substantial benefits from the transactions contemplated by the New Commercial Agreements.
 
F.           Contemporaneously with the execution of this Agreement, the Buyer and the Seller are entering into an amendment to the letter agreement, dated June 7, 2012 between the Buyer and the Company (the Midcon Agreement).
 
 
The Parties, intending to be legally bound, agree as follows:
 
1.
 
Purchase and Sale of the Units; Closing
.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(a) a positive amount equal to the sum of
 
 (x) any dividends, distributions or other payments of cash or cash equivalents made by any Partially-Owned Subsidiary ("POS Distributions") to, on
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
behalf, or for the benefit or account of, the Company or any Wholly-Owned Subsidiary;
 
(y) POS Distributions to any Chesapeake Entity other than in accordance with and as required by the terms of any Material Contract (other than as a result of any actual or potential breach or default thereunder) in connection with the ordinary course of business of such Partially-Owned Subsidiary; and
 
(z) any payments by any Partially-Owned Subsidiary in respect of any Indebtedness, Excluded Assets, Sold Assets, Excluded Entities, Transaction Expenses or in respect of Excluded Liabilities of a type described in clauses (ii) through (vi) of the definition thereof,
 
in each case of the foregoing clauses (x), (y) and (z), (A) during the Third Quarter or Interim Period, as applicable, or in respect of which a payable of a member of the Company Group is outstanding as of Closing and (B) including in respect of any Contracts, accounts, payables or receivables;
plus
 
(b) a negative amount equal to the aggregate amount of all cash capital contributions made by any member of the Company Group to any Partially-Owned Subsidiary during the Third Quarter or Interim Period, as applicable.
 
Permitted Capital Expenditures means, without duplication, any cash capital expenditures actually paid by, or by any Chesapeake Entity on behalf of, the Wholly-Owned Subsidiaries (including in respect of the Transferred Assets held by the Wholly-Owned Subsidiaries) during the Interim Period (which shall include cash purchases of Inventory from third party vendors, but no other capital expenditures in respect of Inventory), other than fifty percent (50%) of any portion of any cash capital expenditures paid for any capital project or field activity that occurred prior to the Third Quarter Effective Time.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Third Quarter ECA Revenue Amount means the aggregate gross revenues, proceeds, receipts, reimbursements and credits that were actually earned under an accrual basis in accordance with the Accounting Principles by the Company Group under the Existing Commercial Agreements during the Third Quarter.
 
Third Quarter Effective Time means 12:01 a.m. (Central time) on July 1, 2012.
 
Third Quarter NCA Revenue Amount means the aggregate gross revenues, proceeds, receipts, reimbursements and credits that would have been earned under an accrual basis in accordance with the Accounting Principles by the Company Group under the New Commercial Agreements during the Third Quarter if such New Commercial Agreements were in effect as of the Third Quarter Effective Time, assuming each applicable member of the Company Group party (or to be party) thereto shipped volumes during such period equal to the greater of (i) the actual volumes shipped by such member of the Company Group during such period under an applicable Existing Commercial Agreement and (ii) any applicable minimum volume commitment set forth in an applicable New Commercial Agreement.
 
Third Quarter Adjusted EBITDA Amount means (i) the earnings accrued by the Company and Wholly-Owned Subsidiaries in the Third Quarter, before the deduction of interest, Income Taxes, depreciation and amortization, but excluding any such earnings of the Partially-Owned Subsidiaries, (ii) the Partially-Owned Subsidiary Lock-Box Amount with respect to the Third Quarter, (iii) any Third Quarter Permitted Capital Expenditures, (iv) any Third Quarter Revenue Difference.
plus
minus
plus
 
Third Quarter Adjustment Amount means an amount, which may be a positive or negative number, equal to the Third Quarter Adjusted EBITDA Amount, the Assumed Third Quarter Adjusted EBITDA.
minus
 
Third Quarter Permitted Capital Expenditures shall mean Permitted Capital Expenditures, substituting the words Third Quarter for the words Interim Period and the words inventory material transfers for the words cash purchases of Inventory from third party vendors in the definition thereof.
 
Third Quarter Revenue Difference means the excess, if any (and zero otherwise) of the Third Quarter NCA Revenue Amount over the Third Quarter ECA Revenue Amount.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.
 
Representations and Warranties by the Seller
. Except as otherwise set forth in the Seller Disclosure Schedule, the Seller represents and warrants, as of the date hereof and as of the Closing Date, to the Buyer as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.
 
Representations and Warranties by Buyer
. Except as otherwise set forth in the Buyer Disclosure Schedule, the Buyer represents and warrants, as of the date hereof and as of the Closing, to the Seller as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.
 
Covenants.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.17
 
.
Release of Chesapeake Entity Credit Support
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.
 
.
Tax Matters
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.
 
Conditions Precedent to Closing.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7.
 
Termination.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8.
 
Indemnification.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9.
 
Miscellaneous
.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Any Party may specify a different address, by written notice to the other Parties. The change of address shall be effective upon the other Parties receipt of the notice of the change of address.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.
 
Definitions
. As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the following meanings, (and the definitions set forth in Section  shall be incorporated into this Section ):
1.11
10
 
Accounting Firm has the meaning set forth in Section .
5.2.3
 
ACMP Guarantor has the meaning set forth in the ACMP Guaranty.
 
ACMP Guaranty has the meaning set forth in Section 1.5.7.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Acquired Partnerships means Cardinal Gas Services, LLC, Utica East Ohio Midstream LLC and Ranch Westex JV LLC.
 
Affiliate means with reference to any other Person, (a) any Person directly or indirectly controlling, controlled by, or under common control with such other Person, (b) any officer, director, member, manager, or partner of such Person, or (c) if such other Person is an officer, director, member, manager, or partner, any company for which such Person acts in any such capacity. A Person shall be deemed to control another Person if such first Person possesses, directly or indirectly, the power to direct, or cause the direction of, the management and policies of such other Person, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by Contract or otherwise.  For purposes of this Agreement, the members of the Company Group shall be deemed to be Affiliates of Seller through the Closing, but shall not be deemed to be Affiliates of Seller following the Closing.
 
Agreement means this Unit Purchase Agreement together with all Exhibits and Schedules delivered in connection herewith.
 
AMGS has the meaning set forth in Section .
4.6
 
Arkansas Midstream has the meaning set forth in Section .
4.6
 
Asset, Liability and Equity Transfer has the meaning set forth in Section .
4.6
 
Assets means the assets, properties, privileges and interests of whatever kind or nature, real, personal or mixed, tangible or intangible, and wherever located, that are owned, leased or licensed by the members of the Company Group, (i) including the percentage interest owned by each member of the Company Group in the Gathering Systems, (ii) including the Transferred Assets and (iii) excluding the Excluded Assets.
 
Assignment and Assumption Agreement has the meaning set forth in Section 1.4.3.
 
Audited Financial Statements has the meaning set forth in Section .
2.17.1
 
Base Purchase Price means $2,009,550,000.
 
Basin means each of the Niobrara basin, Marcellus basin, Utica basin, Haynesville basin and Eagle Ford basin, as each such basin is described on the maps provided by Seller to Buyer prior to the date hereof.
 
Benefit Plans means any employee benefit plan, as defined in Section 3(3) of ERISA and any other employee benefit or compensation plan, policy, program, practice, agreement, understanding or arrangement (whether written or oral), including, without limitation, any stock bonus, stock ownership, stock option, stock purchase, stock appreciation rights, phantom stock, restricted stock or other equity-based compensation plans, policies, programs, practices or arrangements,
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and any bonus or incentive compensation plan, severance, Change of Control, termination pay, deferred compensation, profit sharing, holiday, cafeteria, medical, disability or other employee benefit plan, program, policy, practice, agreement or arrangement (but excluding workers compensation benefits (whether through insured or self-insured arrangements) and directors and officers liability insurance).
 
Business means (i) the operations and business currently conducted by the Company Group and as conducted from the Third Quarter Effective Time through and including the Closing Date in the ordinary course of business in accordance with this Agreement, other than the operations and business conducted with respect to the Excluded Assets, Sold Assets or by the Excluded Entities or (ii)the current ownership and operation of the Transferred Assets as owned and operated from the Third Quarter Effective Time through and including the Closing Date in the ordinary course of business in accordance with this Agreement.
 
 
Business Day means any day other than a Saturday, a Sunday, or a day on which the Federal Reserve system is closed.
 
Buyer has the meaning set forth in the Preamble to this Agreement.
 
Buyer Disclosure Schedule means all the Schedules delivered by the Buyer concurrently with the execution and delivery of this Agreement.
 
Buyer Indemnified Parties has the meaning set forth in Section .
8.3.1
 
CERCLA means the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980, 42 U.S.C.  9601, et seq., as amended.
 
Certain U.S. Sanctioned Nations has the meaning set forth in Section .
2.21
 
Change of Control means, with respect to any Person (as used in this definition, the Subject Person), any single or series of related transactions that result in a Person (or Persons acting in concert) who did not possess Governance Control over such Subject Person prior to the consummation of such single or series of related transactions assuming or otherwise obtaining Governance Control over such Subject Person; provided, however, that neither the commencement nor the result of any Proceeding or similar process shall constitute a Change of Control.
 
Chesapeake Entity means any Affiliate of Chesapeake Energy Corporation (which shall in any event, subject to the following exception, include Seller and its Affiliates), except for any member of the Company Group.
 
Claim Notice has the meaning set forth in Section 8.5.1.
 
Closing has the meaning set forth in Section 1.3.
 
Closing Date has the meaning set forth in Section 1.3.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Closing Purchase Price has the meaning set forth in Section .
1.2
 
Closing Statement has the meaning set forth in Section .
1.6.1
 
Closing System Dedicated Net Acres has the meaning set forth in Section .
2.29
 
CMH has the meaning set forth in Section .
4.6
 
Code means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
 
Company has the meaning set forth in the Preliminary Statements to this Agreement.
 
Company Group has the meaning set forth in the Preliminary Statements to this Agreement.
 
Company Group Contracts means each of (i) the Meter Agreements (as such term is defined in ) and (ii) the Gas Compression Master Service Agreement between, USA Compression Partners, LLC and Chesapeake Operating, Inc., dated November 1, 2008 and corresponding Exhibit A to Master Service Agreement between USA Compression Partners, LLC  and Chesapeake Appalachia, L.L.C., dated 2009.
Schedule 2.6.2(c)
 
Company Subsidiaries has the meaning set forth in the Preliminary Statements to this Agreement.
 
Competing Transaction has the meaning set forth in Section .
4.12
 
Consent means any authorization, consent, approval, clearance, filing, waiver, exemption, preferential right to purchase, right of first offer, right of first refusal or similar rights, or other action by or notice to any Person.
 
Consent Excluded Assets means each of the real property interests identified with an asterisk on any of the following exhibits to the Assignment and Assumption Agreement:  Exhibit A, Exhibit B, Exhibit C, Exhibit D.
 
Consideration Excess has the meaning set forth in Section .
1.7.4
 
Consideration Shortfall has the meaning set forth in Section .
1.7.4
 
Construction Completion has the meaning set forth in Section .
8.3.4
 
Contract means any contract, agreement, indenture, note, bond, mortgage, loan, instrument, evidence of Indebtedness, security agreement, lease, easement, right of way agreement, sublease, license, commitment, subcontract, or other arrangement, understanding, undertaking, commitment, or obligation, whether written or oral, except the Insurance Policies.
 
Courts has the meaning set forth in Section .
9.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Covered Capex has the meaning set forth in Section .
8.3.4
 
Covered Capex Threshold has the meaning set forth in Section 8.3.4.
 
Covered Percentage has the meaning set forth in Section .
8.3.4
 
Credit Support means any guarantees, letters of credit, treasury securities, surety bonds and other forms of credit support provided by any Person (other than a member of the Company Group) in support of the obligations of a member of the Company Group.
 
Credit Support Beneficiary has the meaning set forth in Section 4.17.1.
 
Credit Support Provider has the meaning set forth in Section .1.
4.17
 
Current Performance Standards has the meaning set forth in Section .
2.6.2
 
CWTG has the meaning set forth in Section .
4.6
 
De Minimis Claim has the meaning set forth in Section .
8.4.1(a)
 
Deductible has the meaning set forth in Section .
8.4.1(b)
 
Disclosure Schedule means, (a) with respect to the Seller, the Seller Disclosure Schedule and (b) with respect to the Buyer, the Buyer Disclosure Schedule.
 
Dispute Resolution Expert has the meaning set forth in Section 1.7.3.
 
Dispute Resolution Statement has the meaning set forth in Section 1.7.3.
 
Due Date has the meaning set forth in Section .
5.4.3
 
Easements means easements, rights of way, permits, servitudes, licenses, leasehold estates, and similar rights related to real property held or used by any member of the Company Group.
 
Effective Time means 12:01 a.m. (Central time) on October 1, 2012.
 
Employee Secondment Agreement has the meaning set forth in Section 4.14.
 
Employee Transfer Agreement has the meaning set forth in Section 4.14.
 
Environment means any soil, land surface or subsurface strata, surface waters (including, navigable waters, ocean waters, streams, ponds, drainage basins, and wetlands), ground waters, drinking water supply, stream, sediments, ambient air (including indoor air), plant and animal life (including without any limitation any species identified as threatened or endangered or similar designation under Environmental Law), and any other natural resource or medium related to the foregoing.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Environmental Conditionsmeans the presence of any Hazardous Substance in the Environment (whether or not at one of the Assets), including natural resources (e.g., flora and fauna), soil, surface water, ground water, any present or potential drinking water supply, subsurface strata or ambient air of Hazardous Substances, relating to or arising out of the use, handling, storage, treatment, disposal, recycling, generation, transportation, Release, or threatened Release of Hazardous Substances. With respect to any environmental claims by third parties, Environmental Conditions also include the exposure of persons to Hazardous   Substances at the work place or the exposure of persons or property to Hazardous Substances migrating from or otherwise emanating from the Assets.
 
 
Environmental Costs and Liabilities means, with respect to any Person, all liabilities, obligations, responsibilities, Remedial Actions, losses, damages (including natural resource damages), obligations to pay punitive and consequential damages to third parties, costs and expenses (including all reasonable fees, disbursements and expenses of counsel, experts, and consultants, and costs of investigation and feasibility studies), fines, penalties, sanctions, and interest which relate to or arise out of any violation of Environmental Law (including claims under common law for personal injury or property damage), or a Release or threatened Release or other violation of Environmental Law, in each case which Release or threatened Release would require or result in requiring reporting, investigation, monitoring, or Remedial Action pursuant to Environmental Law.
 
Environmental Law means any applicable Law relating to, in whole or in part, directly or indirectly (a) the protection of or Release of materials to the Environment, (b) the operation, use, handling, treatment, storage, disposal, or transportation of Hazardous Substances, solid wastes or hazardous wastes, or (c) the protection of human health and safety.
 
ERISA means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended.
 
ERISA Affiliate means any entity in a group of entities that would be treated as a single employer under Sections 414(b), (c) or (m) of the Code or Section 4001(b)(1) of ERISA.
 
Estimated Company Group Indebtedness has the meaning set forth in Section 1.6.1.
 
Estimated ECA Revenue Amount has the meaning set forth in Section 1.6.1.
 
Estimated NCA Revenue Amount has the meaning set forth in Section 1.6.1.
 
Estimated Net Revenue Amount has the meaning set forth in Section 1.6.1.
 
Estimated Revenue Difference has the meaning set forth in Section 1.6.1.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Estimated Transaction Expenses has the meaning set forth in Section 1.6.1.
 
Excluded Asset Transfer has the meaning set forth in Section 4.6.
 
Excluded Equity Transfer has the meaning set forth in Section 4.6.
 
Excluded Assets means all of the assets described on , and all proceeds thereof.
Exhibit I
 
Excluded Asset Assignment means the Assignment and Assumption Agreements (as defined in the Assignment and Assumption Agreement) that are attached to the Assignment and Assumption Agreement as Exhibits E-1, E-2, E-3 and E-4.
 
Excluded Employee Liabilities means subject to Buyers and its Affiliates applicable obligations arising under the express terms herein and the express terms of the Employee Secondment Agreement, the Employee Transfer Agreement and the Services Agreements, (i) Liabilities to or in respect of any employee, former employee or other service provider of the Seller or any of its Affiliates arising out of or relating to events or omissions occurring on or prior to the Transfer Date (as defined in the Employee Transfer Agreement), including Liabilities arising under applicable Law or any Benefit Plan maintained by Seller or any of its Affiliates and (ii) Liabilities arising out of or relating to events or omissions occurring after the Transfer Date (as defined in the Employee Transfer Agreement) to or in respect of any employee, former employee or other service provider of the Seller or any of its Affiliates (x) under the express terms of any Benefit Plan maintained by the Seller or any of its Affiliates or (y) which do not relate to or arise out of or in connection with employees, former employees or other service providers of the Company Group.
 
Excluded Entities has the meaning set forth in Section .
4.6
 
Excluded Liabilities means all Liabilities related to, or arising out of or in connection with, (i) the ownership or operation of the Company and its Subsidiaries, or the conduct of the Business or the use, ownership, and operation of the Assets, prior to the Closing other than Non-Income Taxes for which Seller is expressly required to be indemnified under Section 5.3, (ii) any transfers, sales or dispositions prior to the Closing of equity or assets by any member of the Company Group to any Person, including any Chesapeake Entity, Buyer or any of their respective Affiliates, or the Asset, Liability and Equity Transfer, including any Liability related to, or arising out of or in connection with, any representation, warranty or covenant in the Assignment and Assumption Agreement or any Exhibit thereto or document or instrument executed or delivered in connection therewith, (iii) any Liabilities of CMH or any other Chesapeake Entity, including any such Liabilities under any Transaction Document, (iv) any Sold Assets, Excluded Assets or Excluded Entities (or any of their respective assets or
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Liabilities), (v) any Excluded Employee Liabilities or (vi) any matter listed on hereto.
Schedule B
 
Existing Commercial Agreements means those Contracts listed on .
Schedule 10
 
Expiration Date has the meaning set forth in Section 8.1.
 
Final Allocation has the meaning set forth in Section .
5.2.3
 
Final Balance Sheet has the meaning set forth in Section 1.7.1.
 
Final Net Working Capital has the meaning set forth in Section 1.7.1.
 
Final Statement has the meaning set forth in Section .
1.7.1
 
Financial Statements has the meaning set forth in Section 2.17.
 
Financing Sources means the entities that have directly or indirectly committed to provide or otherwise entered into agreements in connection with the financing incurred or intended to be incurred by the Buyer in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby and their respective Affiliates.
 
Financing Source Parties means the Financing Sources and any of their respective former, current, or future general or limited partners, direct or indirect shareholders or equityholders, managers, members, directors, officers, employees, Affiliates, representatives, assignees or agents or any former, current or future general or limited partner, direct or indirect shareholder or equityholder, manager, member, director, officer, employee, Affiliate, representative, assignee or agent of any of the foregoing.
 
Fundamental Representations has the meaning set forth in Section 8.1.
 
GAAP means U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, consistently applied.
 
Gas Business Transfer has the meaning set forth in Section .
9.8
 
Gas Pipeline Facilities means a 24 inch diameter, approximately 32 mile Gas pipeline and associated infrastructure, facilities and equipment, extending from a point of interconnection with the Kensington Plant Facilities to a point of interconnection with the Harrison Hub Facilities, together with the real property on which it is situated.
 
Gathering Systems has the meaning set forth in Section .
2.6.3
 
Governance Control means, as of any applicable determination date and with respect to any Person, (a) the direct or indirect ownership of fifty percent (50%) or more of the outstanding capital stock or other securities or equity interests of
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
such Person that have ordinary voting power to elect the board of directors, managing general partner or similar managing authority or (b) the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management of such Person, whether through the ability to exercise voting power, by contract or otherwise. Governance Controlled shall have the meaning correlative thereto.
 
Governmental Body means any (a) federal, state, local, or municipal government, or any subsidiary body thereof or (b) governmental or quasi-governmental authority of any nature, including, (i) any governmental agency, branch, department, official, or entity, (ii) any court, judicial authority, or other tribunal, and (iii) any arbitration body or tribunal.
 
Harrison Hub Facilities means a Gas fractionation plant and associated storage, infrastructure, facilities, and equipment, to be located in Harrison County, Ohio.
 
Harrison to TEPPCO NGL Extension means two 8-inch diameter, approximately 7 mile NGL pipelines and associated infrastructure, facilities, and equipment, each extending from a point of interconnection with the Harrison Hub Facilities to a point of interconnection with the TEPPCO Facilities, together with the real property on which it is situated.
 
Hazardous Substances means and includes each substance, waste or material regulated, defined, designated or classified as a hazardous waste, hazardous substance, hazardous material, pollutant, contaminant or toxic substance under any Environmental Law, including any petroleum, petroleum by-products, natural gas or natural gas liquids Released into the Environment, asbestos or asbestos-containing material, urea formaldehyde insulation, hydrogen sulfide or polychlorinated biphenyls.
 
HSR Act means the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended.
 
Included Asset Transfer has the meaning set forth in Section .
4.6
 
Income Tax means any U.S. federal, state or local or foreign income Tax or Tax based on profits, revenues, sales or similar measure.
 
Initial Budget has the meaning set forth in the Limited Liability Company Agreement of Utica East Ohio Midstream LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, dated as of March 8, 2012 by and among M3 Ohio Gathering LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, Utica Gas Services, L.L.C., an Oklahoma limited liability company and CGAS Properties, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership.
 
Initial Project means: (a) the Gas Pipeline Facilities; (b) the Kensington to Harrison NGL Extension; (c) the Harrison to TEPPCO NGL Extension; (d) the Kensington Plant Facilities (only to the extent the processing capacity thereof
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
does not exceed 600 MMCfd); and (e) the Harrison Hub Facilities (only to the extent fractionation capacity does not exceed the amount needed for the output from the Kensington Plant Facilities for up to 600 MMCfd).
 
Indemnified Party has the meaning set forth in Section 8.5.1.
 
Indemnifying Party has the meaning set forth in Section 8.5.1.
 
Insurance Policy means all insurance policies and surety contracts in effect as of the date hereof maintained by the Seller and its Affiliates that are applicable to the Business including those listed and summarized on .
Schedule 
2.31
 
Intellectual Property means all domestic and foreign intellectual property and proprietary rights, including, without limitation, all: (i) inventions, patents, patent applications, and patent disclosures, (ii) trademarks, service marks, trade dress, logos, brand names, trade names, domain names, corporate names, business names and other indicia of origin, and all applications, registrations, and renewals in connection therewith, (iii) works of authorship and other copyrightable works, copyrights, and applications, registrations, and renewals in connection therewith, (iv) mask works and registrations and applications therefor, (v) rights in industrial and other protected designs and any registrations and applications therefore and (vi) rights in trade secrets, know how, and confidential business information (including such rights with respect to research and development, know-how, formulas, compositions, manufacturing and production processes and techniques, technical data, designs, drawings, specifications, research records, records of inventions, test information, customer and supplier lists, pricing and cost information, and business and marketing plans).
 
IRS means the Internal Revenue Service.
 
Kensington Plant Facilities means a Gas processing plant, infrastructure, facilities, and equipment, to be located in Columbiana County, Ohio.
 
Kensington to Harrison NGL Extension means a 12-inch diameter, approximately 32 mile NGL pipeline and associated infrastructure, facilities, and equipment, extending from a point of interconnection with the Kensington Plant Facilities to a point of interconnection with the Harrison Hub Facilities, together with the real property on which it is situated.
 
Knowledge: a Party shall be considered to have Knowledge of a fact or matter if any of the following has, after reasonable inquiry, or at any time had, actual knowledge of such fact or matter: (a) with respect to the Seller, Domenic J. DellOsso, Jr., J. Michael Stice, John Seldenrust, Walter Bennett, Mark Edge, Coleen Magness, Lisa Phelps, Stacy Roberts, Jennifer Grigsby, James C. Johnson and Bryan Lemmerman; and (b) with respect to the Buyer, Robert S. Purgason.
 
Law means any applicable domestic or foreign federal, state, local, municipal, or other administrative order, constitution, law, Order, policy, ordinance, rule,
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
code, principle of common law, case, decision, regulation, statute, tariff or treaty, or other requirements with similar effect of any Governmental Body or any binding provisions or interpretations of the foregoing.
 
Liability means, collectively, any Indebtedness, commitment, guaranty, endorsement, claim, loss, damage, deficiency, cost, expense, obligation, contingency, responsibility or other liability, in each case, whether fixed or unfixed, asserted or unasserted, due or to become due, accrued or unaccrued, absolute, contingent or otherwise.
 
Lien means any mortgage, deed of trust, encumbrance, charge, claim, easement, right of way, building or use restriction, lien, option, pledge, security interest, purchase rights, preemptive right, right of first refusal or similar right or restriction.
 
Losses means any losses, claims, damages, liabilities, costs and expenses (including attorneys fees and expenses), interest, penalties, Taxes, judgments and settlements, without any gross up with respect to Taxes.
 
MAMGS has the meaning set forth in Section .
4.6
 
Master Confidentiality Agreement means that certain Master Confidentiality Agreement, dated as of the date hereof and attached hereto as .
Exhibit K
 
Master Set-Off Agreement has the meaning set forth in Section .
1.4.12
 
Material Adverse Effect means any circumstance, change, event, fact, development, condition, matter  or effect that either individually or together with any other circumstance, change, event, fact, development, condition, matter or effect is or would reasonably be likely to be materially adverse to or has had or would be reasonably likely to have a material adverse effect on or change in or to (i) the business, operations, ownership, or condition (financial or otherwise) of the Company Group (including the indirect ownership and operation by the Company of the Assets), but for purposes of this clause (i) shall exclude any of the following circumstances, changes, or effects resulting or arising from, either alone or in combination with any other circumstance, change, or effect:  (a) any change resulting from the announcement (in accordance with the terms of this Agreement) of this Agreement, including any disruption of customers or supplier relationships resulting solely and directly therefrom; (b) conditions affecting the natural gas transportation industry generally; (c) any changes in GAAP, or any other accounting rules and regulations; (d) any change in general economic conditions in the industries or markets in which any member of the Company Group primarily operates; or (e) changes in national, regional, state or local wholesale or retail markets or prices for hydrocarbons or the gathering, transportation, treatment or processing thereof, except in the cases of clauses (b) through (d), to the extent disproportionately affecting any member of the Company Group as compared with other Persons or businesses in the natural gas
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
transportation industry and then only such disproportionate impact shall be considered or (ii) on the ability of any Seller Party to perform its obligations under this Agreement or any Transaction Document.
 
Material Contracts has the meaning set forth in Section 2.11.
 
Member Equity Interests has the meaning set forth in Section .
2.4.2
 
MICP Assumption Agreement has the meaning set forth in Section .
1.4.14
 
Midcon Agreement has the meaning set forth in the Preliminary Statements to this Agreement.
 
Net Acres means, as computed separately with respect to each lease covering acreage dedicated to a gas gathering agreement, (a) the number of gross acres in the lands covered by such lease, multiplied by (b) the undivided percentage interest in hydrocarbons in the formations dedicated to such gas gathering agreement covered by such lease in such lands, multiplied by (c) the working interest of the producer or shipper (or its affiliate) party to such gas gathering agreement in such lease, provided that if items (b) or (c)  vary as to different areas of such lands (including depths) covered by such lease, a separate calculation shall be done for such area as if it were a separate lease.
 
Net Working Capital Threshold has the meaning set forth in Section .
1.6.1
 
New Commercial Agreements means those Contracts or amendments to be entered into on the Closing Date in substantially the forms attached as , , , and , in each case only as any such Contract or amendment exists as of the Closing Date following the execution thereof by all the parties thereto.
Exhibits N-1
N-2
N-3
N-4
N-5
 
Non-Income Tax means any Tax other than an Income Tax or Transfer Tax.
 
Non-Operated Systems means, collectively, (i) the Larry Creek GGS, (ii) the Seely GGS, (iii) the Warrensville GGS, (iv) the processing complex owned by Utica East Ohio Midstream, LLC, and (v) all Assets owned directly or indirectly by Ranch Westex JV LLC.
 
Non-Solicitation Agreement has the meaning set forth in Section 1.4.16.
 
Notice of Disagreement has the meaning set forth in Section .
1.7.2
 
Notifying Party has the meaning set forth in Section 4.4.1.
 
Obsolete Inventory means any Inventory that is obsolete, damaged or slow moving or that not in good and marketable condition.
 
OFAC has the meaning set forth in Section .
2.21
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Order means any award, decision, injunction, judgment, order, ruling, subpoena, writ, decree or verdict entered, issued, made or rendered by any Governmental Body.
 
Organizational Documents means any charter, articles, bylaws, certificate, limited liability company agreement, operating agreement, declaration of trust, statement, statute, or similar document adopted, filed, or registered with any Governmental Body or otherwise executed in connection with the creation, formation, or organization of an entity, and any Contract among some or all security holders, partners, or members of an entity.
 
Outside Date has the meaning set forth in Section 7.1.1.
 
Partially-Owned Subsidiary has the meaning set forth in Section .
2.4.2
 
Participation Agreements has the meaning set forth in Section .
2.12
 
Party and Parties has the meaning set forth in the Preamble to this Agreement.
 
Pay-Off Letters has the meaning set forth in Section 1.6.2.
 
Performance Standards has the meaning set forth in Section 2.6.2.
 
Permit means any approval, authorization, certification, clearance, consent, license, permit, registration, waiver, or other authorization issued, granted, given, or otherwise made available by or under the authority of any Governmental Body.
 
Permitted Liens means (a) Liens for Taxes not yet due and payable or Taxes for which the Seller is liable hereunder, (b) Liens imposed by Law not yet due and payable, (c) zoning, entitlement, and other land use regulations by any Governmental Body, provided that such regulations have not been violated, and (d) easements, restrictions, covenants, minor title defects, and matters that would be revealed by an accurate survey, none of which would have more than an immaterial effect on the use of the property to which they pertain.
 
Person means any individual, partnership, limited partnership, limited liability company, corporation, joint venture, trust, cooperative, association, foreign trust, unincorporated organization, foreign business organization or Governmental Body or any department or agency thereof, and the heirs, executors, administrators, legal representatives, successors, and assigns of such Person where the context so permits.
 
Proceeding means any claim, action, arbitration, mediation, audit, hearing, investigation, proceeding, litigation, or suit (whether civil, criminal, administrative, investigative, or informal) commenced, brought, conducted, or heard by or before, or otherwise involving, any Governmental Body, arbitrator, or mediator.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Release means any spilling, leaking, pumping, pouring, placing, emitting, discarding, abandoning, emptying, emitting, discharging, depositing, migrating, injecting, escaping, leaching, dumping, or disposing or other releasing of Hazardous Substances into the indoor or outdoor Environment (including the abandonment or disposal of any barrels, containers or other closed receptacles containing any Hazardous Substances), or the movement of any Hazardous Substances through the air, soil, surface water or groundwater, whether intentional or unintentional.
 
Remedial Action means all actions, including any capital expenditures undertaken to (a) clean up, remove, remediate, abate, treat or in any other way address any Release or threatened Release, (b) prevent Release or the threat of Release, or minimize the further Release so that it does not endanger or threaten to endanger public health or welfare or the indoor or outdoor environment, (c) perform studies, assessments and investigations of any Release or threat of Release or monitoring and care of any Release or threat of Release, or (d) to correct or prevent a condition of noncompliance with Environmental Laws.
 
Remedies Exception means the extent to which enforceability may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium, or other similar Laws affecting the enforcement of creditors rights generally and by general equitable principles.
 
Reports means (i) Data and Consulting Services, division of Schlumberger Technology Corporation report dated August 14, 2012 for Chesapeake Utica and Appalachian Basin Marcellus Gathering Systems, (ii) PetroTechnical Services division of Schlumberger Technology Corporation update report dated October 20, 2012 for Chesapeake Energy Corporations Appalachian Basin Marcellus and Utica Shale acreage positions, (iii) Netherland Sewell & Associates, Inc. Worldwide Petroleum Consultants report dated October 12, 2012 for the Converse and Mansfield gas gathering systems located in Louisiana as of July 1, 2012, (iv) Lee Keeling and Associates, Inc. report dated August 30, 2012 for the Eagle Ford and Niobrara basins as of July 1, 2012, and (v) Lee Keeling and Associates, Inc. update report dated October 22, 2012 for Eagle Ford and Niobrara basins.
 
Representations and Warranties Cap has the meaning set forth in Section 8.4.3.
 
Representatives means all directors, officers, managers, trustees, employees, consultants, advisors, attorneys or other representatives of a Person.
 
Required Action has the meaning set forth in Section 4.10.
 
Required Omission has the meaning set forth in Section 4.10.
 
Reserve Engineers means Data and Consulting Services division of Schlumberger Technology Corporation, Petro Technical Services division of Schlumberger Technology Corporation, Netherland Sewell and Associates, Inc.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Worldwide petroleum Consultants, Lee Keeling and Associates, Inc., and Ryder Scott Company Petroleum Consultants.
 
Revised Final Allocation has the meaning set forth in Section .
5.2.4
 
Schedule, when followed by a number, refers to the corresponding section of the Seller Disclosure Schedule or the Buyer Disclosure Schedule, as appropriate.
 
SDN has the meaning set forth in Section .
2.21
 
Securities Act means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
 
Seller has the meaning set forth in the Preamble to this Agreement.
 
Seller Credit Support Termination Date has the meaning set forth in Section 4.17.3.
 
Seller Disclosure Schedule means all the Schedules delivered by the Seller concurrently with the execution and delivery of this Agreement.
 
Seller Guarantor has the meaning set forth in the Seller Guaranty.
 
Seller Guaranty has the meaning set forth in Section .
1.4.11
 
Seller Indemnified Parties has the meaning set forth in Section 8.3.2.
 
Seller Party means the Seller and any Affiliate of the Seller (for these purposes, including any member of the Company Group) that is, is contemplated to be or will be, a party to any Transaction Document.
 
Service Providers means each individual, including those on leave, principally engaged in providing services in respect of the Business or the Assets or to a member of the Company Group.
 
Services Agreements means the Transition Services Agreement, the Amended and Restated Services Agreement, as amended, and the Amended and Restated Shared Services Agreement, all such agreements entered into by and among others, certain Chesapeake Entities and Access MLP Operating, L.L.C.
 
Sold Assets means any gathering systems (together with all processing plants and facilities, and easements, rights of way, privileges, franchises, tracts of land, surface leases, other interests in land, pipelines, equipment, permits, licenses, contract rights and personal property, to the extent constituting a part thereof or used primarily and necessary for the operation thereof) sold by any member of the Company Group to any Person other than the Company Group or any Chesapeake Entity between the Third Quarter Effective Time and the date hereof.
 
Specified Easements has the meaning set forth in .
Schedule 2.3
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Specified Matter means any event set forth under the heading Specified Matter on .
Schedule C
 
Specified Payment means the payment amount set forth under the heading Specified Payment on .
Schedule C
 
Stale Receivables has the meaning set forth in the definition of Current Assets.
 
Straddle Period has the meaning set forth in Section .
5.3
 
Subsidiary means, with respect to any Person, any corporation, limited liability company, partnership, association, or business entity, whether incorporated or unincorporated, of which (a) if a corporation, a majority of the total voting power of shares of stock entitled (without regard to the occurrence of any contingency) to vote in the election of directors, managers, or trustees thereof is at the time owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by that Person or one or more of the other Subsidiaries of that Person or a combination thereof, (b) a general partner interest is at the time owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by any Person or one or more Subsidiaries of that Person or a combination thereof or (c) if a limited liability company, partnership, association, or other business entity (other than a corporation), a majority of partnership or other similar ownership interest thereof is at the time owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by any Person or one or more Subsidiaries of that Person or a combination thereof. For purposes hereof, (i) a Person or Persons shall be deemed to have a majority ownership interest in a limited liability company, partnership, association, or other business entity (other than a corporation) if such Person or Persons shall be allocated a majority of limited liability company, partnership, association, or other business entity gains or losses and (ii) notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this definition, each of the Company Subsidiaries shall be deemed to be a Subsidiary of the Company and each other member of the Company Group directly or indirectly holding any outstanding capital stock or equity interests in such Company Subsidiary.
 
Tax or Taxes means (a) all taxes, charges, fees, levies, or other assessments, including all net income, gross income, gross receipts, sales, use, ad valorem, transfer, franchise, profits, license, withholding, payroll, employment, social security, unemployment, excise, estimated, severance, stamp, occupation, property, or other taxes, customs duties, fees, assessments, or charges of any kind whatsoever, or other tax of any kind whatsoever, including any Liability under any state abandonment or unclaimed property, escheat, or similar Law, including all interest and penalties thereon, and additions to tax or additional amounts, imposed by any Tax Authority, (b) any Liability for the payment of any amounts of any of the foregoing as a result of being a member of an affiliated, consolidated, combined, or unitary group or being a party to any agreement or arrangement whereby Liability for payment of such amounts was determined or taken into account with reference to the Liability of any other Person, and (c) any Liability in respect of any of the items described in clauses (a) or (b) payable by reason of contract, assumption, transferee Liability, Law, or otherwise.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tax Authority means a Governmental Body or political subdivision thereof responsible for the imposition, administration, assessment, or collection of any Tax (domestic or foreign) and the agency (if any) charged with the collection or administration of such Tax for such entity or subdivision.
 
Tax Contests has the meaning set forth in Section .
5.5.1
 
Tax Return means any return, declaration, report, claim for refund, estimate, information, rendition, statement or other document pertaining to any Taxes required to be filed with a Governmental Body, and including any attachments or supplements or amendments thereto.
 
Terminated Contracts has the meaning set forth in Section .
2.14.2
 
Terminating Party has the meaning set forth in Section 7.1.
 
Termination Agreement has the meaning set forth in Section .
1.4.10
 
Third Party Claim has the meaning set forth in Section 8.5.2.
 
Transaction Documents means this Agreement, the Assignment and Assumption Agreement, the Unit Assignment, the Transition Agreements, the Termination Agreement, the New Commercial Agreements, the Seller Guaranty, the ACMP Guaranty, the MICP Assumption Agreement, the Master Set-Off Agreement, the Transportation Agreement, the Non-Solicitation Agreement, the Master Confidentiality Agreement and each other Contract, document, certificate or instrument executed and delivered by the Parties in connection with the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby.
 
Transfer Taxes has the meaning set forth in Section 5.8.
 
Transferred Assets has the meaning set forth in the Assignment and Assumption Agreement.
 
Transferred Asset Assignment means the Assignment of Contracts that is attached to the Assignment and Assumption Agreement as Exhibit E-5.
 
Transferred Equity has the meaning set forth in Section .
4.6
 
Transition Agreements means the Amended Transition Agreement, dated as of the Closing Date, that is substantially in the form attached hereto as a Transition Services Agreement, dated as of the Closing Date, that is substantially in the form attached hereto as , an Operating Agreement, dated as of the Closing Date, that is substantially in the form attached hereto as , and a Transition Services Agreement, dated as of November 30, 2012, attached hereto as .
Exhibit D-1,
Exhibit D-2
Exhibit D-3
Exhibit D-4
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Transition Services Agreement means that certain Letter Agreement dated June 15, 2012 (as amended) by and among others, certain Chesapeake Entities and Access MLP Operating L.L.C.
 
Transportation Agreement has the meaning set forth in Section 1.4.15.
 
Unaudited Financial Statements has the meaning set forth in Section .
2.17.1
 
Unit Assignment has the meaning set forth in Section .
1.4.2
 
Units has the meaning set forth in the Preliminary Statements to this Agreement.
 
U.S. Sanctions means any economic or trade sanction that OFAC is responsible for administering and enforcing.  A list of OFAC Sanctions Programs may be found at http://www.ustreas.gov/offices/enforcement/ofac/programs/.
 
Wholly-Owned Subsidiaries has the meaning set forth in Section .
2.4.2
 
11.
 
Construction
. Without limiting the provisions set forth in Section , the Parties intend that each representation, warranty, and agreement contained in this Agreement shall have independent significance.  The tables of contents and headings preceding the text of articles and sections included in this Agreement and the headings to the schedules and exhibits are for convenience only and are not to be deemed part of this Agreement or given effect in interpreting this Agreement. References to sections, articles, schedules, or exhibits are to the sections, articles, schedules, and exhibits contained in, referred to by or attached to this Agreement, unless otherwise specified. The words include, includes, and including in this Agreement mean include/includes/including without limitation. The words hereof, hereto, hereby, herein and hereunder and words of similar import when used in this Agreement refer to this Agreement as a whole and not to any particular section, article or provision of this Agreement.  All terms defined in this Agreement have the meanings set forth herein when used in any certificate or other document made or delivered pursuant hereto, unless otherwise defined therein. The use of or is not intended to be exclusive unless expressly indicated otherwise. All references to $, currency, monetary values, and dollars set forth herein shall mean United States (U.S.) dollars. When any Party may take any permissive action, including the granting of a consent, the waiver of any provision of this Agreement, or otherwise, the decision of such Party whether to take such action shall be in such Partys sole and absolute discretion.  The use of the masculine, feminine, or neuter gender or the singular or plural form of words shall not limit any provisions of this Agreement. Any reference to a statute refers to the statute, any amendments or successor legislation, and all regulations promulgated under or implementing the statute, as in effect at the relevant time. Except with respect to Section 2.6.1, the phrase delivered or made available, and phrases of similar import, when used in Section  with reference to any Contracts, other documents, or other materials, means that the Seller Parties have delivered such Contracts, other documents, or materials, or to the extent applicable, copies thereof, to the Buyer or have made copies of such Contracts, other documents or materials available in electronic format prior to the date hereof on the virtual data room established by the Seller Parties in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and the other Transaction
8.4.8
2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Documents.  With respect to Section 2.6.1, the phrase made available means that the Buyer or one of its Affiliates or representatives has had the opportunity prior to the date hereof to review such documents or materials at the offices of the Seller or its Affiliates.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned have executed or caused to be executed on their behalf this Unit Purchase Agreement as of the date first above written.
 
BUYER:
EXECUTED UNDER SEAL
ACCESS MIDSTREAM PARTNERS, L.P.
By:
ACCESS MIDSREAM PARTNERS GP,
L. L.C., its General Partner
By:                                                                           
/s/ J. Michael Stice                           
Name:                                                                            
J. Michael Stice                           
Title:                                                                            
Chief Executive Officer                   
 
 
 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned have executed or caused to be executed on their behalf this Unit Purchase Agreement as of the date first above written.
 
SELLER:
EXECUTED UNDER SEAL
CHESAPEAKE MIDSTREAM DEVELOPMENT, L.L.C.
By:                                         
                                  
/s/ Domenic J. DellOsso, Jr
.
Name:                                         
                                
Domenic J. DellOsso,
Jr.
  
Title:
Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
OKLAHOMA CITY, OKLAHOMA, DECEMBER 11, 2012  Chesapeake Energy Corporation (NYSE:CHK) today announced it has entered into a definitive agreement to sell a substantial majority of its remaining midstream assets to Access Midstream Partners, L.P. (NYSE:ACMP) for approximately $2.16 billion.  These midstream assets are located primarily in the companys Marcellus, Utica, Eagle Ford, Haynesville and Niobrara shale plays. The transaction with Access includes new market-based gathering and processing agreements covering various acreage dedication areas and is expected to close by the end of 2012.
Additionally, the company has recently completed the sale of other midstream assets in Oklahoma and Texas during the 2012 fourth quarter for approximately $175 million.
Finally, Chesapeake anticipates completing the sale of its remaining midstream assets, including Mid-Continent and other assets, by the end of the 2013 first quarter for approximately $425 million, bringing the total of current and anticipated midstream asset sales to $2.75 billion.  Including the approximate $2.125 billion of midstream asset sales completed in the 2012 second and third quarters, the proceeds from the companys midstream exit are anticipated to total approximately $4.875 billion.
Jefferies & Company, Inc. and Goldman, Sachs & Co. are serving as financial advisors to Chesapeake on its midstream transactions.
Aubrey K. McClendon, Chesapeakes Chief Executive Officer, stated, We are pleased to announce further progress towards our asset sale goals for 2012-13.  We look forward to completing additional asset sales and achieving our goals of strengthening our balance sheet, tightening our asset focus and increasing returns to shareholders.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This news release includes forward-looking statements that give our current expectations or forecasts of future events, including the closing of sales of midstream assets.  Although we believe the expectations and forecasts reflected in our forward-looking statements are reasonable, we can give no assurance they will prove to be correct.  They can be affected by inaccurate assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties, and actual results may differ from the expectations expressed.  The sale transaction with Access Midstream Partners, L.P. is subject to closing conditions, and we have not yet entered into definitive agreements for all of our other planned asset sales.  Any of our planned asset sales may not be completed for the amounts expected, in the time frame anticipated or at all.  Our ability to achieve our goals of strengthening our balance sheet, tightening our asset focus and increasing returns to shareholders is dependent to a great extent on closing asset sales as anticipated.  We caution you not to place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this news release, and we undertake no obligation to update this information.
Chesapeake Energy Corporation (NYSE:CHK) is the second-largest producer of natural gas, a Top 15 producer of oil and natural gas liquids and the most active driller of new wells in the U.S.  Headquartered in Oklahoma City, the company's operations are focused on discovering and developing unconventional natural gas and oil fields onshore in the U.S.  Chesapeake owns leading positions in the Eagle Ford, Utica, Granite Wash, Cleveland, Tonkawa, Mississippi Lime and Niobrara unconventional liquids plays and in the Marcellus, Haynesville/Bossier and Barnett unconventional natural gas shale plays.  The company also owns substantial marketing and oilfield services businesses through its subsidiaries Chesapeake Energy Marketing, Inc. and Chesapeake Oilfield Operating, L.L.C.  Further information is available at where Chesapeake routinely posts announcements, updates, events, investor information, presentations and news releases.
www.chk.com

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
CHESAPEAKE ENERGY CORPORATION ANNOUNCES VOLUNTARY
SEPARATION PROGRAM FOR ELIGIBLE EMPLOYEES
 
 
OKLAHOMA CITY, OKLAHOMA, DECEMBER 14, 2012  Chesapeake Energy Corporation (NYSE:CHK) today announced that it has offered a voluntary separation program to certain Chesapeake employees as part of the companys ongoing efforts to improve efficiencies and reduce costs. The voluntary program is being offered to approximately 275 employees who meet criteria based upon a combination of age and years of Chesapeake service.
 
Eligible employees will have 45 days to consider the offer. Those employees who choose to accept the offer will separate from the company in February 2013. The company retains the right to temporarily delay key employees' departures from the company to ensure appropriate staffing levels to meet business needs.
 
Martha A. Burger, Chesapeakes Senior Vice President  Human and Corporate Resources, noted, This program is designed to give our longer-term employees the chance to benefit from their years of service to Chesapeake while furthering our efforts to maximize corporate performance and maintain our leadership role in this competitive and constantly evolving industry.
 
 
Chesapeake Energy Corporation (NYSE:CHK) is the second-largest producer of natural gas, a Top 15 producer of oil and natural gas liquids and the most active driller of new wells in the U.S. Headquartered in Oklahoma City, the company's operations are focused on discovering and developing unconventional natural gas and oil fields onshore in the U.S. Chesapeake owns leading positions in the Eagle Ford, Utica, Granite Wash, Cleveland, Tonkawa, Mississippi Lime and Niobrara unconventional liquids plays and in the Marcellus, Haynesville/Bossier and Barnett unconventional natural gas shale plays. The company also owns substantial marketing and oilfield services businesses through its subsidiaries Chesapeake Energy Marketing, Inc. and Chesapeake Oilfield Operating, L.L.C. Further information is available at www.chk.com where Chesapeake routinely posts announcements, updates, events, investor information, presentations and news releases.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.3
 
 
 
 
OKLAHOMA CITY, OKLAHOMA, DECEMBER 17, 2012  Chesapeake Energy Corporation (NYSE:CHK) today announced that its Board of Directors has declared a $0.0875 per share quarterly dividend that will be paid on January 31, 2013 to common shareholders of record on January 15, 2013.  Chesapeake has approximately 665 million common shares outstanding.  In addition, Chesapeakes Board has declared dividends on its outstanding convertible preferred stock issues, as stated below.
 
 
 
Chesapeake Energy Corporation (NYSE:CHK) is the second-largest producer of natural gas, a Top 15 producer of oil and natural gas liquids and the most active driller of new wells in the U.S.  Headquartered in Oklahoma City, the company's operations are focused on discovering and developing unconventional natural gas and oil fields onshore in the U.S.  Chesapeake owns leading positions in the Eagle Ford, Utica, Granite Wash, Cleveland, Tonkawa, Mississippi Lime and Niobrara unconventional liquids plays and in the Marcellus, Haynesville/Bossier and Barnett unconventional natural gas shale plays.  The company also owns substantial marketing and oilfield services businesses through its subsidiaries Chesapeake Energy Marketing, Inc. and Chesapeake Oilfield Operating, L.L.C.  Further information is available at where Chesapeake routinely posts announcements, updates, events, investor information, presentations and news releases.
www.chk.com
 
 
 
 
 
 


