FILE:CHK/CHK-8K-20120517171539.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
           Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
*
 
           Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
*
 
           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
*
 
           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
*
 
 
 
 
 
Section 2  Financial Information
Item 2.03 Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant.
On May 15, 2012, Chesapeake Energy Corporation (the Company) entered into an Amendment Agreement (the Amendment) to amend the Credit Agreement dated May 11, 2012 (as amended, the Term Loan Credit Agreement) among the Company, as Borrower, Goldman Sachs Bank USA, as Administrative Agent, and Jefferies Finance LLC, as Syndication Agent.
 
The Amendment provides for additional term loans in an aggregate principal amount of $1.0 billion, increasing the total term loans outstanding under the Term Loan Credit Agreement from $3.0 billion to $4.0 billion.  The Amendment closed and the additional term loans thereunder were funded on May 15, 2012.  The Company used the proceeds received to repay indebtedness outstanding under its corporate revolving bank credit facility and for general corporate purposes.
 
The foregoing description of the Amendment does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Amendment filed as Exhibit 4.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Section 7  Regulation FD
 
Item 7.01  Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
On May 15, 2012, the Company issued a press release announcing the additional term loans under the Term Loan Credit Agreement.  A copy of this press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)
 
Exhibits.  See "Exhibit Index" attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K, which is incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date:           May 17, 2012
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 4.1
 
EXECUTION VERSION
AMENDMENT AGREEMENT dated as of May 15, 2012 (this ), to the CREDIT AGREEMENT dated as of May 11, 2012 (the ), among CHESAPEAKE ENERGY CORPORATION, an Oklahoma corporation (the ), GOLDMAN SACHS BANK USA, as Administrative Agent, JEFFERIES FINANCE LLC, as Syndication Agent, and the several banks and other financial institutions or entities from time to time parties thereto (the ).
Amendment
Credit Agreement
Borrower
Lenders
 
WHEREAS, the Lenders have agreed to extend credit to the Borrower under the Credit Agreement on the terms and subject to the conditions set forth therein; and
 
WHEREAS, the Borrower has requested that the Lenders amend the Credit Agreement as contemplated hereby, and the Lenders are willing to amend the Credit Agreement on the terms and subject to the conditions set forth herein;
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual agreements herein contained and other good and valuable consideration, the sufficiency and receipt of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto, which constitute the Borrower and each Agent Bank and each Lender party to the Credit Agreement on the date hereof, hereby agree as follows:
 
SECTION 1.
 
  Capitalized terms used but not otherwise defined herein (including in the recitals hereto) have the meanings assigned to them in the Credit Agreement.
Defined Terms.
 
SECTION 2.
 
  (a)  Notwithstanding any provision of any Loan Document to the contrary, on the first date on which the conditions precedent set forth in paragraph (c) below have been satisfied (the ), Goldman Sachs Bank USA will, without the consent of any other Lender, any Agent Bank or any other Loan Party, make an additional loan in an amount equal to $666,666,666.67 (such additional loan, the ), and Jefferies Finance, LLC will, without the consent of any other Lender, any Agent Bank or any other Loan Party, make an additional loan in an amount equal to $333,333,333.33 (such additional loan, together with the Goldman Loan, the ).  Upon funding, such Additional Loans shall constitute Loans for all purposes under the Loan Documents.
Amendments to the Credit Agreement.
Funding Date
Goldman Loan
Additional Loans
 
(b)  The Loans made on the Funding Date shall initially be Eurodollar Loans having a one month Interest Period commencing on the Funding Date.  The Borrower hereby elects pursuant to of the Credit Agreement to convert all other Loans outstanding on the Funding Date to be Eurodollar Loans having a one month Interest Period commencing on the Funding Date (and each Lender hereby waives the notice period required by such ), so that all the Loans shall constitute a single Eurodollar Tranche.  Effective upon the making of the Additional Loans on the Funding Date, Schedule 1.1 shall be deemed amended to reflect the Loans held by each Lender on the Funding Date.
Section 3.3
Section 3.3
 
(c)  The agreement of each of Goldman Sachs Bank USA, in its capacity as a Lender, and Jefferies Finance, LLC, in its capacity as a Lender, to make the Additional Loans on the Funding Date is subject to the satisfaction of, among other things, the following conditions precedent:
 
(i)
   
.  The Administrative Agent shall have received a guarantee reaffirmation agreement, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to it, executed and delivered by each Subsidiary Guarantor.
Reaffirmation Agreement
 
(ii)
   
.  All governmental and third party approvals necessary or, in the discretion of the Administrative Agent, advisable in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby and the continuing operations of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries shall have been obtained and be in full force and effect, and all applicable waiting periods shall have expired without any action being taken or threatened by any competent authority which would restrain, prevent or otherwise impose adverse conditions on the transactions contemplated hereby.
Approvals
 
 
 
 
 
 
(iii)
   
.  The Lenders and the Administrative Agent shall have received all fees and expenses required to be paid hereunder or under the Arranger Letters as a result of the Additional Loans made on the Funding Date, and all expenses of the Administrative Agent and the Arrangers for which invoices have been presented (including the reasonable fees and expenses of legal counsel), on or before the Funding Date.  All such amounts will be paid with proceeds of the Additional Loans made on the Funding Date and will be reflected in the funding instructions given by the Borrower to the Administrative Agent on or before the Funding Date.
Fees
 
(iv)
   
.  The Administrative Agent shall have received a certificate of each Loan Party, dated the Funding Date, substantially in the form of hereto, with appropriate insertions and attachments.
Closing Certificate
Exhibit
A
 
(v)
   
.  The Administrative Agent shall have received the following executed legal opinions:
Legal Opinions
 
 (A) the legal opinion of Bracewell & Giuliani LLP, counsel to the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, satisfactory in form and substance to the Administrative Agent; and
   
   
 
 (B) the legal opinion of Commercial Law Group, P.C., counsel to the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, satisfactory in form and substance to the Administrative Agent.
   
   
 
   Each such legal opinion shall cover such other matters incident to the transactions contemplated by this Amendment as the Administrative Agent may reasonably require.
   
 
(vi)
   
.  Each of the Lenders shall have received and shall be satisfied with a solvency certificate of a Responsible Officer of the Borrower which shall document the solvency of the Borrower and its subsidiaries after giving effect to the transactions contemplated hereby.
Solvency Certificate
 
(vii)
   
.  Each of the representations and warranties made by any Loan Party in or pursuant to the Loan Documents shall be true and correct in all material respects on and as of such date as if made on and as of such date.
Representations and Warranties
 
(viii)
   
.  No Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing on such date or after giving effect to the extensions of credit requested to be made on such date.
No Default
 
(ix)
   
.  No Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing under and as defined in the Revolving Credit Agreement on the Funding Date or after giving effect to the Additional Loans to be made on the Funding Date.  The Borrower shall have delivered to the administrative agent under the Revolving Credit Agreement, with a copy to the Administrative Agent, the certificates required to be delivered under Section 7.2(k) of the Revolving Credit Agreement and under the corresponding Section of the Borrowers Amended and Restated Facility Agreement dated as of February 4, 2011, in connection with the borrowing of the Additional Loans hereunder.
Revolving Credit Agreement
 
(x)
   
.  The Administrative Agent shall have received a replacement Master Note in the amount of $4,000,000,000.
Master Note
 
(xi)
   
.  The Borrower shall have paid all interest accrued on the Loans made on the Closing Date from the Closing Date through the day immediately preceding the Funding Date (and such payment of interest shall be taken into account in determining the amount of interest payable on the first Interest Payment Date to occur under the Credit Agreement).
Payment of Interest
 
 
 
 
 
 
The borrowing by the Borrower on the Funding Date shall constitute a representation and warranty by the Borrower as of the date thereof that the conditions contained in paragraphs , and of this have been satisfied.
(vii)
(viii)
(ix)
Section
2(c)
 
(d)  In the event that the Funding Date shall not have occurred on or prior to May 18, 2012, this Amendment and the other documents delivered pursuant hereto shall terminate and cease to have any effect.
 
SECTION 3.
 
  Subject to Section 2(e) of this Amendment, this Amendment shall become effective on the date (the ) on which the Administrative Agent shall have received duly executed counterparts hereof that, when taken together, bear the authorized signatures of the Borrower and the Lenders.
Effectiveness.
Amendment Effective Date
 
SECTION 4.
 
  (a)  Except as expressly set forth herein, this Amendment shall not by implication or otherwise limit, impair, constitute a waiver of or otherwise affect the rights and remedies of the Lenders or the Administrative Agent under the Credit Agreement or any other Loan Document, and shall not alter, modify, amend or in any way affect any of the terms, conditions, obligations, covenants or agreements contained in the Credit Agreement or any other Loan Document, all of which are ratified and affirmed in all respects and shall continue in full force and effect.  Nothing herein shall be deemed to entitle any Loan Party to a consent to, or a waiver, amendment, modification or other change of, any of the terms, conditions, obligations, covenants or agreements contained in the Credit Agreement or any other Loan Document in similar or different circumstances.
Effect of Amendment.
 
(b)  On and after the Amendment Effective Date, each reference in the Credit Agreement to this Agreement, hereunder, hereof, herein, or words of like import, and each reference to the Credit Agreement in any other Loan Document shall be deemed to be a reference to the Credit Agreement as amended hereby.  This Amendment shall constitute a Loan Document for all purposes of the Credit Agreement and the other Loan Documents.
 
SECTION 5.
 
  THIS AMENDMENT AND THE RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS OF THE PARTIES UNDER THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED AND INTERPRETED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAW OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
Applicable Law.
 
SECTION 6.
 
  This Amendment may be executed in counterparts (and by different parties hereto on different counterparts), each of which shall constitute an original but all of which, when taken together, shall constitute a single contract.  Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Amendment by facsimile or other electronic imaging shall be as effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Amendment.
Counterparts.
 
SECTION 7.
 
  Any provision of this Amendment that is prohibited or unenforceable in any jurisdiction shall, as to such jurisdiction, be ineffective to the extent of such prohibition or unenforceability without invalidating the remaining provisions hereof, and any such prohibition or unenforceability in any jurisdiction shall not invalidate or render unenforceable such provision in any other jurisdiction.
Severability.
 
SECTION 8.
 
  The Section headings used herein are for convenience of reference only, are not part of this Amendment and shall not affect the construction of, or be taken into consideration in interpreting, this Amendment.
Headings.
 
SECTION 9.
 
  Without limiting the Borrowers obligations under Section 10.5 of the Credit Agreement, the Borrower agrees to reimburse the Administrative Agent for its reasonable and documented out-of-pocket expenses in connection with this Amendment, including the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP, counsel for the Administrative Agent.
Administrative Agents Expenses.
 
 
 
 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Amendment to be duly executed by their respective authorized officers as of the date first above written.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
OKLAHOMA CITY, OKLAHOMA, MAY 15, 2012 -- Chesapeake Energy Corporation (NYSE:CHK) today announced it has increased the size of a previously announced unsecured term loan from Goldman Sachs Bank USA and affiliates of Jefferies Group, Inc. from $3.0 billion to $4.0 billion based on strong investor demand.  The loan was syndicated to a large group of institutional investors and priced at 97% of par.  The net proceeds of the loan to Chesapeake, after customary fees and syndication costs, of approximately $3.8 billion will be used to repay borrowings under the companys existing corporate revolving credit facility and for general corporate purposes.  The loan carries an initial variable annual interest rate through December 31, 2012 of LIBOR plus 7.0%, which is currently 8.5% given the 1.5% LIBOR floor in the loan agreement.  The loan, which ranks pari passu with Chesapeakes outstanding senior notes, matures on December 2, 2017 and may be repaid at any time in 2012 without penalty at par value.
Chesapeake expects to use a portion of the proceeds from planned asset sales to repay the loan in full before the end of 2012.  Giving effect to the increase in the size of the loan, the company currently has more than $4.7 billion of liquidity including unrestricted cash on hand and available borrowing capacity under its revolving bank credit facilities.
 
Aubrey K. McClendon, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, said, We appreciate this strong vote of confidence from investors.  As discussed in yesterdays conference call, this will give us greatly enhanced financial flexibility to execute our planned asset sales from a position of strength and to complete our transformation from a natural gas-focused producer to a more balanced liquids-focused producer.
Chesapeake Energy Corporation (NYSE:CHK) is the second-largest producer of natural gas, a Top 15 producer of oil and natural gas liquids and the most active driller of new wells in the U.S.  Headquartered in Oklahoma City, the company's operations are focused on discovering and developing unconventional natural gas and oil fields onshore in the U.S.  Chesapeake owns leading positions in the Marcellus, Haynesville, Bossier, and Barnett natural gas shale plays and in the Eagle Ford, Utica, Mississippi Lime, Granite Wash, Cleveland, Tonkawa, Niobrara, Bone Spring, Avalon, Wolfcamp and Wolfberry unconventional liquids plays.  The company has also vertically integrated its operations and owns substantial marketing, midstream and oilfield services businesses directly and indirectly through its subsidiaries Chesapeake Energy Marketing, Inc., Chesapeake Midstream Development, L.P. and Chesapeake Oilfield Services, L.L.C. and its affiliate Chesapeake Midstream Partners, L.P. (NYSE:CHKM).  Further information is available at where Chesapeake routinely posts announcements, updates, events, investor information, presentations and news releases.
www.chk.com
This news release includes "forward-looking statements" that give Chesapeake's current expectations.  Although we believe the expectations reflected in our forward-looking statements are reasonable, we can give no assurance they will prove to have been correct.  They can be affected by inaccurate assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties, and actual results may differ from the expectation expressed.  We may be unable to complete our planned asset monetizations as scheduled or at all, and they may not generate the proceeds we are anticipating.  In such event, we would be required to seek funds to repay the term loan from other sources, including alternative asset monetizations.  Our ability to consummate asset monetizations is dependent upon market conditions and other factors beyond our control.  We caution you not to place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this news release, and we undertake no obligation to update this information.
 


