ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following provides information that management believes is relevant to an assessment and understanding of the consolidated results of operations and financial condition of Newmont Mining Corporation and its subsidiaries (collectively, Newmont or the Company). The discussion should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying Notes. References to A$ refer to Australian currency, CDN$ to Canadian currency and US$ or $ to United States Currency. Accounting Changes During the third quarter of 2002, Newmont changed its accounting policy, retroactive to January 1, 2002, with respect to depreciation, depletion and amortization (DD&A) of Property, Plant and Equipment to exclude future estimated development costs expected to be incurred for certain underground operations. Previously, the Company had included these costs and associated reserves in its DD&A calculations at certain of its underground mining operations. In addition, the Company further revised its policy such that costs incurred to access specific ore blocks or areas that only provide benefit over the life of that area are depreciated, depleted or amortized over the reserves associated with the specific ore area. These changes were made to better match DD&A with the associated ounces of gold sold and to remove the inherent uncertainty in estimating future development costs in arriving at DD&A rates. The cumulative effect of this change in accounting principle through December 31, 2001 increased net income during the year ended December 31, 2002 by $7.7 million, net of tax of $4.1 million, and increased net income per share by $0.02. The effect of the change in 2002 was to increase DD&A expense by $1.3 million and decrease net income by $0.8 million for the year. If the change had been in effect for 2001 and 2000, the pro forma effect of the change would have reduced DD&A expense by $2.0 million and $0.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2001 and 2000, respectively, and would have decreased the net loss by $1.3 million and $0.6 million for the same periods. There was no pro forma impact to earnings per share in either 2001 or 2000. Restructuring On February 13, 2002, Newmont stockholders approved adoption of an Agreement and Plan of Merger that provided for a restructuring of Newmont to facilitate the February 2002 acquisitions described below and to create a flexible corporate structure. Newmont merged with an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary that resulted in Newmont (or Old Newmont) becoming a direct, wholly owned subsidiary of a newly formed holding company. The new holding company, previously a direct, wholly owned subsidiary of Old Newmont, was renamed Newmont Mining Corporation. There was no impact to the Consolidated Financial Statements of Newmont as a result of this restructuring and former stockholders of Old Newmont became stockholders of the new holding company. Old Newmont was subsequently renamed Newmont USA Limited. Mergers and Acquisitions Normandy Mining Limited and Franco Nevada Mining Corporation Limited On February 16, 2002, pursuant to a Canadian Plan of Arrangement, Newmont acquired 100% of Franco Nevada Mining Corporation Limited (Franco Nevada) in a stock for stock transaction in which Franco Nevada common stockholders received 0.8 of a share of Newmont common stock, or 0.8 of a Canadian exchangeable share (exchangeable for Newmont common), for each common share of Franco Nevada. The exchangeable shares are substantially equivalent to Newmont common shares. On February 20, 2002, Newmont obtained control of Normandy Mining Limited (Normandy) through a tender offer for all of the ordinary shares of Normandy. For accounting purposes, the effective date of the Normandy acquisition was the close of business on February 15, 2002, when Newmont received an irrevocable tender from shareholders for more than 50% of the outstanding shares of Normandy. Accordingly, the results of operations of Normandy and Franco Nevada have been included in the accompanying financial statements from February 16, 2002 forward. On February 26, 2002, when the tender offer for Normandy expired, Newmont controlled more than 96% of Normandys outstanding shares. Newmont exercised its rights to acquire the remaining shares of Normandy in April 2002. Consideration 49 Table of Contents paid for Normandy included 3.85 shares of Newmont common stock for every 100 ordinary shares of Normandy (including ordinary shares represented by American depository receipts) plus A$0.50 per Normandy share, or the U.S. dollar equivalent of that amount for Normandy stockholders outside Australia. Normandy was Australias largest gold company with interests in 16 development stage or operating mining properties worldwide. Franco Nevada was the worlds leading precious minerals royalty company and had interests in other investments in the mining industry. Following the February 2002 acquisitions, Normandy was renamed Newmont Australia Limited (NAL) and Franco Nevada was renamed Newmont Mining Corporation of Canada Limited. The purchase price for these acquisitions totaled $4.3 billion, composed of 197.0 million Newmont shares (or share equivalents), $461.7 million in cash and approximately $90.3 million of direct costs. The value of Newmont shares (or share equivalents) was $19.01 per share based on the average market price of the shares over the two day period before and after January 2, 2002, the last trading day before the final and revised terms for the Normandy and Franco Nevada acquisitions were announced. The combination of Newmont, Normandy and Franco Nevada was designed to create a platform for growth and for delivering superior returns to shareholders. With a larger global operating base, a broad and balanced portfolio of development projects and a stable income stream from mineral royalties and investments, the combined company will have opportunities to optimize returns, realize synergies through rationalization of corporate overhead and exploration programs, realize operating efficiencies, reduce operating and procurement costs and reduce interest expense and income taxes. The acquisitions resulted in approximately $3.0 billion of goodwill primarily related to the merchant banking business, the combined global exploration programs and expertise, and the synergies discussed above. The acquisitions were accounted for using the purchase method of accounting whereby assets acquired and liabilities assumed were recorded at their fair market values as of the date of acquisition. The excess of the purchase price over such fair value was recorded as goodwill. In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, goodwill was assigned to specific reporting units. Goodwill and other identifiable intangibles not subject to amortization will be reviewed for possible impairment at least annually or more frequently when an event or change in circumstances indicates that a reporting units carrying amount is greater than its fair value. In conjunction with the preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements for 2002, the Company finalized the purchase price allocation for the Normandy and Franco Nevada acquisitions. The final purchase price allocation resulted in an increase in goodwill from approximately $2.6 billion to approximately $3.0 billion. The Company anticipates synergies from its business combination with Normandy and Franco Nevada to approximate $75 million annually commencing in 2003. More than half of such synergies are expected to come from tax and interest savings, and the remainder is expected to come from the rationalization of corporate overhead and exploration and development budgets, as well as operating and procurement efficiencies. From February 15, 2002 through December 31, 2002, the Company realized more than half of the expected annual synergy amount. Battle Mountain Gold Company On January 10, 2001, Newmont completed a merger with Battle Mountain Gold Company (Battle Mountain) pursuant to an agreement and plan of merger, dated June 21, 2000, under which each share of common stock of Battle Mountain and each exchangeable share of Battle Mountain Canada Ltd. (a wholly owned subsidiary of Battle Mountain) was converted into the right to receive 0.105 share of Newmont, or approximately 24.1 million shares. Newmont also exchanged 2.3 million shares of newly issued $3.25 convertible preferred stock for all outstanding shares of Battle Mountain $3.25 convertible preferred stock. The merger was accounted for as a pooling of interests, and as such, the Consolidated Financial Statements include Battle Mountains financial data as if Battle Mountain had always been part of Newmont. During 2001, Newmont successfully integrated the former Battle Mountain operations in Canada and Bolivia, the Phoenix development project in Nevada, and its interest in the Pajingo joint venture operation in 50 Table of Contents Australia. Synergies in excess of the estimated $25 million, pre tax, were achieved during 2001 from consolidation of administrative and exploration staffs, purchasing economies and application of Gold Medal Performance, Newmonts internal process improvement program. The Phoenix project will provide an opportunity for additional synergies in future years from utilization of existing nearby processing facilities. Critical Accounting Policies Listed below are the accounting policies that the Company believes are critical to its financial statements due to the degree of uncertainty regarding the estimates or assumptions involved and the magnitude of the asset, liability, revenue or expense being reported. Carrying Value of Goodwill. At December 31, 2002, the carrying value of the Companys goodwill was approximately $3.0 billion. Such goodwill has been assigned to the Companys Merchant Banking (approximately $1.6 billion) and Exploration (approximately $1.1 billion) Segments and to various mine site reporting units (approximately $300 million in the aggregate). As further described in Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, this goodwill arose in connection with the Companys February 15, 2002 acquisition of Normandy and Franco Nevada, and it represents the excess of the aggregate purchase price over the fair value of the identifiable net assets of Normandy and Franco Nevada. Such goodwill was assigned to reporting units in a reasonable, supportable and consistent manner based on independent valuations performed by Behre Dolbear. In this regard, the Companys approach to allocating goodwill was to identify those reporting units of the Company that the Company believed had contributed to such excess purchase price. The Company then engaged Behre Dolbear to perform valuations to measure the incremental increases in the fair values of such reporting units, which were attributable to the acquisitions, and which were not already captured in the fair values assigned to such units identifiable net assets. In the case of the Merchant Banking and Exploration Segments, these valuations were based on each reporting units potential for future growth, and in the case of the mine site reporting units, the valuation was based on the synergies that were expected to be realized by each mine site reporting unit. The Company evaluates, on at least an annual basis, the carrying amount of goodwill to determine whether current events and circumstances indicate that such carrying amount may no longer be recoverable. To accomplish this, the Company compares the fair value of its reporting units to their carrying amounts. If the carrying value of a reporting unit was to exceed its fair value, the Company would perform the second step of the impairment test. In the second step, the Company would compare the implied fair value of the reporting units goodwill to its carrying amount and any excess would be charged to operations. Assumptions underlying fair value estimates are subject to risks and uncertainties. The specific application of the Companys goodwill impairment policy with respect to the Merchant Banking Segment, Exploration Segment and mine site reporting units are separately discussed below. Merchant Banking Segment Goodwill. The assignment of goodwill to the Merchant Banking Segment was based on the assumption that, following the acquisition, the Merchant Banking Segment would continue to earn long term investment returns consistent with the historical returns on capital earned by Franco Nevada during the eleven years prior to the acquisition. It was further assumed that the Merchant Banking Segment, which is led by former senior executives of Franco Nevada, would seek to earn such returns from various transactions such as mergers, acquisitions, joint ventures, investments in royalty interests, the disposal of interests in mining projects and other investing and financing related transactions. The amount of goodwill assigned to the Merchant Banking Segment as of the acquisition date was intended to represent the incremental increase in the value of the Merchant Banking Segment as a result of the acquisition, and was based on a discounted cash flow analysis that assumed (i) an initial investment of $300 million; (ii) additional annual investments of $50 million commencing in year two of a seven year time horizon; (iii) an average long term after tax return of 37.3%; (iv) the immediate reinvestment of average annual returns; and (v) discount rates ranging from 8% to 9%. The assumed initial and additional investments were based on Franco Nevadas historical asset base and investing experience, and managements judgment as to what investment levels could be expected to continue in the future. While the Company expects the actual investments of the Merchant Banking Segment to be made on a sporadic basis as investment opportunities present themselves, the Company assumed an additional annual investment level of $50 million for valuation modeling purposes. The Company believes that the $50 million additional annual investment level assumed for modeling purposes is reasonable given the 51 Table of Contents equivalent probability of investing more or less than that average amount in any given period based upon timing of attractive investment opportunities. The February 15, 2002 valuation model assumes that the investments and related returns thereon will ultimately increase to a value of approximately $3.8 billion at the end of the seven year period. Such value would have represented 37% of the Companys total assets at December 31, 2002. Asset growth of this magnitude is consistent with Franco Nevadas historical experience. The 37.3% long term after tax return assumed for this analysis represented the average return on capital deployed by the merchant banking unit of Franco Nevada during the eleven years prior to its acquisition by the Company. For purposes of this return calculation, the denominator excluded capital associated with Franco Nevadas cash and gold bullion balances and the numerator excluded the interest income generated by such cash balances due to the fact that Franco Nevadas cash and gold bullion balances did not represent amounts invested by Franco Nevadas merchant banking unit. Throughout this eleven year historical period, Franco Nevadas cash and gold bullion balances represented a significant portion of Franco Nevadas total assets. Accordingly, if cash and gold bullion balances and interest income had been included, the calculated return would have been 15%, a significantly lower return than the 37.3% return that was in fact used to value the goodwill of the Merchant Banking Segment. In order to assess future returns in relation to the 37.3% return assumed for goodwill allocation purposes, the Company will track annualized returns on investments, on an individual and aggregate basis, based upon realized and unrealized value changes from inception of each investment. The Company expects to fund investments as opportunities arise and therefore it is likely that investments in the Merchant Banking Segment will fall short of or exceed the assumed annual investment level of $50 million in any given year. To the extent that the Merchant Banking Segment falls short of the assumed annual additional investment of $50 million per year or the Company otherwise falls short of the targeted portfolio value, the Company would need to achieve increases in its future investment levels, returns and or other factors impacting the valuation sufficient to fully offset any such shortfalls in invested capital and returns thereon in order to replicate the value assigned to the Merchant Banking Segment goodwill on February 15, 2002. In this regard, the Company would need to invest an average of approximately $82 million annually in years three through seven if the Company were not to make any new investments in year two (i.e., 2003) assuming all other valuation assumptions were held constant. Similarly, to the extent that the Company does not realize and reinvest investment returns that are at least equal to the 37.3% annual returns assumed for purposes of the February 15, 2002 valuation, the Company would need to achieve increases in future returns, investment levels and or other factors impacting the valuation in order to replicate the value assigned to the Merchant Banking Segment goodwill on February 15, 2002. For example, if the Company had decreased its return assumption by one percentage point to 36.3% or by 10 percentage points to 27.3% in the February 15, 2002 valuation, the $1.625 billion value assigned to the Merchant Banking Segment goodwill at February 15, 2002 would have decreased by approximately $96 million or $805 million, respectively, from the value determined in the February 15, 2002 valuation, assuming all other valuation assumptions were held constant. Moreover, as the expected period between the initial investment and the ultimate realization of a return by the Merchant Banking Segment is generally greater than one year, and given that the February 15, 2002 model assumes that returns are realized and reinvested on an annual basis, the Merchant Banking Segment will likely need to achieve returns in excess of the assumed 37.3% return in order to replicate the value assigned to the Merchant Banking Segment goodwill on February 15, 2002 assuming all other valuation assumptions are held constant. Although the Company believes that February 15, 2002 valuation provided a reasonable and supportable basis for the allocation of goodwill to the Merchant Banking Segment, the Company recognizes that, due to the opportunistic nature of the Merchant Banking Segments business, future returns and investment levels are not easily predicted. Accordingly, future results may vary significantly from the investments and returns assumed for purposes of this discounted cash flow analysis. For purposes of performing its annual goodwill impairment test, the Company will perform an analysis to determine the fair value of the Merchant Banking Segment. The fair value derived from this valuation process, together with the fair value of the identifiable net assets of the Merchant Banking Segment, will be considered by the Company in the first step of its impairment test, which test requires the Company to compare the aggregate carrying value of the identifiable net assets and goodwill of the Merchant Banking Segment to the aggregate fair 52 Table of Contents value of such identifiable net assets and goodwill. At December 31, 2002, the $1.625 billion carrying value of the Merchant Banking Segment goodwill represented 74% of the carrying value of the total assets of the Merchant Banking Segment. At December 31, 2002, the fair value of the portfolio of investments/assets that fell within the Merchant Banking Segments responsibilities was $310 million. From February 15, 2002 through December 31, 2002, the Merchant Banking Segment did not make any additional investments in this portfolio as the focus of the Merchant Banking Segment during this period was on asset rationalization and dispositions of the Companys non core assets. Given that the February 15, 2002 discounted cash flow analysis did not assume that a $50 million investment would be made in year one (i.e., 2002), and that the Company fully expects the level of new investments attributable to the Merchant Banking Segment to vary from year to year based on available opportunities, the Company does not view the lack of investment in 2002 as an indication that the Companys new investments in the Merchant Banking Segments portfolio will not average at least $50 million over the assumed seven year time horizon. Notwithstanding the fact that no investments were made, and no significant returns were realized, by the Merchant Banking Segment during 2002, the Company concluded that the goodwill of the Merchant Banking Segment was not impaired as of December 31, 2002 based on its review of the continued validity of the assumptions underlying the February 15, 2002 valuation model and its assessment of the fair values of the other assets and liabilities of the Merchant Banking Segment. Most notably, the Company concluded that (i) the 37.3% return assumed for purposes of the February 15, 2002 valuation was valid at December 31, 2002 because the value of the Companys investment in Echo Bay had appreciated by approximately 40.7% (34% on an estimated after tax basis) from February 15, 2002 through December 31, 2002 consistent with the 37.3% assumed return with such appreciation being substantially realized in January 2003 as a result of the merger of Kinross, Echo Bay and TVX Gold; (ii) the assumed investment levels continued to be valid in light of the Companys commitment to fund Merchant Banking Segment investments and other activities, and its expectation that investments will occur sporadically as opportunities arise; and (iii) the aggregate fair value of the other assets and liabilities of the Merchant Banking Segment exceeded their carrying value at December 31, 2002. In light of the foregoing, the Company concluded that the fair value of the Merchant Banking Segment exceeded its carrying value at December 31, 2002, and accordingly that the Merchant Banking Segment goodwill was not impaired as of that date. For purposes of valuing the Merchant Banking Segment at December 31, 2003 and at future fiscal year ends, the Company expects that the valuation model will be reevaluated and enhanced to acknowledge the evolving activities and objectives of the Merchant Banking Segment. In this regard, the key drivers of such future valuations are expected to include (i) expected future long term investment returns, adjusted for Company specific and market driven factors, (ii) expected economic value to be added by the Merchant Banking Segment in addition to such investment returns, (iii) the level of capital accessible by the Merchant Banking Segment, and (iv) other relevant facts and circumstances. To determine the appropriate returns, investment levels and other assumptions for purposes of this analysis, the Company will (i) review the expected or actual returns from transactions that were initiated and or completed since the last impairment test, (ii) assess the actual economic values added by other Merchant Banking Segment activities since the last impairment test, and (iii) assess the ongoing appropriateness of all assumptions impacting the valuation based on then current conditions and expectations. The Company believes that any model used to value the Merchant Banking Segment will need to take into account the relatively long time horizon required to evaluate the investment returns and other economic value added activities of the Merchant Banking Segment. As such, in the absence of any mitigating valuation factors or triggering events, which are described below, the Company believes that a sustained period of approximately three years in which the Merchant Banking Segments actual investment levels, returns or economic values added fall significantly below those levels necessary to support the carrying value of the Merchant Banking Segment would likely result in a reduction of the value assigned to the Merchant Banking Segments growth potential and, in the absence of any offsetting increase in the aggregate fair value of the Merchant Banking Segments other net assets, an impairment of the Merchant Banking Segment goodwill. A high degree of judgment is involved in determining the assumptions and estimates that are used to determine the fair value of the Merchant Banking Segment. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that actual results will not differ significantly from the corresponding assumptions and estimates. For every 10% reduction 53 Table of Contents in the valuation of goodwill below the amount assigned to the Merchant Banking Segment at the acquisition date, the Company would expect to record a non cash goodwill impairment charge of approximately $162.5 million. If a triggering event were to occur that could reasonably be expected to result in an impairment of the carrying value of the Merchant Banking Segment, the Company would be required to test the goodwill assigned to the Merchant Banking Segment as of the end of the reporting period in which any such event occurred. The Company believes that triggering events with respect to the Merchant Banking Segment could include, but are not limited to, (i) the Companys partial or complete withdrawal of financial support for the Merchant Banking Segment; (ii) a significant reduction in managements long term expectation of the price of gold given the adverse effect such a development could have on the fair values of the Merchant Banking Segments investment and royalty interest portfolios and the Merchant Banking Segments prospects for future growth; (iii) the divestiture of a significant portion of the Merchant Banking Segments investment portfolio together with managements determination to not fund the replenishment of such portfolio for the foreseeable future; and (iv) any other event that might adversely affect the ability of the Merchant Banking Segment to consummate transactions that create value for the Company. The Company currently has no plans to withdraw financial support for the Merchant Banking Segment. For a discussion of the results of operations of the Merchant Banking Segment, see Results of Operations, Merchant Banking Segment below. Exploration Segment Goodwill. The Exploration Segments primary responsibilities are to (i) discover new gold deposits globally and regionally outside of the vicinity of any of the Companys existing mining operations or development projects, (ii) discover new deposits in an existing operating district or project development area, and (iii) provide exploration advice for the purpose of optimizing reserve extensions in areas surrounding existing mines and advancing non reserve mineralization into economically mineable reserves. The assignment of goodwill to the Exploration Segment was based on the assumption that, following the acquisition, the Exploration Segment would continue Normandys historical level of increasing proven and probable reserves through new discoveries by combining Normandys exploration culture, philosophy, expertise and methodologies with those of Newmont. The amount of goodwill assigned to the Exploration Segment as of the acquisition date was intended to represent the incremental increase in the value of the Exploration Segment as a result of the acquisition, and was based on a discounted cash flow analysis that assumed (i) 1.6 million recoverable ounces of additions to proven and probable reserves through new discoveries in the first year following the acquisition; (ii) an annual growth rate for such reserve additions of 23.1% over a ten year period; (iii) a fair value for each recoverable ounce of reserve additions of approximately $58; and (iv) a discount rate of 15%. The assumed additions to reserves in the first year and the growth rate were based on Normandys annual reserve additions and its average 33% historical growth rate in reserve additions during the 11 year period prior to the acquisition, and managements expectation of the growth rate and levels of reserve additions that could be expected to continue in the future as a result of the Normandy acquisition. In this regard, the February 15, 2002 valuation assumes that a total of approximately 49 million ounces would be added to proven and probable reserves during the ten year period following the acquisition. This compares to 20 million and 56 million ounces added to proven and probable reserves by Normandy and Newmont, respectively, during the ten years prior to the acquisition. Assuming exploration costs of $13 per ounce, the Company would need to spend approximately $637 million over the next ten years to discover the 49 million ounces that the February 15, 2002 valuation assumed would be added to proven and probable reserves. Subject to any significant adverse change in the Companys long term view of gold prices, the Company has both the ability and intent to provide at least $637 million of funding to the Exploration Segment over the next ten years. The fair value of the reserve additions was based in part on an assumed gold price of $300 per ounce, which represented Newmonts assessment of the long term price of gold as of the acquisition date. Although the Company believes that this discounted cash flow analysis provides a reasonable and supportable basis for the allocation of goodwill to the Exploration Segment, the Company recognizes that, due to the nature of the Exploration Segments business, the timing, quantity and value of future reserve additions are not easily predicted. In this regard, decreasing the assumed 23.1% growth rate for reserve additions by one percentage point to 22.1% and by 10 percentage points to 13.1% would result in a decrease of approximately $45 million and $365 million, respectively, in the value determined by the February 15, 2002 valuation assuming all other valuation assumptions were held constant. In addition, decreasing the long term gold price assumption from $300 by one percentage point to $297 and by 10% to $270 would result in a decrease 54 Table of Contents of approximately $45 million and $444 million, respectively, in the value determined by the February 15, 2002 valuation assuming all other valuation assumptions were held constant. Changes to other valuation assumptions, such as annual reserve additions, discount rates, tax rates, operating costs, capital expenditures and the time horizon would have impacted the value determined by the February 15, 2002 valuation. Accordingly, future results may vary significantly from the reserve additions, values and other assumptions underlying the February 15, 2002 valuation. For purposes of performing its annual goodwill impairment test, the Company will perform an analysis to determine the fair value of the Exploration Segment. In this regard, the Company will review the Exploration Segments actual performance in generating additions to proven and probable reserves to assess the ongoing appropriateness of all assumptions impacting the valuation, including assumptions affecting the fair value of such reserve additions (taking into account, among other factors, the impact of changes in gold prices and U.S. dollar costs) based on then current conditions and expectations. In this regard, all internally generated proven and probable reserve additions are attributed to the Exploration Segment to the extent that such additions are derived from (i) a discovery made by the Company or Normandy, or (ii) previously acquired properties as a result of exploration efforts conducted subsequent to the acquisition date. All known reserves are assigned to operating mines and or development stage properties and as such are excluded from the valuation of the Exploration Segment. In addition, the value of expected reserve additions which were assigned a value in purchase accounting are also excluded from the Exploration Segments valuation. During 2002, the Company recorded 9.3 million ounces of internally generated additions to proven and probable reserves, of which 8.8 million ounces were attributable to the Exploration Segment. Of the ounces attributable to the Exploration Segment, 48% were previously valued as non reserve mineralization in the Normandy purchase accounting. The fair value derived from the Exploration Segments valuation process, together with the fair value of the identifiable net assets of the Exploration Segment, will be considered by the Company in the first step of its impairment test, which test requires the Company to compare the aggregate carrying value of the identifiable net assets and goodwill of the Exploration Segment to the corresponding aggregate fair value of such net assets and goodwill. For every 10% reduction in the valuation of such goodwill below the amount assigned to the Exploration Segment at the acquisition date, the Company would expect to record a non cash goodwill impairment charge of approximately $113 million. The Company believes that any model used to value the Exploration Segment will need to take into account the relatively long time horizon required to evaluate the activities of the Exploration Segment. As such, in the absence of any mitigating valuation factors, the Company believes that a sustained period of approximately three years in which additions to proven and probable reserves, or the values associated therewith, fall short of those levels that reasonably could be expected to support the carrying value of the Exploration Segment would likely result in a reduction of the value assigned to the Exploration Segments growth potential and, accordingly, in an impairment of the Exploration Segment goodwill. The Company believes that triggering events with respect to the Exploration Segment could include, but are not limited to, (i) the Companys partial or complete withdrawal of financial support for the Exploration Segment; (ii) a significant decrease in the Companys long term expectation of the price of gold; and (iii) a significant increase in long term capital and operating cost estimates. The Company currently has no plans to withdraw financial support for the Exploration Segment. For a discussion of the results of operations of the Exploration Segment, see Results of Operations, Exploration Segment below. Mine Site Goodwill. The assignment of goodwill to mine site reporting units was based on synergies that were expected to be achieved at each operation. Such synergies are expected to be incorporated into the Companys operations and business plans over time. The amount of goodwill assigned to each segment or reporting unit was based on discounted cash flow analyses that assumed risk adjusted discount rates over the remaining lives of the applicable mining operations. The Company believes that triggering events with respect to the goodwill assigned to mine site reporting units could include, but are not limited to, (i) a significant decrease in the Companys long term expectation of the price of gold, and (ii) any event that might otherwise adversely affect mine site production levels or costs. Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization. Expenditures for new facilities or equipment and expenditures that extend the useful lives of existing facilities or equipment are capitalized and depreciated using the straight 55 Table of Contents line method at rates sufficient to depreciate such costs over the estimated future lives of such facilities or equipment. These lives do not exceed the estimated mine life based on proven and probable reserves as the useful lives of these assets are considered to be limited to the life of the relevant mine. Costs incurred to develop new properties are capitalized as incurred, where it has been determined that the property can be economically developed based on the existence of proven and probable reserves. At the Companys surface mines these costs include costs to further delineate the ore body and remove overburden to initially expose the ore body. At the Companys underground mines, these costs include the cost of building access ways, shaft sinking and access, lateral development, drift development, ramps and infrastructure development. All such costs are amortized using the units of production (UOP) method over the estimated life of the ore body based on recoverable ounces to be mined from proven and probable reserves. Major development costs incurred after the commencement of production are amortized using the UOP method based on estimated recoverable ounces to be mined from proven and probable reserves. Depending upon whether the development is expected to benefit the entire remaining ore body, or specific ore blocks or areas only, the UOP basis is either the life of the entire ore body, or the life of the specific ore block or area. The calculation of the UOP rate of amortization, and therefore the annual amortization charge to operations, could be materially impacted to the extent that actual production in the future is different from current forecasts of production based on proven and probable reserves. This would generally result to the extent that there were significant changes in any of the factors or assumptions used in determining reserves. These factors could include (i) an expansion of proven and probable reserves through exploration activities, (ii) differences between estimated and actual cash costs of mining, due to differences in grade, metal recovery rates and foreign currency exchange rates, and (iii) differences between actual commodity prices and commodity prices assumptions used in the estimation of reserves. Such changes in reserves could similarly impact the useful lives of assets depreciated on a straight line basis, where those lives are limited to the life of the mine, which in turn is limited to the life of the proven and probable reserves. The expected useful lives used in depreciation, depletion and amortization calculations are determined based on applicable facts and circumstances, as described above and in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Significant judgment is involved in the determination of useful lives, and no assurance can be given that actual useful lives will not differ significantly from the useful lives assumed for purpose of depreciation, depletion and amortization calculations. Intangible assets related to mineral interests represent mineral use rights for parcels of land not owned by the Company. The Companys intangible assets include mineral use rights related to production, development or exploration stage properties (each as defined in Note 2 of the Consolidated Financial Statements) and the value of such intangible assets is primarily driven by the nature and amount of mineral interests believed to be contained, or potentially contained, in such properties. The amount capitalized related to a mineral interest represents its fair value at the time it was acquired, either as an individual asset purchase or as a part of a business combination. The straight line amortization of the Companys exploration stage mineral interests is calculated after deducting applicable residual values. At December 31, 2002, such residual values aggregated approximately $494 million. Residual values are determined for each individual property based on the fair value of the exploration stage mineral interest, and the nature of, and the Companys relative confidence in, the mineralized material believed to be contained, or potentially contained, in the underlying property. Such values are based on (i) discounted cash flow analyses for those properties characterized as other mineralized material and around mine exploration potential, and (ii) recent transactions involving similar properties for those properties characterized as other mine related exploration potential and greenfields exploration potential. Based on its knowledge of the secondary market that exists for the purchase and sale of mineral properties, the Company believes that both methods result in a residual value that is representative of the amount that the Company could expect to receive if the property were sold to a third party. Residual values range from zero to 90% of the gross carrying value of the respective exploration stage mineral interests. Significant judgment is 56 Table of Contents involved in the determination of residual values, and no assurance can by given that actual values will not differ significantly from estimated residual values. Refer to Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements under Mineral Interests and Other Intangible Assets for definitions of each class of the Companys mineral interest and other intangible assets. Carrying Value of Long Lived Assets. The Company reviews and evaluates its long lived assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the related carrying amounts may not be recoverable. An asset impairment is considered to exist if the total estimated future cash flows on an undiscounted basis are less than the carrying amount of the asset. An impairment loss is measured and recorded based on discounted estimated future cash flows. Future cash flows are estimated based on estimated quantities of recoverable minerals, expected gold and other commodity prices (considering current and historical prices, price trends and related factors), production levels and cash costs of production, capital and reclamation costs, all based on detailed engineering life of mine plans. The term recoverable minerals refers to the estimated amount of gold or other commodities that will be obtained from proven and probable reserves and all related exploration stage mineral interests, except for other mine related exploration potential and greenfields exploration potential discussed separately below, after taking into account losses during ore processing and treatment. Estimates of recoverable minerals from such exploration stage mineral interests are risk adjusted based on managements relative confidence in such materials. In estimating future cash flows, assets are grouped at the lowest level for which there are identifiable cash flows that are largely independent of future cash flows from other asset groups. With the exception of other mine related exploration potential and greenfields exploration potential, all assets at a particular operation are considered together for purposes of estimating future cash flows. In the case of mineral interests associated with other mine related exploration potential and greenfields exploration potential, cash flows and fair values are individually evaluated based primarily on recent exploration results and recent transactions involving sales of similar properties. Refer to Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements under Mineral Interests and Other Intangible Assets for definitions of each class of the Companys mineral interest and other intangible assets. As discussed above under Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization, various factors could impact the Companys ability to achieve its forecasted production schedules from proven and probable reserves. Additionally, commodity prices, capital expenditure requirements and reclamation costs could differ from the assumptions used in the cash flow models used to assess impairment. The ability to achieve the estimated quantities of recoverable minerals from exploration stage mineral interests involves further risks in addition to those factors applicable to mineral interests where proven and probable reserves have been identified, due to the lower level of confidence that the identified mineralized material can ultimately be mined economically. Assets classified as other mine related exploration potential and greenfields exploration potential have the highest level of risk that the carrying value of the asset can be ultimately realized, due to the still lower level of geological confidence and economic modeling. Material changes to any of these factors or assumptions discussed above could result in future impairment charges to operations. Deferred Stripping Costs. At open pit mines that have diverse grades and waste to ore ratios over the life of the mine, the Company defers and amortizes certain stripping costs, normally associated with the removal of waste rock. The amortization of deferred amounts is determined using the UOP method based on estimated recoverable ounces from proven and probable reserves, and using a stripping ratio calculated as the total tons to be moved over total proven and probable ore reserves. The charge to operations for the amortization of deferred stripping costs could differ materially between reporting periods to the extent that there were material changes to proven and probable reserves as discussed above under Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization. In addition, to the extent that the average ratio of tons of waste that were required to be removed for each ounce of gold differed materially from that which was estimated in the stripping ratio, the actual amortization charged to operations could differ materially between reporting periods. 57 Table of Contents Stockpiles, Ore on Leach Pads and Inventories. Costs that are incurred in or benefit the productive process are accumulated as stockpiles, ore on leach pads and inventories. The Company records stockpiles, ore on leach pads and inventories at the lower of average cost or net realizable value (NRV), and carrying values are evaluated at least quarterly. NRV represents the estimated future sales price of the product based on prevailing and long term metals prices, less estimated costs to complete production and bring the product to sale. The primary factors that influence the need to record write downs of stockpiles, ore on leach pads and inventories include prevailing short term and long term metals prices and prevailing costs for production inputs such as labor, fuel and energy, materials and supplies, as well as realized ore grades and actual production levels. During the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000, write downs of stockpiles, ore on leach pads and inventories to NRV aggregated $44.4 million, $25.1 million, and $32.1 million, respectively. Stockpiles represent coarse ore that has been extracted from the mine and is available for further processing. Stockpiles are measured by estimating the number of tons added and removed from the stockpile, the number of contained ounces based on assay data, and the estimated recovery percentage based on the expected processing method. Stockpile tonnages are verified by periodic surveys. Stockpiles are valued based on mining costs incurred up to the point of stockpiling the ore, including applicable depreciation, depletion and amortization relating to mining operations. Costs are added to a stockpile based on current mining costs and removed at the average cost per recoverable ounce of gold in the stockpile. Stockpiles are reduced as material is removed and fed to mills or placed on leach pads. At December 31, 2002, the Companys stockpiles had a carrying value of $241.1 million. Ore on leach pads represents ore that is placed on pads where it is permeated with a chemical solution that dissolves the gold contained in the ore. The resulting pregnant solution is further processed in a leach plant where the gold is recovered. Costs are added to leach pads based on current mining costs, including applicable depreciation, depletion and amortization relating to mining operations. Costs are removed from the leach pad as ounces are recovered in circuit at the leach plant based on the average cost per recoverable ounce of gold on the leach pad. Estimates of recoverable gold on the leach pads are calculated from the quantities of ore placed on the pads, the grade of ore placed on the leach pads based on assay data and a recovery percentage. Ultimate recovery of gold contained on leach pads can vary from approximately 50% to 70% of the placed recoverable ounces in the first year of leaching, declining each year thereafter until the leaching process is complete. Although the quantities of recoverable gold placed on the leach pads are reconciled by comparing the grades of ore placed on pads to the quantities of gold actually recovered (metallurgical balancing), the nature of the leaching process inherently limits the ability to precisely monitor recoverability levels. As a result, the metallurgical balancing process is constantly monitored and the engineering estimates are refined based on actual results over time. Historically, the Companys operating results have not been materially impacted by variations between the estimated and actual recoverable quantities of gold on its leach pads. Assuming a one percent variation from the Companys current estimates of gold quantities on its leach pads at December 31, 2002, the Company would experience a production variance of approximately 21,000 ounces assuming that none of the variations for individual leach pads offset one another on a consolidated basis. At December 31, 2002, the weighted average cost per recoverable ounce of gold on leach pads was $135 per ounce. Variations between actual and estimated quantities resulting from changes in assumptions and estimates that do not result in write downs to net realizable value are accounted for on a prospective basis. The ultimate recovery of gold from a pad will not be known until the leaching process is terminated. Based on current mine plans, the Company expects to place the last ton of ore on its current leach pads at dates ranging from 2005 to 2015. Including the estimated time required for residual leaching, rinsing and reclamation activities, the Company expects that its leaching operations will terminate within approximately ten years following the date that the last ton of ore is placed on the leach pad. At December 31, 2002, the Companys ore on leach pads had a carrying value of $287.6 million. In process inventories represent materials that are currently in the process of being converted to a saleable product. Conversion processes vary depending on the nature of the ore and the specific mining operation, but include mill in circuit, leach in circuit, flotation and column cells, and carbon in pulp inventories. In process material is measured based on assays of the material fed to process and the projected recoveries of the respective 58 Table of Contents plants. In process inventories are valued at the average cost of the material fed to process attributable to the source material coming from mines, stockpiles or leach pads plus the in process conversion costs, including applicable depreciation relating to the process facility, incurred to that point in the process. At December 31, 2002, the Companys in process inventories had a carrying value of $46.4 million. Precious metals inventories include gold dor&eacute; and or gold bullion. Precious metals that are received as in kind payments of royalties are valued at fair value on the date title is transferred to the Company. Precious metals that result from the Companys mining and processing activities are valued at the average cost of the respective in process inventories incurred prior to the refining process, plus applicable refining costs. The allocation of costs to stockpiles, ore on leach pads and inventories and the determination of NRV involves the use of estimates and assumptions regarding current and future costs, production levels, commodity prices, proven and probable reserve quantities, engineering data and other factors. A high degree of judgment is involved in determining such assumptions and estimates and no assurance can be given that actual results will not differ significantly from the corresponding estimates and assumptions. Financial Instruments. All financial instruments that meet the definition of a derivative are recorded on the balance sheet at fair market value, with the exception of contracts that qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exemption. Changes in the fair market value of derivatives recorded on the balance sheet are recorded in the statements of consolidated operations, except for the effective portion of the change in fair market value of derivatives that are designated as a cash flow hedge and qualify for cash flow hedge accounting. The Companys portfolio of derivatives includes various complex instruments that are linked to gold prices and other factors. Management applies significant judgment in estimating the fair value of instruments that are highly sensitive to assumptions regarding gold and other commodity prices, gold lease rates, market volatilities, foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. Variations in these factors could materially affect amounts credited or charged to operations to reflect the changes in fair market value of derivatives. In addition, certain derivative contracts are accounted for as cash flow hedges, whereby the effective portion of changes in fair market value of these instruments are deferred in other comprehensive income and will be recognized in the statements of consolidated operations when the underlying production designated as the hedged item is sold. All derivative contracts qualifying for hedge accounting are designated against the applicable portion of future production from proven and probable reserves, where management believes the forecasted transaction is probable of occurring. To the extent that management determines that such future production is no longer probable of occurring due to changes in the factors impacting the determination of reserves, as discussed above under Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization, gains and losses deferred in Other comprehensive income would be reclassified to the statements of consolidated operations immediately. Reclamation and Remediation Obligations. The Companys mining and exploration activities are subject to various laws and regulations governing the protection of the environment. The Company charges the cost of reclamation of active mines to operations using the UOP method over the life of the respective mining operation. Refer to Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a complete description of the Companys accounting policy for reclamation and remediation costs and the impact of adopting SFAS 143 Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations which will be adopted by the Company effective January 1, 2003. Accounting for reclamation and remediation obligations requires management to make estimates of the future costs the Company will incur to complete the reclamation and remediation work required to comply with existing laws and regulations. Actual costs incurred in future periods could differ from amounts estimated. Additionally, future changes to environmental laws and regulations could increase the extent of reclamation and remediation work required to be performed by the Company. Any such increases in future costs could materially impact the amounts charged to operations for reclamation and remediation. Carrying Value of Investments. Investments in incorporated entities in which the Companys ownership interest is greater than 20% and less than 50%, or which the Company does not control, are accounted for using the equity method and are included in long term assets. Refer to Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements 59 Table of Contents for a complete description of the Companys equity method investments, and Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of the Companys policy for accounting for its equity method investments. The Company periodically reviews its equity method investments to determine whether a decline in fair value below the carrying amount is other than temporary. In making this determination, the Company considers a number of factors related to the financial condition and prospects of the investee including (i) a decline in the stock price or valuation of the equity investee for an extended period of time, (ii) an inability to recover the carrying amount of the investment or inability of the equity investee to sustain an earnings capacity which would justify the carrying amount of the investment, and (iii) the period of time over which the Company intends to hold the investment. If the decline in fair value is deemed to be other than temporary, the carrying value is written down to fair value. In situations where the fair value of an investment is not evident due to a lack of a public market price or other factors, the Company uses its best estimates and assumptions to arrive at the estimated fair value of such investment, based on future cash flows of the equity investee and other relevant factors. As significant judgment is required in assessing these factors, together with the fact that the underlying mining operations are subject to uncertainties similar to those discussed above in relation to the Company, it is possible that changes in any of these factors in the future could result in an other than temporary decline in value of an equity investment and could require the Company to record an impairment charge to operations in future periods. Deferred Tax Assets. The Company recognizes the future tax benefit expected to be obtained from deferred tax assets when realization of the asset is considered to be more likely than not. Assessing the recoverability of deferred tax assets requires management to make significant estimates related to expectations of future taxable income. Estimates of future taxable income are based on forecasted cash flows from operations and the application of existing tax laws in each jurisdiction. Refer above under Carrying Value of Long Lived Assets for a discussion of the factors that could cause future cash flows to differ from estimates. To the extent that future cash flows and taxable income differ significantly from estimates, the ability of the Company to realize the net deferred tax assets recorded at the balance date could be impacted. Additionally, future changes in tax laws in the jurisdictions in which the Company operates could limit the ability of the Company to obtain tax deductions in future periods from deferred tax assets recorded at the balance date. Summary Newmont recorded net income to common shares of $154.3 million ($0.42 per share, basic) for the year ended December 31, 2002, compared with net losses to common shares of $54.1 million ($0.28 per share) and $97.2 million ($0.51 per share) for the years ended December 31, 2001 and 2000, respectively. Results for 2002 included, after tax, a non cash unrealized mark to market loss on derivatives of $38.3 million ($0.10 per share), a $30.7 million ($0.08 per share) gain on the sale of marketable securities of Lihir, $2.4 million ($0.01 per share) for asset write downs, $10.2 million ($0.03 per share) for prior period income tax benefits and a $7.7 million ($0.02 per share) gain for the cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle. Results for 2001 included after tax, $43.7 million ($0.22 per share) for restructuring and Battle Mountain merger expenses, $21.3 million ($0.11 per share) for asset write downs, $24.8 million ($0.13 per share) for prior period income tax benefits, $3.3 million ($0.02 per share) for foreign currency exchange losses and $1.1 million for a gain on written call options. Results in 2000 included after tax, non cash charges of $28.5 million ($0.15 per share) for asset write downs, $27.4 million ($0.14 per share) for expenses associated with an acquisition settlement, $23.9 million ($0.12 per share) for losses on marketable securities, a $12.6 million ($0.06 per share) loss for the cumulative effect of accounting changes for revenue recognition, $12.4 million ($0.06 per share) for amortization of put option premiums and $4.0 million ($0.02 per share) for foreign currency exchange losses. Also included were after tax charges of $6.9 million ($0.04 per share) for merger expenses and a non cash unrealized mark to market gain on call option contracts of $17.4 million ($0.09 per share). As a largely unhedged company, Newmonts average realized gold price of $313, $271 and $282 per equity ounce sold in 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively, closely tracked the spot market price. At December 31, 2002, 60 Table of Contents approximately 10.3% of Newmonts proven and probable reserves were subject to derivative contracts. At December 31, 2001, less than 4% of Newmonts proven and probable reserves were subject to derivative contracts. Approximately 19% of total estimated gold production in 2003 is subject to gold derivative contracts. Approximately 15% of estimated production in 2003 is subject to committed gold forward sales contracts and other similar instruments and approximately 5% is subject to uncommitted gold put option contracts and other similar instruments. The percentages of total estimated production subject to gold derivative contracts in 2004 and 2005 are approximately equal to the 2003 percentage. The percentage of total estimated production subject to gold derivative contracts in 2006 and 2007 are approximately 7%. Gold derivative contracts with respect to approximately 15% of the total gold ounces that are subject to such contracts mature in each year from 2003 through 2005 such that, in the aggregate, approximately 45% mature during that three year period. An additional 11% mature between 2006 and 2007 and the remainder mature thereafter through 2011. Newmont currently expects to extract and produce the proven and probable reserves identified at December 31, 2002 through the year 2020. In 2002, gold sales increased to 7.63 million equity ounces (ounces attributable to Newmonts ownership or economic interest), compared to 5.47 million and 5.76 million equity ounces in 2001 and 2000, respectively, primarily from additional production from the operations acquired as part of the Normandy acquisition. Total cash costs of production were $189 per ounce in 2002, $184 per ounce in 2001 and $170 per ounce in 2000. As a result of increased production and higher average realized gold prices, cash flow from operations increased to $670.3 million in 2002 from $369.7 million in 2001 and $534.3 million in 2000. Long term debt, net of cash balances, was $1.4 billion at December 31, 2002 and $1.3 billion at December 31, 2001. Gold reserves at December 31, 2002 totaled 86.9 contained equity ounces (including Newmonts then equity interest in TVX Newmont Americas and Echo Bay Mines Ltd. (Echo Bay)) compared with 87.3 million ounces at December 31, 2001 on a pro forma basis including the reserves of Normandy. Reserve calculations for 2002 and 2001 were based on a gold price assumption of $300 per ounce. Newmonts reserves, excluding the reserves of the TVX Newmont Americas and Echo Bay that were sold in early 2003, would decline to 74.8 million ounces at December 31, 2002 based on a gold price assumption of $275 per ounce and would increase to 89.3 million ounces with a price assumption of $325 per ounce. In 2002, copper sales totaled 408.0 million equity pounds (pounds attributable to Newmonts economic interest), compared with 360.0 million and 294.2 million equity pounds in 2001 and 2000, respectively. Total cash costs were $0.34, $0.37 and $0.59 per equity pound, after gold and silver sales credits, for 2002, 2001, and 2000, respectively. The average realized price in 2002 was $0.73 per pound, compared with $0.70 and $0.82 per pound in 2001 and 2000, respectively. Proven and probable reserves totaled 7.6 billion contained equity pounds of copper at December 31, 2002. 61 Table of Contents Results of Operations Equity Ozs. Sold Total Cash Cost PerEquity Oz. 2002 2001 2000 2002 2001 2000 (in thousands) ($ per equity ounce) North America: Nevada 2,723.5 2,703.2 3,047.9 $ 225 $ 222 $ 203 Mesquite, California 57.1 92.6 130.3 177 205 221 La Herradura, Mexico 64.2 54.7 50.5 176 173 131 Golden Giant, Canada 281.5 283.7 406.6 196 187 146 Holloway, Canada 97.7 89.4 83.4 204 209 229 Total/Weighted Average 3,224.0 3,223.6 3,718.7 220 217 197 South America: Yanacocha, Peru 1,176.9 983.1 901.2 125 115 87 Kori Kollo, Bolivia 249.4 274.8 247.7 156 158 200 Total/Weighted Average 1,426.3 1,257.9 1,148.9 131 125 111 Australia: Pajingo 296.4 126.0 112.1 95 105 99 Kalgoorlie 324.7 215 Yandal 611.1 215 Tanami 452.4 205 Total/Weighted Average 1,684.6 126.0 112.1 191 105 99 Other Operations: Zarafshan Newmont, Uzbekistan 255.8 222.0 251.4 134 136 129 Minahasa, Indonesia 147.2 341.5 354.2 218 142 133 Martha, New Zealand 107.8 156 Ovacik, Turkey 125.7 122 Total/Weighted Average 636.5 563.5 605.6 155 139 131 Equity Investments: Batu Hijau, Indonesia 278.0 295.1 178.4 n/a n/a n/a TVX Newmont Americas 183.5 n/a n/a n/a Echo Bay Mine 185.2 n/a n/a n/a Total/Weighted Average 646.7 295.1 178.4 n/a n/a n/a Newmont Subtotal/Weighted Average 7,618.1 5,466.1 5,763.7 188 183 170 Other: Golden Grove 13.6 n/a n/a n/a Newmont Total/Weighted Average 7,631.7 5,466.1 5,763.7 $ 189 $ 184 $ 170 For all periods presented, total cash costs include charges for mining ore and waste associated with current period gold production, processing ore through milling and leaching facilities, by product credits, production taxes, royalties and other cash costs. Certain gold mines produce silver as a by product. Proceeds from the sale of by products are reflected as credits to total cash costs. With the exception of Nevada, Golden Grove and Batu Hijau, such by product sales have not been significant to the economics or profitability of the Companys mining operations. All of these charges and by product credits are included in Costs applicable to sales. Charges for reclamation are also included in Costs applicable to sales, but are not included in total cash costs. Reclamation charges are included in total production costs, together with total cash costs and Depreciation, depletion and amortization. A reconciliation of total cash costs to Costs applicable to sales in total and by segment is provided in Item 2, Properties, Operating Statistics on page 31. Total production costs provide an indication of earnings before interest expense and taxes for Newmonts share of gold mining properties, when taking into account the average realized price received for gold sold, as this measure combines Costs applicable to sales plus Depreciation, depletion and amortization, net of minority interest. 62 Table of Contents Disclosure of total cash costs per ounce is intended to provide investors with information about the cash generating capacities of these mining operations. Newmonts management uses this measure for the same purpose and for monitoring the performance of its gold mining operations. This information differs from measures of performance determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting policies (GAAP) and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures of performance determined in accordance with GAAP. This measure was developed in conjunction with gold mining companies associated with the Gold Institute in an effort to provide a level of comparability; however, Newmonts measures may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies. See the reconciliation of Costs applicable to sales to total cash costs and total production costs per ounce (unaudited) on page 31. Unless otherwise indicated, and based on proven and probable reserves reflected in current mine plans without considering any future additions to such reserves, expected gold sales for each operation for the years 2004 through 2007 are expected to continue at levels comparable to the expected levels for 2003. North American Operations Newmonts Nevada operations are along the Carlin Trend near Elko and in the Winnemucca region, where the Twin Creeks mine and the Lone Tree Complex are located. Nevada operations also include the Midas underground mine (acquired in February 2002). Nevadas gold sales in 2002 of 2.72 million ounces were 1% higher than in 2001. Total cash costs at Nevada also increased slightly from $222 per ounce in 2001 to $225 per ounce in 2002. The Midas mine, acquired as part of the Normandy acquisition, contributed approximately 196,200 ounces of production in 2002, or approximately 7% of Nevadas production. Without the Midas production, Nevada gold sales would have declined about 6.5% in 2002 compared to 2001. This resulted from (i) less oxide mill throughput in 2002 due to the shutdown of the Pinon Mill; (ii) utilization of lower grade oxide stockpiles resulting in lower recoveries in most oxide mills; and (iii) a 38.5% decline in tons placed on the leach pads due to mining more mill grade material and the postponement of production from Gold Quarry South Layback project until 2003. These trends were largely offset by increased throughput in the refractory mills from better utilization of the Carlin Roaster and the Twin Creeks Sage Mill and a 3% increase in refractory grade. Nevadas sales of 2.7 million ounces in 2001 were 11% lower than in 2000, with the depletion of the Deep Post surface deposit early in 2001 resulting in approximately 300,000 fewer high grade, low cost open pit ounces produced during 2001 than during 2000. This also caused total cash costs to increase to $222 per ounce in 2001 from $203 per ounce in 2000. Approximately 139 million tons of material were mined from surface open pits in 2001, down 31% from 2000. Refractory ore treatment facilities, with higher processing costs than oxide ore mills, generated 65% of Nevadas production in 2001, as compared to 68% in 2000. Sales and total cash costs in 2003 are expected to be 2.55 million ounces and $215 per ounce, respectively. The projected 6% decline in production in 2003 is due to expected lower recovery from the Carlin Roaster as a result of expected drawdowns of lower grade stockpiles and increased stripping at Twin Creeks. Total cash costs at Nevada are expected to decline by $10 per ounce partially reflecting reduced royalties due to a full year of benefit from acquiring the Nevada royalties formerly held by Franco Nevada and increased silver by product credits. Nevadas silver by product credits aggregated $11.3 million, $1.9 million and $1.6 million during 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. The Company expects Nevadas silver by products credits to increase to approximately $15 million in 2003. Although the amount of Nevadas silver by product credits is expected to vary from one period to another, such variations are not expected to be material to the economics of Nevadas operations. Based on proven and probable reserves reflected in current mine plans without considering any future additions to such reserves, gold sales at the Nevada operations are expected to decline between 6% and 11% per year in ounces starting in 2005 primarily due to the Lonetree open pit reaching the end of its mine life. In Nevada, non governmental organizations have brought a series of actions, as described in more detail in Note 25 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. While Newmont believes that the legal actions are without merit, unfavorable outcomes could result in additional conditions being imposed on how the Company conducts operations, and such conditions could have a material adverse effect on Nevadas results of operations or financial position. Gold sales at the Mesquite heap leach mine in southern California decreased 38% to 57,100 ounces in 2002, and total cash costs per ounce decreased to $177 in 2002 from $205 in 2001, reflecting the full impact of the 63 Table of Contents cessation of mining activities and the depletion of the ore body in 2001. Gold sales fell 29% to 92,600 ounces in 2001 from 130,300 ounces in 2000. Total cash costs per ounce also decreased 7% to $205 per ounce in 2001 from $221 per ounce in 2000. Mining activities ceased in the second quarter of 2001 with the depletion of the ore body, and selected equipment from the Mesquite mine was transferred to operations in South America and in Nevada. Gold sales from continued declining recovery of gold from heap leach pads of about 35,000 ounces at $160 total cash costs per ounce are expected in 2003. Final gold production from inventories on the leach pads is expected in 2004. At La Herradura, a 44% owned, heap leach operation in Sonora, Mexico not operated by the Company, Newmonts equity share of 2002 sales totaled 64,200 ounces at a total cash cost of $176 per ounce, compared to 54,700 ounces at $173 per ounce in 2001 and 50,500 ounces at $131 per ounce in 2000. Gold sales in 2003 are expected to total approximately 75,000 equity ounces at a total cash cost of $157 per ounce. Production sold from the Golden Giant underground mine in Ontario, Canada amounted to 281,500 ounces at total cash costs of $196 per ounce in 2002, compared to 283,700 ounces at $187 and 406,600 ounces at $146 in 2001 and 2000, respectively. Despite similar sales volumes in 2002 compared to 2001, total cash costs per ounce increased in 2002 reflecting increased electricity rates, mining costs expensed for ongoing development, increased ground support and maintenance costs and appreciation of the Canadian dollar in relation to the U.S. dollar. Ounces sold decreased and total cash costs per ounce increased from 2000 to 2001 primarily due to lower grade ore. This maturing mine is projected to experience diminishing mining fronts, smaller size stopes, increasing stopes being mined simultaneously and more labor intensive mining techniques in 2003, leading to projected gold ounces sold of approximately 200,000 ounces at $252 total cash costs per ounce. Based on proven and probable reserves reflected in current mine plans without considering any future additions to such reserves, gold sales at Golden Giant are expected to approximate 2003 amounts and then decline to approximately 65,000 and 15,000 ounces per year in 2006 and 2007, respectively, as the operation approaches the end of its life. The Holloway underground mine in Ontario, Canada is an 84.65% owned joint venture with Teddy Bear Valley Mines. In 2002, gold sales totaled 97,700 equity ounces at total cash costs per ounce of $204, compared to 89,400 ounces at a total cash cost of $209 in 2001 and 83,400 ounces at $229 per ounce in 2000. The upward trend in ounces sold from 2000 to 2002 primarily reflects increasing mill throughput in each year from surface secondary crushing and drawdowns of inventories in 2002. The decrease in cash costs in 2002 is primarily from increased production. Holloway is expected to sell approximately 75,000 equity ounces at $255 total cash costs per ounce in 2003. The expected decrease in ounces sold and increase in cash costs per ounce in 2003 result from production of lower grade ore due to stope sequencing and depleted in process inventories. South American Operations Minera Yanacocha S.R.L. (Yanacocha) in Peru is 51.35% owned and includes five open pit mines, four leach pads, two gold recovery plants and a crushing and agglomeration facility. Gold sales were a record 2.29 million ounces (1.18 million equity ounces) in 2002, 20% higher than 2001. Total cash costs per ounce of $125 were up 9% from 2001 primarily due to lower grade ore and more production coming from the higher cost La Quinua operation that requires crushing and agglomeration unlike other Minera Yanacocha ore bodies, partially offset by economies of scale resulting from higher production levels. In 2001, Yanacocha achieved sales of 1.91 million ounces (983,100 equity ounces), a 9% increase from 1.76 million ounces (901,200 equity ounces) in 2000. Total cash costs of $115 per ounce in 2001 were lower than 2002 because of low waste to ore ratios and porous ore that yielded high gold recoveries without crushing prior to heap leaching. Total cash costs of $87 per ounce in 2000 resulted primarily from waste to ore ratios lower than 2001 and slightly higher grade ore. Production at Yanacocha has grown annually through the discovery and development of additional reserves and increased mining and processing capacity. Without adding new mining equipment, Yanacocha reached a mining rate of 600,000 tons per day in the fourth quarter of 2002. Yanacocha mined approximately 204 million tons of material (149 million ore tons and 55 million waste tons) in 2002, compared to approximately 156 million 64 Table of Contents tons (85 million ore tons and 71 million waste tons) in 2001 and 132 million tons (83 million ore tons and 49 million waste tons) in 2000. Yanacochas first crushing and agglomeration facility, for the La Quinua deposit, started up late in the third quarter of 2001 and continued to undergo commissioning adjustments through the first half of 2002, gradually stepping up to its design rate of 132,000 tons per day (120,000 metric tons per day). Yanacocha is expected to sell approximately 2.5 million ounces (1.3 million equity ounces) of gold in 2003 at total cash costs per ounce of $115 to $120. Yanacocha and various subsidiaries of the Company have been named as defendants in lawsuits relating to a spill of elemental mercury near the town of Choropampa, Peru. For additional information, see Note 25 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The Company cannot reasonably predict the final outcome of any of these lawsuits, or the impact, if any, on the results of operations or financial position of the Yanacocha operation. The Kori Kollo open pit mine in Bolivia is owned by Empresa Minera Inti Raymi S.A., in which Newmont has an 88% interest. Mrs. Beatriz Rocabado owns the remaining 12% interest. Equity gold ounces sold in 2002 totaled 249,400 ounces, compared to 274,800 and 247,700 equity ounces in 2001 and 2000, respectively. Total cash costs per ounce were $156 in 2002, compared to $158 and $200 in 2001 and 2000, respectively. Production declined in 2002 primarily from processing lower grade ore through the mill. Production increased and cash costs per ounce decreased in 2001 compared to 2000 primarily due to the introduction of a new heap leach operation and improved mill performance. Equity ounces sold in 2003 are expected to total approximately 125,000 ounces at total cash costs of $240 per ounce. Kori Kollo is a mature mine. The pit will be mined out in the first half of 2003 with closure of the mill later in the year. Leach production will continue thereafter until the oxide ore stockpiles are depleted. Australian Operations Information related to Australian operations for 2002 reflects activity from February 16, 2002 (as the Normandy acquisition was effective February 15, 2002) through December 31, 2002, with the exception of Pajingo, which was 50% owned by Newmont prior to the acquisition of Normandy. For 2002, equity gold sales at the 50% owned Kalgoorlie mine in Western Australia totaled 324,700 ounces at total cash costs of $215 per ounce. Cash costs per ounce for 2002 were higher than anticipated due to continued mining at Mt. Charlotte, an underground mine just north of the Super Pit, and higher milling costs resulting from the treatment of lower grade material. For 2003, gold sales at Kalgoorlie are expected to total 340,000 equity ounces at a total cash cost per ounce of $275. Equity ounces sold are expected to increase in 2003 because Newmont will own its interest for the full year 2003, compared to 10.5 months in 2002, partially offset by reduced throughput and lower recoveries. Cash costs per ounce are expected to rise in 2003 due to the lower production and an increase in the A$ exchange rate. The joint venture owners have commissioned a program that is currently evaluating operating initiatives to improve Kalgoorlies cost structure. At the Yandal operations, which consist of the Bronzewing, Jundee and Wiluna mines in Western Australia, gold sales for 2002 were 611,100 equity ounces at total cash costs of $215 per ounce. A shortfall of ounces sold at Bronzewing occurred in 2002 due to a 14% lower than expected mill feed grade, lower than budgeted tons milled and a shortfall in underground ore production. Bronzewing cash costs were higher than budgeted due primarily to higher mining costs from the one time cost of transitioning to owner mining during the period. Gold sales at the Jundee property were below budget due to lower production, a result of mining in lower grade underground stopes in the third quarter and increased quantities of lower grade regional ore processed throughout the year. Cash costs per ounce at Jundee were consistent with the Companys expectations, with the effects of lower production being offset by lower operating costs due to lower mining volumes and underground development achieved by the new mining contractor. An agreement for the sale of Wiluna was signed during the year, which has since expired. Based on proven and probable reserves reflected in current mine plans without considering any future additions to such reserves, the existing Wiluna and Bronzewing reserves are expected to be depleted within one year, and ongoing sales from Jundee after 2004 are expected to vary between 175,000 and 215,000 ounces per year through 2007 and then gradually decline to the end of its projected mine life in 2011. 65 Table of Contents Yandal gold sales in 2003 are expected to total 640,000 equity ounces at total cash costs per ounce of $257 per ounce. Equity ounces sold are expected to increase in 2003 due to the Yandal operations being accounted for over a full year, partially offset by a reduction in head grade at Jundee due to the blending of low grade stockpiles during the year, and 10% lower than anticipated throughput at Bronzewing as current reserves are depleted pending mine closure in early 2004. Cash costs per ounce are projected to rise in 2003 as a direct result of the expected lower production, a higher A$ exchange rate and a higher allocation of corporate costs. Newmont Yandal Operations Limited (NYOL), the Newmont subsidiary that owns the Yandal operations, has a substantial derivatives position. At December 31, 2002, NYOLs hedge positions had a mark to market valuation of negative $288 million. A number of NYOLs hedge positions are governed by agreements that confer on the relevant counterparties a right to terminate the position prior to its agreed scheduled maturity date. Such a termination would require an immediate cash settlement of that contract based on the market value on the date of termination and could result in a cash settlement obligation to NYOL hedge counterparties in excess of available funds. NYOL also has outstanding $300 million (of which Newmont owns $62.8 million) of ten year 8 7/8% senior unsecured notes due in 2008. NYOLs liabilities represent a significant challenge to NYOL, and while these liabilities are non recourse to Newmont and its other subsidiaries, should NYOL become bankrupt or insolvent, there could be loss or liquidation of NYOLs assets including the Bronzewing, Jundee and Wiluna mines, which had proven and probable reserves of 2.1 million ounces as of December 31, 2002. Newmont controls a significant land position through its control of Newmont NFM (Normandy NFM Limited trading as Newmont NFM) and Otter Gold Mines Limited (Otter Mines) in the highly prospective Tanami gold district. For 2002, the Tanami operations in the Northern Territory (approximately an 85.9% interest) sold 452,400 equity ounces at total cash costs per ounce of $205. Equity gold sales at Tanami were higher than expected reflecting higher production due to higher than expected grades and recoveries, partially offset by lower mill throughput. Cash costs per ounce were higher than expected due to additional milling and maintenance costs resulting from abrasive ore from the Groundrush mine, partially offset by the impacts of higher production. Tanami is expected to sell about 600,000 equity ounces in 2003 at total cash costs per ounce of $215. The increase in projected equity ounces sold is partially attributable to the plan to acquire the remaining minority interests in Newmont NFM (see Production Properties at page 22). The increase is also attributable to the mining of higher grade stopes at the Granites and additional recoveries and higher grades of ore mined at Groundrush, along with a full year contribution from Newmont NFM. Cash costs per ounce are expected to rise in 2003 due to deeper mining and additional crushing costs at Groundrush, partially offset by the impact of the higher production at the Granites. Cash costs are also expected to be impacted by a higher A$ exchange rate and a higher allocation of corporate costs. Based on proven and probable reserves reflected in current mine plans without considering any future additions to such reserves, gold sales from the Tanami operations are expected to decline by approximately 100,000 to 150,000 ounces beginning in 2005 and decline gradually until 2008 due to the end of production from the Groundrush project. At the Pajingo mine in north Queensland, gold sales for 2002 were 296,400 equity ounces at cash costs per ounce of $95, compared to 126,000 and 112,100 equity ounces at cash costs of $105 and $99 per ounce in 2001 and 2000, respectively. The increase in ounces sold in 2002 is primarily from Newmonts interest in the operation increasing to 100% from 50% in prior years due to the acquisition of Normandy. Sales also increased from higher production due to higher grade ore in 2002. Cash costs per ounce declined in 2002 reflecting the impact of a full year of owner mining. Increased sales from 2000 and 1999 resulted from production increases due to the completion of a mill expansion project in 1999. Gold sales in 2003 are projected to total approximately 345,000 ounces with cash costs of $110 per ounce. The increase in gold sales at Pajingo is due to higher throughput and grades and the impact of having 100% ownership for most of the year. Cash costs are expected to increase due to the impact of a higher A$ exchange rate and a higher allocation of corporate costs. Based on proven and probable reserves reflected in current mine plans without considering any future additions to such reserves, gold sales at Pajingo are expected to gradually decline each year as the project approaches the end of its life to approximately 250,000 ounces, 210,000 ounces, 185,000 ounces and 135,000 ounces in 2004, 2005, 2006 and 2007, respectively. 66 Table of Contents Other Mining Operations Information related to Martha, Ovacik, Golden Grove and TVX Newmont Americas for 2002 reflects activity from February 16, 2002 (as the Normandy acquisition was effective February 15, 2002) through December 31, 2002. Information related to Echo Bay for 2002 reflects activity from April 3, 2002 (the date Newmonts investment was converted from capital debt securities to common shares of Echo Bay) through December 31, 2002. Information for all other properties in 2002 reflects activity from January 1, 2002 through December 31, 2002. The Zarafshan Newmont Joint Venture, in the Central Asian Republic of Uzbekistan, is a 50/50 joint venture between Newmont and two Uzbekistan government entities, the State Committee for Geology and Mineral Resources (the State Committee) and Navoi Mining and Metallurgical Combinat (Navoi). Gold sales in 2002 totaled 511,600 ounces (255,800 equity ounces) compared to 444,000 ounces (222,000 equity ounces) in 2001 and 502,800 ounces (251,400 equity ounces) in 2000. Gold sales increased in 2002 due to higher grade ore placed on the leach pads. Total cash costs of $134 per ounce in 2002 were consistent with the $136 per ounce in 2001. Total cash costs increased in 2001 from $129 per ounce in 2000. Zarafshan Newmont is expected to sell approximately 210,000 equity ounces in 2003 at cash costs per ounce of $152. Based on proven and probable reserves reflected in current mine plans without considering any future additions to such reserves, gold sales at Zarafshan Newmont are expected to vary between 135,000 and 180,000 equity ounces per year during the four years after 2003. Declining future sales compared to 2003 are expected to occur primarily due to lower grade ore expected to be placed on the leach pads during those periods. Zarafshan Newmont produces gold by crushing and leaching ore from existing stockpiles of low grade oxide ore from the nearby government owned Murantau mine. The State Committee and Navoi furnish ore to Zarafshan Newmont under an ore supply agreement. Under the agreement, the State Committee and Navoi are obligated to deliver 220 million metric tons of ore to Zarafshan Newmont. As of December 31, 2002, approximately 98.1 million metric tons of ore have been delivered, leaving a balance of 121.9 million metric tons. Initially, under the agreement, ore was to be delivered regardless of the gold price and the price of the ore was dependent on the grade of ore delivered. In 2000, however, the ore supply agreement was amended to modify the required grades and pricing structure. Under the 2000 amendment, the grade of ore that the State Committee and Navoi are obligated to provide is dependent on the forecasted gold price as determined by the board of directors of Zarafshan Newmont, and the price is dependent on the average gold price during the period the ore is processed. Thus at higher gold prices, the State Committee and Navoi may deliver lower grade ore, but receive a higher price. In October 2002, the parties reached tentative agreement to further amend the ore supply agreement. Under the new amendment, the pricing terms for approximately 99.5 million metric tons of the remaining 121.9 million metric tons will be determined by a formula whereby the amount paid for ore is dependent on the average grade of ore and the average gold price during the period which the ore is processed. At certain combinations of ore grade and gold price, the computed price may result in a credit to Zarafshan Newmont which will be offset against future ore purchase payments or free cash flow distributions to Navoi and the State Committee. At Minahasa, in Indonesia, Newmont has an 80% interest but is attributed a greater percent of the gold production until it recoups the bulk of its investment including interest. Prior to November 2001, Newmont was attributed 100% of Minahasas gold production and subsequently 94%, as Newmont recouped some of its investment through the collection of funds in accordance with existing loan agreements. Equity gold ounces sold decreased to 147,200 ounces in 2002, compared to 341,500 and 354,200 equity ounces in 2001 and 2000, respectively. Total cash costs per ounce were $218 in 2002, compared to $142 and $133 per ounce in 2001 and 2000, respectively. Production declined and costs increased in 2002 primarily due to processing lower grade ore. Mining activities ceased late in 2001; however, it is expected that processing of the remaining stockpiles will continue until the fourth quarter of 2003. Sales in 2003 are expected to be approximately 90,000 equity ounces, with total cash costs of approximately $239 per ounce. 67 Table of Contents Equity sales at the Martha mine in New Zealand were 107,800 ounces in 2002 with total cash costs of $156 per equity ounce. Newmont acquired Martha as part of the Normandy acquisition. The mine is a joint venture between Newmont (67% ownership) and Otter Mines (33% ownership). Newmont NFM, owned 85.9% by Newmont, in turn owns over 90% of Otter Mines. Through separate transactions, Newmont is currently in the process of acquiring the minority interests of both Newmont NFM and Otter Mines, to give it 100% ownership in Martha (see Production Properties at page 22). We anticipate Martha will sell approximately 100,000 equity ounces of gold in 2003 at total cash costs of $188 per ounce. The wholly owned Ovacik mine near the Aegean Sea in western Turkey (acquired as part of the Normandy acquisition on February 15, 2002) sold 125,700 equity ounces of gold at total cash costs of $122 per ounce. Newmont expects Ovacik to sell approximately 130,000 equity ounces of gold at total cash costs of $165 per ounce in 2003. The increase in expected total cash costs per ounce in 2003 at Ovacik is primarily attributable to an increased proportion of higher cost underground mining compared to 2002. Based on proven and probable reserves reflected in current mine plans without considering any future additions to such reserves, gold sales at Ovacik are expected to decline to approximately 95,000 ounces in 2006 as the operation approaches the end of its mine life. The Ovacik mine in Turkey has a long history of legal challenges to the operation of the mine and, in particular, its use of cyanide in gold production. For additional information, see Note 25 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. As a result of these legal challenges, the Turkish courts or the European Court of Human Rights might grant relief that could require the closure of the mine or the interruption of mining activities. Any such closure or interruption would adversely impact the operations of the Ovacik mine, and could result in the impairment of the carrying value of the assets associated with the Ovacik mine. The total assets and proven and probable reserves of the Ovacik mine at December 31, 2002 were approximately $56 million and 340,000 ounces, respectively, and the total revenue generated by the Ovacik mine during 2002 was approximately $40 million. At the Batu Hijau mine in Indonesia, copper sales totaled 362.3 million equity pounds (pounds attributable to Newmonts economic interest) in 2002, compared to 360.0 million and 294.2 million equity pounds in 2001 and 2000, respectively. Net cash costs were $0.31, $0.37 and $0.59 per equity pound, after gold and silver by product credits, in 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. Newmont holds an indirect 45% equity interest in the mine, but is attributed 56.25% of production until recouping the bulk of its investment, including interest. Net cash costs declined in 2002 compared to 2001 as operational improvements and the addition of a pebble crushing circuit added process throughput capacity, partially offset by lower grade ore. Gold sales, accounted for as by product credits, totaled 278,000, 295,100 and 178,400 equity ounces for 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. The Companys equity income from Batu Hijau includes gold and silver revenues that are credited against costs applicable to sales as by product credits in the determination of net income for each period presented in the Statements of Consolidated Operations and Comprehensive Income (Loss). These by product credits represented 44%, 42% and 27% of revenues and reduced production costs by 58%, 48% and 28% for 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. Such by product credits are expected to continue while ore is being processed which, based on current engineering models, is estimated to be through the end of 2020. These by product credits are expected to vary from time to time and are significant to the economics of the Batu Hijau operation. At current copper prices, the Batu Hijau operation would not be profitable without these credits. The improvement in 2002 net cash costs per equity pound was also partially attributable to higher gold prices during the year, which resulted in higher by product credits. Sales in 2003 are expected to total approximately 340 to 360 million equity pounds of copper and 270,000 equity ounces of gold. Total cash costs per equity pound of copper in 2003 are expected to be approximately $0.28 to $0.30. The wholly owned Golden Grove copper/zinc operation in Western Australia, which was acquired as part of the Normandy acquisition, sold 45.7 million pounds of copper and 148.0 million pounds of zinc in 2002 at total cash costs of $0.56 and $0.18 per pound, respectively. Included in total cash costs for 2002 were approximately $16 million of gold, silver and lead by product credits. As Golden Grove has a poly metallic ore body, such by product credits are expected to continue in the future and to vary from period to period based on the portions of the ore body being extracted at the time. 68 Table of Contents TVX Newmont Americas was 49.9% owned by Newmont and 50.1% owned by TVX Gold Inc. and was treated as an equity investment for reporting purposes in 2002. The principal assets of TVX Newmont Americas are interests in operating gold mines in South America (Paracatu, Crixas and La Coipa) and Canada (Musselwhite and New Britannia). Sales for 2002 were 183,500 equity ounces. On January 31, 2003, Newmont sold its 49.9% interest in TVX Newmont Americas to TVX Gold Inc. for $180 million. Newmont obtained a 48.8% interest in Echo Bay through its acquisition of Franco Nevada in February 2002. Franco Nevada purchased capital securities of Echo Bay with face value of $72.4 million in June 2001. In January 2002, $4.6 million of these capital securities were sold. Newmont acquired Franco Nevadas remaining holdings of Echo Bays capital securities in connection with its acquisition of Franco Nevada. Subsequent to this acquisition, an agreement was reached with Echo Bay and the capital securities holders to exchange the capital securities for common stock of Echo Bay. This exchange of capital securities debt obligations for common stock occurred on April 3, 2002 and resulted in Newmont Mining Corporation of Canada Limited (a wholly owned subsidiary of Newmont) owning 48.8% of Echo Bay. From April 3, 2002, Newmont accounted for its investment in Echo Bay under the equity method. On January 31, 2003, Kinross Gold Corporation, Echo Bay Mines Ltd. and TVX Gold Inc. were combined, and TVX Gold acquired Newmonts 49.9% interest in the TVX Newmont Americas joint venture. Under the terms of the combination and acquisition, Newmont received a 13.8% interest in the restructured Kinross in exchange for its 45.67% interest in Echo Bay and $180 million for its interest in TVX Newmont Americas. Newmont recorded a gain of approximately $90 million on the exchange of Echo Bay. During 2002, Newmonts share of Echo Bay gold sales was 185,200 equity ounces. Merchant Banking Newmonts Merchant Banking Segment is focused on managing the Companys portfolio of operating, property and equity interests. In addition, Merchant Banking manages the Companys royalty business. During most of 2002, the Merchant Banking Segment was focused on asset rationalization and disposals of non core assets as part of the process of integrating Normandy and Franco Nevada after the acquisitions of those companies in February of 2002. Various exploration or small operating properties were disposed of, for which in many cases, Newmont retained a royalty interest. These asset disposals did not generate significant gains or losses as the majority of the properties were valued at fair value as part of the purchase accounting for the acquisitions of Normandy and Franco Nevada. Through the efforts of the Merchant Banking Segment, Newmont had entered into contracts to participate in the combination of Kinross Gold Corporation, Echo Bay Mines Ltd. and TVX Gold Inc. as of December 31, 2002. On January 31, 2003, the three companies were combined, and TVX Gold acquired Newmonts 49.9% interest in the TVX Newmont Americas joint venture. Under the terms of the combination and acquisition, Newmont received a 13.8% interest in the restructured Kinross in exchange for its 45.67% interest in Echo Bay and $180 million for its interest in TVX Newmont Americas. Newmont recorded a pre tax gain on the exchange of its shares in Echo Bay of approximately $90 million. Merchant Banking will continue to evaluate and consider future transactions to enhance the value of Newmonts portfolio of operating, property and equity interests as opportunities arise. Newmonts Merchant Banking Segment holds royalty interests, which were acquired as a result of the Franco Nevada acquisition. Royalty interests are generally in the form of a net smelter return (NSR) royalty that provides for the payment either in cash or physical metal (in kind) of a specified percentage of production, less certain specified transportation and refining costs. In some cases, Newmont owns a net profit interest (NPI) entitling Newmont to a specified percentage of the net profits, as defined in each case, from a particular mining operation. The majority of NSR royalty revenue and NPI revenue can be received in kind (generally in the form of gold bullion) at the option of Newmont. Newmont earned royalty revenue in 2002 of $35.7 million ($14.3 million of which was received in kind), and expects to earn approximately $38 million to $42 million in 2003. 69 Table of Contents Exploration Exploration and research expenditures were $88.9 million, $55.5 million and $77.4 million for the three years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively, of which $71.3 million, $44.0 million and $59.4 million, respectively, related to the activities of the Exploration Segment, with the balance in each year primarily relating to research activities and other activities not managed by Newmonts Exploration Segment. Newmont reports exploration expenditures relating to existing operating segments as part of the expenses of those segments in its segment reporting (see Note 24 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Segment and Related Information) even though the corresponding exploration activities are managed by the Companys Exploration Segment. Newmont believes this presentation is more useful to users of its financial statements as the existing operating segments will ultimately benefit from those activities if the Exploration Segment discovers new mineralization and turns it over to the sites management for conversion to proven and probable reserves. Exploration expenditures related to activities at locations other than existing operating mine sites are reported within the Exploration Segment itself. Exploration activities in 2002 increased as a result of the integration of the Normandy and Franco Nevada exploration programs and from the increase in available capital to fund exploration activities due to higher prevailing gold prices in 2002. The decrease in 2001 exploration expenditures reflected planned reductions as a result of lower gold prices and an increased focus on exploration activities at or around existing operations. During 2002, Newmont replaced approximately 9.3 million gold ounces of depletion with internally generated additions to proven and probable reserves, of which 95% were attributable to the Exploration Segment. Significant additions attributable to the Exploration Segment included, among others, the Akyem project in Ghana, the West Side at Jundee in Australia, open pit ounces at Carlin in Nevada, including the Emigrant deposit, new underground mineralization at Deep Post and other underground projects in Nevada, Corimayo at Minera Yanacocha, Korichaca at Kori Kollo in Bolivia and Batu Hijau in Indonesia. During 2001 and 2000, Newmont added approximately 100 thousand ounces and 5.6 million ounces, respectively, to proven and probable reserves, compared to depletion of 6.8 million and 5.5 million ounces, respectively. While there were not significant reserve additions during 2001, Newmont did perform substantial exploration to identify NRM, primarily at Emigrant, Corimayo and the Genesis deposit at Carlin North, which eventually resulted in substantial reserve additions in 2002. Significant exploration successes in 2000 included a new layback at the Lone Tree Complex in Nevada, new mineralization at Carlin East and Deep Post in Nevada and new mineralization in the Carachugo and La Quinua deposits at Minera Yanacocha. Newmont anticipates it will spend approximately $85 million relating to the activities of the Exploration Segment in 2003 and has established the replacement of depletion with additions to proven and probable reserves as the Exploration Segments objective for the year. Foreign Currency Exchange Rates In addition to its operations in the United States, Newmont has operations in Australia, New Zealand, Peru, Indonesia, Canada, Uzbekistan, Bolivia, Turkey and other foreign locations. The Companys foreign operations sell their metal production based on a U.S. dollar gold price. Fluctuations in the local currency exchange rates in relation to the U.S. dollar can increase or decrease profit margins and total cash costs per ounce to the extent costs are paid in local currency at foreign operations. Such fluctuations do not have a material impact on the Companys revenue since gold is sold throughout the world principally in U.S. dollars. Approximately 46%, 23% and 20% of Newmonts total cash costs were paid in local currency in 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. The percentage of total cash costs paid in foreign currencies increased in 2002 due to the acquisition of Normandy. The Companys total cash costs are most impacted by variations in the Australian dollar/U.S. dollar exchange rate. However, variations in the Australian dollar/U.S. dollar exchange rate have historically been strongly correlated to variations in the U.S. dollar gold price over the long term. Increases or decreases in costs at Australian gold operations due to exchange rate changes have therefore tended to be mitigated by changes in sales reported in U.S. dollars at Australian locations. No assurance, 70 Table of Contents however, can be given that the Australian dollar/U.S. dollar exchange rate will continue to be strongly correlated to the U.S. dollar gold price in the future. In the event that a sustained weakening of the U.S. dollar in relation to the Australian dollar, and or to other foreign currencies that impact the Companys cost structure, were not mitigated by offsetting increases in the U.S. dollar gold price or by other factors, the Company believes that profitability and cash flows in the applicable foreign country would be reduced. The following chart demonstrates the impacts of variations in the local currency exchange rates in relation to the U.S. dollar at Newmonts foreign operations during each of years in the three year period ended December 31, 2002. Year ended December 31, 2002: Operation Percentage change inaverage local currencyexchange rate;appreciation(devaluation) Increase (decrease) tototal cash costs inU.S. dollars (000) Increase (decrease) tototal cash costs perounce in U.S. dollars North America: La Herradura (4)% $ (57 ) $ (1 ) Golden Giant (1)% $ (712 ) $ (3 ) Holloway (1)% $ (237 ) $ (2 ) South America: Minera Yanacocha % $ (160 ) $ Kori Kollo (8)% $ (538 ) $ (2 ) Australia(1): Pajingo 5% $ 1,122 $ 8 Kalgoorlie 5% $ 3,398 $ 10 Yandal 5% $ 5,200 $ 9 Tanami 5% $ 4,249 $ 8 Other International: Zarafshan Newmont Joint Venture (71)% $ (14,231 ) $ (56 ) Minahasa 6% $ 226 $ 1 Martha 5% $ 881 $ 8 Ovacik (24)% $ (3,602 ) $ (29 ) (1) Includes impact from February 15, 2002, the date of the acquisition of Normandy, through December 31, 2002. Year ended December 31, 2001: Operation Percentage change inaverage local currencyexchange rate;appreciation(devaluation) Increase (decrease) tototal cash costs inU.S. dollars (000) Increase (decrease) tototal cash costs perounce in U.S. dollars North America: La Herradura 1% $ 19 $ Golden Giant (4)% $ (2,079 ) $ (7 ) Holloway (4)% $ (765 ) $ (9 ) South America: Minera Yanacocha 1% $ (349 ) $ Kori Kollo (8)% $ (610 ) $ (2 ) Other International: Zarafshan Newmont Joint Venture (28)% $ (4,853 ) $ (22 ) Minahasa (23)% $ (1,049 ) $ (3 ) 71 Table of Contents Year ended December 31, 2000: Operation Percentage change inaverage local currencyexchange rate;appreciation(devaluation) Increase (decrease) tototal cash costs inU.S. dollars (000) Increase (decrease) tototal cash costs perounce in U.S. dollars North America: La Herradura 1% $ 11 $ Golden Giant $ $ Holloway $ $ South America: Minera Yanacocha (3)% $ (1,611 ) $ (1 ) Kori Kollo (6)% $ (456 ) $ (1 ) Other International: Zarafshan Newmont Joint Venture (81)% $ (19,701 ) $ (89 ) Minahasa (5)% $ (254 ) $ (1 ) The following chart demonstrates the estimated sensitivity of projected total cash costs and cash costs per ounce to variations of the local currency exchange rates in relation to the U.S. dollar in 2003 assuming a 5% appreciation or devaluation of the local currency in relation to the U.S. dollar: Operation Foreign Currency +/ change in total cashcosts in U.S. dollars (000) +/ change in total cashcosts per ounce in U.S. dollars North America: La Herradura Mexican Pesos $ 178 $ 2 Golden Giant Canadian Dollars $ 1,247 $ 6 Holloway Canadian Dollars $ 476 $ 6 South America: Minera Yanacocha Nuevos Soles $ 3,396 $ 1 Kori Kollo Brazilian Reales $ 277 $ 2 Australia: Pajingo Australian Dollars $ 1,648 $ 5 Kalgoorlie Australian Dollars $ 4,631 $ 13 Yandal Australian Dollars $ 6,339 $ 10 Tanami Australian Dollars $ 6,100 $ 10 Other International: Zarafshan Newmont Joint Venture Soums $ 1,150 $ 6 Minahasa Indonesian Rupiahs $ 157 $ 1 Martha Australian Dollars $ 1,505 $ 14 Ovacik Turkish Liras $ 1,086 $ 8 In addition, the Companys Equity income (loss) of affiliates varied due to increases or decreases in costs from changes in the local currency exchange rates in relation to the U.S. dollar at the Batu Hijau copper mine in Indonesia as follows for each of the three years ended December 31, 2002: Year Foreign Currency Percentage change inaverage local currencyexchange rate; appreciation(devaluation) Additional income included inequity income (loss)in affiliates, net (000) 2002 Indonesian Rupiah 6% $(1,324) 2001 Indonesian Rupiah (23)% $5,146 2000 Indonesian Rupiah (5)% $1,564 72 Table of Contents The Company estimates that a 5% appreciation (devaluation) of the local currency exchange rate in relation to the U.S. dollar at Batu Hijau would decrease (increase) the Companys projected Equity income (loss) of affiliates by approximately $1.4 million during 2003. The Company does not believe that foreign currency exchange rates in relation to the U.S. dollar have had a material impact on its determination of proven and probable reserves in the past. However, in the event that a sustained weakening of the U.S. dollar in relation to the Australian dollar, and or to other foreign currencies that impact the Companys cost structure, were not mitigated by offsetting increases in the U.S. dollar gold price or by other factors, the Company believes that the amount of proven and probable reserves in the applicable foreign country could be reduced. The extent of any such reduction would be dependent on a variety of factors including the length of time of any such weakening of the U.S. dollar, and managements long term view of the applicable exchange rate. Future reductions of proven and probable reserves would primarily result in reduced gold sales and increased depreciation, depletion and amortization calculated using the units of production method and, depending on the level of reduction, could also result in impairments of property, plant and mine development, mineral interests and other intangible assets and or goodwill. Financial Results Sales gold were $2.57 billion in 2002, an increase of 54% compared to gold sales of $1.67 billion in 2001, primarily reflecting the incremental impact of the acquired Newmont Australia Limited (formerly Normandy) operations and an increase in the average realized gold price. Gold sales in 2001 declined 8.4% from $1.82 billion in 2000 from lower production and a lower average realized gold price. Variances in sales revenue are illustrated in the following table: Years ended December 31, 2002 2001 2000 Consolidated gold sales (in millions) $ 2,566.9 $ 1,666.1 $ 1,819.0 Consolidated production ozs. sold (in thousands) 8,217.9 6,141.8 6,472.9 Average price received per ounce $ 313 $ 271 $ 282 Average market price per ounce $ 310 $ 271 $ 279 2002 vs.2001 2001 vs.2000 Increase (decrease) in consolidated sales due to (in millions): Consolidated production $ 4.8 $ (92.3 ) Average gold price received 246.1 (60.6 ) Acquisition of Normandy 649.9 Total $ 900.8 $ (152.9 ) Sales base metals totaled $55.3 million in 2002 and related primarily to the wholly owned and operated Golden Grove copper/zinc operation in Western Australia ($50.9 million), with a minor portion contributed by the Kasese cobalt operation ($4.4 million) that was sold in 2002. Golden Grove and Kasese were both acquired as part of the acquisition of Normandy. Royalties of $35.7 million ($14.3 million of which were received in kind) were recorded during 2002 and were related primarily to the acquisition of Franco Nevada in February 2002. Royalty revenue pertained primarily to the Goldstrike and Stillwater properties. $11.4 million of royalties pertained to oil and gas interests in 2002. Gain (loss) on sale of marketable securities of Lihir of $47.3 million was recorded during the second quarter of 2002 when Newmont sold its 9.7% holding in Lihir Gold Limited. As a result, Newmont is no longer a shareholder of Lihir. Newmont realized proceeds of $84 million on the sale. A non cash write down of 73 Table of Contents $23.9 million with respect to the Lihir marketable securities was recorded in 2000, resulting from an other than temporary decline in market value based on the length of time and the extent to which such value had been less than cost basis. This write down was reclassified to Sales and other income from Costs and expenses where it was classified in prior years to conform to 2002 presentation. During 2001, the valuation of the marketable securities of Lihir significantly increased, resulting in an $18.3 million gain, which was recorded in Other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax. Dividends, interest, foreign currency exchange and other income increased to $39.8 million in 2002 from $7.4 million and $9.7 million in 2001 and 2002, respectively. Interest income totaled $14.1 million in 2002, compared to $3.0 million and $10.5 million in 2001 and 2000, respectively. The increase in interest income in 2002 resulted primarily from the increase in the Companys average cash balances, partially offset by lower interest rates. The decrease in interest income in 2001 from 2000 reflected lower interest rates during the year. Foreign currency exchange gains in 2002 totaled $14.0 million, compared to losses of $5.1 million and $6.1 million in 2001 and 2000, respectively. The gains in 2002 arose primarily from translation gains on monetary assets and liabilities denominated in A$ at the acquired Newmont Australia Limited, partially offset by losses from cross currency swaps and other foreign currency transactions. Other income also includes gains on the sale of exploration properties of $5.9 million, $3.1 million and $1.0 million in 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. Costs applicable to sales gold, which includes total cash costs, provisions for estimated final reclamation expenses related to consolidated gold production and write downs of stockpiles, ore on leach pads and inventories, increased to $1.58 billion in 2002 from $1.12 billion and $1.10 billion in 2001 and 2000, respectively. The increase in costs in 2002 primarily related to incremental impact of the mining operations acquired from Normandy, as well as an increase in the average total cash costs per ounce in 2002 to $189 per ounce from $184 and $170 per ounce in 2001 and 2000, respectively. Total cash costs per ounce increased in 2002 primarily at Nevada and Yanacocha, which together accounted for 51% of equity gold sales in 2002. The increase in total cash costs per ounce in 2001 compared to 2000 is also primarily attributable to Nevada and Yanacocha, which represented 67% of equity gold sales in 2001. The details of the write downs of stockpiles, ore on leach pads and inventories that were included in Costs applicable to sales gold are described in the following paragraphs. In 2002, the Company recorded aggregate write downs of $44.4 million to reduce the carrying value of stockpiles, ore on leach pads and inventories to net realizable value. The write downs related to Nevada ($37.0 million), Minahasa ($4.6 million), Wiluna ($1.6 million) and other operations ($1.2 million). In Nevada, stockpiles were reduced by $32 million as a result of both net realizable value analysis and a comprehensive physical survey of all stockpiles, while ore on leach pads and mill in process and finished goods inventories were reduced by $2.9 million, $1.7 million and $0.4 million, respectively. At the Minahasa mine, the materials and supplies and finished goods inventories and ore on leach pad, were reduced by $2.4 million, $2.0 million and $0.2 million, respectively. Stockpiles were reduced $1.1 million and mill in process inventory was reduced by $0.5 million at the Wiluna mine. Reductions of materials and supplies inventories and other inventories at other operations totaled $0.5 million and $0.7 million, respectively. In 2001, the Company recorded aggregate write downs of $25.1 million to reduce the carrying value of stockpiles, ore on leach pads and inventories to net realizable value. Total write downs related to Nevada ($16.2 million), Yanacocha ore on leach pads ($4.1 million), Minahasa ($4.0 million), and other operations ($0.8 million). The Nevada write down reduced stockpiles, ore on leach pads, in process and precious metals inventories by $6.7 million, $3.5 million, $5.5 million, and $0.5 million, respectively. The Minahasa write down reduced stockpiles, materials and supplies inventory, and ore on leach pad by $1.8 million, $1.3 million and $0.9 million, respectively. In 2000, the Company recorded aggregate write downs of $32.1 million to reduce stockpiles, ore on leach pads and inventories to net realizable value. The reductions related to Nevada ($13.6 million), the ore on leach 74 Table of Contents pad at Mesquite ($9.7 million), Kori Kollo ($5.0 million), and Minahasa ($3.8 million). Stockpiles and mill in process inventories were reduced $9.7 million and $3.9 million at Nevada, respectively. The Kori Kollo write down reduced materials and supplies inventory by $5.0 million, and in process inventories and ore on leach pad at Minahasa were reduced by $3.1 million and $0.7 million, respectively. For a discussion of the Companys accounting policies with respect to stockpiles, ore on leach pads and inventories, see Critical Accounting Policies above. Costs applicable to sales base metals primarily related to the wholly owned and operated Golden Grove copper/zinc operation in Western Australia, with a minor portion contributed by the Kasese cobalt operation that was sold in 2002. Deferred stripping costs In general, mining costs are charged to Costs applicable to sales as incurred. However, at open pit mines, which generally have diverse grades and waste to ore ratios over the mine lives, the Company defers and amortizes certain mining costs on a units of production basis over the life of the mine. These mining costs, which are commonly referred to as deferred stripping costs, are incurred in mining activities that are normally associated with the removal of waste rock. The deferred stripping accounting method is generally accepted in the mining industry where mining operations have diverse grades and waste to ore ratios; however industry practice does vary. Deferred stripping matches the costs of production with the sale of such production at the Companys operations where it is employed, by assigning each ounce of gold with an equivalent amount of waste removal cost. If the Company were to expense stripping costs as incurred, there could be greater volatility in the Companys period to period results of operations. Details of deferred stripping with respect to the Companys open pit mines where deferred stripping concept is applied are as follows (unaudited): Nevada(3) Mesquite(4) 2002 2001 2000 2002 2001 2000 Life of mine Assumptions Used as Basis For Deferred Stripping Calculations Stripping ratio (1) 125.1 138.4 145.1 n/a 237.6 120.7 Average ore grade (ounces of gold per ton) 0.073 0.066 0.066 n/a 0.023 0.018 Actuals for Year Stripping ratio (2) 72.2 88.9 106.6 n/a 155.5 180.4 Average ore grade (ounces of gold per ton) 0.081 0.060 0.060 n/a 0.031 0.016 Remaining Mine Life (years) 9 9 10 n/a 1 La Herradura(5) Minahasa(6) 2002 2001 2000 2002 2001 2000 Life of mine Assumptions Used as Basis For Deferred Stripping Calculations Stripping ratio (1) 141.3 177.0 144.4 n/a 14.5 19.8 Average ore grade (ounces of gold per ton) 0.031 0.035 0.032 n/a 0.172 0.195 Actuals for Year Stripping ratio (2) 158.5 200.0 228.4 n/a 15.9 16.4 Average ore grade (ounces of gold per ton) 0.026 0.025 0.024 n/a 0.131 0.205 Remaining Mine Life (years) 6 6 7 n/a 1 75 Table of Contents 2002 Tanami(7) Kalgoorlie(7) Martha(8) Ovacik(8) Life of mine Assumptions Used as Basis For Stripping ratio (1) 61.9 95.0 28.8 26.3 Average ore grade (ounces of gold per ton) 0.113 0.065 0.093 0.356 Actuals for Year Stripping ratio (2) 78.4 101.0 33.2 29.1 Average ore grade (ounces of gold per ton) 0.107 0.052 0.100 0.358 Remaining Mine Life (years) 6 14 4 2 (1) Total tons to be mined in future divided by total ounces of gold to be recovered in future, based on proven and probable reserves. (2) Total tons mined divided by total ounces of gold recovered. (3) The life of mine stripping ratio decreased during 2002 and 2001 from 2000 reflecting the deferral of open pit projects in response to lower gold prices. The actual stripping ratio during 2002 and 2001 decreased from 2000 due to mining higher grade ore zones in the Twin Creeks pit. (4) The life of mine stripping ratio increased in 2001 versus 2000 reflecting significant changes to the mine plan in the final year of operations. The actual stripping ratio was lower during 2001 in comparison to 2000 as a result of mining higher grade material. Mesquite is included in the Companys Other North America operating segment. (5) The life of mine stripping ratios decreased during 2002 from 2001 reflecting an increase in reserve ounces and increased during 2001 from 2000 reflecting an increase in reserves, which resulted in a change in the pit design. The actual stripping ratio decreased in 2002 from 2001 due to waste removal in 2001 in preparation for 2002 mining activities. La Herradura is included in the Companys Other North America operating segment. (6) The actual and life of mine stripping ratios decreased during 2001 from 2000 reflecting higher grade ore zones at the bottom of the Mesel pit as mining concluded in the fourth quarter of 2001. Minahasa is included in the Companys Other International operating segment. (7) Tanami and Kalgoorlie are included in the Companys Other Australia operating segment. (8) Martha and Ovacik are included in the Companys Other International operating segment. 76 Table of Contents Depreciation, depletion and amortization was $505.6 million, $301.6 million and $320.7 million in 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. The increase in 2002 is primarily from the incremental impact of the acquired Newmont Australia Limited (formerly Normandy) operating sites and the amortization of mining royalty interests acquired from Franco Nevada as part of the February 2002 acquisitions. The increase also resulted from increased tons mined at Yanacocha in 2002 due to a full year of production at the La Quinua deposit and achieving a more consistent production profile over the prior year. The decrease in 2001 compared to 2000 resulted primarily from decreased gold production at Nevada, partially offset by the impact of 2000 capital expenditures at Yanacocha. Depreciation, depletion and amortization is expected to total $560 million to $590 million in 2003. Variations in Depreciation, depletion and amortization are summarized as follows: Years ended December 31, 2002 2001 2000 (in millions) Depreciation, depletion and amortization: North America: Nevada $ 118.2 $ 117.4 $ 126.4 Mesquite, California 6.3 7.5 9.1 La Herradura, Mexico 3.1 3.2 2.6 Golden Giant, Canada 20.5 18.3 25.8 Holloway, Canada 6.7 6.5 10.6 Total North America 154.8 152.9 174.5 South America: Yanacocha, Peru 121.5 82.3 68.8 Kori Kollo, Bolivia 13.8 19.5 23.9 Total South America 135.3 101.8 92.7 Australia: Pajingo 20.6 4.3 4.3 Kalgoorlie 9.0 Yandal 43.5 Tanami 32.5 Other 6.0 Total Australia 111.6 4.3 4.3 Other Operations: Zarafshan Newmont 10.3 11.9 14.0 Minahasa 9.5 22.8 26.7 Martha, New Zealand 13.9 Ovacik, Turkey 11.5 Total Other Operations 45.2 34.7 40.7 Other: Merchant Banking 22.6 Base Metals Operations 22.9 Exploration 7.8 1.6 0.4 Corporate and Other 5.4 6.3 8.1 Total Other 58.7 7.9 8.5 Total Newmont $ 505.6 $ 301.6 $ 320.7 Exploration and research expenses in 2002 were $88.9 million in 2002, an increase of 60% from $55.5 million in 2001. Expenditures in 2001 decreased from $77.4 million in 2000. Exploration activities in 2002 increased as a result of the integration of the Normandy and Franco Nevada exploration programs and from the 77 Table of Contents increase in available capital to fund exploration activities due to higher prevailing gold prices in 2002. The 2002 exploration program added approximately 9.4 million equity ounces to proven and probable reserves replacing depletion in 2002. The decrease in 2001 exploration expenditures reflected planned reductions as a result of lower gold prices and an increased focus on exploration activities at or around existing operations. Exploration and research expenditures are expected to be approximately $95 million to $100 million in 2003. General and administrative was $115.3 million in 2002, an increase of 88% compared to $61.2 million in 2001 and 81% compared to $63.7 million in 2000. The increase in 2002 primarily relates to increased administrative costs resulting from the integration of Normandy and Franco Nevada. General and administrative is expected to be approximately $90 to $95 million in 2003 as the Company begins to realize benefits from the on going synergies of the Normandy and Franco Nevada acquisitions. Interest expense, net of amounts capitalized was $129.6 million, $98.1 million and $106.1 million in 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. Capitalized interest totaled $5.2 million, $10.6 million and $5.5 million in each year, respectively. Net interest expense increased in 2002 from 2001 primarily due to debt assumed as part of the acquisition of Normandy of approximately $913.7 million. Net interest expense in 2001 decreased from 2000 because of lower average interest rates and higher capitalized interest for Yanacocha. Interest expense is expected to total approximately $90 million to $95 million in 2003. Expenses for acquisition settlement of $42.2 million in 2000 related to the resolution of a dispute regarding Newmonts purchase of an additional 13.35% interest in Minera Yanacocha as described in Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Write down of long lived assets totaled $3.7 million, $32.7 million and $43.8 million in 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. Details of such write downs are described in the following paragraphs. In 2002, the Company reduced the carrying value of certain long lived assets by $3.7 million. The reductions related to Australian exploration stage mineral interests ($2.4 million), and fixed assets at Kori Kollo ($0.5 million) and Ity ($0.8 million). The Ity mine was sold in the first quarter of 2002, with the future estimated royalty payments recorded as a receivable at fair value. In the fourth quarter of 2002, the Company determined that future royalty payments were uncertain due to political unrest in the region of Africa where the Ity mine is located and a loss of $0.8 million was recorded. In 2001, the Company reduced the carrying value of certain long lived assets by $32.7 million. These write downs related to fixed assets and reclamation costs at Minahasa ($15.8 million); fixed assets at Nevada ($7.0 million) and Kori Kollo ($4.8 million); fixed assets at San Luis ($2.0 million); and other assets at Yanacocha ($0.8 million) and other operations ($2.3 million). In 2000, total write downs of $43.8 were recorded on long lived assets. The reductions related to fixed assets at Holloway ($30.8 million), Kori Kollo ($0.7 million), the Battle Mountain Complex ($0.7 million), Mesquite ($5.1 million), and the acquisition cost of Mezcala ($6.5 million). The Mesquite write down reduced fixed assets by $3.7 million and deferred stripping by $1.4 million. For a discussion of the Companys policy for assessing the carrying value of its long lived assets for impairment, see Critical Accounting Policies above. Merger and restructuring expenses of $60.5 million in 2001 included $28.1 million of transaction and related costs associated with the Battle Mountain merger and $32.4 million of restructuring expenses that included $22.1 million for voluntary early retirement pension benefits and $10.3 million for employee severance and office closures. Other expenses in 2002, 2001 and 2000 were $29.5 million, $11.5 million and $34.6 million, respectively. Included in 2002 are approximately $7.3 million of integration costs relating to the acquisitions of Normandy and 78 Table of Contents Franco Nevada, $16.8 million of severance and other benefits, and $3.1 million for officers life insurance. Also included in 2002, 2001 and 2000 were $5.2 million, $1.0 million and $12.3 million, respectively, for increases to environmental obligations associated with former mining activities. Environmental expenses in 2002 primarily relate to legal costs incurred with respect to the Pinal Creek site (see Note 25 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). The year 2000 also included $13.2 million to increase the remediation liability for San Luis, Colorado and $10.0 million for costs associated with a mercury spill at Yanacocha, both described in the Environmental section of this discussion and analysis. (Loss) gain on derivative instruments totaled $(39.8) million in 2002, compared to $1.8 million and $26.8 million in 2001 and 2000, respectively, and relates to non cash mark to market gains and losses recognized on gold derivative instruments. The loss in 2002 primarily relates to the acquired Normandy gold hedge books and resulted from the increase in the US$ gold price from $300 per ounce at February 15, 2002, the date of acquisition of Normandy, to $347 at December 31, 2002, partially offset by the appreciation in the A$ from $0.5175 at February 15, 2002 to $0.5645 at December 31, 2002. The majority of the acquired Normandy gold hedge books consist of contracts to receive Australian dollars and to deliver gold. Generally, higher gold prices increase Newmonts derivative liability position, whereas appreciation in the Australian dollar decreases Newmonts derivative liability position. Prior to the acquisition of Normandy, (Loss) gain on derivative instruments primarily reflected the change in fair value of written call option contracts at the end of each year. In September 2001, Newmont entered into transactions that closed out these call options. These options were replaced with a series of sales contracts requiring physical delivery of the same quantity of gold over slightly extended future periods. The call options were marked to the market value of $53.8 million immediately prior to their close, resulting in a non cash gain of $1.8 million in 2001. The value of the new sales contracts was recorded as Deferred revenue from sale of future production and will be included in sales revenue as delivery occurs. In 2000, the non cash mark to market gain on the written call options was $26.8 million. Income tax (expense) benefit was $(19.9) million in 2002, compared to $59.3 million and $(5.6) million in 2001 and 2000, respectively. The Companys effective tax rates were (9.2)%, 94.0%, and (14.3)% based on Pre tax income (loss) before minority interest, equity income (loss) of affiliates and cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle of $216.3 million, $(63.1) million and $38.9 million for 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. The factors that most significantly impact the Companys effective tax rate are percentage depletion and resource allowances, valuation allowances related to deferred tax assets, foreign earnings net of foreign tax credits, earnings attributable to minority interests in subsidiaries and affiliated companies, foreign currency translation gains and losses and special non recurring items. Most of these factors are sensitive to the average realized price of gold and other metals. Percentage depletion allowances (tax deductions for depletion that exceed the Companys tax basis in its mineral reserves) are available to the Company under the income tax laws of the United States for operations conducted in the United States or through branches and partnerships owned by US subsidiaries included in the Companys consolidated US income tax return. The deductions are highly sensitive to the price of gold or other minerals produced by the Company. In general, such deductions are calculated separately for each operating mine and are based on a complex two part formula that considers the net of royalty revenue received from sales of the mine output and the taxable income from the particular mine that produced the output. Similar types of deductions are provided for mining operations in Canada and are referred to as resource allowances. The tax benefits from percentage depletion and resource allowances were $34.4 million, $17.3 million and $17.5 million in 2002, 2001 and 2000. The increase in 2002 compared to the other periods resulted primarily from the rise in the Companys average realized gold price to $313 compared to $271 and $282 for 2001 and 2000, respectively. The Company also operates in various countries around the world that have tax laws, tax incentives, and tax rates that are significantly different than those of the United States. Many of these differences contribute to move the Companys overall effective tax rate higher or lower than the US statutory rate and the effect of these differences are shown in the Income Tax footnote as either a rate differential or the effect of foreign earnings net of credits allowable in the United States for taxes paid to non US taxing jurisdictions that arise when the related 79 Table of Contents foreign earnings become taxable in the United States. Coupled with differences in tax rates and other foreign income tax law variations, the Companys ability to fully utilize all of its available foreign income tax credits on a year by year basis also is highly dependent on the price of the minerals produced by the Company since lower prices could result in the Company having insufficient sources of taxable income in the United States to utilize all available foreign tax credits. Such credits have very limited carryback and carryforward periods and can only be used to reduce the US income tax imposed on the Companys foreign earnings included in its annual US consolidated income tax return. The effects of foreign earnings, net of allowable credits, were reductions of income tax expense of $16.7 million, $29.5 million and $29.5 million in 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. The decrease in the reduction in 2002 was primarily attributable to (i) significant pre tax losses in certain non US taxing jurisdictions such as Australia where the tax rates are lower than the US statutory rate; (ii) tax incentives from the reinvestment of earnings in Peru being lower in 2002; and (iii) an increase in the Companys earnings from its Canadian operations from higher gold prices and acquisitions given that Canadian income tax rates are higher than the US statutory tax rate; partially offset by (iv) the lower rate on Canadian capital gains realized from the Companys sale of the marketable securities of Lihir. The need to record valuation allowances related to the Companys deferred tax assets (primarily attributable net operating losses and tax credits) is primarily dependent on the following factors: (i) the extent to which the net operating losses and tax credits can be carried back and yield a tax benefit; (ii) the Companys long term estimate of future average realized minerals prices and; (iii) the degree to which many of the tax laws and income tax agreements imposed upon the Company and its subsidiaries around the world tend to create significant tax deductions early in the mining process. These up front deductions can give rise to net operating losses and credit carryforwards in circumstances where future sources of taxable income may not coincide with available carryforward periods even after taking into account all available tax planning strategies. Furthermore, certain liabilities accrued for financial reporting purposes may not be deductible for tax purposes until such liabilities are actually funded which could happen after mining operations have ceased when sufficient sources of taxable income may not be available. Increases to income tax expense or reductions of income tax benefits were $2.5 million, $17.3 million and $51.8 million in 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. In 2002, the Company reversed part of a valuation allowance reflecting the actual utilization of a portion of the net operating loss carryforward of a subsidiary acquired in a prior pooling of interests business combination, offset by valuation allowances recorded for losses in the acquired Newmont Australia Limited (NAL) group of companies. The major factor in the decline in 2002, however, resulted from the Companys ability to utilize substantially all of its currently arising foreign tax credits due to rising taxable income from higher gold prices. In 2001, however, it experienced a limitation on the use of such credits due to lower taxable income in the United States primarily caused by lower gold prices. In 2000, valuation allowances were higher compared to 2001, resulting from not having available prior period net operating losses. The higher valuation allowances also resulted from lower utilization of foreign tax credits due to higher foreign earnings remittances and earnings in Peru causing more foreign taxes to be available as credits, as well as a lack of sufficient taxable income in the United States to utilize such credits, again caused by low gold prices. The Company consolidates subsidiaries with interests attributable to minority interests, but for tax purposes, the Company is responsible for the income taxes only on the portion of the taxable earnings attributable to its ownership interest of each consolidated entity. Such minority interest contributed to the overall reduction in the Companys effective income tax rate by $11.5 million, $10.1 million and $19.4 million in 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. The reduction in 2002 increased from 2001 due to a higher gold price that was partially offset by fewer reinvestment credits at Yanacocha under Peruvian tax regulations. The reduction in 2000 was greater than in 2001 from higher earnings from the Yanacocha project in Peru due to a combination of higher gold prices and reinvestment credits. The Companys effective tax rate in 2002 was increased by $9.3 million of foreign currency translation losses primarily related to monetary assets and liabilities and the gold derivatives positions in Newmont Australia Limited whose functional currency is the US dollar. Because Newmont intends to indefinitely reinvest earnings from NAL, such translation losses are not subject to deferred tax. 80 Table of Contents During 2002, the Company settled an audit conducted by the Internal Revenue Service of the tax returns of an acquired entity involving several taxable periods that predated the Companys acquisition. At issue was the proper federal income tax treatment of a portion of a transaction involving an exchange of natural resource properties. The settlement gave rise to additional future tax deductions the tax benefit of which had previously not been recorded and for which no deferred taxes were required to be provided. Accordingly, the Companys effective tax rate for 2002 has been reduced by approximately $10 million due to this non recurring item. Based on the uncertainty and inherent unpredictability of the factors influencing the Companys effective tax rate and the sensitivity of such factors to gold and other metals prices as discussed above, Newmonts effective tax rate is expected to be volatile in future periods. Equity income (loss) of affiliates totaled $51.4 million, $22.5 million and $(17.7) million for 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. In 2002, the Company recorded equity income (loss) from Batu Hijau, the copper and gold project in Indonesia in which Newmont has a 56.25% effective interest, of $42.1 million, compared to $22.5 million and $(17.7) million in 2001 and 2000, respectively. Batu Hijau represented all of Newmonts equity income (loss) in 2001 and 2000, whereas in 2002, the Company also recorded $9.7 million for TVX Newmont Americas, $(0.4) million for Echo Bay, $(1.8) million for Australian Magnesium Corporation and $1.7 million for AGR Matthey Joint Venture. The new equity investments in 2002 were acquired as part of the acquisitions of Normandy and Franco Nevada. Equity income of Batu Hijau improved in 2002 primarily from lower net cash costs in 2002, primarily from higher gold by product credits due to higher prevailing gold prices and production throughput capacity improvements, partially offset by lower grade ore. The improvements included operational initiatives and the addition of a pebble crushing circuit. Lower costs in 2002 at Batu Hijau were partially offset by a lower average realized copper price for the year as compared to 2001. The equity income of Batu Hijau in 2001 improved dramatically from 2000 due to the full impact of the ramp up in production that commenced in the fourth quarter of 1999. TVX Newmont Americas was 49.9% owned by Newmont and 50.1% owned by TVX Gold Inc. during 2002. The principal assets of TVX Newmont Americas are interests in operating gold mines in South America (Paracatu, Crixas and La Coipa) and Canada (Musselwhite and New Britannia). On January 31, 2003, Newmont sold its 49.9% interest in TVX Newmont Americas to TVX Gold Inc. for $180 million. Newmont held a weighted average ownership of 45.7% in Echo Bay Mines Limited in 2002 from April 3, 2002 to December 31, 2002. On January 31, 2003, Kinross Gold Corporation, TVX Gold Inc. and Echo Bay combined, and Newmont exchanged its investment in Echo Bay for approximately 13.8% of the new Kinross. Newmonts investment in Kinross will be accounted for as a marketable security in 2003. Newmont recorded a gain of approximately $90 million on the sale of Echo Bay in the first quarter of 2003. Other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax, in 2002 included a $(28.7) million loss for a minimum pension liability adjustment, $(16.7) million for unrealized losses on derivatives designated as cash flow hedges and $(12.8) million for a decline in value of marketable equity securities, partially offset by a $3.6 million gain from foreign currency translation adjustments related to the Companys subsidiaries with functional currencies other than the U.S. dollar. In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 87, Employers Accounting for Pensions, the Company was required to record a minimum liability in 2002. As a result of such adjustment, an intangible asset was recorded and, to the extent the minimum liability adjustment exceeded the unrecognized net transition liability, Stockholders equity was reduced. The unrealized losses on derivatives in 2002 related primarily to the effective portion of the change in fair value of gold instruments assumed as part of the Normandy acquisition that were designated as cash flow hedges. The losses resulted primarily from rising gold prices during the year, partially offset by a strengthening Australian dollar. The impact of the marketable equity securities in 2002 primarily included $(18.3) million related to the sale of Lihir, partially offset by the Companys share of unrealized gains on marketable securities held in Echo Bay. Other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax, in 2001 included an $18.3 million gain for temporary changes in the market value of Lihir Gold securities, $3.2 million for losses associated with foreign currency translation adjustments and $0.9 million for the effective portion of changes in fair value of derivatives designated as cash flow hedges. For 2000, other comprehensive loss, net of tax, included a loss of $1.8 million for foreign currency translation adjustments and a $1.3 million minimum pension liability adjustment. 81 Table of Contents Recent Accounting Pronouncements In June 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued SFAS Nos. 141 and 142, Business Combinations and Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, respectively. The adoption of these standards on January 1, 2002, as required, did not impact Newmonts historical Consolidated Financial Statements or results of operations as of that date. As discussed in Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the 2002 acquisitions of Normandy and Franco Nevada were accounted for as purchases under SFAS 141 and a significant portion of the $4.3 billion purchase price represents goodwill, resulting from the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of net assets acquired. Such goodwill will not be amortized, but will be subject to impairment testing at least annually, as required by SFAS 142. Upon adoption of SFAS 142, the Company reclassified $177.0 million of acquired mineral rights and leases from Property, plant and mine development, net to Mineral interests and other intangible assets, net. Acquired proven and probable reserves are amortized using the units of production basis over the respective mine lives. Undeveloped mineral interests are amortized on a straight line basis over their estimated useful lives, taking into account residual values. In August 2001, the FASB issued SFAS No. 143, Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations, which established a methodology for accounting for estimated reclamation and abandonment costs. The statement was adopted as required on January 1, 2003, when Newmont recorded the estimated fair value of reclamation liabilities (asset retirement obligations or ARO) and increased the carrying amount of the related assets (asset retirement cost or ARC) to be retired in the future. The ARC will be depreciated over the life of the related assets and will be adjusted for changes resulting from revisions to either the timing or amount of the original ARO fair value estimate. Newmont expects to record increases of approximately $60 to $75 million in the ARC, net increases of approximately $110 million to $135 million to the ARO, increases of approximately $1 million to $3 million to accrued liabilities for worker participation bonuses in Peru, increases to deferred tax assets of approximately $10 million to $14 million, a reduction to Newmonts investment in Batu Hijau of approximately $3 million to $9 million and a reduction in minority interest in subsidiaries of approximately $14 million to $18 million, at January 1, 2003, with a cumulative effect of adoption of approximately $30 million to $40 million to be recorded in results of operations in the first quarter of 2003. In August 2001, the FASB issued SFAS No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets, which established a single accounting model, based on the framework of SFAS No. 121, Accounting for the Impairment of Long Lived Assets and for Long Lived Assets to Be Disposed Of, for long lived assets to be disposed of by sale. The statement was adopted January 1, 2002, and there was no impact on the Companys financial position or results of operations upon adoption. In May 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 145, Rescission of FASB Statements No. 4 , 44, and 64, Amendment of FASB Statement No. 13, and Technical Corrections. The statement nullified SFAS 4, SFAS 44 and SFAS 64 and established that gains and losses from extinguishment of debt should be classified as extraordinary items only if they meet the criteria of APB Opinion No. 30, Reporting the Results of Operations Reporting the Effects of Disposal of a Segment of a Business, and Extraordinary, Unusual and Infrequently Occurring Events and Transactions. The Statement also amends SFAS Statement No. 13, Accounting for Leases, to require sale leaseback accounting for certain lease modifications that have economic effects that are similar to sale leaseback transactions and to make technical corrections to various other FASB statements. For the provisions of the statement relating to the extinguishment of debt, SFAS 145 is effective for fiscal years beginning after May 15, 2002. The provisions relating to SFAS 13 are effective for transactions occurring after May 15, 2002, and all other provisions are effective for financial statements issued on or after May 15, 2002. There was no impact on the Companys financial position or results of operations upon adoption. In June 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 146, Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities, which addressed financial accounting and reporting for costs associated with exit or disposal activities. It nullified Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue No. 94 3, Liability Recognition for Certain Employee Termination Benefits and Other Costs to Exit an Activity (including Certain Costs Incurred in a Restructuring). SFAS 146 requires that a liability for a cost associated with an exit or disposal activity be 82 Table of Contents recognized when the liability is incurred rather than at the date of an entitys commitment to an exit plan as was required under EITF No. 94 3. SFAS 146 also establishes that fair value is the objective for initial measurement of the liability. SFAS 146 is effective for exit or disposal activities initiated after December 31, 2002, and we do not anticipate any impact on the Companys financial position or results of operations upon adoption except with respect to those exit or disposal activities that are initiated by the Company after that date. In December 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 148, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation Transition and Disclosure, to provide alternative methods for voluntary transition to the fair value based method of accounting for stock based compensation. SFAS 148 also amends the disclosure provisions of SFAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation, to require prominent disclosure about the effects on reported net income of an entitys accounting policy decisions with respect to stock based employee compensation. Finally, this Statement amends APB Opinion No. 28, Interim Financial Reporting, to require disclosure about those effects in interim financial information. SFAS 148 is effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2002. In November 2002, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation (FIN) 45, Guarantors Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others, an Interpretation of FASB Statements 5, 57, 107 and Rescission of FASB Interpretation No. 34. FIN 45 requires recognition and measurement of guarantees entered into or modified beginning on January 1, 2003 and requires expanded disclosure of guarantees as of December 31, 2002. The Company has conformed its disclosures with respect to guarantees to the requirements of FIN 45. In January 2003, the FASB issued FIN 46, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, which provides guidance on the identification of, and financial reporting for, entities over which control is achieved through means other than voting rights. FIN 46 impacts accounting for variable interest entities created after January 31, 2003, and requires expanded disclosure of variable interest entities for financial statements issued after January 31, 2003. The Company is currently evaluating the impact on its financial position or results of operations. Liquidity and Capital Resources For 2002, Net cash provided by operating activities was $670.3 million, compared to $369.7 million and $534.3 million for 2001 and 2000, respectively. Increased operating cash flows in 2002 primarily reflect the impact of operating cash flows from the Normandy and Franco Nevada operations from February 15, 2002 and the impact of an increased average realized gold price in 2002 of $313 per ounce. Operating cash flows in 2001 declined from 2000 due to a lower average realized gold price of $271 per ounce in 2001 compared to $282 per ounce in 2000. Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities was $112.1 million, $(385.0) million and $(510.5) million in 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. Additions to property, plant and mine development were $(300.1) million, $(390.0) and $(387.4) million. See Capital Expenditures below for more information on capital expenditures in each year. Cash from investing activities in 2002 also included $404.4 million of proceeds from the sales of short term investments obtained as part of the acquisition of Franco Nevada, $84 million of proceeds from the sale of marketable securities of Lihir and $50.8 million of proceeds from the settlement of cross currency swaps that were obtained as part of the Normandy acquisition, offset by $90.3 million of net cash outflows for the acquisitions of Normandy and Franco Nevada ($461.7 million cash consideration for Normandy shares, less cash acquired from acquisitions, net of acquisition costs, of $371.4 million), $24.8 million of cash advances to affiliated companies and $21.1 million of cash outflows to settle ineffective derivative instruments. There were no significant investing cash flows other than capital expenditures in 2001, but in 2000, there were $78.8 million of advances to affiliated companies and $54.7 million of costs associated with the merger with Battle Mountain Gold Company. Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities was $(530.1) million in 2002, compared to $85.1 million and $(65.4) million in 2001 and 2000, respectively. Financing activities in 2002 included drawings on the 83 Table of Contents Companys credit facilities of $493.4 million to pay the cash portion of the purchase price of Normandy. Such drawings were paid down shortly after the acquisition with the proceeds from the sale of the Franco Nevada short term investments. Including paying down the credit facilities, the Company repaid approximately $1.0 billion of debt. See Financing Activities below. Dividend payments for 2002 totaled $50.0 million, and the Company received approximately $67.3 million of proceeds from the issuance of common stock primarily from the exercise of employee stock options. In 2001, Newmont received proceeds from long term debt of $1.0 billion and repaid $941.6 million, paid $31.0 million of dividends and benefited from the lifting of restrictions on $40.0 million of cash. Newmont made payments of debt, net of new proceeds, of $46.6 million and paid dividends of $27.6 million in 2000. Newmonts contractual obligations at December 31, 2002 are summarized as follows: Payments Due by Period Contractual Obligations Total Less than1 Year 1 3Years 4 5Years More than5 Years (in millions) Long term debt $ 1,499.3 $ 78.6 $ 624.5 $ 117.5 $ 678.7 Capital lease obligations 317.3 36.7 61.5 72.1 147.0 Operating leases 25.9 3.8 6.8 5.9 9.4 Minimum royalty payments 82.9 22.5 31.2 22.9 6.3 Total $ 1,925.4 $ 141.6 $ 724.0 $ 218.4 $ 841.4 For information on the Companys long term debt, capital lease obligations and operating leases, see Notes 11 and 26 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Newmont believes it will be able to fund all existing obligations from Net cash provided by operating activities. Subject to any significant adverse changes in the Companys long term view of gold prices, the Company has both the ability and intent to fund, from Net cash provided by operating activities, the exploration expenditures and Merchant Banking investments that were assumed in the valuations performed to allocate goodwill to the Exploration and Merchant Banking segments as part of the purchase accounting for the acquisitions of Normandy and Franco Nevada and to perform impairment testing of such goodwill at December 31, 2002 (see Critical Accounting Policies). The Company believes it will be able to raise capital as needed in capital markets in the future as opportunities for expansion arise. Newmonts cash flows are expected to be impacted by variations in the spot price of gold and other metals and by variations in foreign currency exchange rates in relation to the U.S. dollar, particularly with respect to the Australian dollar. For information concerning the sensitivity of the Companys cash costs to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, see Results of Operations Foreign Currency Exchange Rates above. Newmonts cash flows are also expected to be impacted by its gold derivative contracts. For gold ounces sold into gold forward sales contracts and other similar instruments (committed contracts), the Company realizes the contract price fixed in each contract. If the spot price at the time of the sale exceeds the related contract price, Newmont does not receive the excess of the spot price over the strike price relative to the ounces sold into that contract. If the spot price at the time of the sale is below the contract price, Newmont realizes an above market price on the ounces sold into that contract based on the contract price. Gold put option contracts and other similar instruments (uncommitted contracts) have the effect of establishing a floorprice the Company will receive for gold ounces sold into each contract. If the spot price at the time of the sale exceeds the strike price of the contract, then Newmont realizes the spot price less any gold financing charges associated with such gold put option contracts. If the spot price at the time of the sale is less than the strike price, then Newmont realizes the strike price. Assuming the contracts remain outstanding in the future, committed contracts have the effect of locking in the price Newmont will realize on the sale of the ounces associated with each contract, and uncommitted contracts have the effect of establishing a minimum price Newmont will realize for the sale of the ounces associated with each contract. 84 Table of Contents The Company is currently projecting that the average gold price in 2003 will be equal to the $340 per ounce spot price and the average exchange rate for the Australian dollar will be equal to $0.59 per U.S. dollar at December 31, 2002. Based on this assumed gold price and assumed Australian dollar exchange rate, Newmont estimates that the impact of its gold derivative contracts will be a reduction of the net cash proceeds from the sale of gold of approximately $31.4 million in 2003 compared to the proceeds the Company would have received if the relevant gold had been sold into the spot market. Approximately 15% of estimated production in 2003 is subject to committed contracts and approximately 5% is subject to uncommitted contracts. The reduction of proceeds from the sale of gold in each of the years 2004 through 2011, when all currently outstanding gold derivative contracts will have matured, is not expected to exceed the amount estimated for 2003 based on an assumed gold price of $320 per ounce, a price that is consistent with managements long term view of gold prices. In addition, no assurance can be given that the gold derivative contracts will remain outstanding in the future as Newmont may opportunistically close out certain contracts if favorable market conditions exist. At December 31, 2002, Newmont also was contractually obligated to pay approximately $20 million in 2003 related to the ineffective portion of its gold derivative portfolio. Payments for these items in the years 2004 and thereafter are not expected to exceed the amount in 2003 based on an assumed gold price of $320 per ounce. The Companys cash flows could also be impacted by certain gold derivative contracts that are subject to rights to terminate (see Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk). Based on Newmonts production profile for the next five years and proven and probable reserves at December 31, 2002, without considering future additions to such reserves, Newmont expects that total gold equity ounces sold in each of the next five years will be not less than 85% of expected gold sale ounces in 2003. Assuming a constant price for gold over that period, Newmont does not expect Net cash provided by operating activities to be impacted by its production profile by more than 15% over the next five years. The Company does not anticipate that reasonably expected variations in gold production alone will influence its ability to pay its debt and other obligations over that period. For information on the sensitivity of Newmonts Net cash provided by operating activities to metal prices, see Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk. 85 Table of Contents Investing Activities Additions to Property, plant and mine development Capital expenditures for property, plant and mine development decreased in 2002 from 2001 primarily from the completion of the development of the La Quinua project at Yanacocha in late 2001. Capital expenditures in 2001 and 2000 remained approximately the same. Years ended December 31, 2002 2001 2000 (in millions) Capital expenditures: North America: Nevada $ 54.6 $ 47.1 $ 65.7 Mesquite, California 0.4 0.8 La Herradura, Mexico 1.4 0.9 3.0 Golden Giant, Canada 6.6 7.1 14.9 Holloway, Canada 1.2 1.5 5.5 Total North America 63.8 57.0 89.9 South America: Yanacocha, Peru 146.2 276.9 276.9 Kori Kollo, Bolivia 0.6 10.5 7.8 Total South America 146.8 287.4 284.7 Australia: Pajingo 10.2 7.3 4.9 Kalgoorlie 8.6 Yandal 20.7 Tanami 10.5 Total Australia 50.0 7.3 4.9 Other Operations: Zarafshan Newmont, Uzbekistan 3.9 20.4 4.3 Minahasa, Indonesia 0.5 Martha, New Zealand 5.3 Ovacik, Turkey 4.0 Total Other Operations 13.2 20.4 4.8 Other: Base Metals Operations 10.7 Corporate and Other 15.6 17.9 3.1 Total Other 26.3 17.9 3.1 Total Newmont $ 300.1 $ 390.0 $ 387.4 In 2002, capital expenditures in Nevada included deferred mine development ($15.3 million, primarily for the Deep Post underground and Midas mines), development of the Leeville project and optimization of the Phoenix project ($16.4 million), the Lone Tree Tailings Dam expansion ($5.1 million) and other replacement capital. Yanacocha capital expenditures included leach pad expansions ($69.2 million), mine development ($16.7 million), environmental expenditures ($14.3 million), carbon columns and refinery ($12.9 million) and other replacement capital. Capital expenditures at Zarafshan Newmont included $3.4 million for the completion of the heap leach pad expansion and associated conveyor support. Capital expenditures at Yandal included deferred mine development ($14.3 million). Capital expenditures at Pajingo included mine development ($5.6 million) and replacement capital. Capital expenditures at Kalgoorlie included haul truck purchases ($3.6 million) and replacement capital. Capital expenditures at Golden Grove included mine development of $6.1 million and replacement capital. 86 Table of Contents In 2001, capital expenditures in Nevada included deferred mine development ($15.7 million, primarily for the Deep Post underground mine), mine facilities at Deep Post ($9.9 million), mining equipment ($6.3 million), development of the Phoenix project ($4.1 million) and other replacement capital. Yanacocha capital expenditures included the La Quinua mine ($128.4 million), Yanacocha leach pad operations ($44.9 million), mining equipment ($44.3 million), Carachugo leach pad operations ($19.3 million) and other replacement capital. Capital expenditures at Zarafshan Newmont included $19 million for heap leach pad expansion and associated conveyor support facility. In 2000, capital expenditures in Nevada included deferred mine development ($27.5 million, primarily for the Deep Post underground mine), development of the Phoenix project ($9.8 million), mining equipment ($10.1 million) and other replacement capital. Yanacocha capital expenditures included the La Quinua mine ($144.2 million), unitization of regional properties ($45.7 million), leach pad expansion ($30.8 million), mine development ($30.0 million) and other replacement capital. Newmont expects to spend approximately $560 million to $590 million on capital projects in 2003, with approximately $123 million in North America, $95 million in Australia, $260 million in South America and approximately $97 million in other locations. The majority of budgeted expenditures are for mine development and replacement capital. In Nevada, two expansion projects, the Gold Quarry South Layback (GQSL) and the Leeville Underground Mine (Leeville), are under way. GQSL is located in South Area at Carlin and is expected to yield approximately 2.7 million ounces of production, with annual production of between 320,000 and 770,000 ounces commencing in 2004. Total capital expenditures for GQSL are projected to be approximately $37 million, of which $6.7 million had been spent as of December 31, 2002. Leeville is located in Carlins North Area and will produce approximately 3.0 million ounces, with annual production of approximately 500,000 commencing at the end of 2005. Total capital expenditures for Leeville are projected to be $185 million, of which $15.1 million had been spent as of December 31, 2002. Other Investing Activities TVX Newmont Americas and Echo Bay Mines Ltd. On January 31, 2003, Kinross Gold Corporation, Echo Bay Mines Ltd. and TVX Gold Inc. were combined, and TVX Gold acquired Newmonts 49.9% interest in the TVX Newmont Americas joint venture. Under the terms of the combination and acquisition, Newmont received a 13.8% interest in the restructured Kinross in exchange for its 45.67% interest in Echo Bay and $180 million for its interest in TVX Newmont Americas. Newmont recorded a pre tax gain on the exchange of its shares in Echo Bay of approximately $90 million. Batu Hijau As discussed above and in Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Newmont has an indirect 45% interest in the Batu Hijau mine in Indonesia and its partner, an affiliate of Sumitomo Corporation, has an indirect 35% interest. Because Newmont and Sumitomo carried the interest of the 20% Indonesian partner, Newmont recognizes 56.25% of Batu Hijaus income until recouping the bulk of its investment. At December 31, 2002 and 2001, Newmonts investment in Batu Hijau was $610.1 million and $543.3 million, respectively. On May 9, 2002, P.T.Newmont Nusa Tenggara (PTNNT) completed a restructuring of its $1.0 billion project financing facility (Senior Debt) that provides PTNNT the ability to defer up to $173.4 million in principal payments scheduled for 2002 and 2003. The restructuring provides a better match between the expected cash flows of the project and the maturities of the debt. Any deferred principal amounts will be repaid between 2004 and 2010. Under this restructuring, Batu Hijau is not permitted to pay dividends or make other restricted payments to Newmont or its partner as long as any amount of deferred principal is outstanding; however, there is no restriction on prepaying any of the deferred principal amounts. Amounts outstanding under the project financing total $913.3 million at December 31, 2002. The amount of deferred principal at December 31, 2002 87 Table of Contents was $86.5 million. Newmont and its partner provide a contingent support line of credit to PTNNT. During 2002, Newmont funded $24.8 million under this contingent support facility as its pro rata share of capital expenditures. Additional support from Newmont and its partner available under this facility amounts to $115.0 million, of which Newmonts pro rata share is $64.7 million. Australian Magnesium Corporation As of December 31, 2002, Newmont had a 22.8% voting interest in Australian Magnesium Corporation (AMC). Since then, AMC has raised additional equity to support the development of the Stanwell Magnesium Project, a proprietary chemical and dehydration process for producing anhydrous magnesium chloride as feed for an electrolytic cell to produce molten magnesium metal and magnesium alloys. Northerly Equities Pty Ltd, a wholly owned subsidiary of Newmont Australia Limited (NAL), contributed A$100 million (approximately $56 million) in equity to AMC on January 3, 2003, increasing our ownership percentage to 40.9%. However, due to additional equity contributions by third party shareholders, our voting interest decreased to 27.8% on January 31, 2003. NAL and its wholly owned subsidiary, Nottacar Investments Pty Ltd, had also provided to AMC a A$90 million (approximately $51 million) contingent equity commitment in the event the project does not achieve certain specified production and operating criteria by December 2006. Subsequent to year end, however, this contingent equity commitment was renegotiated to require instead that NAL and Nottacar Investments provide AMC with an A$75 million (approximately $42 million) contingent convertible debt and equity facility. NAL has also guaranteed a $30 million obligation payable by AMC to Ford Motor Company in the event the project does not meet certain specified production and operating criteria by November 2005. AMC has indemnified NAL for this obligation, but the indemnity is unsecured. NAL and certain of its wholly owned subsidiaries are also guarantors of an A$71 million (approximately $40 million) amortizing loan facility of AMCs subsidiary, QMC Finance Pty Ltd. (QMC), of which A$69.8 million (approximately $39 million) was outstanding as of December 31, 2002. The QMC loan facility expires in November 2006. QMC also is a party to a series of foreign exchange hedging contracts. All obligations related to these contracts have been guaranteed by NAL and certain of its wholly owned subsidiaries. The contracts include a series of foreign exchange forward contracts and bought put options, the last of which expire in June 2006. As of December 31, 2002, the fair value of these contracts was a negative A$12.7 million (approximately $7 million). The Ford guarantee and the guarantees under the QMC loan and hedging facilities arose in connection with NALs support of the project as an investor in AMC and its predecessor entities. The guarantees under the QMC loan facility and hedging contracts could be called in the event of a default by QMC. NALs liability under the QMC loan facility guarantee is limited to the total amount of outstanding borrowings under the facility at the time the guarantee is called. NALs maximum potential liability under its guarantee of the QMC hedging contracts, however, would depend on the market value of the hedging contracts at the time the guarantee is exercised. The principal lender and counterparty under the QMC loan and hedging facilities also has a fixed and floating charge over certain assets of AMC. In the event the guarantees are called, NAL would have a right of subrogation to the lender under Australian law. Takeover Bid for Otter Gold Mines Limited. On December 4, 2002, Newmont NFM announced its intentions to make an offer for all shares and options in Otter Gold Mines Limited (Otter Mines) that Newmont NFM did not already own. Newmont NFM is an Australian corporation that is listed on the Australian Stock Exchange (ASX). Otter Mines is a New Zealand corporation that is also listed on the ASX. As of the date of making the announcement, the Company, through 88 Table of Contents subsidiaries, held an 85.86% interest in Newmont NFM and Newmont NFM, in turn, held 89.17% of the outstanding Otter Mines shares. Newmont NFMs offer was made on January 9, 2003 and closed on February 25, 2003. By the close of the offer, Newmont NFM had acquired in excess of 90% of the total outstanding shares in Otter Mines, which, under New Zealand law, entitled Newmont NFM to compulsorily acquire all remaining outstanding Otter Mines shares. Newmont NFM has initiated the compulsory acquisition process and anticipates that through this process it will own 100% of Otter Mines by the end of April 2003. Newmont NFM Limited Arrangement NAL owns 85.86% of Newmont NFM. On November 28, 2002, Newmont Australia and Newmont NFM announced a proposal that, if approved by Newmont NFM shareholders and the Federal Court of Australia (the Court), would result in Newmont NFM becoming a wholly owned subsidiary of NAL. Under the proposal, Newmont NFM shareholders would have the opportunity to either participate in a share buy back in which Newmont NFM would pay A$16.50 for each Newmont NFM share or receive 4.40 ASX listed Newmont Mining Corporation CHESS Depository Instruments (Newmont CDIs) per Newmont NFM Share. Newmont CDIs are the equivalent of one tenth ( 1/10th) of a share of Newmont common stock. On February 21, 2003, the Court approved the information booklet that was proposed to be sent to Newmont NFM shareholders, and the Court also convened shareholders meetings for April 2, 2003. The information booklet was sent to Newmont NFM shareholders in early March. If the requisite majority of Newmont NFM shareholders vote in favor of the arrangement at the April 2, 2003 scheme meetings, Newmont NFM will apply to the Court for approval of the arrangement. The Court hearing is scheduled for April 11, 2003. If approved by the Court, the arrangement would become effective on the following day and processing of shareholder elections in respect of the buy back and the Newmont CDIs would be completed during April 2003. Pension Funding Due to poor returns on plan assets during the last few years, Newmont expects to fund approximately $20 million into its pension plans in 2003 from Net cash provided by operating activities. Financing Activities Scheduled minimum long term debt repayments are $115.3 million in 2003, $194.2 million in 2004, $491.8 million in 2005, $101.2 million in 2006, $88.4 million in 2007 and $825.7 million thereafter. Newmont expects to be able to fund maturities of its debt from operating cash flow. The Companys $1.0 billion revolving credit facility, entered into June 1997, was replaced in October 2001 with two unsecured multi currency revolving credit facilities with a consortium of banks: a $200 million facility with an initial term of 364 days, which may be extended annually to October 2006; and a $400 million revolving facility, which matures in October 2006. In February 2002, in connection with the Normandy transaction, Newmont acquired an additional A$490 million committed revolving multi option facility with a syndicate of banks. In May 2002, Newmont repaid the $170.6 million outstanding under this facility, closed it and added an additional $150 million Australian bank tranche to the existing facilities for a total borrowing capacity of $750 million. Interest rates and facility fees vary based on the Companys credit rating. Borrowings under the facilities bear interest equal to either the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) plus a margin ranging from 0.70% to 0.975% or the greater of the federal funds rate or the lead banks prime rate. Annual fees vary from 0.10% to 0.40%. At December 31, 2002, the fees were 0.15%, 0.175% and 0.30% of the commitment, for the $200 million, the $400 million and the $150 million facilities, respectively. The facilities contain customary affirmative and negative covenants including financial covenants requiring the maintenance of specified limitations on debt to capitalization and debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, and restrictions on incurring liens and transactions with affiliates. There were no borrowings under the facilities as of December 31, 2002. The Company is in compliance with all debt covenants. 89 Table of Contents In July 1999, the Company entered into a prepaid forward gold sales contract (the Prepaid Forward) and a forward gold purchase contract (the Forward Purchase). Under the Prepaid Forward, the Company agreed to sell 483,333 ounces of gold, to be delivered in June of each of 2005, 2006 and 2007 in annual installments of 161,111 ounces (the Annual Delivery Requirements). The Company also agreed under the Prepaid Forward to deliver semi annually 17,951 ounces of gold, beginning June 2000 through June 2007 (the Semi Annual Delivery Requirements) for a total gold delivery obligation over the life of the Prepaid Forward of 752,598 ounces. At the time the Prepaid Forward was entered into, the Company received net proceeds of $137.2 million ($145.0 million of gross proceeds before transaction costs of $653,000 and the purchase of a $7.1 million surety bond to guarantee delivery of the Annual Delivery Requirements). The Company may also be entitled to receive additional proceeds in the future in connection with the annual deliveries of 161,111 ounces, to be determined at each delivery date based on the excess, if any, of the then market price for gold (up to a maximum of $380 per ounce) over $300 per ounce. At the time the Company entered into the Prepaid Forward, it also entered into the Forward Purchase, with the same counterparty, to hedge the price risk with respect to the Semi Annual Delivery Requirements. The Forward Purchase provides for semi annual purchases of 17,951 ounces of gold on each semi annual delivery date under the Prepaid Forward at prices increasing from $263 per ounce in 2000 to $354 per ounce in 2007. On each semi annual delivery date, the ounces purchased under the Forward Purchase are delivered in satisfaction of the Companys delivery requirements under the Prepaid Forward. The transaction has been accounted for as a single borrowing of $145 million, with interest accruing, based on an effective interest rate recognized over the full term of the borrowing. Unsecured notes with a principal amount of $150 million due April 1, 2002, bearing an annual interest rate of 8.625% were outstanding at December 31, 2001. Interest was payable semi annually in April and October and the notes were not redeemable prior to maturity. The notes were repaid in April 2002. In May 2001, Newmont issued unsecured notes with a principal amount of $275 million due May 2011 bearing an annual interest rate of 8.625%. Proceeds of $272 million, after transaction costs, were used to repay debt outstanding under the Companys revolving credit facility, with the remainder for general corporate purposes. Interest is payable semi annually in May and November and the notes are redeemable prior to maturity under certain conditions. The costs related to the issuance of the notes were capitalized and are amortized to interest expense over the term of the notes. Newmont now consolidates two additional unsecured series of notes from Newmont Australia. In July 1998, Normandy Finance Limited (NFL) issued $150.0 million of ten year 7 5/8% guaranteed notes. Interest on the notes is paid semi annually in arrears in January and July and the notes are not redeemable prior to maturity. Also, in July 1998, NFL issued $100.0 million of seven year 7 1/2% guaranteed notes. Interest on the notes is paid semi annually in arrears in January and July and the notes are not redeemable prior to maturity. The costs related to the issuance of the notes were capitalized and are amortized to interest expense over the term of the notes. Both the 7 5/8% notes and the 7 1/2% notes are guaranteed by NAL and certain of its subsidiaries. In April 1998, Normandy Yandal Operations Limited (NYOL), an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of Newmont, issued $300 million of ten year 8 7/8% senior unsecured notes. In conjunction with the Normandy acquisition, NYOL was acquired by Newmont in February 2002. In March 2002, Newmont, through an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary, made an offer to repurchase any and all of NYOLs outstanding 8 7/8% Senior Notes due 2008. As of the offer date, $300 million principal amount of notes was outstanding. The repurchase offer was made pursuant to the terms of an Indenture dated as of April 7, 1998, between NYOL and The Bank of New York, as Trustee. The Indenture requires that Newmont Yandal, following a Change of Control as defined in the Indenture, make an offer to repurchase the notes at a repurchase price of 101% of the principal amount of the notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the repurchase date. Although the applicable provisions of the Indenture can be read to the contrary, Newmont took the position that a Change of Control occurred on February 20, 2002 when Newmont acquired control of Normandy. The Indenture provides that NYOL is not required to 90 Table of Contents make the Change of Control Offer if a third party makes the offer. Newmonts offer, however, should not be construed as a commitment by Newmont to provide ongoing financial or credit support to NYOL. The Change of Control Offer was open until May 14, 2002, resulted in redemption of $62.8 million of the outstanding notes and gave rise to a $0.6 million loss on extinguishment recorded in Other expenses. At December 31, 2002, $237.2 million was outstanding in the Consolidated Financial Statements. The NYOL notes are non recourse to Newmont and have not been assumed or otherwise guaranteed by Newmont. Interest on the notes is paid semi annually in arrears in April and October. Certain financial instruments were entered into whereby NYOL has agreed to exchange US dollar fixed interest amounts payable with a gold interest rate. Of the total, US$183.6 million has been swapped into a gold interest rate, of which half is fixed at 3.87% and half is floating. The floating rate at December 31, 2002 was 0.865%. Because these notes are specialized, it is not practicable to estimate the fair value of the debt. See Note 11 for additional information. All NYOL debt is non recourse to Newmont. In April 2002, Newmont announced the redemption of all issued and outstanding shares of its $3.25 convertible preferred stock as of May 15, 2002. The Company paid a redemption price of $50.325 per share, plus $0.8125 per share for all accrued dividends at the redemption date. In settlement of the total redemption price of $51.1375 per share, Newmont issued to holders of record 1.9187 shares of its common stock. This redemption eliminated $7.5 million of annual preferred stock dividends prospectively. On April 26, 2002, Newmont filed post effective amendments to previous Registration Statements on Form S 3 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission for the purpose of increasing its existing universal shelf registration from $500 million to $1.0 billion. This filing will provide the capability to access capital markets for debt or equity securities as required and as market conditions warrant. The Form S 3 has not yet been declared effective. During the first quarter of 2003, the Company repurchased $23.0 million, $52.3 million, $10.0 million and $30.9 million face amount of its outstanding 8 3/8%, 8 5/8%, NAL 7 1/2% and NAL 7 5/8% debentures, respectively, for total cash considerations of $135.8 million. Newmont recorded a pre tax charge of $19.6 million related to these repurchases during the first quarter of 2003. Environmental The Companys mining and exploration activities are subject to various federal and state laws and regulations governing the protection of the environment. These laws and regulations are continually changing and are generally becoming more restrictive. The Company conducts its operations so as to protect the public health and environment and believes its operations are in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations. The Company has made, and expects to make in the future, expenditures to comply with such laws and regulations, but cannot predict the amount of such future expenditures. Estimated future reclamation costs are based principally on legal and regulatory requirements. At December 31, 2002 and 2001, $268.2 million and $130.0 million, respectively, were accrued for reclamation costs relating to currently or recently producing mineral properties. On January 1, 2003, the Company adopted SFAS 143, Asset Retirements Obligations (see Recent Accounting Pronouncements on page 82). In addition, the Company is involved in several matters concerning environmental obligations associated with former, primarily historic, mining activities. Generally, these matters concern developing and implementing remediation plans at the various sites involved. The Company believes that the related environmental obligations associated with these sites are similar in nature with respect to the development of remediation plans, their risk profile and the compliance required to meet general environmental standards. Based upon the Companys best estimate of its liability for these matters, $48.1 million and $55.7 million were accrued for such obligations at December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. These amounts are included in Other accrued liabilities and Reclamation and remediation liabilities. Depending upon the ultimate resolution of these matters, the Company believes that it is reasonably possible that the liability for these matters could be as much as 45% greater or 25% 91 Table of Contents lower than the amount accrued at December 31, 2002. The amounts accrued for these matters are reviewed periodically based upon facts and circumstances available at the time. Changes in estimates are charged to Costs and expenses, Other in the period estimates are revised. For more information on the Companys reclamation and remediation liabilities, see Note 25 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Included in 2002 and 2001 capital expenditures was approximately $14.3 million and $12.1 million, respectively, to comply with environmental regulations. Expenditures of $47.5 million are anticipated in 2003, primarily at Yanacocha. Ongoing costs to comply with environmental regulations have not been a significant component of cash operating costs. Newmont spent $14.6 million, $8.1 million and $18.7 million in 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively, for environmental obligations related to the former mining sites discussed in Note 25 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, and expects to spend approximately $14.4 million in 2003. 2002 expenditures relate primarily to the Dawn and Resurrection sites. In 2000, the remediation liability associated with the San Luis property in Colorado was increased $13.2 million. In June 2000, a transport contractor of Minera Yanacocha spilled approximately 151 kilograms of elemental mercury near the town of Choropampa, Peru, which is located 53 miles southwest of the mine. Elemental mercury is a by product of gold mining and was sold to a Lima firm for use in medical instruments and industrial applications. A comprehensive health and environmental remediation program was undertaken by Minera Yanacocha in response to the incident. In August 2000, Minera Yanacocha paid under protest a fine of 1,740,000 soles (approximately $500,000) to the Peruvian government. Minera Yanacocha has entered into settlement agreements with a number of individuals impacted by the incident. In addition, it has entered into agreements with three of the communities impacted by this incident to provide a variety of public works as compensation for the disruption and inconvenience caused by the incident. Costs of $13 million for public works, remediation efforts, personal compensation and the fine have been incurred for the Yanacocha spill to date. Neither the Company nor Minera Yanacocha can reasonably predict the likelihood of any additional expenditures related to this matter. Forward Looking Statements The foregoing discussion and analysis, as well as certain information contained elsewhere in this Annual Report, contain forward looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and are intended to be covered by the safe harbor created thereby. See the discussion in Forward Looking Statements in Item 1, Business, commencing on page 10. 92 Table of Contents ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Metal Price Changes in the market price of gold significantly affect Newmonts profitability and cash flow. Gold prices can fluctuate widely due to numerous factors, such as demand; forward selling by producers; central bank sales, purchases and lending; investor sentiment; and global mine production levels. Based on estimates of Newmonts stand alone 2003 production and expenses, a $20 per ounce change in the gold price would result in an increase or decrease of approximately $107.5 million in cash flow from operations and approximately $87.5 million (about $0.21 per share) in net income. Changes in the market price of copper also affect Newmonts profitability and cash flow from its investment in the Batu Hijau mine in Indonesia and its Golden Grove mine in Australia. Copper is traded on established international exchanges and copper prices generally reflect market supply and demand, but can also be influenced by speculative trading in the commodity or by currency exchange rates. Based on estimates of Newmont stand alone 2003 production and expenses, a $0.10 per pound change in the copper price would result in an increase or decrease in net income of approximately $27.0 million (about $0.06 per share). Foreign Currency Changes in the foreign currency exchange rates in relation to the U.S. dollar may affect Newmonts profitability and cash flow. Foreign currency exchange rates can fluctuate widely due to numerous factors, such as supply and demand for foreign and U.S. currencies and U.S. and foreign country economic conditions. In addition to its operations in the United States, Newmont has operations in Australia, New Zealand, Peru, Indonesia, Canada, Uzbekistan, Bolivia, Turkey and other foreign locations. The Companys foreign operations sell their metal production based on a U.S. dollar gold price. Fluctuations in the local currency exchange rates in relation to the U.S. dollar can increase or decrease profit margins and total cash costs per ounce to the extent costs are paid in local currency at foreign operations. Since the Companys February 15, 2002 acquisition of Normandy, the Australian dollar/U.S. dollar exchange rate has had the greatest impact on the Companys total cash costs, as measured in U.S. dollars. However, variations in the Australian dollar/U.S. dollar exchange rate have historically been strongly correlated to variations in the U.S. dollar gold price over the long term. Increases or decreases in costs at Australian gold operations due to exchange rate changes have therefore tended to be mitigated by changes in sales reported in U.S. dollars for such locations. No assurance can be given that the Australian dollar/U.S. dollar exchange rate will continue to be strongly correlated to the U.S. dollar gold price in the future, or that short term changes in the Australian dollar/U.S. dollar exchange rate will not have an impact on the Companys profitability and cash flow. Newmont does not believe that foreign currency exchange rates in relation to the U.S. dollar have had a material impact on its determination of proven and probable reserves in the past. However, in the event that a sustained weakening of the U.S. dollar in relation to the Australian dollar, and or to other foreign currencies that impact the Companys cost structure, were not mitigated by offsetting increases in the U.S. dollar gold price or by other factors, the Company believes that profitability, cash flows and the amount of proven and probable reserves in the applicable foreign country could be reduced. The extent of any such reduction would be dependent on a variety of factors including the length of time of any such weakening of the U.S. dollar, and managements long term view of the applicable exchange rate. For information concerning the sensitivity of the Companys cash costs to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, see Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Consolidated Results of Operations and Financial Condition Results of Operations Foreign Currency Exchange Rates, above. Hedging Newmont generally sells its production at spot market prices. Newmont has historically, on a limited basis, entered into derivative contracts to protect the selling price for certain anticipated gold production and to manage risks associated with sales contracts, commodities, interest rates and foreign currency. In addition, at the time of Normandys acquisition, three of its affiliates had a substantial derivative instrument position. These three affiliates are now known as Newmont Gold Treasury Pty Ltd, the Newmont NFM, and Newmont Yandal 93 Table of Contents Operations (NYOL). Following the Normandy acquisition, however, and in accordance with the Companys non gold hedging philosophy, efforts to proactively reduce and simplify the Normandy hedge positions have been undertaken. Accordingly, the Normandy gold hedge books have been reduced by approximately 3.3 million ounces since February 2002. Gold forward sales contracts and other instruments (committed hedging obligations) were reduced by 2,156,000 ounces since February 15, 2002 by delivering production into the contracts. Similarly, uncommitted contracts for 855,000 ounces were either delivered into or lapsed. In addition, 288,000 ounces of an overlaid position were closed out, leaving an open sold convertible put position of 240,000 ounces and an open bought call option position of 48,000 ounces. Combining the 2,156,000 committed ounces delivered, the 855,000 uncommitted ounces eliminated and the 288,000 ounces of overlaid positions closed out through December 31, 2002, the Normandy gold hedge books were reduced to 5.2 million committed ounces and 1.5 million uncommitted ounces for a total of 6.6 million ounces. The mark to market valuation of the Normandy gold hedge books at December 31, 2002, however, grew to a negative $433 million broken down as follows: Newmont Gold Treasury Pty Ltd: $(122) million; Newmont NFM: $(23) million; and, Newmont Yandal Operations Limited: $(288) million. The following table shows the approximate sensitivities of the US$ mark to market value of the Normandy gold hedge books to certain market variables as of December 31, 2002 (actual changes in the timing and amount of the following variables may differ from the assumed changes below): Market Variables Change in Variable Change in Mark to MarketValue (millions) A$ Interest Rates +/ 1.0% /+$40.0 US$/A$ Exchange Rates +/ US$0.01 +/ $35.4 Gold Lease Rates +/ 1.0% +/ $15.2 US$ Interest Rates +/ 1.0% /+$10.5 US$ Gold Price/oz. +/ $1.00 /+$6.6 Newmont is not required to place collateral with respect to commodity instruments and there are no margin calls associated with such contracts. Credit risk is minimized by dealing only with major financial institutions/counterparties. A number of NYOLs hedge positions, however, are governed by agreements that confer on the relevant counterparties a right to terminate the position prior to its agreed scheduled maturity date. Such a termination would result in an immediate cash settlement of that contract based on the market value on the date of termination and could result in a cash settlement obligation to NYOL hedge counterparties in excess of available funds. NYOL obligations, however, are non recourse to Newmont and its other subsidiaries. The table below summarizes those NYOL contracts that are subject to rights to terminate and the mark to market value of those contracts as of December 31, 2002: Potential Termination Date (1) Ounces of Gold Fair Value atDecember 31, 2002 (in millions) January, 2003 (336,000 ) $ (5.1 ) January, 2004 (780,000 ) 11.8 June, 2004 (133,335 ) (10.4 ) April, 2005 (840,000 ) (31.0 ) May, 2005 (195,000 ) (15.7 ) June, 2005 30,000 (12.0 ) August, 2005 (1,304,997 ) (105.7 ) October, 2006 (13.0 )(2) Total (3,559,332 ) $ (181.1 ) (1) Earliest possible termination date permitted under the contract. (2) This position, which forms part of the US$/Gold swap contracts, is with a different counterparty than the original swap transaction and has no ounces associated with it. 94 Table of Contents Effective January 1, 2001, Newmont adopted SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities to recognize derivative instruments on the balance sheet as either assets or liabilities and measurement at fair value. Unless specific hedging criteria are met, changes in the derivatives fair value are recognized currently in earnings. Gains and losses on derivative hedging instruments are recorded in either Other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax or Net income (loss), depending on the nature of the instrument. Gold Commodity Contracts The tables below are expressed in thousands of ounces of gold, and prices for contracts denominated in A$ have been translated to US$ at the exchange rate at December 31, 2002 of US$0.56 per A$1. For all floating rate instruments, the average prices quoted are gross contractual prices. The net forward prices ultimately realized on floating gold hedging contracts are the sum of the gross contractual forward prices less any associated future financing costs arising from gold borrowing commitments related to such floating rate instruments. Floating put option valuations include a deferred premium cost, which is payable in gold ounces upon expiration of the options. Gold Forward Sales Contracts Newmont had the following gold forward sales contracts at December 31, 2002: Expected Maturity Date or Transaction Date Gold Forward Sales Contracts: 2003 2004 2004 2005 Thereafter Total/Average Fair ValueUS$ (000) (A$ Denominated) Fixed Forwards: Ounces 1,022 1,060 227 52 26 2,387 $ (138,095 ) Average price $ 297 $ 300 $ 293 $ 266 $ 254 $ 297 Floating Rate Forwards: Ounces 61 231 214 506 $ (37,401 ) Average price $ $ $ 332 $ 342 $ 352 $ 345 Synthetic Forwards: Ounces 39 80 80 80 160 439 $ (34,222 ) Average price $ 313 $ 305 $ 305 $ 305 $ 305 $ 306 Total: Ounces 1,061 1,140 368 363 400 3,332 $ (209,717 ) Average Price $ 298 $ 300 $ 302 $ 323 $ 327 $ 305 Notes: Fixed forward sales contracts provide for delivery of a specified number of ounces at a specified price and date and are accounted for as cash flow hedges. Floating rate forward contracts provide for a gold lease rate component in the price that takes into account market lease rates over the term of the contract. Gold lease rates reflect the borrowing cost for gold. Variations in gold lease rates have historically not materially impacted on the actual realized price achieved on the contract. As such, these contracts have been statistically proven to qualify as highly effective cash flow hedges under FAS 133. Synthetic forward contracts represent combinations of purchased put options and written call options at the same strike price, maturity date and number of ounces. The combination achieves the same risk management result as gold forward sales contracts. Both floating rate forwards and synthetic forwards are accounted for as cash flow hedges. 95 Table of Contents Gold Put Option Contracts Newmont had the following gold put option contracts outstanding at December 31, 2002: Expected Maturity Date or Transaction Date Fair Value Gold Put Option Contracts: 2003 2004 2005 2006 Thereafter Total/Average US$ (000) US$ Denominated Fixed Purchased Puts: Ounces 209 203 205 100 20 737 $ (6,774 ) Average price $ 292 $ 292 $ 292 $ 338 $ 397 $ 301 A$ Denominated Fixed Purchased Puts: Ounces 91 88 49 228 $ (3,690 ) Average price $ 312 $ 318 $ 309 $ $ $ 314 A$ Denominated Floating Purchased Puts: Ounces 16 207 69 287 579 $ (12,140 ) Average price $ 316 $ $ 332 $ 342 $ 344 $ 338 Total: Ounces 316 291 461 169 307 1,544 $ (22,603 ) Average Price $ 299 $ 300 $ 312 $ 340 $ 347 $ 317 Notes: Fixed purchased put option contracts provide the right, but not the obligation, to sell a specified number of ounces at a specified strike price and are accounted for as cash flow hedges. Floating forward purchased put option contracts provide for a variable gold lease rate component in the strike price. These options are accounted for as cash flow hedges. Variations in gold lease rates have historically not materially impacted on the actual realized price achieved on the contract. As such, these contracts have been statistically proven to qualify as highly effective cash flow hedges under FAS 133. Gold Convertible Put Options and Other Instruments Newmont had the following gold convertible put option contracts and other instruments outstanding at December 31, 2002: Expected Maturity Date or Transaction Date Fair Value Gold Convertible Put Optionsand Other Instruments: 2003 2004 2005 2006 Thereafter Total/Average US$ (000) (A$ Denominated) Floating Convertible Put Options: Ounces 1,131 1,131 $ (102,952 ) Average price $ $ $ $ $ 376 $ 376 Knock out/knock in Contracts: Ounces 46 37 49 132 $ (6,794 ) Average price $ 311 $ 311 $ 311 $ $ $ 311 Indexed Forward Contracts: Ounces 33 65 98 196 $ (15,740 ) Average price $ $ $ 305 $ 305 $ 305 $ 305 Total: Ounces 46 37 82 65 1,229 1,459 $ (125,486 ) Average price $ 311 $ 311 $ 308 $ 305 $ 371 $ 361 Notes: Convertible put option contracts and other instruments are composed of: a) Convertible option contracts that provide minimum price protection for covered ounces, while providing the opportunity to participate in higher market prices under certain market conditions, and are accounted for as cash flow hedges. (These contracts have a floating lease rate component. Variations in gold lease rates have historically not materially impacted on the actual realized price achieved on the contract. As such, these contracts have been statistically proven to qualify as highly effective cash flow hedges under FAS 133); b) Knock out/knock in option contracts are contingent sold call options that either terminate (or knock out) and maintain upside gold price potential or 96 Table of Contents convert (or knock in) to sold call options, depending on certain market conditions, and are marked to market, with the change reflected in income; and c) Indexed forward contracts that are potentially convertible to purchased put options, depending on the market gold price at set future value dates during the term of the contract, and are marked to market, with the change reflected in income. Gold Sold Convertible Put Options Newmont had the following gold convertible put option contracts and other instruments outstanding at December 31, 2002: Expected Maturity Date or Transaction Date Fair Value Gold Sold Convertible Put Options: 2003 2004 2005 2006 Thereafter Total/Average US$ (000) (A$ Denominated) Ounces 30 60 60 90 240 $ (14,295 ) Average price $ $ 331 $ 334 $ 337 $ 340 $ 337 Notes: Sold convertible put options are contracts that commit Newmont to buy gold ounces under certain market conditions at a predetermined price on a specified future date. At December 31, 2002 Newmont had a sold gold convertible put position of 240,000 ounces. This position was originally overlaid with a bought convertible put position, however, the bought position was closed out during the year. As the contracts are to buy gold, they cannot be treated as cash flow hedges; they are therefore marked to market with the change reflected in income. The cash flow on the close out of this bought position was an outflow of $10.9 million. Price Capped Sales Contracts Newmont had the following price capped forward sales contracts outstanding at December 31, 2002: Expected Maturity Date or Transaction Date Total/Average Fair ValueUS$ (000) Price capped contracts: 2003 2004 2005 2006 Thereafter (US$ Denominated) Ounces 500 1,850 2,350 n/a Average price $ $ $ 350 $ $ 384 $ 377 US$/Gold Swap Contracts Newmont Australia entered into a US$/gold swap contract whereby principal payments on US$ bonds are swapped into gold denominated payments of 600,000 ounces in 2008. Newmont Australia also receives US$ fixed interest payments and pays gold lease rates, which are indexed to spot prices. This instrument is marked to market at each period end, with the change reflected in income, and at December 31, 2002, the fair value was a negative $87.2 million. Other Sales Contracts, Commodity and Derivative Instruments Foreign Currency In addition to the U.S., Newmont has operations in Australia, New Zealand, Peru, Indonesia, Canada, Uzbekistan, Bolivia and Turkey. To the extent that there are fluctuations in local currency exchange rates against the U.S. dollar, the devaluation of a local currency is generally economically neutral or beneficial to most operations since local salaries and supply contracts will decrease against the U.S. dollar based revenue stream. The appreciation of non U.S. dollar currencies against the U.S. dollar can increase the costs of gold production in U.S. dollar terms at mines located outside the United States, making such mines less profitable. Foreign currency exchange rate gains (losses) were $14.0 million, $(5.1) million and $(6.1) million for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. 97 Table of Contents Newmont acquired certain cross currency swap contracts in the Normandy transaction intended to hedge the currency risk on repayment of US$ denominated debt. These contracts were closed out during the quarter ended June 30, 2002 for net proceeds of $50.8 million. The contracts were accounted for on a mark to market basis until closed out, resulting in a loss to income of $8.5 million for the period from February 15, 2002 through December 31, 2002. Newmont also acquired currency swap contracts to receive A$ and pay US$ designated as hedges of A$ denominated debt. The A$ denominated debt was repaid during the quarter ended June 30, 2002 and the contracts are currently undesignated. The contracts are accounted for on a mark to market basis. At December 31, 2002, they had a negative fair value of $21.9 million. At December 31, 2002, Newmont had the following foreign currency contracts outstanding. Prices for contracts denominated in A$ have been translated at the exchange rate at December 31, 2002 of US$0.56 per A$1. A$/US$ CurrencyExchange Contracts: ExpectedMaturityDate orTransactionDate Total/Average Fair ValueUS$ (000) 2003 2004 2005 2006 Thereafter Notional Amounts US$ (000) $ 45,390 $ 56,112 $ 30,700 $ $ $ 132,201 $ (21,924 ) Average Exchange Rate (US$ per A$1) Average price 0.645 0.646 0.682 0.654 Interest Rate Swap Contracts In the Normandy transaction, Newmont acquired A$125 million of interest rate swap contracts covering a portion of its US$100 million, 7 year bonds. These contracts were closed out during the quarter ended June 30, 2002 for a net cash out flow of $1 million. The contracts were accounted for on a mark to market basis until closed out, resulting in a gain of $0.4 million for the period from February 15, 2002 through December 31, 2002. During the last half of 2001, Newmont entered into contracts to hedge the interest rate risk exposure on a portion of its $275 million 8.625% notes and its $200 million 8.375% debentures. Newmont receives fixed rate interest payments at 8.625% and 8.375% and pays floating rate interest amounts based on periodic LIBOR settings plus a spread, ranging from 2.60% to 4.25%. The notional principal amount of these transactions (representing the amount of principal tied to floating interest rate exposure) was $200 million at December 31, 2002. Half of these contracts expire in July 2005 and half expire in May 2011. These transactions resulted in a reduction in interest expense of $5.9 million and $0.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. These transactions have been designated as fair value hedges and had a positive fair value of $13.8 million at December 31, 2002 and a negative fair value of $0.6 million at December 31, 2001. Fixed Rate Debt Newmont has both fixed and variable rate debt. Without considering the specialized $145 million Prepaid Forward Sales Obligation, 93% and 90% of debt was fixed and 7% and 10% was variable at December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. The Company has managed some of its fixed rate debt exposure by entering into interest rate swaps (See Interest Rate Swap Contracts above). The Companys fixed rate debt exposure at December 31, 2002 and 2001 is summarized as follows: 2002 2001 (in millions) Carrying value of fixed rate debt* $ 976 $ 755 Fair value of fixed rate debt* $ 1,075 $ 766 Pro forma fair value sensitivity of fixed rate debt of a +/ 10 basis point interest rate change** $ +/ 3.7 $ +/ 2.8 98 Table of Contents * Excludes specialized and hybrid debt instruments for which it is not practicable to estimate fair values and pro forma fair values or sensitivities. These instruments include the Sale Leaseback of the Refractory Ore Treatment Plant, Newmont Yandal 8 7/8% notes, Prepaid Forward Sales Obligation, Minera Yanacocha Trust Certificates and certain capital leases. The estimated fair value quoted above may or may not reflect the actual trading value of these instruments. ** The pro forma information assumes a +/ 10 basis point change in market interest rates at December 31 of each year, and reflects the corresponding estimated change in the fair value of fixed rate debt outstanding at that date under that assumption. Actual changes in the timing and amount of interest rate variations may differ from the above assumptions. Pension and Other Benefit Plans Pension and other benefit plan costs can be impacted by actual results that differ from assumptions selected. These differences are reflected in financial results over future periods. Actual returns (losses) on pension assets were $(11.1), $0.9 and $(1.6) million in 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively, compared to expected returns of $14.4, $15.5 and $16.7 million for the same periods. If the difference between expected returns and actual results falls outside certain limits, the difference will be amortized into future earnings on a straight line basis over the average remaining working life of the participants (currently 12 years). Future amortization resulting from lower actual returns averages $0.8 million (after tax) per annum for the next several years. The following table provides details of the pension plans asset mix at December 31, 2002: Asset Class Actual Mix Target Mix Expected RateOf Return StandardDeviationor Volatility U.S. Equity investments 44 % 45 % 9.5 % 17.9 % International equity investments 20 % 20 % 10.7 % 21.1 % Fixed income investments 34 % 35 % 6.6 % 7.0 % Cash and cash equivalents 2 % 4.3 % 2.8 % 8.1 % 14.9 % The Plans Trustees evaluate the level of volatility within the total Trust and each of its component investments making appropriate inquiries to the plans investment advisors when prudent. Contributions to the pension plans were $12.3, $11.3 and $3.8 million in 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. Funding in 2003 is expected to be approximately $21.0 million. If the 8% rate of return on plan assets would have been used instead of the 9.25% estimated at January 1, 2002, pension expense would have increased by $2.0 million in 2002. A 0.25% reduction in the discount rate assumption (to 6.5%) would have increased pension expense by $1.0 million and other benefits expense $0.5 million for 2002 had such a rate been determined as the appropriate rate to use. Such a change would have no impact on future pension funding requirements. 
 
