FILE:ANR/ANR-8K-20050727093056.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
410-689-7500
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
           
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
           
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
           
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
           
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On July 27, 2005, Foundation Coal Holdings, Inc. issued a press release announcing earnings and other financial results for its quarter ended June 30, 2005 and that Management would review these results in an investment community conference call at 10:00 AM Eastern (7:00 AM Pacific) on Wednesday,  July 27, 2005.
 
This Current Report on Form 8-K and the earnings press release attached hereto are being furnished by the Registrant pursuant to Item 2.02 "Results of Operations and Financial Condition." In accordance with General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99.1, shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liability of that section or Sections 11 and 12(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. In addition, this information shall not be deemed incorporated by reference into any of the Registrant's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in any such filing.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(c) Exhibit
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: July 27, 2005
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
News Release
 
Contact:
Ellen Ewart
Vice President, Investor and Media Relations
410-689-7632
eewart@foundationcoal.com
 
 
 Foundation Coal Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:FCL) today reported financial results for its second quarter ended June 30, 2005 and updated earnings guidance for the full year 2005.
Linthicum Heights, Maryland, July 27, 2005
 
HIGHLIGHTS
 
Second quarter revenues increased by nearly one-third, to $329.5 million.
 - 
                 
 
Net income for the quarter more than doubled, increasing to $20.2 million or $0.44 per diluted share, compared to pro forma second quarter 2004 net income of $7.7 million, or $0.17 per diluted share.
 - 
                 
 
Quarterly adjusted EBITDA improved by 80 percent to $75.4 million.
 - 
                 
 
 
 
"Foundation Coal is making the most of an already strong market, and today's results demonstrate even more robust performance in the second quarter than in our already outstanding first quarter of 2005," said James F. Roberts, Foundation president and chief executive officer. "Our diverse portfolio of operations allowed us to more than offset transportation-induced shortfalls in the West and capitalize on ongoing strength in steam, metallurgical, and industrial coal markets."
 
FINANCIAL RESULTS
 
Period to Period Comparisons
 
Second quarter coal sales revenues increased 29 percent to $324.5 million over pro forma 2004 on 26 percent higher average per-ton sales realizations and modestly higher shipments. For the first half of the year, coal sales revenues increased nearly 32 percent, as shipments increased 7 percent and average per ton sales realizations increased 23 percent.
 
Of the $4.21 per-ton increase in average sales realization for the quarter, approximately $3.00 was attributable to higher coal prices, primarily in Northern and Central Appalachia. The remaining $1.21 resulted from a combination of increased coal quality premiums, partly as a result of strong prices for sulfur dioxide emissions allowances, and an increased proportion of shipments from Northern and Central Appalachia relative to the Powder River Basin.
 
As a result of such significant improvement in coal sales revenues, net income increased 162 percent to $20.2 million in the second quarter 2005 compared to pro forma net income of $7.7 million in 2004. Diluted earnings per share increased 159 percent to $0.44 in 2005 compared to pro forma diluted earnings per share of $0.17 in 2004. For the six months ended June 30, net income increased to $39.1 million from a $3.8 million pro forma result in 2004. Diluted earnings per share were $0.85 in 2005 compared with pro forma diluted earnings per share of $0.08 in 2004.
 
EBITDA, as defined in the company's bank credit agreement ("adjusted EBITDA") and further explained below, improved by 80 percent to $75.4 million in the second quarter of 2005 from $41.9 million in 2004. For the twelve months ended June 30, 2005, pro forma adjusted EBITDA totaled $212.0 million compared to $170.1 million of pro forma adjusted EBITDA in the twelve months ended June 30, 2004.
 
Capital Structure
 
Cash flow from continuing operations totaled $56.6 million and $68.5 million during the second quarter and first six months of 2005, respectively. The cash balance increased by $23.1 million during the second quarter. Additional investment in working capital was $3 million during the second quarter, representing an increase in work-in-process inventories party offset by an increase in accrued liabilities.
Capital expenditures of $28.6 million and shareholder dividends of $1.8 million during the second quarter were funded from cash flow from operations. Capital expenditures during the quarter included $9.9 million related to expansion of the Belle Ayr mine, development of the Pax surface mine, addition of a continuous miner at the Kingston Mine, and the widening of the Emerald longwall face to 1,450 feet.
 
The company's leverage as measured by the ratio of outstanding debt to adjusted EBITDA for the trailing twelve months stood at an estimated 3.2 times at June 30, 2005 compared to 4.5 times at December 31, 2004.
 
Available liquidity under the company's revolving credit agreement was $156.5 million at June 30, 2005, an increase in borrowing capacity of $7.4 million during the second quarter as a result of reductions in outstanding letters of credit used as collateral for surety bonds. Subsequent to June 30, outstanding letters of credit have been reduced by an additional $9 million.
 
OPERATIONAL AND COMMERCIAL DEVELOPMENTS
 
"Our first half demonstrates our operational abilities to take full advantage of higher market prices and increased sulfur dioxide premiums," said Roberts. "As we head into the second half of the year we will seek to meet or exceed the high bar set in all of these areas."
 
During the second quarter, an increase in shipments from the company's Northern Appalachia and Central Appalachia mines was partly offset by reduced shipments from its Powder River Basin operations. Powder River Basin shipments were reduced by approximately 1.0 million tons resulting from the rail problems that arose with the extremely wet weather in mid-May and persisted through June. The company estimates that this shortfall reduced adjusted EBITDA in the quarter by approximately $2.5 million to $3 million. This shortfall was more than covered by strong earnings contributions from the company's Northern Appalachia and Central Appalachia mines.
 
During the second quarter, the company noted several major operational achievements:
 
At the Emerald Mine in western Pennsylvania, after a successful longwall move, the mine transitioned into a new panel with a face width of 1,450 feet, the widest in North America.
 - 
                 
 
The Pax operation in West Virginia is now fully permitted, having received a permit to construct a loadout facility on the property.
 - 
                 
 
The company received recognition for its reclamation efforts in Illinois, where the Delta reclamation project was awarded the Interstate Mining Compact Commission's National Mine Reclamation Award; and Wyoming, where the Eagle Butte Mine received two awards from the Wyoming Department of Environmental Quality for Excellence in Surface Mining Reclamation and Innovation.
 - 
                 
 
OUTLOOK
 
Based on the positive operating and financial results for the first six months and the company's outlook for the remainder of the year, Foundation is revising its full year guidance to the following ranges:
 
 
Full-year guidance for tons produced and tons shipped has been lowered to reflect full-year shipments from the Powder River Basin in the range of 42.0 million to 42.5 million tons, 2.5 million to 3.0 million tons lower than previous expectations. Production and shipment expectations from all other operations have been maintained at previous levels.
 
Roberts stated, "It is notable that we have raised our financial guidance ranges while decreasing our guidance on production and shipments. Our operational diversity and ability to compensate for shortfalls in a particular region is one of the true keys to our strong performance through the first half of the year."
 
Roberts added, "Full-year guidance as to coal sales revenues, adjusted EBITDA, net income, and diluted earnings per share also has been increased to reflect higher coal quality premiums, updated pricing for coal sales and updated figures for actuarially determined accruals for retiree health care and pension accruals."
 
Foundation has now committed and priced 90 percent, 73 percent, and 51 percent of its expected production in 2006, 2007, and 2008, respectively. The majority of uncommitted tonnage is primarily associated with higher value eastern coals. Specifically, in the East, the company is 80 percent, 65 percent, and 32 percent committed, respectively, for the three years, while in the West, those percentages are 95 percent, 76 percent, and 58 percent, respectively.
ABOUT FOUNDATION COAL
 
Foundation Coal Holdings, Inc. is a major U.S. coal producer with 13 coal mines and related facilities in several states including Pennsylvania, West Virginia, Illinois, and Wyoming. Through its subsidiaries Foundation Coal employs approximately 2,700 people and produces approximately 65 million tons annually, largely for utilities generating electricity. Foundation's corporate offices are in Linthicum Heights, MD.
 
CONFERENCE CALL WEBCAST
 
Foundation Coal Holdings, Inc. will hold a conference call to discuss second quarter 2005 financials on Wednesday, July 27, 2005 at 10:00 a.m. EDT. The call will be accessible through the internet at Foundation's website: www.foundationcoal.com and will be archived at this location for a period of two weeks as well.
 
BASIS OF REPORTING
 
In presenting financial results, information is presented for the second quarter and first six months of 2004 on two bases of reporting.  The first basis presents the second quarter and first six months of 2004 as reported by RAG American Coal Holding, Inc.  This information is labeled "predecessor".  The second basis presents the second quarter and first six months of 2004 as if Foundation Coal Holdings, Inc acquired RAG American Coal Holding, Inc. on January 1, 2004 and completed the Initial Public Offering on that date.  This information is labeled "pro forma".  The pro forma presentation incorporates the fair valuation of the assets and liabilities acquired by Foundation Coal Holdings, Inc. on July 30, 2004 ("purchase accounting") as if the acquisition and application of purchase accounting took place on January 1, 2004.  The pro forma adjustments are presented in an attached table.
 
NON GAAP DISCLOSURES
 
EBITDA, a measure expected to be used by management to measure performance is defined as income (loss) from continuing operations, plus interest expense, net of interest income, income tax expense (benefit), accretion on asset retirement obligations, and depreciation, depletion and amortization. Management believes EBITDA is useful to investors because it is frequently used by securities analysts, investors and other interested parties in the evaluation of companies. Because not all companies use identical calculations, the company's presentation of EBITDA may not be comparable to other similarly titled measures of other companies. EBITDA is not a recognized term under GAAP and does not purport to be an alternative to net income as a measure of operating performance or to cash flows from operating activities as a measure of liquidity.
 
Additionally, EBITDA is not intended to be a measure of free cash flow for management's discretionary use, as it does not reflect certain cash requirements such
as interest payments, tax payments and debt service requirements.  The amounts shown for EBITDA as presented herein differ from the amounts calculated under the definition of EBITDA used in the company's debt instruments.  The definition of EBITDA as used in the company's debt instruments is further adjusted for certain cash and non-cash charges and is used to determine compliance with financial covenants and the ability to engage in certain activities such as incurring additional debt and making certain payments.
 
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
 
Certain statements relating to the future prospects, developments, business strategies, analyses and other information that is based on forecasts of future results and estimates of amounts not yet determinable are forward-looking statements (as such term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) which can be identified as any statement that does not relate strictly to historical or current facts. The company has used the words "anticipate," "believe," "could," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "may," "plan," "predict," "project" and similar terms and phrases, including references to assumptions, to identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are made based on expectations and beliefs concerning future events affecting the company and are subject to uncertainties and factors relating to the company's operations and business environment, all of which are difficult to predict and many of which are beyond the company's control, that could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from those matters expressed in or implied by these forward-looking statements. These factors include, but are not limited to: market demand for coal, electricity and steel; weather conditions or catastrophic weather-related damage; the company's production capabilities; timing of reductions or increases in customer coal inventories; long-term coal supply arrangements; environmental laws, including those directly affecting the company's coal mining and production, and those affecting the company's customers' coal usage; regulatory and court decisions; railroad, barge, trucking and other transportation performance and costs; our assumptions concerning economically recoverable coal reserve estimates; employee workforce factors; changes in postretirement benefit and pension obligations; the company's liquidity, results of operations and financial condition. The company advises investors that it discusses additional risk factors and uncertainties that could cause Foundation Coal Holdings Inc. actual results to differ from forward-looking statements in the company's Form 10-K for the Fiscal Year ending December 31, 2004 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") under the heading "Risk Factors".  The investor should keep in mind that any forward-looking statement made by the company in this news release or elsewhere speaks only as of the date on which the company makes it. New risks and uncertainties come up from time to time, and it is impossible for the company to predict these events or how they may affect the company. The company has no duty to, and does not intend to, update or revise the forward-looking statements in this news release after the date of issue, except as may be required by law. In light of these risks and uncertainties, the investor should keep in mind that any forward-looking statement made in this news release or elsewhere might not occur.
 
 
This information is intended to be reviewed in conjunction with the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 
This information is intended to be reviewed in conjunction with the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
This information is intended to be reviewed in conjunction with the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 
 
This information is intended to be reviewed in conjunction with the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 
This information is intended to be reviewed in conjunction with the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


