FILE:ANR/ANR-8K-20060223110346.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
  PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
Item 1.02           Termination of Material Definitive Agreement.
 
On February 18, 2006, Foundation Coal Holdings, Inc. ("Foundation") entered into a termination agreement by and among itself, Blackstone FCH Capital Partners IV L.P., a Delaware limited partnership, Blackstone Family Investment Partnership IV-A L.P., a Delaware limited partnership (collectively referred to as "Blackstone") First Reserve Fund IX, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership ("First Reserve"), AMCI Acquisition III, LLC a Delaware limited liability company and certain other shareholders listed on Annex A thereto (the "Termination Agreement") to terminate the Amended and Restated Stockholders Agreement, dated as of October 4, 2004 (the "Stockholders Agreement").  The Termination Agreement further provides that the Stockholders shall continue to have the right to indemnification as set forth in Section 6.3 of the Stockholders Agreement for any Losses, and that such right to indemnification shall survive termination of the Stockholders Agreement pursuant to the terms of the Termination Agreement.
The Stockholders Agreement provided that each of Blackstone and First Reserve (each a "sponsor") designate three nominees for election to our board of directors. Blackstone and First Reserve also designate one joint nominee to our board of directors. The board of directors designates the other nominee(s) to our board of directors who must be "independent" as such term is defined by the NYSE rules, but such nominee must be reasonably acceptable to both Blackstone and First Reserve.  The Stockholders Agreement also provided that if at any time, either Blackstone or First Reserve and their affiliates as a group beneficially own less than 66-2/3% of the aggregate number of shares owned by the other, then such sponsor will only be entitled to designate two directors, and if at any time either Blackstone or First Reserve and their affiliates as a group own less than 33-1/3% of the aggregate number of shares owned by the other, then such sponsor will only be entitled to designate one director.
 
The Stockholders Agreement further provided that all significant decisions involving us require the approval of our board of directors, acting by a simple majority vote; provided however that so long as each of Blackstone and First Reserve are entitled to designate at least two nominees for election and at least one of such designees is serving as a director and Blackstone and First Reserve collectively own at least 20% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, then the approval of at least one director solely designated by First Reserve and the approval of at least one director solely appointed by Blackstone will also be required for certain actions, such as the appointment, removal or termination of our CEO or other senior officers; the issuance or reclassification of any of our stock or other securities; any declaration or payment of dividends; any purchase, sale, lease, encumbrance, transfer or other acquisition or disposition of any of our assets having an aggregate value in excess of $20 million; any merger, consolidation, conversion, business combination or joint venture involving us or any of our subsidiaries; any transaction involving us on the one hand, and the sponsors or their affiliates on the other; any incurrence of indebtedness in excess of $20 million; the approval of our operating budget, capital budget and/or business plan; and the incurrence of any unbudgeted capital expenditures in excess of $10 million.
 
As previously disclosed, on January 24, 2006, 4,154,045 shares of Foundation's common stock was distributed by affiliates of Blackstone to Blackstone's limited and other partners and 4,154,045 shares of Foundation's common stock was distributed by First Reserve to First Reserve's limited and other partners.  The 8,308,090 shares distributed represented all of the remaining shares of the Company owned by Blackstone and First Reserve.  Since the First Reserve and Blackstone common stock holdings were depleted, all parties agreed that as a practical matter the Stockholders Agreement should be terminated.
 
A copy of the Termination Agreement is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
Item 9.01
 
(c) Exhibits
 
 
3
 
 
99.1 Termination Agreement, dated as of February 6, 2006,  by and among Foundation Coal Holdings, Blackstone FCH Capital Partners IV L.P., Blackstone Family Investment Partnership IV-A L.P., First Reserve Fund IX, L.P., AMCI Acquisition III, LLC and certain other shareholders.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: February 23, 2006
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
THIS TERMINATION AGREEMENT
(the ""), dated as of February 6, 2006, is by and among Foundation Coal Holdings, Inc., a Delaware corporation, Blackstone FCH Capital Partners IV L.P., a Delaware limited partnership, Blackstone Family Investment Partnership IV-A L.P., a Delaware limited partnership, First Reserve Fund IX, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership, AMCI Acquisition III, LLC a Delaware limited liability company and the persons listed on Annex I hereto.
Termination Agreement
 
WHEREAS
, the parties hereto are parties to that certain Amended and Restated Stockholders Agreement, dated as of October 4, 2004 (the "") (capitalized terms used in this Termination Agreement and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings ascribed thereto in the Stockholders Agreement); and
Stockholders Agreement
 
WHEREAS
, the parties hereto desire to enter into this Termination Agreement to terminate the Stockholders Agreement and to cause the Stockholders Agreement to be of no further force and effect with respect to the parties hereto.
 
NOW THEREFORE
, in consideration of the foregoing recitals and the mutual covenants hereinafter contained, and in exchange for good and valuable consideration, the receipt and adequacy of which is hereby acknowledged, and intending to be legally bound hereby, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
 
TERMINATION OF THE STOCKHOLDERS AGREEMENT
 
Termination of the Stockholders Agreement.
 Except as set forth in Section 1.02, the parties hereto hereby agree that, as of the date hereof, the Stockholders Agreement is hereby terminated and of no further force and effect and the parties hereto shall not have any continuing rights or obligations thereunder.
 
Right to Indemnification. 
The Company hereby agrees that the Stockholders shall continue to have the right to indemnification as set forth in Section 6.3 of the Stockholders Agreement for any Losses, and that such right to indemnification shall survive termination of the Stockholders Agreement pursuant to the terms of this Termination Agreement.
 
GENERAL PROVISIONS
 
Further Assurances
.  Each of the parties hereto will use its reasonable efforts to take, or cause to be taken, all actions, and to do, or cause to be done, all things necessary, proper or advisable under applicable Laws and regulations, to consummate and make effective the provisions of this Termination Agreement.
 
Governing Law
.  This Termination Agreement shall be construed in accordance with, and governed by, the laws of the State of Delaware without regard to conflicts of laws principles which would result in the application of the laws of another jurisdiction.
 
Execution in Counterparts
.  This Termination Agreement may be executed in counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, and all of which together shall constitute a single agreement.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Termination Agreement as of the date first above written.
 
 
FOUNDATION COAL HOLDINGS, INC.
 
 
 
 
BLACKSTONE FCH CAPITAL
PARTNERS IV L.P.
 
 
 
 
BLACKSTONE FAMILY INVESTMENT PARTNERSHIP IV-A L.P.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX I
 
Dr. Klaus Dieter-Beck
James J. Bryja
James A. Olsen
Michael R. Peelish
James F. Roberts
John R. Tellmann
Greg A. Walker
Frank J. Wood
 


