FILE:ANR/ANR-8K-20060726093201.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On July 26, 2006, Foundation Coal Holdings, Inc. ("Foundation") issued a press release announcing earnings and other financial results for its second quarter ended June 30, 2006 and that Management would review these results in an investment community conference call at 10:00 AM Eastern (7:00 AM Pacific) on Wednesday, July 26, 2006. The press release is attached to this Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1.
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
In the press release referenced in the above Item 2.02 Foundation updated its expectations for the fiscal year 2006, based on recent developments.
 
This Current Report on Form 8-K and the earnings press release attached hereto are being furnished by the Registrant pursuant to Item 2.02 "Results of Operations and Financial Condition" and Item 7.01 "Regulation FD Disclosure." In accordance with General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99.1, shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liability of that section or Sections 11 and 12(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. In addition, this information shall not be deemed incorporated by reference into any of the Registrant's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in any such filing.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d) Exhibit
 
Exhibit  99.1 Foundation Coal Holdings, Inc. Press Release, dated July 26, 2006.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: July 26, 2006
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
News Release
 
Contact:
Ellen Ewart
Vice President, Investor and Media Relations
410-689-7632
eewart@foundationcoal.com
 
 
 Foundation Coal Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:FCL) today reported financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2006.
Linthicum Heights, Maryland, July 26, 2006
 
HIGHLIGHTS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
"Foundation Coal delivered solid results in the second quarter, primarily on the strength of exceptional performance from our large, state-of-the-art operations in Wyoming and Pennsylvania," said Foundation chairman and chief executive officer, James F. Roberts. "Strong results at those operations were somewhat offset by lower coal quality premiums primarily resulting from lower than expected sulfur dioxide allowance prices and operational challenges we have been encountering at our Wabash Mine in Illinois, where we recently commenced a recapitalization project." Roberts also noted, "We have taken measures to partially mitigate these challenges by hiring additional workers in the second half of 2006, and we expect to resolve the issues with the completion of a new slope and overland conveyor system in 2007."
 
FINANCIAL RESULTS
 
Period to Period Comparisons
 
Second quarter coal sales revenues increased 11 percent over 2005 to $359.2 million as shipments increased 16 percent and average per ton sales realizations decreased 4 percent. Quarterly shipments increased from the comparable quarter of 2005 in the Powder River Basin and Northern Appalachia. Lower average per ton sales realizations were primarily attributable to a higher percentage of Powder River Basin shipments compared to the prior year.
 
Shipments from the Powder River Basin were a record 12.3 million tons, an increase of 27 percent from second quarter 2005. Despite record shipments from both the Belle Ayr and Eagle Butte mines, the Wyoming business unit shipped approximately 0.2 million tons less than expected during the quarter because of continued railroad constraints on the Joint Line, which services Belle Ayr. The shortfall at Belle Ayr was 0.4 million tons, and although it was partly offset by stronger than expected shipments from Eagle Butte, the cost of the Belle Ayr shortfall was an estimated $2.0 million of lost EBITDA in the quarter.
 
In Northern Appalachia, coal production for the quarter increased by 22 percent as a result of continued strong operations and the absence of any longwall moves. At the same time, shipments, which were constrained by customer scheduling and a derailment at the end of June, increased by 3 percent over the corresponding quarter of 2005.
 
For the second consecutive quarter, shipments and production from the Wabash mine in Illinois trailed the comparable period of the prior year primarily as a result of lost production time associated with extensive aged underground infrastructure. As previously announced, the company has begun construction of a new slope and overland coal belt that will eliminate the underground infrastructure that is constraining Wabash's operations. The new facilities are expected to be placed in service in late 2007. During the second quarter of 2006, Wabash's EBITDA was $6.5 million less than the second quarter of last year, and for the six months it was $12.6 million less than the first six months of 2005.
 
 
Second quarter 2006 shipments from Central Appalachia were comparable to the prior year as increased shipments from the expanding Pax surface mine were offset by slight shipment declines from the company's other West Virginia operations. However, Pax shipments were less than planned because of a delay in the startup of a new rail loadout, which became operational on July 17, 2006.
 
Second quarter average per ton realizations in the Powder River Basin increased 15 percent from the prior year primarily because of the roll off of lower priced sales contracts coupled with increased coal quality premiums. Second quarter average per ton sales realizations in Northern Appalachia were up 7 percent, despite an approximate 50 percent lower coal quality premiums on a per ton basis. Second quarter average per ton sales realizations in Central Appalachia were comparable between the two years.
 
During the second quarter of 2006, weighted average consolidated cost of coal sales per ton, after adjusting for the effect of an accounting change pertaining to overburden stripping costs and work-in-process inventories, decreased approximately 8 percent from the second quarter of 2005 mainly because of a higher proportion of total shipments from the low cost Powder River Basin.
 
In the second quarter of 2006, the price of sulfur dioxide (SO
2
) emissions allowances reflected in coal quality premiums averaged $726 per ton compared to $1,204 per ton in the first quarter of 2006. During 2006, the company expected a minimum value for SO
2
emissions allowances of $850 per ton. The difference between $726 per ton and $850 per ton reduced second quarter 2006 EBITDA by approximately $1.7 million.
 
As a result of higher total revenues coupled with a lower effective book income tax rate, partly offset by increases in cost of coal sales, selling general and administrative expenses and reduced benefit from amortization of coal supply agreements, net income increased to $22.0 million in the second quarter of 2006 compared to $20.2 million in the second quarter of 2005. Diluted earnings per share for the second quarter increased to $0.46 compared to diluted earnings per share of $0.44 in the 2005 period.
 
The $1.8 million increase in second quarter 2006 net income compared to the prior year was achieved with $19.8 million less of pre-tax benefit from amortization of coal supply agreements. Credits to expense from amortization of coal supply agreements are a non-cash benefit to earnings that will decrease, as expected, year-over-year, as the coal supply agreements valued in purchase accounting are fulfilled.
 
EBITDA, as defined in the company's bank credit agreement ("adjusted EBITDA"), improved by 15 percent to $86.6 million in the second quarter of 2006 from $75.4 million in 2005. Twelve month trailing ("LTM") adjusted EBITDA increased to $342.8 million, maintaining the ratio of outstanding indebtedness to LTM adjusted EBITDA below 2 to 1.
 
For the six months ended June 30, 2006, coal sales revenues increased by 20 percent as shipments increased 11 percent and average realizations per ton increased 8 percent. Net income increased to $53.3 million from $39.1 million. Diluted earnings per share increased to $1.13 from $0.85. Adjusted EBITDA increased to $180.2 million from $147.0 million.
 
 
For the first half of 2006 compared to the comparable period of the prior year, weighted average consolidated cost of coal sales per ton after adjusting for the effect of an accounting change pertaining to overburden stripping costs and work in process inventories increased approximately 5 percent as increases in operating supplies, diesel fuel, tires, explosives, repairs, employee expenses plus percent of sales royalties and production taxes were spread over increased production and shipments.
 
Capital Structure
 
Capital expenditures of $34.8 million and shareholder dividends of $2.3 million for the second quarter of 2006 were funded from cash flows from continuing operations. Capital expenditures during the quarter included $9.4 million expended on expansion and efficiency improvement projects, including the next phase of expansion at the Belle Ayr mine, the construction of the new slope at Wabash, construction of a rail loading facility at the Pax surface mine, and modernization of the Emerald rail loading facility.
 
Available liquidity under the company's existing revolving credit agreement was approximately $163 million at June 30, 2006. On July 7, the company closed on a refinancing of its senior secured credit facility which increases the size of its revolving credit facility by $150 million while providing increased flexibility and more favorable pricing on the term loan, revolver and letters of credit.
 
COMMERCIAL AND OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE
 
"Despite the apparent softening in near-term market conditions, Foundation Coal's sales team has been successful in continuing to lock in new business at favorable prices," said Roberts. "In fact, since the time of our first quarter earnings announcement, we have negotiated new sales commitments across all of our business units at prices appreciably higher than prior year average realizations." Roberts further indicated that compared to 2005 average realizations, sales prices for the nearly 10 million tons of new commitments to be shipped during the period 2006 through 2009 average 40 percent higher in the Powder River Basin, 17 percent higher in Northern Appalachia, 40 percent higher for Central Appalachia steam coal, and 57 percent higher for Central Appalachia metallurgical coal.
 
Additional highlights for the period include:
 
 
 
 
 
 
OUTLOOK
 
The Company is adjusting its full year guidance for adjusted EBITDA, net income and earnings per share as shown in the table below to take into consideration: (a) expected lower SO
2
allowance prices, which are currently in the low $600s; (b) reduced production and higher costs at Wabash as compared to expectations when guidance was established; (c) non-cash accelerated amortization of deferred debt issuance costs to be recorded in the third quarter as a result of the Company's secured senior debt refinancing, which by itself reduces diluted earnings per share by approximately $0.13; and (d) a lower expected effective book income tax rate. As previously disclosed, the company's initial guidance for net income and adjusted EBITDA was based on a range of SO
2
allowance prices between $850 per ton and $1,200 per ton.
 
The third quarter contains a longwall move at the Cumberland mine and vacation shutdown periods for all but the company's Powder River Basin locations. There is a scheduled longwall move at the Emerald mine during the fourth quarter.
 
 
 
Note:     (1)   As of 7/17/06
 
ABOUT FOUNDATION COAL
 
Foundation Coal Holdings, Inc., through its affiliates, is a major U.S. coal producer with 13 coal mines and related facilities in Pennsylvania, West Virginia, Illinois, and
 
 
Wyoming. Through its subsidiaries Foundation Coal employs approximately 3,000 people and produces approximately 70 million tons annually, largely for utilities generating electricity. Foundation's corporate offices are in Linthicum Heights, MD.
 
CONFERENCE CALL WEBCAST
 
Foundation Coal Holdings, Inc. will hold a conference call to discuss second quarter 2006 financials on Wednesday, July 26, 2006 at 10:00 a.m. EDT. The call will be accessible through the internet at Foundation's website: www.foundationcoal.com and will be archived at this location for a period of two weeks.
 
NON-GAAP DISCLOSURES
 
EBITDA, a measure used by management to evaluate its ongoing operations for internal planning and forecasting purposes, is defined as income (loss) from continuing operations, plus interest expense, net of interest income, income tax expense (benefit), charges for early debt extinguishment, and depreciation, depletion and amortization. Management believes EBITDA is useful to investors because it is frequently used by securities analysts, investors and other interested parties in the evaluation of companies. Because not all companies use identical calculations, the company's presentation of EBITDA may not be comparable to other similarly titled measures of other companies. EBITDA is not a recognized term under GAAP and does not purport to be an alternative to net income as a measure of operating performance or to cash flows from operating activities as a measure of liquidity.
 
Additionally, EBITDA is not intended to be a measure of free cash flow for management's discretionary use, as it does not reflect certain cash requirements such as interest payments, tax payments and debt service requirements. The amounts shown for EBITDA as presented herein differ from the amounts calculated under the definition of EBITDA used in the company's debt instruments. The definition of EBITDA as used in the company's debt instruments is further adjusted for certain cash and non-cash charges/credits and is used to determine compliance with financial covenants and the ability to engage in certain activities such as incurring additional debt and making certain payments.
 
A reconciliation of the company's non-GAAP to GAAP results is included as an exhibit to this release.
 
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
 
Certain statements relating to the future prospects, developments, business strategies, analyses and other information that is based on forecasts of future results and estimates of amounts not yet determinable are forward-looking statements (as such term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) which can be identified as any statement that does not relate strictly to historical or current facts. The company has used the words "anticipate," "believe," "could," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "may," "plan," "predict," "project" and similar terms and phrases, including
 
 
references to assumptions, to identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are made based on expectations and beliefs concerning future events affecting the company and are subject to uncertainties and factors relating to the company's operations and business environment, all of which are difficult to predict and many of which are beyond the company's control, that could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from those matters expressed in or implied by these forward-looking statements. These factors include, but are not limited to: market demand for coal, electricity and steel; weather conditions or catastrophic weather-related damage; the company's production capabilities; timing of reductions or increases in customer coal inventories; long-term coal supply arrangements; environmental laws, including those directly affecting the company's coal mining and production, and those affecting the company's customers' coal usage; regulatory and court decisions; railroad, barge, trucking and other transportation performance and costs; assumptions concerning economically recoverable coal reserve estimates; employee workforce factors; changes in postretirement benefit and pension obligations; the company's liquidity, results of operations and financial condition. The company advises investors that it discusses additional risk factors and uncertainties that could cause Foundation Coal Holdings Inc. actual results to differ from forward-looking statements in the company's Form 10-K for the Fiscal Year ending December 31, 2005 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") under the heading "Risk Factors". The investor should keep in mind that any forward-looking statement made by the company in this news release or elsewhere speaks only as of the date on which the company makes it. New risks and uncertainties come up from time to time, and it is impossible for the company to predict these events or how they may affect the company. The company has no duty to, and does not intend to, update or revise the forward-looking statements in this news release after the date of issue, except as may be required by law. In light of these risks and uncertainties, the investor should keep in mind that any forward-looking statement made in this news release or elsewhere might not occur.
 
 
 
This information is intended to be reviewed in conjunction with the company's filings with the U. S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 
This information is intended to be reviewed in conjunction with the company's filings with the U. S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 
This information is intended to be reviewed in conjunction with the company's filings with the U. S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 
This information is intended to be reviewed in conjunction with the company's filings with the U. S. Securities and Exchange Commission.


