FILE:ANR/ANR-8K-20060522104444.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
Table of Contents
On May 18, 2006, Foundation Coal Holdings, Inc.'s Board of Directors voted to amend Section 3.05 of its Bylaws to eliminate references to the Stockholder Agreement that was terminated in February 2006. The amendment is effective immediately. Bylaw Section 3.05 previously read as follows:
SECTION 3.05 . Except as provided in Section 3.04 of these Restated Bylaws or that certain Stockholders Agreement dated as of August 17, 2004, as amended from time to time, among the Company and certain of the Company's stockholders, vacancies occurring in any directorship and newly created directorships may be filled by a majority vote of the remaining directors then in office. Any director so chosen shall hold office for the unexpired term of his predecessor and until his successor shall be elected and qualify or until his earlier death, resignation or removal.
Vacancies and Newly Created Directorships
Bylaw Section 3.05 has been amended to read as follows:
SECTION 3.05 . Except as provided in Section 3.04 of these Restated Bylaws vacancies occurring in any directorship and newly created directorships may be filled by a majority vote of the remaining directors then in office. Any director so chosen shall hold office for the unexpired term of his predecessor and until his successor shall be elected and qualify or until his earlier death, resignation or removal.
Vacancies and Newly Created Directorships
In addition, references to the "Certificate of Incorporation" were amended to the "Restated Certificate of Incorporation" throughout the bylaws. The full text of the amended Bylaws is attached hereto as Exhibit 3.1, and is incorporated herein by reference in response to this Item 5.03.
 
(c) Exhibit
 
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Date: May 19, 2006
 

EXHIBIT 3.1
SECTION 1.01 . The Corporation shall maintain its registered office in the State of Delaware at The Corporation Trust Company, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, Delaware 19801. The Corporation may also have offices in such other places in the United States or elsewhere as the Board of Directors may, from time to time, appoint or as the business of the Corporation may require.
Registered Office
SECTION 2.01 . (A) Annual meetings of stockholders may be held at such place, either within or without the State of Delaware, and at such time and date as the Board of Directors shall determine. The Board of Directors may, in its sole discretion, determine that the meeting shall not be held at any place, but may instead be held solely by means of remote communication as described in Section 2.02 of these Restated Bylaws in accordance with Section 211(a)(2) of the Delaware General Corporation Law.
Annual Meetings
(B) Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors and the proposal of business to be considered by the stockholders may be made at an annual meeting of stockholders (1) pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting delivered pursuant to Section 2.03 of these Restated Bylaws, (2) by or at the direction of the Chairman of the Board or (3) by any stockholder of the Corporation who is entitled to vote at the meeting, who complied with the notice procedures set forth in paragraphs (B), (C) and (D) of this Section 2.01 and who was a stockholder of record at the time such notice is delivered to the Secretary of the Corporation.
(C) For nominations or other business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a stockholder pursuant to clause (3) of paragraph (B) of this Section 2.01, the stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in writing to the Secretary of the Corporation at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not less than ninety (90) days nor more than one hundred and twenty (120) days prior to the first anniversary of the date on which the Corporation first mailed its proxy materials for the preceding year's annual meeting; , , that in the event that the date of the annual meeting is changed by more than thirty (30) days from the anniversary date of the previous year's meeting, notice by the stockholder to be timely must be so delivered not
provided
however
earlier than one hundred and twenty (120) days prior to such annual meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the ninetieth (90th) day prior to such annual meeting or the tenth (10th) day following the day on which public announcement of the date of such meeting is first made. Public announcement of an adjournment of an annual meeting shall not commence a new time period for the giving of a stockholder's notice. Notwithstanding anything in this Section 2.01(C) to the contrary, if the number of directors to be elected to the Board of Directors of the Corporation at an annual meeting is increased and there is no public announcement by the Corporation naming all of the nominees for director or specifying the size of the increased board of directors at least one hundred (100) calendar days prior to the anniversary of the mailing of proxy materials for the prior year's annual meeting of stockholders, then a stockholder's notice required by this Section shall be considered timely, but only with respect to nominees for any new positions created by such increase, if it is received by the Secretary of the Corporation not later than the close of business on the tenth (10
th
) calendar day following the day on which such public announcement is first made by the Corporation.
(D) Such stockholder's notice also shall set forth (1) as to each person whom the stockholder proposes to nominate for election or reelection as a director all information relating to such person that is required to be disclosed in solicitations of proxies for election of directors, or is otherwise required, in each case pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), including such person's written consent to being named in the proxy statement as a nominee and to serving as a director if elected; (2) as to any other business that the stockholder proposes to bring before the meeting, a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the meeting, the text of any resolution proposed to be adopted at the meeting, the reasons for conducting such business at the meeting and any material interest in such business of such stockholder and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the proposal is made; and (3) as to the stockholder giving the notice and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination or proposal is made (a) the name and address of such stockholder, as they appear on the Corporation's books, and of such beneficial owner and (b) the class and number of shares of the Corporation which are owned beneficially and of record by such stockholder and such beneficial owner.
(E) (1) Only such persons who are nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 2.01 shall be eligible for election to serve as directors and only such business shall be conducted at a meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section. Except as otherwise provided by law, the Restated Certificate of Incorporation or these Restated Bylaws, the chairman of the meeting shall have the power and duty to determine whether a nomination or any business proposed to be brought before the meeting was made or proposed, as the case may be, in accordance with the procedures set forth in these Restated Bylaws and, if any proposed nomination or business is not in compliance with these Restated Bylaws, to declare that such defective proposal or nomination shall be disregarded. The chairman of the meeting of stockholders shall, if the facts warrant, determine and declare to the meeting that any nomination or business was not properly brought before the meeting and in accordance with the provisions of these Restated Bylaws, and if he or she should so determine, the chairman shall so
declare to the meeting, and any such nomination or business not properly brought before the meeting shall not be transacted.
(2) Whenever used in these Restated Bylaws, "public announcement" shall mean disclosure (a) in a press release released by the Corporation, provided such press release is released by the Corporation following its customary procedures, is reported by the Dow Jones News Service, Associated Press or comparable national news service, or is generally available on internet news sites, or (b) in a document publicly filed by the Corporation with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Section 13, 14 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act.
(3) Nothing in these Restated Bylaws shall be deemed to affect any rights (a) of stockholders to request inclusion of proposals in the Corporation's proxy statement pursuant to Rule 14a-8 under the Exchange Act, or (b) of the holders of any class or series of stock having a preference over the Common Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation to elect directors under specified circumstances.
SECTION 2.02 Special meetings of stockholders, unless otherwise prescribed by statute, may be called at any time by the Board of Directors or a committee of the Board of Directors which has been duly designated by the Board of Directors and whose powers and authority, as provided in a resolution of the Board of Directors, include the power to call special meetings of stockholders and no special meetings of stockholders shall be called by any other person or persons. Notice of each special meeting shall be given in accordance with Section 2.03 of these Restated Bylaws. Unless otherwise permitted by law, business transacted at any special meeting of stockholders shall be limited to the purpose stated in the notice.
Special Meetings.
If authorized by the Board of Directors in its sole discretion, and subject to such guidelines and procedures as the Board of Directors may adopt, stockholders and proxy holders not physically present at a meeting of stockholders may, by means of remote communication:
(a) participate in a meeting of stockholders; and
(b) be deemed present in person and vote at a meeting of stockholders whether such meeting is to be held at a designated place or solely by means of remote communication,
that
provided,
(i) the Corporation shall implement reasonable measures to verify that each person deemed present and permitted to vote at the meeting by means of remote communication is a stockholder or proxyholder;
(ii) the Corporation shall implement reasonable measures to provide such stockholders and proxyholders a reasonable opportunity to
participate in the meeting and to vote on matters submitted to the stockholders, including an opportunity to read or hear the proceedings of the meeting substantially concurrently with such proceedings; and
(iii) if any stockholder or proxyholder votes or takes other action at the meeting by means of remote communication, a record of such vote or other action shall be maintained by the Corporation.
SECTION 2.03 . Whenever stockholders are required or permitted to take any action at a meeting, a timely written notice or electronic transmission, in the manner provided in Section 232 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, of the meeting, which shall state the place, if any, date and time of the meeting, and the means of remote communications, if any, by which stockholders and proxyholders may be deemed to be present in person and vote at such meeting, and, in the case of a special meeting, the purposes for which the meeting is called, shall be mailed to or transmitted electronically by the Secretary of the Corporation to each stockholder of record entitled to vote thereat.
Notice of Meetings
SECTION 2.04 . Unless otherwise required by law or the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the holders of a majority of the issued and outstanding stock entitled to vote thereat, present in person or represented by proxy, shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business at all meetings of stockholders. When a quorum is once present to organize a meeting, the quorum is not broken by the subsequent withdrawal of any stockholders.
Quorum
SECTION 2.05 . Unless otherwise provided in the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, each stockholder shall be entitled to one vote for each share of capital stock held by such stockholder. Upon the request of not less than 10% in interest of the stockholders entitled to vote at a meeting, voting shall be by written ballot, unless otherwise provided in the Restated Certificate of Incorporation; if authorized by the stockholders, such requirement of a written ballot shall be satisfied, if authorized by the Board of Directors, by a ballot submitted by electronic transmission, that any such electronic transmission must either set forth or be submitted with information from which it can be determined that the electronic transmission was authorized by the stockholder or proxyholder.
Voting
provided
All elections of directors shall be determined by a plurality of the votes of the shares present in person or represented by proxy at the meeting and entitled to vote on the election of directors. Except as otherwise required by law, in all other matters the affirmative vote of the majority of shares present in person or represented by proxy at the meeting and entitled to vote on the subject matter shall be the act of the stockholders.
SECTION 2.06 . The Chairman of the Board of Directors, if one is elected, or, in his absence or disability, the President of the Corporation, shall preside at all meetings of the stockholders.
Chairman of Meetings
SECTION 2.07 . The Secretary of the Corporation shall act as Secretary at all meetings of the stockholders. In the absence or disability of the Secretary, the Chairman of the Board of Directors or the President shall appoint a person to act as Secretary at such meetings.
Secretary of Meeting
SECTION 2.08 . Except as otherwise provided in the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, any action required to be taken at any annual or special meeting of stockholders of the Corporation, or any action which may be taken at any annual or special meeting of the stockholders, may be taken without a meeting, without prior notice and without a vote, if a consent or consents in writing, setting forth the action so taken, shall be signed by the holders of outstanding stock having not less than the minimum number of votes that would be necessary to authorize or take such action at a meeting at which all shares entitled to vote thereon were present and voted and shall be delivered to the Corporation by delivery to its registered office in Delaware, its principal place of business, or an officer or agent of the Corporation having custody of the book in which proceedings of meetings of stockholders are recorded. Delivery made to the Corporation's registered office shall be made by hand or by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested.
Consent of Stockholders in Lieu of Meeting
Every written consent shall bear the date of signature of each stockholder who signs the consent and no written consent shall be effective to take the corporate action referred to therein unless, within 60 days of the date the earliest dated consent is delivered to the Corporation, a written consent or consents signed by a sufficient number of holders to take action are delivered to the Corporation in the manner prescribed in the first paragraph of this Section 2.08. A telegram, cablegram or other electronic transmission consenting to an action to be taken and transmitted by a stockholder or proxyholder, or by a person or persons authorized to act for a stockholder or proxyholder, shall be deemed to be written, signed and dated for the purposes of this Section 2.08 to the extent permitted by law. Any such consent shall be delivered in accordance with Section 228(d)(1) of the Delaware General Corporation Law. Prompt notice of the taking of the corporate action without a meeting by less than unanimous written consent shall be given to those stockholders who have not consented in writing or electronic transmission and who, if the action had been taken at a meeting, would have been entitled to notice of the meeting if the record date of such meeting had been the date that written consents signed by a sufficient number of stockholders or members to take the action were delivered to the Corporation as provided by law.
Any copy, facsimile or other reliable reproduction of a consent in writing may be substituted or used in lieu of the original writing for any and all purposes for which the original writing could be used, that such copy, facsimile or other reproduction shall be a complete reproduction of the entire original writing.
provided
SECTION 2.09 . At any meeting of stockholders of the Corporation, if less than a quorum be present, a majority of the stockholders entitled to vote thereat, present in person or by proxy, shall have the power to adjourn the meeting from time to time without notice other than announcement at the meeting until a quorum shall be present. Any business may be transacted at the adjourned meeting that might
Adjournment
have been transacted at the meeting originally noticed. If the adjournment is for more than 30 days, or if after the adjournment a new record date is fixed for the adjourned meeting, a notice of the adjourned meeting shall be given to each stockholder of record entitled to vote at the meeting.
SECTION 3.01 . The business and affairs of the Corporation shall be managed by or under the direction of its Board of Directors. The Board of Directors shall exercise all of the powers and duties conferred by law except as provided by the Restated Certificate of Incorporation or these Restated Bylaws.
Powers
SECTION 3.02 . The number of directors shall be fixed by resolution of the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors shall be elected by the stockholders at their annual meeting, and each director shall be elected to serve for the term of one year and until his successor shall be elected and qualified or until his earlier resignation or removal. Directors need not be stockholders.
Number and Term
SECTION 3.03 . Any director may resign at any time upon notice given in writing or by electronic transmission. The resignation shall take effect at the time specified therein, and if no time is specified, at the time of its receipt by the President or Secretary. The acceptance of a resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective.
Resignations
SECTION 3.04 . Except as otherwise provided in the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, any director or the entire Board of Directors may be removed either with or without cause at any time by the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the shares then entitled to vote for the election of directors at any annual or special meeting of the stockholders called for that purpose or by written or electronic transmission of consent as permitted by law.
Removal
SECTION 3.05 . Except as provided in Section 3.04 of these Restated Bylaws, vacancies occurring in any directorship and newly created directorships may be filled by a majority vote of the remaining directors then in office. Any director so chosen shall hold office for the unexpired term of his predecessor and until his successor shall be elected and qualify or until his earlier death, resignation or removal.
Vacancies and Newly Created Directorships
SECTION 3.06 . The newly elected directors shall hold their first meeting to organize the Corporation, elect officers and transact any other business that may properly come before the meeting. An annual organizational meeting of the Board of Directors shall be held immediately after each annual meeting of the stockholders, or at such time and place as may be noticed for the meeting.
Meetings
Regular meetings of the Board of Directors may be held without notice at such places and times as shall be determined from time to time by written or electronic transmission of consent of a resolution of the directors.
Special meetings of the Board of Directors shall be called by the President or by the Secretary on the written or electronic transmission of such request of any director with at least two days' notice to each director and shall be held at such place as may be determined by the directors or as shall be stated in the notice of the meeting.
SECTION 3.07 . A majority of the total number of directors or any committee thereof shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. The vote of a majority of the directors present at a meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of the Board of Directors. In the absence of a quorum, a majority of the directors present thereat may adjourn such meeting to another time and place. Notice of such adjourned meeting need not be given if the time and place of such adjourned meeting are announced at the meeting so adjourned.
Quorum, Voting and Adjournment
SECTION 3.08 . The Board of Directors may, by resolution passed by a majority of the whole Board of Directors, designate one or more committees, including but not limited to an Executive Committee and an Audit Committee, each such committee to consist of one or more of the directors of the Corporation. The Board of Directors may designate one or more directors as alternate members of any committee to replace any absent or disqualified member at any meeting of the committee. In the absence or disqualification of a member of a committee, the member or members present at any meeting and not disqualified from voting, whether or not he or they constitute a quorum, may unanimously appoint another member of the Board of Directors to act at the meeting in the place of any such absent or disqualified member. Any such committee, to the extent provided in the resolution of the Board of Directors establishing such committee, shall have and may exercise all the powers and authority of the Board of Directors in the management of the business and affairs of the Corporation, and may authorize the seal of the Corporation to be affixed to all papers which may require it; but no such committee shall have the power or authority in reference to the following matters: (a) approving or adopting, or recommending to the stockholders, any action or matter expressly required by law to be submitted to stockholders for approval or (b) adopting, amending or repealing any bylaw of the Corporation. All committees of the Board of Directors shall keep minutes of their meetings and shall report their proceedings to the Board of Directors when requested or required by the Board of Directors.
Committees
SECTION 3.09 . Unless otherwise restricted by the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board of Directors or of any committee thereof may be taken without a meeting if all members of the Board of Directors or any committee thereof, as the case may be, consent thereto in writing or by electronic transmission, and the writing or writings or electronic transmission or transmissions are filed in the minutes of proceedings of the Board of Directors. Such filing shall be in paper form if the
Action Without a Meeting
minutes are maintained in paper form or shall be in electronic form if the minutes are maintained in electronic form.
SECTION 3.10 . The Board of Directors shall have the authority to fix the compensation of directors for their services. A director may also serve the Corporation in other capacities and receive compensation therefor.
Compensation
SECTION 3.11 . Unless otherwise restricted by the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, members of the Board of Directors, or any committee designated by the Board of Directors, may participate in a meeting by means of conference telephone or other communications equipment in which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other. Participation in a meeting by means of conference telephone or other communications equipment shall constitute the presence in person at such meeting.
Remote Meeting
SECTION 4.01 The officers of the Corporation shall include a President and a Secretary, both of whom shall be elected by the Board of Directors and who shall hold office for a term of one year and until their successors are elected and qualify or until their earlier resignation or removal. In addition, the Board of Directors may elect a Chairman of the Board of Directors, one or more Vice Presidents, including an Executive Vice President, a Treasurer and one or more Assistant Treasurers and one or more Assistant Secretaries, who shall hold their office for such terms and shall exercise such powers and perform such duties as shall be determined from time to time by the Board of Directors. The initial officers shall be elected at the first meeting of the Board of Directors and, thereafter, at the annual organizational meeting of the Board of Directors. Any number of offices may be held by the same person.
Number.
SECTION 4.02 . The Board of Directors may appoint such other officers and agents as it deems advisable, who shall hold their office for such terms and shall exercise and perform such powers and duties as shall be determined from time to time by the Board of Directors.
Other Officers and Agents
SECTION 4.03 . The Chairman of the Board of Directors shall be a member of the Board of Directors and shall preside at all meetings of the Board of Directors and of the stockholders. In addition, the Chairman of the Board of Directors shall have such powers and perform such other duties as from time to time may be assigned to him by the Board of Directors.
Chairman
SECTION 4.04 . The President shall be the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation. He shall exercise such duties as customarily pertain to the office of President and Chief Executive Officer, and shall have general and active management of the property, business and affairs of the Corporation, subject to the supervision and control of the Board of Directors. He shall perform such other duties as prescribed from time to time by the Board of Directors or these Restated Bylaws.
President
In the absence, disability or refusal of the Chairman of the Board of Directors to act, or the vacancy of such office, the President shall preside at all meetings of the stockholders and of the Board of Directors. Except as the Board of Directors shall otherwise authorize, the President shall execute bonds, mortgages and other contracts on behalf of the Corporation, and shall cause the seal to be affixed to any instrument requiring it and, when so affixed, the seal shall be attested by the signature of the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary or the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer.
SECTION 4.05 . Each Vice President, if any are elected, of whom one or more may be designated an Executive Vice President, shall have such powers and shall perform such duties as shall be assigned to him by the President or the Board of Directors.
Vice Presidents
SECTION 4.06 . The Treasurer shall have custody of the corporate funds, securities, evidences of indebtedness and other valuables of the Corporation and shall keep full and accurate accounts of receipts and disbursements in books belonging to the Corporation. He shall deposit all moneys and other valuables in the name and to the credit of the Corporation in such depositories as may be designated by the Board of Directors. The Treasurer shall disburse the funds of the Corporation, taking proper vouchers therefor. He shall render to the President and Board of Directors, upon their request, a report of the financial condition of the Corporation. If required by the Board of Directors, he shall give the Corporation a bond for the faithful discharge of his duties in such amount and with such surety as the Board of Directors shall prescribe.
Treasurer
The Treasurer shall have such further powers and perform such other duties incident to the office of Treasurer as from time to time are assigned to him by the Board of Directors.
SECTION 4.07 . The Secretary shall be the Chief Administrative Officer of the Corporation and shall: (a) cause minutes of all meetings of the stockholders and directors to be recorded and kept; (b) cause all notices required by these Restated Bylaws or otherwise to be given properly; (c) see that the minute books, stock books, and other nonfinancial books, records and papers of the Corporation are kept properly; and (d) cause all reports, statements, returns, certificates and other documents to be prepared and filed when and as required. The Secretary shall have such further powers and perform such other duties as prescribed from time to time by the Board of Directors.
Secretary
SECTION 4.08 . Each Assistant Treasurer and each Assistant Secretary, if any are elected, shall be vested with all the powers and shall perform all the duties of the Treasurer and Secretary, respectively, in the absence or disability of such officer, unless or until the Board of Directors shall otherwise determine. In addition, Assistant Treasurers and Assistant Secretaries shall have such powers and shall perform such duties as shall be assigned to them by the Board of Directors.
Assistant Treasurers and Assistant Secretaries
SECTION 4.09 . The funds of the Corporation shall be kept in such depositories as shall from time to time be prescribed by the Board of Directors. All checks or other orders for the payment of money shall be signed by the President or the Secretary or such other person or agent as may from time to time be authorized and with such countersignature, if any, as may be required by the Board of Directors.
Corporate Funds and Checks
SECTION 4.10 . The President and the Secretary, or such other officer or officers as may from time to time be authorized by the Board of Directors or any other committee given specific authority in the premises by the Board of Directors during the intervals between the meetings of the Board of Directors, shall have power to sign and execute on behalf of the Corporation deeds, conveyances and contracts, and any and all other documents requiring execution by the Corporation.
Contracts and Other Documents
SECTION 4.11 The compensation of the officers of the Corporation shall be fixed from time to time by the Board of Directors (subject to any employment agreements that may then be in effect between the Corporation and the relevant officer). None of such officers shall be prevented from receiving such compensation by reason of the fact that he is also a director of the Corporation. Nothing contained herein shall preclude any officer from serving the Corporation, or any subsidiary, in any other capacity and receiving such compensation by reason of the fact that he is also a director of the Corporation.
Compensation.
SECTION 4.12 . Unless otherwise directed by the Board of Directors, the President or the Secretary, or such other officer or agent as shall be authorized by the Board of Directors, shall have the power and authority, on behalf of the Corporation, to attend and to vote at any meeting of stockholders of any corporation in which the Corporation holds stock and may exercise, on behalf of the Corporation, any and all of the rights and powers incident to the ownership of such stock at any such meeting, including the authority to execute and deliver proxies and consents on behalf of the Corporation.
Ownership of Stock of Another Corporation
SECTION 4.13. . In the absence, disability or refusal of any officer to exercise and perform his duties, the Board of Directors may delegate to another officer such powers or duties.
Delegation of Duties
SECTION 4.14. . Any officer of the Corporation may be removed from office for or without cause at any time by the Board of Directors. Any officer may resign at any time in the same manner prescribed under Section 3.03 of these Restated Bylaws.
Resignation and Removal
SECTION 4.15. . The Board of Directors shall have power to fill vacancies occurring in any office.
Vacancies
SECTION 5.01 . Every holder of stock in the Corporation shall be entitled to have a certificate signed by, or in the name of the Corporation by, the Chairman of the Board of Directors or the President or a Vice President and by the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer or the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary, certifying the number and class of shares of stock in the Corporation owned by him. Any or all of the signatures on the certificate may be a facsimile. The Board of Directors shall have the power to appoint one or more transfer agents and/or registrars for the transfer or registration of certificates of stock of any class, and may require stock certificates to be countersigned or registered by one or more of such transfer agents and/or registrars.
Certificates of Stock
SECTION 5.02 . Shares of stock of the Corporation shall be transferable upon its books by the holders thereof, in person or by their duly authorized attorneys or legal representatives, upon surrender to the Corporation by delivery thereof to the person in charge of the stock and transfer books and ledgers. Such certificates shall be cancelled and new certificates shall thereupon be issued. A record shall be made of each transfer. Whenever any transfer of shares shall be made for collateral security, and not absolutely, it shall be so expressed in the entry of the transfer if, when the certificates are presented, both the transferor and transferee request the Corporation to do so. The Board of Directors shall have power and authority to make such rules and regulations as it may deem necessary or proper concerning the issue, transfer and registration of certificates for shares of stock of the Corporation.
Transfer of Shares
SECTION 5.03 . A new certificate of stock may be issued in the place of any certificate previously issued by the Corporation alleged to have been lost, stolen or destroyed, and the Board of Directors may, in their discretion, require the owner of such lost, stolen or destroyed certificate, or his legal representative, to give the Corporation a bond, in such sum as the Board of Directors may direct, in order to indemnify the Corporation against any claims that may be made against it in connection therewith. A new certificate of stock may be issued in the place of any certificate previously issued by the Corporation that has become mutilated without the posting by the owner of any bond upon the surrender by such owner of such mutilated certificate.
Lost, Stolen, Destroyed or Mutilated Certificates
SECTION 5.04 . The stock ledger shall be the only evidence as to who are the stockholders entitled to examine the stock ledger, the list required by Delaware General Corporation Law  219 or the books of the Corporation, or to vote in person or by proxy at any meeting of stockholders.
List of Stockholders Entitled To Vote
SECTION 5.05. . Subject to the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the Board of Directors may at any regular or special meeting, declare dividends upon the stock of the Corporation either (a) out of its surplus, as defined in and computed in accordance with Delaware General Corporation Law  154
Dividends
and  244 or (b) in case there shall be no such surplus, out of its net profits for the fiscal year in which the dividend is declared and/or the preceding fiscal year. Before the declaration of any dividend, the Board of Directors may set apart, out of any funds of the Corporation available for dividends, such sum or sums as from time to time in their discretion may be deemed proper for working capital or as a reserve fund to meet contingencies or for such other purposes as shall be deemed conducive to the interests of the Corporation.
SECTION 5.06 In order that the Corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to consent to corporate action without a meeting, (including by telegram, cablegram or other electronic transmission as permitted by law), the Board of Directors may fix a record date, which shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board of Directors, and which record date shall be not more than 10 days after the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted. If no record date has been fixed by the Board of Directors and no prior action by the Board of Directors is required by the Delaware General Corporation Law, the record date shall be the first date on which a consent setting forth the action taken or proposed to be taken is delivered to the Corporation in the manner prescribed by Section 2.08 of these Restated Bylaws. If no record date has been fixed by the Board of Directors and prior action by the Board of Directors is required by the Delaware General Corporation Law with respect to the proposed action by consent of the stockholders without a meeting, the record date for determining stockholders entitled to consent to corporate action without a meeting shall be at the close of business on the day on which the Board of Directors adopts the resolution taking such prior action.
Fixing Date for Determination of Stockholders of Record.
SECTION 5.07 . Prior to the surrender to the Corporation of the certificate or certificates for a share or shares of stock with a request to record the transfer of such share or shares, the Corporation may treat the registered owner as the person entitled to receive dividends, to vote, to receive notifications, and otherwise to exercise all the rights and powers of an owner. The Corporation shall not be bound to recognize any equitable or other claim to or interest in such share or shares on the part of any other person, whether or not it shall have express or other notice thereof.
Registered Stockholders
SECTION 6.01 . If mailed, notice to stockholders shall be deemed given when deposited in the mail, postage prepaid, directed to the stockholder at such stockholder's address as it appears on the records of the Corporation. Without limiting the manner by which notice otherwise may be given effectively to stockholders, any notice to stockholders may be given by electronic transmission in the manner provided in Section 232 of the Delaware General Corporation Law.
Notice
SECTION 6.02 . A written waiver of any notice, signed by a stockholder or director, or waiver by electronic transmission by such person, whether given before or after the time of the event for which notice is to be given, shall be deemed equivalent to the notice required to be given to such person. Neither the business nor the purpose of any meeting need by specified in such a waiver. Attendance at any meeting shall constitute waiver of notice except attendance for the sole purpose of objecting to the timeliness of notice.
Waiver of Notice
SECTION 7.01 Each person who was or is made a party or is threatened to be made a party to or is otherwise involved in any action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative (hereinafter a "proceeding"), by reason of the fact that he is or was a director or an officer of the Corporation or is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, or trustee of another corporation or of a partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, including service with respect to an employee benefit plan (hereinafter an "indemnitee"), whether the basis of such proceeding is alleged action in an official capacity as a director, officer or trustee, or in any other capacity while serving as a director, officer or trustee, shall be indemnified and held harmless by the Corporation to the fullest extent authorized by the Delaware General Corporation Law, as the same exists or may hereafter be amended (but, in the case of any such amendment, only to the extent that such amendment permits the Corporation to provide prior to such amendment), against all expense, liability and loss (including attorneys' fees, judgments, fines, ERISA excise taxes or penalties and amounts paid in settlement) reasonably incurred or suffered by such indemnitee in connection therewith, if such person acted in good faith and in a manner such person reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Corporation, and, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, had no reasonable cause to believe his or her conduct was unlawful; , that, (i) except as provided in Section 7.03 of these Restated Bylaws with respect to proceedings to enforce rights to indemnification, the Corporation shall indemnify any such indemnitee in connection with a proceeding (or part thereof) initiated by such indemnitee only if such proceeding (or part thereof) was authorized by the Board of Directors and (ii) the Corporation shall not be obligated to indemnify against any amount paid in settlement unless the Corporation has consented to such settlement.
Right to Indemnification.
provided, however
SECTION 7.02 In addition to the right to indemnification conferred in Section 7.01 of these Restated Bylaws, an indemnitee shall also have the right to be paid by the Corporation the expenses (including attorney's fees) incurred in defending any such proceeding in advance of its final disposition (hereinafter an "advancement of expenses"); , that, if the Delaware General Corporation Law requires, an advancement of expenses incurred by an indemnitee in his or her capacity as a director or officer (and not in any other capacity in which service was or is rendered by such indemnitee, including, without limitation, service to an employee benefit plan) shall be made only upon delivery to the Corporation
Right to Advancement of Expenses.
provided, however
of an undertaking (hereinafter an "undertaking"), by or on behalf of such indemnitee, to repay all amounts so advanced if it shall ultimately be determined by final judicial decision from which there is no further right to appeal (hereinafter a "final adjudication") that such indemnitee is not entitled to be indemnified for such expenses under this Section 7.02 or otherwise.
SECTION 7.03 If a claim under Section 7.01 or 7.02 of these Restated Bylaws is not paid in full by the Corporation within 60 days after a written claim has been received by the Corporation, except in the case of a claim for an advancement of expenses, in which case the applicable period shall be 20 days, the indemnitee may at any time thereafter bring suit against the Corporation to recover the unpaid amount of the claim. If successful in whole or in part in any such suit, or in a suit brought by the Corporation to recover an advancement of expenses pursuant to the terms of an undertaking, the indemnitee shall be entitled to be paid also the expense of prosecuting or defending such suit. In (a) any suit brought by the indemnitee to enforce a right to indemnification hereunder (but not in a suit brought by the indemnitee to enforce a right to an advancement of expenses) it shall be a defense that, and (b) any suit brought by the Corporation to recover an advancement of expenses pursuant to the terms of an undertaking, the Corporation shall be entitled to recover such expenses upon a final adjudication that, the indemnitee has not met any applicable standard for indemnification set forth in the Delaware General Corporation Law. Neither the failure of the Corporation (including its directors who are not parties to such action, a committee of such directors, independent legal counsel, or its stockholders) to have made a determination prior to the commencement of such suit that identification of the indemnitee is proper in the circumstances because the indemnitee has met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in the Delaware General Corporation Law, nor an actual determination by the Corporation (including its directors who are not parties to such action, a committee of such directors, independent legal counsel, or its stockholders) that the indemnitee has not met such applicable standard of conduct, shall create a presumption that the indemnitee has not met the applicable standard of conduct or, in the case of such a suit brought by the indemnitee, be a defense to such suit. In any suit brought by the indemnitee to enforce a right to indemnification or to an advancement of expenses hereunder, or brought by the Corporation to recover an advancement of expenses pursuant to the terms of an undertaking, the burden of proving that the indemnitee is not entitled to be indemnified, or to such advancement of expenses, under this Article VII or otherwise shall be on the Corporation.
Right of Indemnitee to Bring Suit.
SECTION 7.04 Any indemnification to be provided under Section 7.01 or 7.02 of these Restated Bylaws (unless ordered by a court of competent jurisdiction) shall be made by the Corporation only as authorized in the specific case upon a determination that the indemnification is proper under the circumstances because such person has met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in such paragraph. Such determination shall be made (i) by the Board of Directors by a majority vote of a quorum consisting of directors who were not parties to the action, suit or proceeding in respect of which indemnification is sought or by a majority vote of members of a committee of the Board of Directors composed of at least three members each of whom is not a party to such action, suit or proceeding, or (ii) if
Determination of Entitlement to Indemnification.
such a quorum is not obtainable and/or such a committee is not established or obtainable, or, even if obtainable, if a quorum of disinterested directors so directs, by independent legal counsel in a written opinion, or (iii) by the stockholders entitled to vote thereon.
SECTION 7.05 The rights to indemnification and to the advancement of expenses conferred in this Article VII shall not be exclusive of any other right which any person may have or hereafter acquire under any statute, the Corporation's Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, Restated Bylaws, as amended, agreement, vote of stockholders or disinterested directors or otherwise.
Non-Exclusivity of Rights.
SECTION 7.06 The Corporation may maintain insurance, at its expense, to protect itself and any director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation or another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise against any expense, liability or loss, whether or not the Corporation would have the power to indemnify such person against such expense, liability or loss under the Delaware General Corporation Law.
Insurance.
SECTION 7.07 The Corporation may, to the extent authorized from time to time by the Board of Directors, grant rights to indemnification and to the advancement of expenses to any employee or agent of the Corporation to the fullest extent of the provisions of this Article VII with respect to the indemnification and advancement of expenses of directors and officers of the Corporation.
Indemnification of Employees and Agents of the Corporation.
SECTION 7.08 The rights conferred upon indemnitees in this Article VII shall be contract rights and such rights shall continue as to an indemnitee who has ceased to be a director, officer or trustee and shall inure to the benefit of the indemnitee's heirs, executors and administrators. Any amendment, alteration or repeal of this Article VII that adversely affects any right of an indemnitee or it successors shall be prospective only and shall not limit or eliminate any such right with respect to any proceeding involving any occurrence or alleged occurrence of any action or omission to act that took place prior to such amendment, alteration or repeal.
Nature of Rights.
SECTION 8.01 . For purposes of these Restated Bylaws, "electronic transmission" means any form of communication, not directly involving the physical transmission of paper, that creates a record that may be retained, retrieved, and reviewed by a recipient thereof, and that may be directly reproduced in paper form by such a recipient through an automated process.
Electronic Transmission
SECTION 8.02 . The Board of Directors may provide a suitable seal, containing the name of the Corporation, which seal shall be in charge of the Secretary. If and when so directed by the Board of Directors or a
Corporate Seal
committee thereof, duplicates of the seal may be kept and used by the Treasurer or by an Assistant Secretary or Assistant Treasurer.
SECTION 8.03 . The fiscal year of the Corporation shall end on December 31 of each year, or such other twelve consecutive months as the Board of Directors may designate.
Fiscal Year
SECTION 8.04 . Section headings in these Restated Bylaws are for convenience of reference only and shall not be given any substantive effect in limiting or otherwise construing any provision herein.
Section Headings
SECTION 8.05 . In the event that any provision of these Restated Bylaws is or becomes inconsistent with any provision of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware or any other applicable law, the provision of these Restated Bylaws shall not be given any effect to the extent of such inconsistency but shall otherwise be given full force and effect.
Inconsistent Provisions


