FILE:ANR/ANR-8K-20060501155913.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
On May 1, 2006, Foundation Coal Holdings, Inc. issued a press release announcing revised guidance regarding its net income, earnings per share, depreciation, depletion and amortization and amortization of coal supply agreements. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1
 
On May 2, 2006, the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Foundation Coal Holdings, Inc. ("Foundation") will make a presentation at the Goldman Sachs Alternative Energy Conference held in New York, NY. A copy of the presentation is attached as Exhibit 99.1
 
(c) Exhibit
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Date: May 1, 2006
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
News Release
Contact:
Ellen Ewart
Vice President, Investor and Media Relations
410-689-7632
eewart@foundationcoal.com
 Foundation Coal Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:FCL) today announced that it is updating its full year 2006 financial guidance for net income and earnings per diluted share as result of updates to its expectations for 2006 depreciation, depletion and amortization and 2006 amortization of coal supply agreements. The previous full year 2006 guidance for total revenues, adjusted EBITDA, capital expenditures, coal production, coal shipments, and percentage of shipments committed and priced is unchanged. This update to the full year 2006 financial guidance involves non-cash components of the consolidated statement of operations, and, therefore, is not expected to have any impact on cash flows.
Linthicum Heights, Maryland, May 1, 2006
The updated full year 2006 financial guidance is as follows:
 
Foundation Coal Holdings, Inc., through its affiliates, is a major U.S. coal producer with 13 coal mines and related facilities in Pennsylvania, West Virginia, Illinois, and Wyoming. Through its subsidiaries Foundation Coal employs approximately 3,000 people and produces approximately 70 million tons annually, largely for utilities generating electricity. Foundation's corporate offices are in Linthicum Heights, MD.
Forward-looking statements
(statements which are not historical facts) in this release are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Investors are cautioned that all forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, including those risks and uncertainties detailed in the Company's Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, copies of which are available from the Company.



