FILE:ANR/ANR-8K-20060523125550.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
Table of Contents
On May 18 2006, A. Scott Pack, Jr. was elected to the position of Senior Vice President, Sales and Marketing.
As described below, Foundation and Mr. Pack entered into an Employment Agreement and Restricted Stock Unit Agreements.
The Employment Agreement effective June 1, 2005 includes the following material terms (capitalized terms as defined in the Employment Agreement):
 
 
 
 
(i) the sum of (A) any portion of the Annual Base Salary through the Employment Period not adjusted for merit increases; (B) with respect to any annual bonus plan contemplated under the Employment Agreement, an amount representing the target annual bonus for the remainder of the Employment Period; (C) any compensation previously deferred (together with any accrued interest or earnings thereon) that has not yet been paid; and (D) any accrued but unpaid incentive compensation and vacation pay; or
(ii) any severance payments due under the Company Severance Program in effect at the time of Termination ; or
(iii) one (1) year of base salary;
 
The Restricted Stock Unit Agreement effective February 28, 2006 includes the following material terms capitalized terms are defined in the Restricted Stock Agreement):
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
The Restricted Stock Unit Agreement effective March 18, 2005 includes the following material terms (capitalized terms as defined in the Restricted Stock Agreement):
 
 
 
 
Copies of the Employment Agreement and the Restricted Stock Unit Agreement(s) are furnished as Exhibits 99.1, 99.2 and 99.3 are incorporated herein by reference to this Item.
 
(c) Exhibit
 
 
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Date: May 22, 2006
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
THIS EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT ("Employment Agreement"), dated June 1, 2005, is by and between Foundation Energy Sales, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), and Allen S. Pack, Jr. (the "Key Manager").
WHEREAS, the Company considers it essential to its success to foster the continued employment of key management personnel; and
WHEREAS, the Company further wishes to provide for the continued employment by the Company of the Key Manager, and the Key Manager wishes to serve the Company and its affiliated entities in the capacities and on the terms and conditions set forth in this Employment Agreement; and
WHEREAS, this Employment Agreement is the entire agreement between the parties concerning the subject matter hereof and supersedes and terminates any prior oral representations;
NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and the mutual covenants herein contained, the Company and the Key Manager hereby agree as follows:
1. Subject to the right to terminate as provided herein, the Company or one of its affiliates shall employ the Key Manager, and the Key Manager shall serve said employer, on the terms and conditions set forth in this Employment Agreement, commencing on the date above written (the "Effective Date") and continuing until May 31, 2008 ("Employment Period"). The Company shall give written notice to the Key Manager by September 1, 2007 regarding renewal to the Employment Agreement. Any notice of non-renewal given by the Company shall not result in a termination during the Employment Period for purposes of Section 5(a) hereof.
Employment Period
2. During the Employment Period, the Key Manager shall serve as Vice President Sales and Marketing of the Company which is listed as salary classification 18 in the Company's salary administration program. The Key Manager's responsibilities as Vice President Sales and Marketing shall include those currently performed for the Company's and its subsidiaries' businesses. The Key Manager shall serve with such duties and responsibilities as Key Manager currently holds and as are customarily assigned to such position, and such other duties and responsibilities not inconsistent therewith as may from time to time be assigned to him by his supervisor.
Position and Duties
3.
Compensation
(a) During the Employment Period, the Key Manager shall receive an annual base salary of not less than $220,000 ("Annual Base Salary") . The Annual Base Salary shall be payable in accordance with the Company's regular payroll practice, as in effect from time to time. During the Employment Period, the Annual Base Salary shall be reviewed at least annually under the company salary administration program by Key Manager's supervisor and
Annual Base Salary
may be increased, but not decreased. Any salary adjustment shall be at least the target salary adjustment under the annual program.
(b) Key Manager shall be eligible to participate in bonus and incentive compensation plans, policies, and arrangements, retirement plans, savings plans, deferred compensation plans, and health and welfare benefit plans, in each case as they may be provided by the Company, provided, that the Company is under no obligation to provide any specific level of discretionary awards or benefits. This Employment Agreement does not modify the terms of any plans or other agreements in place to provide the Key Manager such other benefits, and the terms of those plans or agreements shall be controlling over this Employment Agreement in the event of any conflict. The target annual bonus for Key Manager shall be as set forth below:
Benefits and Incentive Compensation
 
Straight line interpolation between each percentage except that there is no interpolation for a Company bonus if <85% of Target.
The Company and Key Manager agree to evaluate other bonus programs within 45 days of the Effective Date which pertain to additional value for the Company through trading, arbitrage opportunities or other trade/sales deals. As compared to any new program developed under this provision, the program referenced above shall be a minimum level.
The Performance Targets will be established annually between the Company and Key Manager pursuant to the Company's Performance Development System.
(c) During the Employment Term, reasonable travel and other expenses incurred by Key Manager in the performance of Key Manager's duties hereunder shall be reimbursed by the Company in accordance with Company policies.
Business Expenses
(d) Regarding Key Manager's participation in any long-term incentive plan, the Key Manager's allocation of restricted shares or other type award will be in line with the award made to other employees in the grade 18 classification.
Longterm Incentive Plans
4.
Termination of Employment
(a) The Key Manager's employment shall terminate automatically upon the Key Manager's Death. For purposes of the Company's obligation, the date of Death shall be the Date of Termination. If Key Manager becomes physically or mentally incapacitated so as to be unable to perform the essential functions of Key Manager's duties (such incapacity is hereinafter referred to as "Disability"), then (A) the Company may allow another manager of the Company to perform Key Manager's duties and responsibilities during the period of such Disability, and (B) if such Disability continues for 120 consecutive days or 180 days during any consecutive 360 day period, the Company may terminate Manager's employment under this Agreement. If any question shall arise as to whether, during any period Key Manager is disabled so as to be unable to perform the essential functions of Key Manager's then existing position or positions with or without reasonable accommodations, Key Manager may, and at the request of the Company shall, submit to the Company a certification in reasonable detail by a physician selected by the Company, to whom Key Manager or Key Manager's guardian has no reasonable objection, as to whether Key Manager is so disabled and how long such disability is expected to continue, and such certification shall for the purposes of this Agreement be conclusive of the issue. Key Manager shall cooperate with any reasonable request of the physician in connection with such certification. If such question shall arise and Key Manager shall fail to submit such certification, the Company's determination of such issue shall be binding on Key Manager.
Death or Disability
Nothing in this Section 4 (a) shall be construed to waive Key Manager's rights, if any, under existing law including, without limitation, the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993, 29 U.S.C. ss.2601 et seq. and the Americans with Disabilities Act. 42 U.S.C. ss.12101 et seq.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Following Key Manager's termination of employment due to death or Disability, except as set forth in this Section 4 (a) (ii), Key Manager shall have no further rights to any compensation or any benefits under this Agreement.
(b)
By the Company
(i) The Company may terminate the Key Manager's employment during the Employment Period for Cause or without Cause, and
(ii) "Cause" means,
(A) the Key Manager's conviction or plea of nolo contendere to a felony, or a misdemeanor involving moral turpitude, deceit, dishonesty or fraud that relates to Company property,
(B) the continued and willful, intentional or grossly negligent failure by the Key Manager to substantially perform the Key Manager's duties hereunder (other than as a result of total or partial incapacity due to physical or mental illness), after notice and a reasonable opportunity to cure the same, or
(C) the willful, intentional or grossly negligent conduct of the Key Manager which is demonstrably and materially injurious to the Company and its affiliates taken as a whole, monetarily or otherwise.
For purposes of this subparagraph (ii), no act, or failure to act, on the Key Manager's part shall be deemed willful, intentional or grossly negligent if the Key
Manager acted in good faith and in a manner that the Key Manager reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Company.
(c)
Due to Change of Control
(i) A Change of Control occurs with the Company or any affiliate thereof which then employs Key Manager at any time during the Employment Period.
(ii) For purposes of this Agreement, "Change of Control" shall mean an event of merger, consolidation, sale, joint venture, partnership, or other business arrangement with a third party whereby the Key Manager is not offered a position after such a transaction that is comparable to Key Manager's position with the Company and with at least the same Annual Base Salary, target bonus, long-term incentive award levels and other benefits (other than such changes in benefits applicable to employees generally) as were in effect for the Key Manager immediately preceding the Change of Control, and that is not more than 15 miles away from a city with a population of at least 100,000 people and is located in the continental United States.
(d)
Termination Procedures
(i) Any purported termination of the Key Manager's employment by the Company (other than by reason of Death or the expiration of the Employment Period) shall be communicated by written Notice of Termination from one party hereto to the other party hereto in accordance with Section 11(b) hereof. For purposes of this Employment Agreement, a "Notice of Termination" shall mean a notice which shall indicate the specific termination provision in this Employment Agreement relied upon and, in the case of a termination for Disability or Cause, shall set forth in reasonable detail the facts and circumstances claimed to provide a basis for termination of the Key Manager's employment.
Notice of Termination
(ii) Except as otherwise provided in Section 10(c) of this Employment Agreement, "Date of Termination," with respect to any purported termination of the Key Manager's employment during the Employment Period (other than for Death), shall mean the date specified in the Notice of Termination, except that with respect to any termination that is not for cause, death, or disability, the Date of Termination shall mean 30 calendar days after the Notice of Termination is delivered to Key Manager.
Date of Termination
(iii) The failure to set forth any fact or circumstance in a Notice of Termination shall not constitute a waiver of the right to assert, and shall not preclude the party giving notice from assertion, such fact or circumstance in an attempt to enforce any right under or provision of this Employment Agreement.
No Waiver
5.
Obligations of the Company upon Termination
(a) If, during the Employment Period, the Company terminates the Key Manager's employment than for Cause or Death or Disability, the Company shall pay to the Key Manager in a lump sum in cash within thirty (30) days after the Date of Termination, the greater of the following amounts calculated in (i) or (ii) below,
Payments and Benefits Upon Termination By the Company Other than for Cause or Death or Disability
other
(i) the sum of (A) any portion of the Key Manager's Annual Base Salary through the Employment Period not adjusted for merit increases; (B) with respect to any annual bonus plan contemplated under Section 3(b) of this Employment Agreement, an amount representing the target annual bonus for the remainder of the Employment Period; (C) any compensation previously deferred by the Key Manager (together with any accrued
interest or earnings thereon) that has not yet been paid; and (D) any accrued but unpaid incentive compensation and vacation pay; or
(ii) any severance payments due the Executive under the Company Severance Program in effect at the time of Termination (the "Severance Program"); or
(iii) one (1) year of base salary;
provided, however, that there shall be no duplication of payments under this Employment Agreement, the Severance Program and any other severance obligation of the Company, and the payment under this Section 5(a) shall be offset by any amount otherwise payable under any such agreement, program or obligation and any payment in lieu of notice of termination of employment required by federal, state or local law. After payment of the above amount, the Company shall have no further obligations under this Employment Agreement, the Severance Program or any other severance obligation of the Company; provided however, the Key Manager shall be entitled to all vested benefits under any welfare or benefit plan applicable to employees and available after termination.
(b) If the Key Manager's employment is terminated by reason of the Key Manager's Death or Disability during the Employment Period, the Company shall pay to the Key Manager or, in the case of the Key Manager's Death, to the Key Manager's designated beneficiaries (or, if there is no such beneficiary, to the Key Manager's estate or legal representative) in a lump sum in cash within thirty (30) days after the Date of Termination, the sum of the following amounts,
Payments and Benefits Upon Death or Disability
(i) any portion of the Manager's Annual Base Salary through the Date of Termination that has not yet been paid,
(ii) with respect to any annual bonus plan contemplated under Section 3(b) of this Employment Agreement, an amount representing the target annual bonus for the year in which the Date of Termination occurs, computed by taking the target level and multiplying that amount by the Annual Base Salary multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of days in such period through the Date of Termination and the denominator of which is the total number of days in the relevant period,
(iii) any compensation previously deferred by the Key Manager (together with any accrued interest or earnings thereon) that has not yet been paid, and
(iv) any accrued but unpaid incentive compensation and vacation pay; and the Company shall have no further obligations under this Employment Agreement, except as specified in Section 6 below.
(c) If the Key Manager's employment is terminated by the Company for Cause during the Employment Period, the Company shall pay the Key Manager the Annual Base Salary through the Date of Termination and the amount of any compensation previously deferred by the Key Manager (together with any accrued interest or earnings thereon), in each case to the extent not yet paid, accrued but unused vacation, and any incentive compensation earned per the terms of the 2005 Management Incentive Plan or any similar incentive plan implemented during the Employment Period. The Company shall have no further obligations under this Employment Agreement, except as specified in Section 6 below.
Payments and Benefits By the Company for Cause
6. Except as otherwise expressly provided in this Employment Agreement, nothing in this Employment Agreement shall prevent or limit the Key Manager's continuing or future participation in any plan, program, policy or practice provided by the Company or any of its affiliated companies for which the Key Manager may qualify, provided that any such plan, program or policy may be amended or terminated by the Company in its sole
Non-Exclusivity of Rights
discretion. Vested benefits and other amounts that the Key Manager is otherwise entitled to receive under any other plan, policy, practice, or program of the Company or any of its affiliated companies on or after the Date of Termination shall be payable in accordance with the terms of each such plan, policy, practice or program (subject to the Company's right to amend such terms), as the case may be, except as explicitly modified by this Employment Agreement.
7. The Company's obligation to make the payments provided for in, and otherwise to perform its obligation under, this Employment Agreement shall not be affected by any set-off, counterclaim, recoupment, defense or other claim, right or action that the Company may have against the Key Manager or others. In no event shall the Key Manager be obligated to seek other employment or take any other action by way of mitigation of the amounts payable to the Key Manager under any of the provisions of this Employment Agreement and the amount of any payment or benefit provided for in this Employment Agreement shall not be reduced by any compensation earned by the Key Manager as the result of employment by another employer, by retirement benefits, by offset against any amount claimed to be owed by the Key Manager to the Company or otherwise.
Full Settlement
8.
Confidential Information
(a)
(i) The Key Manager shall hold in a fiduciary capacity for the benefit of the Company and its affiliates all secret or confidential information, knowledge or data relating to the Company or any of its affiliated companies and their respective businesses that the Key Manager obtains during the Key Manager's employment by the Company or any of its affiliated companies and that is not public knowledge (other than as a result of the Key Manager's violation of this Section 8) ("Confidential Information").
(ii) "Confidential Information" shall not include any information that is (a) generally known to the industry or the public other than as a result of Key Manager's breach of this covenant or any breach of other confidentiality obligations by third parties; (b) made legitimately available to Key Manager by a third party without breach of any confidentiality obligation; or (c) required by law to be disclosed; provided that Key Manager shall give prompt written notice to the Company of such requirement, disclose no more information than is so required, and cooperate with any attempts by the Company to obtain a protective order or similar treatment.
(iii) The Key Manager shall not communicate, divulge, or disseminate Confidential Information at any time during or after the Key Manager's employment with the Company, except with the prior written consent of the Company or as otherwise required by law or legal process. In no event shall any asserted violation of the provisions of this Section 8 constitute a basis for deferring or withholding any amounts otherwise payable to the Key Manager under this Employment Agreement.
(b) The Key Manager acknowledges that if the Key Manager shall breach or threaten to breach paragraph (a) of this Section 8, the damages to the Company and its affiliates may be substantial, although difficult to ascertain, and money damages will not afford the Company and its affiliates an adequate remedy. Therefore, if the paragraph (a) of the Section 8 is violated, in whole or in part, the Company and its affiliates shall be entitled to specific performance and injunctive relief, without prejudice to other remedies the Company and/or its affiliates may have at law or in equity.
9. Key Manager acknowledges and recognizes the highly competitive nature of the businesses of the Company and its affiliates and accordingly, as partial consideration for the Company entering into this Employment Agreement, agrees as follows:
Non-Competition
(a) During the Employment Period, if the Key Manager ceases to be employed by the Company for any reason, other than due to Company's failure to renew the Employment Period pursuant to Section 1, the Key Manager will not, whether on Key Manager's own behalf or on behalf of or in conjunction with any person, firm, partnership, joint venture association, corporation or other business organization, entity or enterprise whatsoever ("Person"), directly or indirectly solicit or assist in soliciting in competition with the Company, the business of any customer of the Company or prospective customer of the Company:
(i) with whom Key Manager had personal contact or dealings on behalf of the Company during the one year period preceding Key Manager's termination of employment;
(ii) with whom employees reporting to Key Manager have had personal contact or dealings on behalf of the Company during the one year period immediately preceding Key Manager's termination of employment; or
(iii) for whom Key Manager had direct or indirect responsibility during the one year period immediately preceding Key Manager's termination of employment.
 
(i) engage in any coal-related business that competes with the business of the Company or its affiliates (including, without limitation, businesses which the Company or its affiliates have specific plans to conduct in the future and as to which Key Manager is aware of such planning) in the United States (a "Competitive Business");
(ii) enter the employ of, or render any services to, any Person (or any division or controlled or controlling affiliate of any Person) who or which engages in a Competitive Business;
(iii) acquire a financial interest in, or otherwise become actively involved with, any Competitive Business, directly or indirectly, as an individual, partner, shareholder, officer, director, principal, agent, trustee or consultant; or
(iv) interfere with, or attempt to interfere with, business relationships (whether formed before, on or after the date of the Agreement) between the Company or any of its affiliates and customers, clients, suppliers' partners, members or investors of the Company or its affiliates.
(c) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Employment Agreement, Key Manager may, directly or indirectly own, solely as an investment, securities of any Person engaged in the
business of the Company or affiliates which are publicly traded on a national or regional stock exchange or on the over-the-counter market if Key Manager (i) is not a controlling person of, or a member of a group which controls, such Person and (ii) does not, directly or indirectly, own 5% or more of any class of securities of such Person.
(d) During the Employment Period or for one (1) year following any Date of Termination, if the Key Manager ceases to be employed by the Company, Key Manager will not, whether on Key Manager's own behalf or on behalf of or in conjunction with any Persons, directly or indirectly:
(i) solicit or encourage any employee of the Company or its affiliates to leave the employment of the Company or its affiliates; or
(ii) hire any such employee who was employed by the Company or it affiliates as of the date of Key Manager's termination of employment with the Company or who left the employment of the Company or its affiliates coincident with, or within one year prior to or after, the termination of Key Manager's employment with the Company.
Key Manager contacted by any employee of the Company does not violate this provision of the Agreement, however, any solicitation or encouragement by Key Manager as a result of the initial contact is prohibited.
(e) During the Employment Period or for one (1) year following any Date of Termination, Key Manager will not, directly or indirectly, solicit or encourage to cease to work with the Company or its affiliates any consultant then under contract with the company or its affiliates, however Key Manager contacted by any employee of the Company does not violate this provision of the Agreement. Any solicitation or encouragement by Key Manager as a result of the initial contact is prohibited.
(f) It is expressly understood and agreed that although Key Manager and the Company consider the restrictions contained in this Section 9 to be reasonable, if a final judicial determination is made by a court of competent jurisdiction that the time or territory or any other restriction contained in this Agreement is unenforceable restriction against Key Manager, the provisions of this Agreement shall not be rendered void but shall be deemed amended to apply as to such maximum time and territory and to such maximum extent as such court may judicially determine or indicate to be enforceable. Alternatively, if any court of competent jurisdiction finds that any restriction contained in this Agreement is unenforceable, and such restriction cannot be amended so as to make it enforceable, such finding shall not affect the enforceability of any of the other restrictions contained herein.
 
(a) This Employment Agreement is personal to the Key Manager and, without the prior written consent of the Company, shall not be assignable by the Key Manager otherwise than by will or the laws of descent and distribution. This Employment Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by the Key Manager's legal representatives. If the Key Manager shall die while any amount would still be payable to the Key Manager hereunder had the Key Manager continued to live (other than amounts which by their terms, terminate upon the death of the Key Manager), then all such amounts, unless otherwise provided herein, shall be paid in accordance
with the terms of this Employment Agreement to the executors, personal representatives or administrators of the Key Manager's estate.
(b) This Employment Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the Company and its successors and assigns.
(c) The Company shall require any successor (whether direct or indirect, by purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise) to all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of the Company expressly to assume and agree to perform this Employment Agreement in the same manner and to the same extent that the Company would have been required to perform it if no such succession had taken place. Failure of the Company to obtain such assumption and agreement prior to the effective date of any such succession shall be a breach of this Employment Agreement and shall entitle the Key Manager to compensation from the Company as if the he were terminated without cause. For purposes of implementing the foregoing, the date on which any such succession becomes effective shall be treated as the Date of Termination and shall entitle the Key Manager to compensation from the Company. As used in this Employment Agreement, "Company" shall mean both the Company as defined above and any such successor that assumes and agrees to perform this Employment Agreement, by operation of law or otherwise.
 
(a) This Employment Agreement shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of Maryland, without reference to principles of conflict of laws. The captions of this Employment Agreement are not part of the provisions hereof and shall have no force or effect. This Employment Agreement may not be amended or modified except by a written agreement executed by the parties hereto or their respective successors and legal representatives. Any action by the Company to amend or modify this Employment Agreement must be approved by the President of Foundation Coal Corporation.
(b) All notices and other communications under this Employment Agreement shall be in writing and shall be given by hand delivery to the other party or by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, addressed as follows:
If to the Key Manager:
Foundation Coal Corporation
999 Corporate Boulevard, Suite 300
Linthicum, Maryland 21090
If to the Company:
Foundation Coal Corporation
Attention: General Counsel
999 Corporate Boulevard, Suite 300
Linthicum, Maryland 21090
or to such other address as either party furnishes to the other in writing in accordance with this paragraph (b) of Section 11.
(c) The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision of this Employment Agreement shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other provision of this Employment Agreement. If any provision of this Employment Agreement shall be held invalid or unenforceable in part, the remaining portion of such provision, together with all other provisions of this Employment Agreement, shall remain valid and enforceable and continue in full force and effect to the fullest extent consistent with law.
(d) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Employment Agreement, the Company may withhold from amounts payable under this Employment Agreement all federal, state, local, and foreign taxes that are required to be withheld by applicable laws or regulations. All cash amounts required to be paid hereunder shall be paid in United States dollars.
(e) The Key Manager's or the Company's failure to insist upon strict compliance with any provision of, or to assert any right under, this Employment Agreement shall not be deemed to be a waiver of such provisions or right of any other provision of or right under this Employment Agreement.
(f) The rights and benefits of the Key Manager under this Employment Agreement may not be anticipated, assigned, alienated or subject to attachment, garnishment, levy, executions or other legal or equitable process except as required by law. Any attempt by the Key Manager to anticipate, alienate, assign, sell, transfer, pledge, encumber or charge the same shall be void. Payments hereunder shall not be considered assets of the Key Manager in the event of insolvency or bankruptcy. The obligations of the Company and the Key Manager under this Employment Agreement, which by their nature may require either partial or total performance after the expiration of the term of this Employment Agreement shall survive such expiration.
(g) This Employment Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, and said counterparts shall constitute but one and the same instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Key Manager has hereunto set the Key Manager's hand and the Company has caused this Employment Agreement to be executed in their name on their behalf, all as of the day and year first above written.
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.2
THIS AGREEMENT, is made effective as of February 28, 2006 (the ""), between Foundation Coal Holdings, Inc. (the "") and Allen S. Pack (the "").
Award Date
Company
Participant
WHEREAS, the Company has adopted the Plan (as defined below), the terms of which are hereby incorporated by reference and made a part of this Agreement; and
WHEREAS, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company (the "Committee") has determined that the Participant be awarded the Restricted Stock Units provided for herein pursuant to the Plan and the terms set forth herein.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants hereinafter set forth, the parties agree as follows:
. Whenever the following terms are used in this Agreement, they shall have the meanings set forth below. Capitalized terms not otherwise defined herein shall have the same meanings as in the Plan.
Definitions
: "EBITDA" as defined in the Credit Agreement dated as of July 30, 2004 by and among Foundation PA Coal Company, as borrower, FC 2 Corp. and Foundation Coal Corporation, as guarantors, and the lenders named therein as in effect on the date hereof. More specifically defined as income (or loss) from continuing operations, plus interest expense, net of interest income, income tax expense (benefit), accretion on asset retirement obligations, and depreciation, depletion and amortization plus or minus other adjustments as specified in Foundation Coal's bank credit agreement.
Actual EBITDA
: In respect of a fiscal year, EBITDA the sum of capital expenditures as set forth in the Company's unaudited financial statements; that the Compensation Committee may make such equitable adjustments to capital expenditures as it reasonably deems to be appropriate in order to achieve the intention of this
Actual Free Cash Flow
less
provided
Agreement after giving effect to significant events including, without limitation, acquisitions, dispositions, mergers or similar transactions.
: Participant becomes physically or mentally incapacitated so as to be unable to perform the essential functions of Participant's duties.
Disability
: A Restricted Stock Unit with respect to which the terms and conditions are set forth in Section 3(a) of this Agreement.
EBITDA Restricted Stock Unit
: A Restricted Stock Unit with respect to which the terms and conditions are set forth in Section 3(b) of this Agreement.
FCF Restricted Stock Unit
: The Foundation Coal Holdings, Inc. 2004 Stock Incentive Plan, as the same may be amended, supplemented or modified from time to time.
Plan
: Collectively, the EBITDA Restricted Stock Units and the FCF Restricted Stock Units.
Restricted Stock Units
: Voluntary termination by the Participant on or after the attainment of age 55.
Retirement
: The Target Free Cash Flow shall be established each fiscal year by the Board based on the Company's annual budget and the Plan shall be administered by the Compensation Committee.
Target Free Cash Flow
: The Target EBITDA shall be established each fiscal year by the Board based on the Company's annual budget and the Plan shall be administered by the Compensation Committee.
Target EBITDA
: Each of December 31, 2006, December 31, 2007 and December 31, 2008. Restricted Stock Units earned on these dates do not vest until February 28, 2009.
Performance Date
: At any time, the portion of the Restricted Stock Units which have become earned, as described in Section 3 of this Agreement.
Earned Portion
. The Company hereby awards to the Participant, subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement and the Plan, 1,578 EBITDA Restricted Stock Units and 1,578 FCF Restricted Stock Units. The Participant shall not possess any incidents of ownership
Award of Restricted Stock Units
(including, without limitation, dividend and voting rights) in Shares in respect of the Restricted Stock Units until such Restricted Stock Units have vested and been distributed to the Participant in the form of Shares. A Restricted Stock Unit is an unfunded, unsecured right of the Participant to receive a share of the Company's common stock, par value $0.01 per share (the "").
Shares
.
Earning of the Restricted Stock Units
. Subject to the Participant's continued Employment with the Company and its Affiliates (except as provided in Section 3(d)) through February 28, 2009, the EBITDA Restricted Stock Units shall be earned with respect to one-third of the Shares subject to the EBITDA Restricted Stock Units on each Performance Date to the extent that the Actual EBITDA for the fiscal year ending on such Performance Date equals or exceeds the Target EBITDA for such fiscal year. The minimum level of performance at which EBITDA Restricted Stock Units can be earned is eighty-five (85%) of Actual EBITDA. At this minimum level, fifty (50%) of the one-third of the EBITDA Restricted Stock Units can be earned on each Performance Date. Below the minimum level of performance, zero (0%) EBITDA Restricted Stock Units can be earned. EBITDA Restricted Stock Units will be straight line interpolated for performance falling between target and minimum levels.
EBITDA Restricted Stock Units
. Subject to the Participant's continued Employment with the Company and its Affiliates (except as provided in Section 3(d)) through February 28, 2009, the FCF Restricted Stock Units shall vest with respect to one-third of the Shares subject to the FCF Restricted Stock Units on each Performance Date to the extent that the Actual FCF for the fiscal year ending on such Performance Date equals or exceeds the Target Free Cash Flow for such fiscal year. The minimum level of performance at which FCF Restricted Stock Units can be earned is eighty-five (85%) of Actual FCF. At the minimum level, fifty (50%) of the one-third of the FCF Restricted Stock Units can be earned on each Performance Date. Below this minimum level of performance, zero (0%) FCF Restricted Stock Units can be earned. FCF Restricted Stock Units will be straight line interpolated for performance falling between target and minimum levels.
FCF Restricted Stock Units
(c) . Notwithstanding the foregoing and subject to the Participant's continued employment with the Company and its Affiliates, if a Performance Actual does not exceed the applicable Performance Target with respect to fiscal years 1 and 2 (a "") but the sum of the Performance Actuals for the Missed Year and the subsequent fiscal year (the "") equals or exceeds the sum of the applicable Performance Targets for such Missed Year and Excess Year, then the Restricted Stock Unit shall become earned with respect to one-sixth (1/6) the Shares subject to the applicable Performance Target in respect of such Missed Year.
Catch-Up
Missed Year
Excess Year
. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event that the Participant's Employment terminates due to death, disability, or retirement, the Participant shall be deemed earned in the Restricted Stock Units that would have been earned on the Performance Dates prior to participant's termination. These earned Restricted Stock Units will become vested on February 28, 2009 and Earned Portion of the Restricted Stock Units shall be issued or transferred to the Participant, or the Participant's estate in the event of death, pursuant to Section 4(a).
Retirement, Death or Disability
.
Delivery of Shares Underlying the Restricted Stock Units
. Unless earlier cancelled pursuant to Section 4(b) below, on February 28, 2009, the Company shall issue or cause there to be transferred to the Participant a number of Shares equal to the Earned Portion of the Restricted Stock Units awarded to the Participant under this Agreement and all the unearned Restricted Stock Units subject to this Agreement shall be cancelled.
In General
. If the Participant's Employment terminates for any reason, the Restricted Stock Units shall, to the extent not then earned, be immediately cancelled by the Company without any payment or other consideration.
Termination of Employment
. Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan or this Agreement to the contrary, absent an available exemption to registration or qualification, a Restricted Stock Unit may not be delivered prior to the completion of any registration or qualification of the Restricted Stock Units or the Shares to which they relate under applicable state and federal securities or other laws, or under any ruling or regulation of any governmental body or national securities exchange that the Committee shall in its sole reasonable discretion determine to be necessary or advisable.
Registration or Qualification
. As soon as practicable following the vesting of the Shares subject to the Restricted Stock Units, the Company shall issue certificates in the Participant's name for such Shares. However, the Company shall not be liable to the Participant for damages relating to any delays in issuing the certificates to the Participant, any loss by the Participant of the certificates, or any mistakes or errors in the issuance of the certificates or in the certificates themselves.
Certificates
. The certificates representing the Shares issued to the Participant in respect of the Restricted Stock Units may be subject to such stop transfer orders and other restrictions as the
Legend on Certificates
Committee may deem reasonably advisable under the Plan or the rules, regulations, and other requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission, any stock exchange upon which such Shares are listed, any applicable federal or state laws or the Company's Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws, and the Committee may cause a legend or legends to be put on any such certificates to make appropriate reference to such restrictions.
. Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, a Restricted Stock Unit may not be assigned, alienated, pledged, attached, sold or otherwise transferred or encumbered by the Participant otherwise than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution, and any such purported assignment, alienation, pledge, attachment, sale, transfer or encumbrance shall be void and unenforceable against the Company or any Affiliate; provided that the designation of a beneficiary shall not constitute an assignment, alienation, pledge, attachment, sale, transfer or encumbrance.
Transferability
. The Company or its Affiliate shall have the right to withhold from any payment due or transfer of the Shares made with respect to the Restricted Stock Units, any applicable withholding taxes in respect of the Restricted Stock Units or any payment or transfer with respect to the Restricted Stock Units or under the Plan and to take such action as may be necessary in the option of the Company to satisfy all obligations for the payment of such taxes.
Withholding
. Upon the acquisition of any Shares in respect of the Restricted Stock Units, the Participant will make or enter into such written representations, warranties and agreements as the Committee may reasonably request in order to comply with applicable securities laws or with this Agreement.
Securities Laws
. Any notice under this Agreement shall be addressed to the Company in care of its General Counsel at the principal executive office of the Company and to the Participant at the address appearing in the personnel records of the Company for the Participant or to either party at such other address as either party hereto may hereafter designate in writing to the other. Any such notice shall be deemed effective upon receipt thereof by the addressee.
Notices
. This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York, without regard to conflicts of laws.
Governing Law
. By entering into this Agreement, the Participant agrees and acknowledges that the Participant has received and read a copy of the Plan. The Restricted Stock Units and the Shares received in respect of the Restricted Stock Units are subject to the Plan. The terms and provisions of the Plan as it may be amended from time to time are hereby incorporated by reference. In the event of a conflict between any term or provision contained herein and a term or provision of the Plan, the applicable terms and provisions of the Plan will govern and prevail.
Restricted Stock Units Subject to the Plan
. This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement. Any counterpart or other signature hereupon delivered by facsimile shall be deemed for all purposes as constituting good and valid execution and delivery of this Agreement by such party.
Counterparts
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Agreement has been executed and delivered by the parties hereto.
 
 

Exhibit 99.3
THIS AGREEMENT, is made effective as of March 18, 2005 (the ""), between Foundation Coal Holdings, Inc. (the "") and Allen S. Pack (the "").
Award Date
Company
Participant
WHEREAS, the Company has adopted the Plan (as defined below), the terms of which are hereby incorporated by reference and made a part of this Agreement; and
WHEREAS, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company (the "Committee") has determined that the Participant be awarded the Restricted Stock Units provided for herein pursuant to the Plan and the terms set forth herein.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants hereinafter set forth, the parties agree as follows:
1. . Whenever the following terms are used in this Agreement, they shall have the meanings set forth below. Capitalized terms not otherwise defined herein shall have the same meanings as in the Plan.
Definitions
(a) : "EBITDA" as defined in the Credit Agreement dated as of July 30, 2004 by and among Foundation PA Coal Company, as borrower, FC 2 Corp. and Foundation Coal Corporation, as guarantors, and the lenders named therein as in effect on the date hereof. More specifically defined as income (or loss) from continuing operations, plus interest expense, net of interest income, income tax expense (benefit), accretion on asset retirement obligations, and depreciation, depletion and amortization plus or minus other adjustments as specified in Foundation Coal's bank credit agreement.
Actual EBITDA
(b) : In respect of a fiscal year, EBITDA the sum of capital expenditures as set forth in the Company's unaudited financial statements; that the Compensation Committee may make such equitable adjustments to capital expenditures as it reasonably deems to be appropriate in order to achieve the intention of this Agreement after giving effect to significant events including, without limitation, acquisitions, dispositions, mergers or similar transactions.
Actual Free Cash Flow
less
provided
 
(c) : Participant becomes physically or mentally incapacitated so as to be unable to perform the essential functions of Participant's duties.
Disability
(d) : A Restricted Stock Unit with respect to which the terms and conditions are set forth in Section 3(a) of this Agreement.
EBITDA Restricted Stock Unit
(e) : A Restricted Stock Unit with respect to which the terms and conditions are set forth in Section 3(b) of this Agreement.
FCF Restricted Stock Unit
(f) : The Foundation Coal Holdings, Inc. 2004 Stock Incentive Plan, as the same may be amended, supplemented or modified from time to time.
Plan
(g) : Collectively, the EBITDA Restricted Stock Units and the FCF Restricted Stock Units.
Restricted Stock Units
(h) : Voluntary termination by the Participant on or after the attainment of age 55.
Retirement
(i) : The Target Free Cash Flow shall be established each fiscal year by the Board based on the Company's annual budget; provided that the Target Free Cash Flow for 2005 shall be $85.7 million.
Target Free Cash Flow
(j) : The Target EBITDA shall be established each fiscal year by the Board based on the Company's annual budget; provided that the Target EBITDA for 2005 shall be $245 million.
Target EBITDA
(k) : Each of December 31, 2005, December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2007. Restricted Stock Units earned on these dates do not vest, until March 17, 2008.
Performance Date
(l) : At any time, the portion of the Restricted Stock Units which have become earned, as described in Section 3 of this Agreement.
Earned Portion
2. . The Company hereby awards to the Participant, subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement and the Plan, 2,514 EBITDA Restricted Stock Units and 2,514 FCF Restricted Stock Units. The Participant shall not possess any incidents of ownership (including, without limitation, dividend and voting rights) in Shares in respect of the Restricted Stock Units until such Restricted Stock Units have vested and been distributed to the Participant in the form of Shares. A Restricted Stock Unit is an unfunded, unsecured right of the Participant to receive a share of the Company's common stock, par value $0.01 per share (the "").
Award of Restricted Stock Units
Shares
3. .
Earning of the Restricted Stock Units
(a) . Subject to the Participant's continued Employment with the Company and its Affiliates (except as provided in Section 3(c)) through March 17, 2008, the EBITDA Restricted Stock Units shall be earned with respect to one-third of the Shares subject to the EBITDA Restricted Stock
EBITDA Restricted Stock Units
 
Units on each Performance Date to the extent that the Actual EBITDA for the fiscal year ending on such Performance Date equals or exceeds the Target EBITDA for such fiscal year. The minimum level of performance at which EBITDA Restricted Stock Units can be earned is eighty-five (85%) of Actual EBITDA. At this minimum level, fifty (50%) of the one-third of the EBITDA Restricted Stock Units can be earned on each Performance Date. Below the minimum level of performance, zero (0%) EBITDA Restricted Stock Units can be earned. EBITDA Restricted Stock Units will be straight line interpolated for performance falling between target and minimum levels.
(b) . Subject to the Participant's continued Employment with the Company and its Affiliates (except as provided in Section 3(c)) through March 17, 2008, the FCF Restricted Stock Units shall vest with respect to one-third of the Shares subject to the FCF Restricted Stock Units on each Performance Date to the extent that the Actual FCF for the fiscal year ending on such Performance Date equals or exceeds the Target Free Cash Flow for such fiscal year. The minimum level of performance at which FCF Restricted Stock Units can be earned is eighty-five (85%) of Actual FCF. At the minimum level, fifty (50%) of the one-third of the FCF Restricted Stock Units can be earned on each Performance Date. Below this minimum level of performance, zero (0%) FCF Restricted Stock Units can be earned. FCF Restricted Stock Units will be straight line interpolated for performance falling between target and minimum levels.
FCF Restricted Stock Units
(c) . Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event that the Participant's Employment terminates due to death, disability, or retirement, the Participant shall be deemed earned in the Restricted Stock Units that would have been earned on the Performance Dates prior to participant's termination. These earned Restricted Stock Units will become vested on March 17, 2008 and Earned Portion of the Restricted Stock Units shall be issued or transferred to the Participant, or the Participant's estate in the event of death, pursuant to Section 4(a).
Retirement, Death or Disability
4. .
Delivery of Shares Underlying the Restricted Stock Units
(a) . Unless earlier cancelled pursuant to Section 4(b) below, on March 17, 2008, the Company shall issue or cause there to be transferred to the Participant a number of Shares equal to the Earned Portion of the Restricted Stock Units awarded to the Participant under this Agreement and all the unearned Restricted Stock Units subject to this Agreement shall be cancelled.
In General
(b) . If the Participant's Employment terminates for any reason, the Restricted Stock Units shall, to the extent not then earned, be immediately cancelled by the Company without any payment or other consideration.
Termination of Employment
(c) Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan or this Agreement to the contrary, absent an available exemption to registration or qualification, a Restricted Stock Unit may not be delivered prior to the completion of any registration or qualification of the Restricted Stock Units or the Shares to which they relate under applicable state and federal securities or other laws, or under any ruling or
Registration or Qualification.
 
regulation of any governmental body or national securities exchange that the Committee shall in its sole reasonable discretion determine to be necessary or advisable.
(d) . As soon as practicable following the vesting of the Shares subject to the Restricted Stock Units, the Company shall issue certificates in the Participant's name for such Shares. However, the Company shall not be liable to the Participant for damages relating to any delays in issuing the certificates to the Participant, any loss by the Participant of the certificates, or any mistakes or errors in the issuance of the certificates or in the certificates themselves.
Certificates
5. . The certificates representing the Shares issued to the Participant in respect of the Restricted Stock Units may be subject to such stop transfer orders and other restrictions as the Committee may deem reasonably advisable under the Plan or the rules, regulations, and other requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission, any stock exchange upon which such Shares are listed, any applicable federal or state laws or the Company's Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws, and the Committee may cause a legend or legends to be put on any such certificates to make appropriate reference to such restrictions.
Legend on Certificates
6. . Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, a Restricted Stock Unit may not be assigned, alienated, pledged, attached, sold or otherwise transferred or encumbered by the Participant otherwise than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution, and any such purported assignment, alienation, pledge, attachment, sale, transfer or encumbrance shall be void and unenforceable against the Company or any Affiliate; provided that the designation of a beneficiary shall not constitute an assignment, alienation, pledge, attachment, sale, transfer or encumbrance.
Transferability
7. . The Company or its Affiliate shall have the right to withhold from any payment due or transfer of the Shares made with respect to the Restricted Stock Units, any applicable withholding taxes in respect of the Restricted Stock Units or any payment or transfer with respect to the Restricted Stock Units or under the Plan and to take such action as may be necessary in the option of the Company to satisfy all obligations for the payment of such taxes.
Withholding
8. . Upon the acquisition of any Shares in respect of the Restricted Stock Units, the Participant will make or enter into such written representations, warranties and agreements as the Committee may reasonably request in order to comply with applicable securities laws or with this Agreement.
Securities Laws
9. . Any notice under this Agreement shall be addressed to the Company in care of its General Counsel at the principal executive office of the Company and to the Participant at the address appearing in the personnel records of the Company for the Participant or to either party at such other address as either party hereto may hereafter designate in writing to the other. Any such notice shall be deemed effective upon receipt thereof by the addressee.
Notices
10. . This Agreement shall be governed by and
Governing Law
 
construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York, without regard to conflicts of laws.
11. . By entering into this Agreement, the Participant agrees and acknowledges that the Participant has received and read a copy of the Plan. The Restricted Stock Units and the Shares received in respect of the Restricted Stock Units are subject to the Plan. The terms and provisions of the Plan as it may be amended from time to time are hereby incorporated by reference. In the event of a conflict between any term or provision contained herein and a term or provision of the Plan, the applicable terms and provisions of the Plan will govern and prevail.
Restricted Stock Units Subject to the Plan
12. . This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement. Any counterpart or other signature hereupon delivered by facsimile shall be deemed for all purposes as constituting good and valid execution and delivery of this Agreement by such party.
Counterparts
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Agreement has been executed and delivered by the parties hereto.
 
 
 


