FILE:ANR/ANR-8K-20080929171252.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 8.01 Other Events
On September 29, 2008, Foundation Coal Holdings, Inc. ("Foundation") issued a press release announcing that its Board of Directors had authorized an increase its share repurchase program. The program permits Foundation to repurchase up to an additional $100 million of Foundation's outstanding stock ("Shares"). The program enables Foundation's management to repurchase Shares from time to time, as market conditions warrant. To date, Foundation has repurchased approximately $72 million worth of stock, leaving an available authorization of approximately $128 million for additional repurchases.
Separately, Foundation announced that Eastern production during the third quarter is anticipated to be approximately 800,000 tons below its previous estimate due primarily to adverse geological conditions, as well as increased regulatory inspection activity. In addition, cash costs and productivity were impacted by escalating wages and a shortage of skilled labor in Central Appalachia.
The company will provide additional details about its year-to-date performance and financial outlook on its upcoming third quarter results call scheduled in October.
A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1. This Current Report on Form 8-K and the press release attached hereto are being furnished by the Registrant pursuant to Item 8.01 "Other Events."
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibit
 
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Date: September 29, 2008
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
Contact:
Todd Allen, CFA
Vice President, Investor and Media Relations
410-689-7632
tallen@foundationcoal.com
LINTHICUM HEIGHTS, Md., Sept. 29, 2008 (BUSINESS WIRE)  Foundation Coal Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:FCL) today announced that its Board of Directors authorized a $100 million increase to the company's existing share repurchase program. To date, Foundation has repurchased approximately $72 million worth of stock, leaving an available authorization of approximately $128 million for additional repurchases.
Separately, the company announced that Eastern production during the third quarter is anticipated to be approximately 800,000 tons below its previous estimate due primarily to adverse geological conditions, as well as increased regulatory inspection activity. In addition, cash costs and productivity were impacted by escalating wages and a shortage of skilled labor in Central Appalachia.
The company will provide additional details about its year-to-date performance and financial outlook on its upcoming third quarter results call scheduled in October.
ABOUT FOUNDATION COAL
Foundation Coal Holdings, Inc., through its affiliates, is a major U.S. coal producer operating mines and associated processing and loading facilities in Pennsylvania, West Virginia, and Wyoming. Through its subsidiaries Foundation Coal employs approximately 3,000 people and produces more than 70 million tons of coal annually, largely for utilities generating electricity. Foundation's corporate offices are in Linthicum Heights, Md.
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
Certain statements relating to the future prospects, developments, business strategies, analyses and other information that is based on forecasts of future results and estimates of amounts not yet determinable are forward-looking statements (as such term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) which can be identified as any statement that does not relate strictly to historical or current facts. The company has used the words "anticipate," "believe," "could," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "may," "plan," "predict," "project" and similar terms and phrases, including references to assumptions, to identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are made based on expectations and beliefs concerning future events affecting the company and are subject to uncertainties and factors relating to the company's operations and business environment, all of which are difficult to predict and many of which are beyond the company's control, that could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from those matters expressed in or implied by these forward-looking statements. These factors include, but are not limited to: market demand for coal, electricity and steel; weather conditions or catastrophic weather-related damage; the company's production capabilities; timing of reductions or increases in customer coal inventories; long-term coal supply arrangements; environmental laws, including those directly affecting the company's coal mining and production, and those affecting the company's customers' coal usage; regulatory and court decisions; railroad, barge, trucking and other transportation performance and costs; assumptions concerning economically recoverable coal reserve estimates; employee workforce factors; changes in postretirement benefit and pension obligations; the company's liquidity, results of operations and financial condition. The company advises investors that it discusses additional risk factors and uncertainties that could cause Foundation Coal Holdings Inc. actual results to differ from forward-looking statements in the company's Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") under the heading "Risk Factors". The investor should keep in mind that any forward-looking statement made by the company in this news release or elsewhere speaks only as of the date on which the company makes it. New risks and uncertainties come up from time to time, and it is impossible for the company to predict these events or how they may affect the company. The company has no duty to, and does not intend to, update or revise the forward-looking statements in this news release after the date of issue, except as may be required by law. In light of these risks and uncertainties, the investor should keep in mind that any forward-looking statement made in this news release or elsewhere might not occur.


