FILE:ANR/ANR-8K-20090805171326.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders	Changes in Control of Registrant	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Amendments to the Registrant's Code of Ethics, or Waiver of a Provision of the Code of Ethics	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders
ITEM: Changes in Control of Registrant
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Amendments to the Registrant's Code of Ethics, or Waiver of a Provision of the Code of Ethics
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Background
     As previously reported, on July 31, 2009, Alpha Natural Resources, Inc. ("Old Alpha") merged (the "Merger") with and into Foundation Coal Holdings, Inc. ("Foundation"), with Foundation continuing as the surviving corporation, which was renamed Alpha Natural Resources, Inc. We refer to the surviving corporation as "New Alpha" or the "Company."
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
     The information set forth in Item 5.02(d) below is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 2.03 Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
(a)
2.375% Convertible Senior Notes Due April 15, 2015
     Following completion of the Merger, New Alpha assumed Old Alpha's obligations in respect of the 2.375% convertible senior notes due 2015 with an aggregate principal amount of $287.5 million (the "2015 Notes") by executing Supplemental Indenture No. 2, dated as of July 31, 2009 (the "2015 Second Supplemental Indenture"), between New Alpha, as issuer, and Union Bank, N.A. (formerly Union Bank of California, N.A.) ("Union Bank"), as trustee. Old Alpha issued the 2015 Notes under an Indenture dated as of April 7, 2008 (the "2015 Base Indenture"), as supplemented by Supplemental Indenture No. 1, dated as of April 7, 2008 (the "2015 First Supplemental Indenture" and, together with the 2015 Base Indenture, the "2015 Indenture"), each between Old Alpha and Union Bank.
     The 2015 Notes bear interest at a rate of 2.375% per annum, payable semi-annually in arrears on April 15 and October 15 of each year, and will mature on April 15, 2015, unless previously repurchased by the Company or converted.
     The 2015 Notes are convertible in certain circumstances and in specified periods (as described in the 2015 First Supplemental Indenture) at an initial conversion rate of 18.2962 shares of common stock per $1,000 principal amount of the 2015 Notes, subject to adjustment upon the occurrence of certain events set forth in the 2015 Indenture. Upon conversion of the 2015 Notes, holders will receive cash up to the principal amount of the notes to be converted, and any excess conversion value will be delivered in cash, shares of common stock, or a combination thereof, at New Alpha's election. On June 18, 2009, Old Alpha announced that the 2015 Notes became convertible at the option of the holders beginning on June 18, 2009, and would remain convertible through the 30th day after July 31, 2009, the date on which the Merger was completed.
     The 2015 Notes are New Alpha's senior unsecured obligations and rank equally with all of the Company's existing and future senior unsecured indebtedness. The 2015 Notes are effectively subordinated to all of the Company's existing and future secured indebtedness and all existing and future liabilities of the Company's subsidiaries, including trade payables.
     The 2015 Indenture contains customary terms and covenants, including that upon certain events of default occurring and continuing, either Union Bank or the holders of not less than 25% in aggregate principal amount of the securities then outstanding may declare the principal of the securities and any accrued and unpaid interest thereon immediately due and payable. In the case of certain events of bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization relating to the Company, the principal amount of the securities together with any accrued and unpaid interest thereon will automatically become and be immediately due and payable.
     This description of the 2015 Second Supplemental Indenture and the 2015 Indenture does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the 2015 Second Supplemental Indenture, which, along with the 2015 Base Indenture and 2015 First Supplemental Indenture (including the form of Note) are attached to this report as Exhibits 4.4, 4.1, 4.2 and 4.3 respectively and are incorporated herein by reference.
7.25% Senior Notes Due August 1, 2014
Table of Contents
     On August 1, 2009, Foundation PA Coal Company, LLC ("Foundation PA"), a wholly owned subsidiary of New Alpha, and previously a wholly owned subsidiary of Foundation, New Alpha, certain of its subsidiaries (the "New Subsidiaries") and The Bank of New York Mellon (formerly The Bank of New York) ("BNYM"), entered into a supplemental indenture (the "2014 Third Supplemental Indenture") which supplements the Indenture, dated as of July 30, 2004 (the "2014 Base Indenture"), between Foundation PA, as issuer, certain guarantors named therein and BNYM, as supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of September 6, 2005 (the "2014 First Supplemental Indenture"), and the Second Supplemental Indenture, dated as of October 5, 2007 (the "2014 Second Supplemental Indenture" and, together with the 2014 Base Indenture and the 2014 First Supplemental Indenture, the "2014 Indenture"), governing Foundation PA's 7.250% Senior Notes due August 1, 2014 (the "2014 Notes").
     Pursuant to the 2014 Third Supplemental Indenture, New Alpha assumed the obligations of Foundation Coal Corporation ("FCC"), an indirect parent of Foundation PA, a wholly owned subsidiary of New Alpha, and, together with the New Subsidiaries, became guarantors on the 2014 Indenture. On August 1, 2009, in connection with the Merger, FCC merged with and into New Alpha.
     This description of the 2014 Third Supplemental Indenture does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the 2014 Third Supplemental Indenture, which, along with the 2014 Base Indenture, 2014 First Supplemental Indenture and 2014 Second Supplemental Indenture are attached to this report as Exhibits 4.8, 4.5, 4.6, and 4.7 respectively and are incorporated herein by reference.
Credit Agreement
     On July 31, 2009, following the Merger and upon satisfaction of the requisite conditions, the amendment dated as of May 22, 2009 ("Amendment No. 1") to the Credit Agreement, dated as of July 30, 2004, as amended and restated as of July 7, 2006, by and among FCC, Foundation PA, Citicorp North America, Inc., as administrative agent, and the institutions from time to time party thereto as lenders (the "Credit Agreement"), became effective. Under the Credit Agreement, the Company has a $500 million revolving credit line and a $335 million term loan with $301.5 million outstanding as of June 30, 2009. Repayment of outstanding indebtedness owed under the credit facility includes quarterly amortization of the term loan beginning in the third quarter of 2009 with both the term loan and revolving credit line maturing July 7, 2011.
     As previously disclosed, pursuant to Amendment No. 1, New Alpha and the New Subsidiaries became guarantors under the Credit Agreement. Amendment No. 1 also provides for an increase in the interest rate to 3.25 percentage points over the London interbank offered rate ("LIBOR") from 1.25 percentage points over LIBOR, subject, in the case of revolving loans, to adjustment based on leverage ratios. Upon Amendment No. 1 becoming effective, limitations on annual capital expenditure amounts were eliminated and the amount of incremental credit facilities that may be incurred under the Credit Agreement were increased from $100 million to $200 million of which $150 million was utilized to increase the revolving credit line to $650 million.
     This description of Amendment No. 1 does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to Amendment No. 1, which is attached to this report as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 3.03 Material Modification to Rights of Security Holders
(a)
Common Stock
     The information set forth in Item 5.03 of this report and in the Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus on Form S-4 of Foundation, filed on June 22, 2009 (the "Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus") is incorporated herein by reference.
     
2014 Notes and 2015 Notes
     The information set forth in Item 2.03 of this report regarding the 2014 Notes and the 2015 Notes is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 4.01 Changes in Registrant's Certifying Accountant
Table of Contents
(a)
Dismissal of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
     For accounting purposes, the Merger is treated as a "reverse acquisition" and Old Alpha is considered the accounting acquirer. Accordingly, Old Alpha's financial statements became the historical financial statements of New Alpha and New Alpha's future periodic filings will reflect Old Alpha's historical financial condition and results of operations shown for comparative purposes.
     Prior to the Merger, Old Alpha's historical financial statements were audited by KPMG LLP ("KPMG") and Foundation's historical financial statements were audited by Ernst & Young LLP ("EY").
     On July 31, 2009, the Audit Committee (the "Audit Committee") of the Board of Directors of New Alpha appointed KPMG as New Alpha's independent registered public accounting firm and dismissed EY as New Alpha's independent registered public accounting firm, effective immediately.
     EY will continue to perform services for New Alpha, consisting of completing the review of Foundation's financial statements and Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended June 30, 2009, as the quarterly period ended prior to the completion of the Merger. New Alpha expects that these services will be completed by August 10, 2009.
     The audit reports of EY on the financial statements of Foundation as of and for each of the two fiscal years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 did not contain any adverse opinion or disclaimer of opinion, and were not qualified or modified as to uncertainty, audit scope, or accounting principles. During Foundation's fiscal years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, and in Foundation's subsequent interim period from January 1, 2009 through July 31, 2009, the date of the dismissal of EY, with regard to the financial statements referred to above, (i) there were no disagreements with EY on any matter of accounting principles or practices, financial statement disclosure, or auditing scope or procedure, which disagreements, if not resolved to EY's satisfaction, would have caused EY to make reference to the subject matter of the disagreement in connection with its report, and (ii) there were no reportable events of the type described in Item 304(a)(1)(v) of Regulation S-K.
     New Alpha provided EY with a copy of the foregoing disclosures and requested that EY furnish New Alpha a letter addressed to the Securities and Exchange Commission stating whether it agrees with them. A copy of EY's response is filed hereto as Exhibit 16.1 to this Form 8-K .
(b)
Engagement of a New Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
     As noted above, on July 31, 2009, the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors of New Alpha formally engaged KPMG as its independent registered public accounting firm for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2009. KPMG was the independent registered public accounting firm for Old Alpha during the fiscal years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, and in Old Alpha's subsequent interim period from January 1, 2009 through July 31, 2009. During that time, neither Foundation nor anyone acting on its behalf consulted KPMG with respect to (i) the application of accounting principles to a specified transaction, either completed or proposed, (ii) the type of audit opinion that might be rendered on Foundation's financial statements, or (iii) any other matter that was either the subject of a disagreement, as that term is defined in Item 304(a)(1)(iv) of Regulation S-K, or a reportable event of the type described in Item 304(a)(1)(v) of Regulation S-K.
Item 5.01 Changes in Control of Registrant
     The information set forth in Item 5.02 below and in Item 2.01 of the Current Report on Form 8-K filed by New Alpha on July 31, 2009 is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
     References to subsections in this Item 5.02 are for the convenience of the reader only. The information provided in each subsection of this Item 5.02 will be deemed to be disclosed in and incorporated by reference into any other subsection of this Item 5.02 where such information would be relevant and required by such subsection in accordance with Form 8-K.
(b)
Terminations and Resignations
Table of Contents
     On July 31, 2009, immediately prior to the Effective Time, James F. Roberts, Foundation's Chief Executive Officer, resigned his position as Foundation's Chief Executive Officer and as Chairman of Foundation's Board of Directors (the "Foundation Board"). James J. Bryja, Foundation's Senior Vice President, Operations and a "named executive officer" (one of Foundation's three most highly compensated executive officers, other than its principal executive officer and principal financial officer, who was serving as an executive officer as of December 31, 2008) and A. Scott Pack, Jr., Foundation's Senior Vice President, Sales and Marketing and a "named executive officer," ceased to serve in those positions with Foundation, and Kurt D. Kost, Foundation's President and Chief Operating Officer, ceased to serve in the position of Chief Operating Officer. Mr. Roberts will continue as a member of the Company's Board of Directors (the "Board") following the Merger and Mr. Kost will continue to serve as the Company's President. Messrs. Bryja and Pack will continue as Senior Vice President Operations, Northern Appalachia and Powder River Basin, and Executive Vice President Alpha Coal Sales Inc.  Sales & Marketing, respectively.
     On July 31, 2009, immediately prior to the Effective Time, the Foundation Board increased its size from nine to ten members and Kurt D. Kost, David I. Foley, Alex T. Krueger, Robert C. Scharp and Thomas V. Shockley, III each resigned as members of the Foundation Board.
(c)
New Appointments
     
Kevin Crutchfield Appointed as Chief Executive Officer
     On July 31, 2009, immediately following the Effective Time and pursuant to the terms of the Merger Agreement, the Board of Directors of New Alpha appointed Kevin S. Crutchfield as the Company's Chief Executive Officer.
     Mr. Crutchfield, age 48, served as the President of Old Alpha from January 2007 until the Effective Time and as a member of Old Alpha's Board of Directors from November 2007 until the Effective Time. Prior to November 2007, Mr. Crutchfield served as Old Alpha's Executive Vice President since Old Alpha's formation in November 2004. Mr. Crutchfield joined Old Alpha's management team as the Executive Vice President of ANR Holdings, LLC ("ANR Holdings") in March 2003, and also served as the Executive Vice President of ANR Holdings from November 2003 until ANR Holdings was merged with another of Old Alpha's subsidiaries in December 2005.
     In connection with his appointment as the Company's Chief Executive Officer, a subsidiary of the Company and Mr. Crutchfield entered into an amended and restated employment agreement dated as of July 31, 2009, which agreement originally became effective as of March 22, 2006. The current term of Mr. Crutchfield's Employment Agreement ends on December 31, 2010, and the agreement term automatically renews for successive annual terms unless terminated by Mr. Crutchfield or the Company in advance of the end of the initial term or any renewal term.
     Pursuant to the Employment Agreement, Mr. Crutchfield is entitled to the following: (i) a minimum annual base salary of eight hundred seventy-five thousand dollars, (ii) an annual bonus with a threshold pay-out opportunity of 50% of his then current base salary, a target pay-out opportunity of 100% of his then current base salary, and a maximum bonus opportunity of 200% of his then current base salary, based upon achievement of goals, (iii) participation in the Company's long-term incentive plans (which is targeted at 500% of his base salary), including its equity incentive plans (provided that if the Board or Compensation Committee of the Board (the "Compensation Committee") makes regular cycle grants of equity securities to officers who report directly to Mr. Crutchfield, he will receive an equity grant of the same type of security granted to such direct reports targeted at 150% of the highest number of such security granted such direct reports (subject to certain exceptions)), (iv) four weeks of paid vacation, or such greater amount of vacation as may be determined in accordance with the Company's vacation policy as in effect from time to time, (v) reimbursement of business expenses, and (vi) participation in the Company's benefit plans.
Table of Contents
     Mr. Crutchfield's Employment Agreement provides that, in the event of a change in control, he will receive a lump-sum cash payment equal to his pro-rata target bonus for the year in which the change in control occurs, which is based on the portion of the year that he was employed by the Company prior to the change in control.
     If Mr. Crutchfield retires, elects not to renew the term of the agreement or voluntarily terminates (other than for good reason), or is terminated by the Company for employer cause, he will be entitled, subject to his execution of a release, to the following: (i) any accrued amounts owing to him, (ii) vested amounts under the Company's and its Subsidiaries Deferred Compensation Plan (as amended, the "Deferred Compensation Plan"); (iii) if applicable, retiree medical benefits under the Company's retiree medical benefit plan, and (iv) such other amounts as determined by the Compensation Committee or Board. Additionally, if Mr. Crutchfield resigns and the Company elects to impose the non-competition and non-solicitation covenants of his agreement upon him, the Company must pay him two and one half times his base salary and target bonus for that year.
     If Mr. Crutchfield's employment terminates due to permanent disability or death, he (or his estate) will be entitled to the following: (i) any accrued amounts owing to him, (ii) vested amounts under the Company's Deferred Compensation Plan; (iii) a pro-rata share of any individual bonuses or individual annual incentive compensation, based on target levels set for such bonuses and the portion of the year in which he was employed by the Company, and (iv) if applicable, retiree medical benefits under the Company's retiree medical benefit plan.
     If Mr. Crutchfield resigns for good reason or the Company terminates his employment without employer cause (including not renewing the term), he will be entitled, subject to his execution of a release, to the following: (i) two times his base salary and target bonus; (ii) a lump sum payment of his pro-rata share of any individual annual bonuses based on the portion of the year in which he was employed by the Company and such payment will continue to be subject to the attainment of performance goals as specified in the applicable plan; (iii) any accrued and vested amounts owing to him; and (iv) certain medical, life and welfare benefits until the earlier to occur of: (x) his reaching the age of 65, (y) his obtaining substantially similar benefits from another employer, or (z) the expiration of the COBRA continuation period (generally 18 months).
     If Mr. Crutchfield's employment is terminated during the 90 days prior to, or on or within one year after, a change in control by him for good reason or by the Company other than for (x) employer cause, (y) death or (z) permanent disability, he will be entitled, subject to his execution of a release, to the following: (i) a lump sum payment equal to three times his base salary and target bonus; (ii) a lump sum payment of his pro-rata share of any individual annual bonuses, based on target levels set for such bonuses and the portion of the year in which he was employed by the Company; (iii) any accrued and vested amounts owing to him; (iv) certain medical, life and other welfare benefits until the earlier to occur of: (x) his reaching the age of 65, (y) his obtaining substantially similar benefits from another employer, or (z) the expiration of the COBRA continuation period; (v) if applicable, a cash payment equal to the difference between the present value of any accrued pension benefits under the Company's pension plans and the present value of the accrued pension benefits to which he would have been entitled to under the pension plans if he had continued participation in those plans for the 24-month period after the effective date of his termination; and (vi) a cash payment of fifteen thousand dollars to cover outplacement assistance services.
     In addition, in the event Mr. Crutchfield's employment is terminated by the Company due to death, permanent disability or without cause, by him for good reason, or involuntarily in connection with a change in control, any unvested portion of equity awards granted to him by the Company will vest in full (with certain exceptions) and, in the case of stock options, such options will remain exercisable until the earlier to occur of the expiration of the applicable option term or the two-year anniversary of his employment termination date; provided, however, that the payment of performance-based awards will continue to be subject to the attainment of performance goals.
     In the event that any payments or distributions to Mr. Crutchfield would constitute an "excess parachute payment" within the meaning of Section 280G of the Internal Revenue Code, then the agreement obligates the Company (subject to certain exceptions) to pay him an additional tax gross-up payment such that the net amount retained by him, after deduction of any excise tax imposed under Section 4999 of the Internal Revenue Code and any taxes imposed upon the gross-up payment itself, is equal to the amount that would have been payable or distributable to him if such payments or distributions did not constitute excess parachute payments.
Table of Contents
     Mr. Crutchfield has also agreed to certain confidentiality, intellectual property and one-year non-competition and non-solicitation obligations.
     
President and Chief Financial Officer
     Kurt D. Kost, who served as Foundation's President and Chief Operating Officer since January 2008, will continue to serve as the Company's President, having been re-appointed to this position immediately after the Effective Time in accordance with the Merger Agreement. In connection with the Merger, a subsidiary of the Company and Mr. Kost entered into an amended and restated employment agreement dated July 31, 2009, a description of which is set forth under Item 5.02(e) herein.
     Frank J. Wood, who has served as Foundation's Chief Financial Officer since August 2004, will continue to serve as the Company's Chief Financial Officer. A description of changes to Mr. Wood's compensatory arrangements is provided under Item 5.02(e) herein.
(d)
Appointment of New Directors
     On July 31, 2009, immediately prior to the Effective Time, the following individuals, each of whom previously served as a director on Old Alpha's Board of Directors, were elected to the Company's Board: Kevin S. Crutchfield, E. Linn Draper, Jr., Glenn A. Eisenberg, John W. Fox, Jr., Michael J. Quillen and Ted G. Wood. William J. Crowley, Jr., P. Michael Giftos, Joel Richards, III, and James F. Roberts will continue to serve as members of the Company's Board. In accordance with the terms of the Merger Agreement, Mr. Quillen was appointed Executive Chairman of the Board immediately after the Effective Time.
     Immediately after the Effective Time, the Board reconstituted and established as applicable, the following committees with the indicated persons to serve on the indicated committees of the Board listed below:
     The committee chairs will alternate as Lead Director for each regularly scheduled meeting of the Board, based upon the alphabetical order of the committee on which such person chairs, such that at the first regularly scheduled meeting of the Board, the Audit Committee Chair will serve as Lead Director, at the second regularly scheduled meeting of the Board, the Compensation Committee Chair will serve as Lead Director, and so forth.
     In connection with the Merger, the Board approved the terms of Mr. Quillen's compensatory arrangements as the Executive Chairman of the Board. As Executive Chairman, Mr. Quillen will be paid three hundred fifty thousand dollars from August 1, 2009 to December 31, 2009. If Mr. Quillen ceases to be an employee of the Company on December 31, 2009 and remains as Non-Executive Chairman of the Board, he will be paid an annual amount of one hundred twenty-five thousand dollars, effective January 1, 2010, in addition to the compensatory arrangements described below for non-employee directors. Additionally, pursuant to the terms of Mr. Quillen's agreement with Old Alpha regarding termination of his position as Old Alpha's Chief Executive Officer, a subsidiary of Old Alpha agreed to pay or provide the following compensation and benefits to Mr. Quillen: (i) a cash payment of two million, eight hundred fifteen thousand dollars; (ii) a pro rata share of his 2009 annual incentive bonus payment, at a target performance level, for the performance period of January 1, 2009 through December 31, 2009 (up to seven hundred thousand dollars); (iii) the acceleration and vesting of the unvested portion of Mr.
Table of Contents
Quillen's outstanding restricted stock awards, other than his retention restricted stock award, (an aggregate of 92,197 shares) and performance share awards (provided, however, that the performance share awards will only be paid to the extent earned as determined at the end of the applicable performance period); (iv) pro-rata vesting in his retention restricted stock award (15,042 shares and another 15,042 shares if he continues as Chairman of the Board through December 31, 2009); (v) payment of health and life insurance benefits for up to 24 months after he terminates employment with the Company; and (vi) certain accrued and vested amounts.
     The Board also approved the compensatory arrangements with respect to the Company's non-employee directors (including Messrs. Crowley, Draper, Eisenberg, Fox, Giftos, Richards, Roberts and Wood). Directors will receive an annual cash retainer of sixty thousand dollars and an annual equity award in the form of restricted stock units with a fair market value on the grant date of ninety-two thousand, five hundred dollars (the "Annual Equity Award Amount") and, upon first joining the Company's Board, an initial equity award in the form of restricted stock units with a fair market value on the grant date of eighty thousand dollars. The restricted stock unit awards will generally vest on the six-month anniversary of a director's termination of service on the Board. The Chairmen of the various Board committees will receive the following annual retainers: Audit Committee Chairman (fifteen thousand dollars); Compensation Committee Chairman (ten thousand dollars); and each of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee Chairman and Safety, Health and Environmental Committee Chairman (seven thousand, five hundred dollars). Directors will also receive two thousand dollars for each Board and each committee meeting they attend. Additionally, effective July 31, 2009, the Company entered into indemnification agreements with each of the Company's directors and officers, which agreements will also be entered into with future officers and directors of the Company. The agreements generally provide for indemnification by the Company of officers and directors for damages and expenses in connection with threatened, pending or completed proceedings in which such person was involved by reason of the fact that such officer or director is or was an officer or director of the Company, subject to certain terms, conditions and limitations set forth therein. The non-employee directors may also enter into deferred compensation agreements with the Company under which any compensation payable in cash may be deferred in the form of share units or cash, at the director's election. Any deferred amounts held in an account of share units will receive the value of any dividends on the units held in the account as if such units were actual shares on a dividend record date. Deferred amounts held in a cash account will earn interest annually at the Moody's AAA or such other rate as determined by the Compensation Committee.
     The first awards of restricted stock units were made to the non-employee directors effective August 3, 2009. The former directors of Old Alpha, who now serve as directors of the Company, each received an award of 721 restricted stock units, which amount represents the pro rata difference between the Annual Equity Award Amount and the fair market value of the restricted stock unit awards received by each of these directors from Old Alpha on May 20, 2009 for the period between August 1, 2009 and April 30, 2010. The former directors of Foundation, who now serve as directors of the Company (other than Mr. Roberts), each received an award of 1,128 restricted stock units , which amount represents (i) the pro rata difference between the Annual Equity Award Amount and the fair market value of the restricted stock unit awards received by each of these directors from Foundation on January 1, 2009 for the period between August 1, 2009 and December 31, 2009 plus (ii) the pro rata share of such directors' Annual Equity Award Amount for the period between January 1, 2010 through April 30, 2010 (May 2010 being the month in which the Company will most likely hold its annual meeting of stockholders and make annual equity awards to non-employee directors elected at such meeting consistent with Old Alpha's historical practices)). In connection with his joining the Company's Board as a non-employee director, Mr. Roberts received an initial equity award as a non-employee director of 2,367 restricted stock units.
     In addition, the Board approved a special payment of four thousand dollars to each of the members of the Compensation Committee, which members met two times prior to the Effective Date to discuss the compensatory arrangements of New Alpha's Board and officers.
(e)
Compensatory Agreements and Arrangements
     
Payments to Mr. Roberts in Connection with his Termination
     Mr. Roberts' termination of his position as Foundation's Chief Executive Officer has been deemed a termination without cause under his employment agreement. Under the terms of this agreement, he will receive (i) accrued amounts, (ii) four hundred twenty-two thousand, six hundred twenty-five dollars, and (iii) subject to his
Table of Contents
compliance with the non-compete and confidentiality provisions of his employment agreement, the sum of two million, eight hundred ninety-eight thousand dollars. The employment agreement also provides for the Company to pay excise taxes imposed under Section 4999 of the Internal Revenue Code and other related taxes for which he is responsible as a result of receiving payments and benefits in connection with a "change in control" (as defined in the Internal Revenue Code).
     
Amendments to Mr. Kost's Employment Agreement
     In connection with the Merger, a subsidiary of the Company and Mr. Kost entered into an amended and restated employment agreement, which agreement became effective as of July 31, 2009 (the "Kost Employment Agreement"). The current term of the Kost Employment Agreement ends on December 31, 2010, and the agreement term automatically renews for successive annual terms unless terminated by Mr. Kost or the Company in advance of the end of the initial term or any renewal term.
     Pursuant to the Kost Employment Agreement, Mr. Kost is entitled to the following: (i) a minimum annual base salary of five hundred sixty-five thousand dollars, (ii) an annual bonus with a threshold pay-out opportunity of 45% of his then current base salary, a target pay-out opportunity of 90% of his then current base salary, and a maximum bonus opportunity of 180% of his then current base salary, based upon achievement of certain goals, (iii) participation in the Company's long-term incentive plans (at a target of 350% of his base salary), (iv) four weeks of paid vacation, or such greater amount of vacation as may be determined in accordance with the Company's vacation policy as in effect from time to time, (v) reimbursement of business expenses, and (vi) participation in the Company's benefit plans.
     The Kost Employment Agreement provides that, in the event of a change in control, Mr. Kost will receive a lump sum cash payment equal to his pro-rata target bonus for the year in which the change in control occurs, which is based on the portion of the year that he was employed by the Company prior to the change in control.
     If Mr. Kost retires, elects not to renew the term, voluntarily terminates (other than for good reason) or is terminated by us for employer cause, he will be entitled, subject to his execution of a release, to the following: (i) any accrued amounts owing to him, (ii) if applicable, retiree medical benefits under the Company's retiree medical benefit plan, and (iii) such other amounts as determined by the Compensation Committee or Board.
     If Mr. Kost's employment terminates due to permanent disability or death, he (or his estate) will be entitled to the following: (i) any accrued amounts owing to him, (ii) a pro-rata share of any individual bonuses or individual incentive compensation, based on target levels set for such bonuses and the portion of the year in which he was employed by us, and (iii) if applicable, retiree medical benefits under the Company's retiree medical benefit plan.
     If Mr. Kost resigns for good reason or the Company terminates his employment without employer cause (including not renewing the term), he will be entitled, subject to his execution of a release, to the following: (i) two times his base salary and target bonus; (ii) a lump sum payment of his pro-rata share of any individual annual bonuses, provided that such payment will continue to be subject to the attainment of performance goals as specified in the applicable plan; (iii) any accrued amounts owing to him; and (iv) certain medical, life and welfare benefits until the earlier to occur of: (x) his reaching the age of 65, (y) his obtaining substantially similar benefits from another employer, or (z) the expiration of the COBRA continuation period (generally 18 months);
     If Mr. Kost's employment is terminated during the 90 days prior to, or on or within one year after, a change in control by him for good reason or by the Company other than for (x) employer cause, (y) death or (z) permanent disability, he will be entitled, subject to his execution of a release, to the following: (i) a lump sum payment equal to two and one-half times his base salary and target bonus; (ii) a lump sum payment of his pro-rata share of any individual annual bonuses, based on target levels set for such bonuses and the portion of the year in which he was employed by the Company; (iii) any accrued amounts owing to him; (iv) certain medical, life and other welfare benefits until the earlier to occur of: (x) his reaching the age of 65, (y) his obtaining substantially similar benefits from another employer, or (z) the expiration of the COBRA continuation period (generally 18 months); (v) if applicable, a cash payment equal to the difference between the present value of any accrued pension benefits under the Company's pension plans and the present value of the accrued pension benefits to which he would have been entitled to under the pension plans if he had continued participation in those plans for the 24-month period after the
Table of Contents
effective date of his termination; and (vi) a cash payment of fifteen thousand dollars to cover outplacement assistance services.
     In addition, in the event Mr. Kost's employment is terminated by the Company due to death, permanent disability or without cause, by him for good reason, or involuntarily in connection with a change in control, any unvested portion of equity awards granted to him by the Company will vest in full (with certain exceptions) and, in the case of stock options, such options will remain exercisable until the earlier to occur of the expiration of the applicable option term or the two-year anniversary of his employment termination date; provided, however, that the payment of performance-based awards will continue to be subject to the attainment of performance goals.
     In the event that any payments or distributions to Mr. Kost would constitute an "excess parachute payment" within the meaning of Section 280G of the Internal Revenue Code, then the agreement obligates the Company (subject to certain exceptions) to pay him an additional tax gross-up payment such that the net amount retained by him, after deduction of any excise tax imposed under Section 4999 of the Internal Revenue Code and any taxes imposed upon the gross-up payment itself, is equal to the amount that would have been payable or distributable to him if such payments or distributions did not constitute excess parachute payments.
     The Kost Employment Agreement includes certain confidentiality, intellectual property and one-year non-competition and non-solicitation obligations.
     
Other Officer Compensatory Arrangements
     Messrs. Wood, Bryja and Pack each entered into agreements with the Company in which they terminated their employment agreements and became participants in the Company's Key Employee Separation Plan (as amended and restated, the "Separation Plan"). Mr. Wood will receive an annual base salary of four hundred thousand dollars. Each of Messrs. Bryja's, Pack's, and Wood's 2010 annual target bonus opportunities will be 75%, and their respective 2010 long-term incentive target opportunities will be 175%, 175% and 250%. Additionally, Messrs. Bryja and Pack each received a retention cash award of one hundred ninety-four thousand, sixty-five dollars and one hundred sixty-five thousand, five hundred dollars, respectively, with 50% payable on July 31, 2010 and the remaining 50% payable on July 31, 2011, subject to the terms and conditions of the related key employee retention program letters.
     
Alpha Plans and Agreements
     Pursuant to the Merger, the Company assumed Old Alpha's 2004 Long-Term Incentive Plan (as amended and restated, the "2004 LTIP"). The 2004 LTIP provides for the granting of a variety of awards, including non-qualified stock options, incentive stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock awards, dividend equivalents, performance-based awards and other stock-based awards. During 2004 and 2005, Old Alpha issued non-qualified stock options under the 2004 LTIP to certain individuals, including officers of Old Alpha who have joined the Company in connection with the Merger. These options vest over a period of five years (with accelerated vesting upon a change of control) and have a term of ten years. No additional options or awards were granted by Old Alpha under this plan and the Company does not intend to issue any additional awards under this plan.
2004 Long-Term Incentive Plan.
     Pursuant to the Merger, the Company assumed Old Alpha's 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan (as amended and restated, the "2005 LTIP"). The 2005 LTIP is designed to advance the interests of the Company and its stockholders by providing incentives to certain employees and individuals who perform services for the Company. The 2005 LTIP consists of the following components, each of which may be granted alone or in any combination thereof: (i) stock options, (ii) stock appreciation rights, (iii) restricted stock, (iv) restricted stock units, (v) performance grants and (vi) other share-based awards deemed by the Compensation Committee, in its discretion, to be consistent with the purposes of the 2005 LTIP.
2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan.
     The maximum aggregate number of common shares available for issuance under the 2005 LTIP is 8,838,841. Pursuant to the terms of the 2005 LTIP and subject to possible adjustments provided for in the plan, no eligible
Table of Contents
person may receive in any one fiscal year: (i) stock options or stock appreciation rights for more than 250,000 common shares; (ii) performance grants (denominated in common shares) for more than 250,000 common shares; and (iii) performance grants (denominated in cash) for more than five million dollars.
     Pursuant to the Merger, the Company assumed Old Alpha's outstanding stock option awards. Stock options generally vest over a five-year period, with 20% vesting on each of the first, second, third, fourth and fifth anniversaries of the grant date if the grantee remains employed by the Company. The options generally have an exercise period of ten years from the grant date. The option agreements provide that, in the event of a termination (including a termination due to retirement or a termination by the Company other than for cause), then-vested options will be exercisable by the grantee within the lesser of (i) the 90-day period following the termination date or (ii) the remaining term of the option. In the case of a termination upon retirement, if the grantee dies during such 90-day period, then the vested options will be exercisable for the lesser of (i) the one-year period after such termination date or (ii) the remaining term of the option. Upon a grantee's termination as a result of death or disability, then-vested options will remain exercisable for the lesser of (i) the one-year period following the termination date or (ii) the remaining term of the option. Additionally, the option agreement provides that any unvested options will vest immediately prior to the consummation of a change in control, unless previously cancelled and forfeited.
Stock Options.
     Pursuant to the Merger, the Company assumed Old Alpha's outstanding restricted stock awards. Officer restricted stock awards generally vest ratably over a three-year period. If a grantee's employment terminates or the grantee breaches the confidentiality obligations set forth in the agreement, the grantee will forfeit the unvested portion of the award. The unvested portion of awards vest in connection with death, disability and a Compensation Committee-approved retirement. If a grantee is terminated by the Company other than for cause, the award will cease to vest and will be treated as if such grantee had been employed by the Company for an additional three months. The agreements further provide generally that upon a change in control, the unvested portion of the awards will vest.
Restricted Stock.
     The Company also assumed Old Alpha's outstanding retention restricted stock awards. The retention restricted stock awards generally cliff vest on the third anniversary of the grant date if the grantee is employed with Company on such date. If a grantee's employment terminates (including in the connection with a retirement) or the grantee breaches the confidentiality obligations set forth in the agreement, the grantee will forfeit the unvested portion of the award. If the grantee's employment with the Company is terminated due to death, disability or by the Company other than for cause, the unvested portion of such grantee's restricted stock award will become vested based on the ratio of the number of months the grantee is employed or serves during the vesting period to the total number of months in the vesting period. If a grantee's employment is terminated by the Company without cause during the 90-day period immediately preceding a change in control or on or within the one-year period immediately following a change in control, any unvested shares will immediately accelerate and vest.
     Pursuant to the Merger, the Company assumed Old Alpha's outstanding performance share awards. Except as otherwise provided in the award agreements, grantees who terminate employment during the performance period or breach the confidentiality obligations set forth in their award agreements will forfeit any unvested awards. If a grantee's employment is terminated due to death, disability, pursuant to a Compensation Committee-approved retirement or if the grantee is terminated without cause by the Company, the grantee will be entitled to a pro-rata portion of the award, if earned, based on the ratio of the number of months the grantee is employed or serves during the vesting period to the total number of months in the vesting period. The performance share award agreements also provide that if, during the performance period, there is a change in control of the Company, the grantee will be entitled to a payout of the award at a target award level contemporaneous with the consummation of the transaction.
Performance Awards.
     Pursuant to the Merger, the Company assumed Old Alpha's Annual Incentive Bonus Plan and 2008 Annual Incentive Bonus Plan (together, the "AIB Plans"). Upon the Company's achievement of certain pre-established performance goals, each participant will be eligible to receive a cash bonus based upon a percentage of their annual base salary. Achievement of the performance goals is measured following the completion of the year and payment of any earned bonuses is made within the first quarter of the year following the measurement period. In order to be eligible to receive a cash bonus under the AIB Plans, the participant must generally be employed through the end of the year. However, in the event that a participant in the AIB Plans
Annual Incentive Bonus Plans.
Table of Contents
terminates his or her employment during a given year as a result of retirement, death or permanent disability, the Compensation Committee, upon advice of management and in consultation with the full Board, if advisable, may approve the payment of a pro-rata portion of his or her bonus.
     Pursuant to the Merger, the Company assumed Old Alpha's Deferred Compensation Plan, which permits a select group of management employees to defer receipt of income which would otherwise be payable to them. Under the plan, an eligible employee may defer all or a portion of any bonus or incentive compensation he or she would have otherwise received during the year. This compensation is 100% vested upon deferral and may be held in either a retirement account or in-service account for payout at a later date. The plan also includes a SRP account feature that provides benefits that would otherwise be denied participants by reason of certain limitations in the Internal Revenue Code. Pursuant to this feature of the plan, the Company may make an annual contribution to the SRP accounts of participants that is equal to (i) 3% of his or her total annual compensation for the prior year in excess of the compensation limits established by the Internal Revenue Service relating to tax-qualified pension or profit sharing plans, plus (ii) 50% of the bonus or incentive compensation the participant deferred in the prior year (not to exceed 2% of his or her annual compensation for the prior year in excess of the compensation limits for the year). SRP contributions made by the Company (and interest thereon) to a participant's account under the plan only become a vested benefit of the participant after completion of five years of service with the Company.
Deferred Compensation Plan.
     Pursuant to the Merger, the Company assumed Old Alpha's Separation Plan. Most of the Company's senior employees are or will be participants in the Separation Plan, including Messrs. Bryja, Pack and Wood.
Key Employee Separation Plan.
     In the event of a "change in control," participants in the Separation Plan will be entitled to receive a lump-sum cash payment equal to the pro-rata target bonus for the year in which the change in control occurs, which is based on the portion of the year that the participant was employed by the Company prior to the change in control.
     Contingent upon the participant's execution of a general release, non-disparagement and non-competition agreement, in the event a participant's employment is terminated by the Company without cause or by a participant for good reason in connection with a change in control, the participant will be entitled to receive the following: (i) his or her base salary and target bonus multiplied by the applicable benefit factor (in the case of each of Messrs. Wood, Bryja and Pack, such factor is one and one-half and, in connection with a qualifying change in control termination, this factor is two); (ii) a pro-rata share of any individual annual cash bonuses (based on target levels in the case of a qualifying change in control termination and subject to the attainment of the goals specified in the applicable plan in the case of a non-qualifying change in control termination); (iii) any accrued and vested amounts owing to such participant; (iv) certain health and welfare benefits until the earlier to occur of: (x) such participant reaching the age of 65, (y) such participant obtaining substantially similar benefits from another employer, or (z) the expiration of the COBRA continuation period; (v) a cash payment equal to the difference between the present value of any accrued pension benefits under the Company's pension plans and the present value of the accrued pension benefits to which such participant would have been entitled under the pension plans if he or she had continued participation in those plans for the applicable service period (in the case of each of Messrs. Wood, Bryja and Pack, such period is 18 months and, in connection with a qualifying change in control termination, this period is 24 months) after the employment termination date; and (vi) a cash payment of fifteen thousand dollars to cover outplacement assistance services and other expenses associated with seeking another position.
     In the event of a termination of a participant's employment under the circumstances described above, any unvested portion of equity awards granted to any participant will vest in full (with certain exceptions) and, in the case of stock options, such options will remain exercisable until the earlier to occur of the expiration of the applicable option term or the one year anniversary of the employment termination date; provided, however, that the payment of performance-based awards will continue to be subject to the attainment of performance goals.
     Under the Separation Plan, Messrs. Wood, Bryja and Pack and other participants must agree, prior to their receipt of any payments or benefits thereunder, to execute a general release, non-disparagement and non-competition agreement, which include confidentiality, intellectual property and one-year non-competition and non-solicitation obligations.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, at the Effective Time, each outstanding restricted stock unit issued by Foundation, including those restricted stock units held by Messrs. Roberts, Wood, Kost, Bryja and Pack, became fully vested and was converted into the right to receive 1.0840 shares of Company common stock. Messrs. Roberts, Wood, Kost, Bryja and Pack received 59,534, 16,686, 31,313, 20,295 and 12,588 shares of common stock, respectively.
Time-Vested Awards.
     As contemplated by the Merger Agreement, at the Effective Time, each Foundation stock option issued under any Foundation benefits plan and outstanding immediately prior to the Merger, including those held by Messrs. Roberts, Wood and Bryja, was assumed by the Company and converted into a fully vested option to purchase shares of Company common stock subject to terms and conditions set forth on a rollover nonqualified stock option agreement executed by the Company (the "Option Rollover Agreements"). The Option Rollover Agreements provide that if the grantee's employment with the Company is terminated for any reason other than cause prior to the expiration date of the option, the option remains exercisable until the first to occur of the expiration date and the fourth anniversary of the date of the termination of employment. Aside from the accelerated vesting and post-termination exercise period, each new Company stock option continues to have the same terms and conditions as were applicable immediately before the Effective Time, except that each new Company stock option is exercisable for a number of whole shares of Company common stock equal to the product of the number of shares of Foundation common stock issuable upon exercise of the Foundation stock option immediately before the Effective Time of the merger multiplied by 1.0840 (the "Exchange Ratio") and the per share exercise price of each new Company stock option is equal to the quotient determined by dividing the per share exercise price of the Foundation stock option by the Exchange Ratio. Pursuant to the foregoing, Mr. Roberts' two outstanding options were converted into an option to purchase 339,156 shares of Company common stock for $7.87 per share and an option to purchase 88,643 shares of Company common stock for $4.50 per share. Mr. Wood's two outstanding options were converted into an option to purchase 161,120 shares of Company common stock for $7.87 per share and an option to purchase 23,959 shares of Company common stock for $4.50 per share. Mr. Bryja's two outstanding options were converted into an option to purchase 101,535 shares of Company common stock for $7.87 per share and an option to purchase 19,966 shares of Company common stock for $4.50 per share.
Rollover Equity Agreements.
     Also, pursuant to the Merger Agreement, at the Effective Time, each Foundation restricted stock unit issued under any Foundation benefits plan prior to the Merger that was held by a member of the Foundation's senior management, that was subject to performance-based vesting and was outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time, including those held by Messrs. Roberts, Wood, Kost, Bryja and Pack, became fully vested and was assumed by the Company and converted into a vested restricted stock unit of the Company to be settled in 2012. The number of shares of Company common stock subject to each such vested Company restricted stock unit is equal to the product of the number of shares of Foundation common stock subject to the applicable Foundation restricted stock unit immediately before the Effective Time multiplied by the Exchange Ratio. Pursuant to the foregoing, Messrs. Roberts', Wood's, Kost's, Bryja's and Pack's outstanding restricted stock units, which were subject to performance-based vesting, were converted into restricted stock units entitling them to 61,014, 17,100, 32,094, 20,802 and 12,900 shares of Company common stock, respectively. In addition, each cash unit issued under any Foundation benefits plan prior to the Merger that was held by a member of senior management and outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time, including those held by Messrs. Roberts, Wood, Kost, Bryja and Pack, became fully vested and was assumed by the Company and converted into 26,088, 7,314, 13,722, 8,898 and 5,520 cash units of the Company, respectively, otherwise having the same terms and conditions as were applicable immediately before the Effective Time. Each such vested cash unit of the Company represents the right of its holder to receive $14.02 in cash, which is equivalent to 100% of its original value, such amount to be payable in 2012, upon the same schedule applicable to the Foundation cash unit.
     
Restricted Stock Unit Awards
     After the Closing of the Merger, the Company granted restricted stock unit awards (the "RSU Awards") to certain executive officers of the Company who were former executive officers of Old Alpha. The grantees included Mr. Crutchfield, who was granted 87,992 restricted stock units ("RSUs"), effective August 3, 2009. These awards were issued under the Company's 2005 LTIP and will vest in one-third installments on each anniversary date of the grant date over a three-year period. Generally, if a grantee's employment is terminated or the grantee breaches the confidentiality obligations set forth in such grantee's award agreement, the grantee will forfeit the unvested portion of the award. The unvested portion of the restricted stock unit awards will vest in connection with death and
Table of Contents
disability and normal retirement. In the case of a grantee's early retirement, the unvested portion of the award will vest based on the ratio of the number of complete months the grantee is employed or serves during the vesting period to the total number of months in the vesting period. If a grantee's employment is terminated by the Company other than for cause, the award will cease to vest and will be treated as if such grantee had been employed by the Company for additional three months. The agreements further provide that upon a change in control and in the case of a liquidation or dissolution of the Company, the unvested portion of the awards will vest.
     
Retention Restricted Stock Unit Award
     The Company also granted retention RSUs (the "Retention Awards") to the executive officers of the Company in connection with the Merger, including Messrs. Crutchfield, Kost and Wood, who received 27,950, 41,778 and 29,577 retention RSUs, respectively, effective August 3, 2009. The Retention Awards granted to Messrs. Kost, Wood and other officers of Foundation prior to the Merger will generally cliff vest on the three-year anniversary of the grant date if the grantee is employed with the Company on such date. The Retention Awards granted to Mr. Crutchfield and the other officers who were officers of Old Alpha prior to the Merger will vest seventy-five percent (75%) on February 25, 2012 and twenty-five percent (25%) on August 3, 2012 if the grantee is employed with the Company on each such date.
     If a grantee's employment is terminated (including in connection with retirement) or the grantee breaches the confidentiality obligations set forth in the award agreement, the grantee will forfeit the unvested portion of the award. In addition, if a grantee's employment with the Company is terminated by the Company due to death, disability or other than for cause, the unvested portion of the award will become vested based on the ratio of the number of months the grantee is employed or serves during the vesting period to the total number of months in the vesting period. If a grantee's employment is terminated by the Company without cause during the 90-day period immediately preceding a change in control or on or within the one-year period immediately following a change in control, any unvested units will immediately accelerate and vest.
Item 5.03 Amendment of Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
     By virtue of the Merger, the certificate of incorporation and bylaws of Foundation were amended and restated as described in the Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus, and as so amended and restated are the certificate of incorporation and bylaws of New Alpha. For more information regarding the certificate of incorporation and bylaws of New Alpha, see the copies of each attached hereto as Exhibits 3.1 and 3.2 respectively and the Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus, which are incorporated herein by reference.
Item 5.05 Amendments to Registrant's Code of Ethics, or Waiver of a Provision of the Code of Ethics
     In connection with the Merger, the Company's Board adopted a new Code of Business Ethics, effective July 31, 2009 (the "New Code"). The New Code and the former Foundation Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (the "Old Code") provide for substantially similar standards that are reasonably designed to deter wrongdoing and promote honest and ethical conduct, full, fair, accurate, timely and understandable disclosure in reports and documents that the Company files or otherwise submits to the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") and in other public communications, compliance with governmental laws, prompt internal reporting of violations of the New Code, and accountability for adherence to the New Code. The following discussion describes differences between the Old Code and the New Code as they relate to the items enumerated in Item 406(b) of Regulation S-K.
     The Old Code prohibited covered persons from owning more than one percent (1%) of outstanding securities/capital value of another business that does or seeks to do business with, or is in competition with, a Foundation entity (or having an interest in such entity which represents more than five percent (5%) of the total assets of the employee and/or his or her family members) unless specific written approval is obtained. The New Code recognizes that owning any interest in the business of a supplier, competitor or customer may constitute a conflict of interest, which should be brought to the attention of such person's supervisor.
     In addition, while the Old Code referenced procedures designed to ensure that Foundation's disclosures in reports and documents filed with the SEC and other public communications provided full, fair, accurate, timely and understandable disclosure, the New Code specifically identifies the adoption of a Disclosure Control Policy and a
Table of Contents
Disclosure Committee to administer it. The New Code also revised the list of specific persons from whom pre-approval must be sought before submitting press releases, advertisements and responses to general inquiries
.
     The New Code also now requires that selected employees, officers, managers and directors complete an annual questionnaire designed to elicit information and to provide further guidance as to compliance with many of the policies referred to in the New Code. After review of these questionnaires, a report will be made to the Company's Chief Executive Officer and the Audit Committee of the Company's Board.
     This description of the New Code does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the New Code, which is attached as Exhibit 14.1 to this report and is incorporated herein by reference.
     A copy of the New Code is available on the Company's corporate website at .
www.alphanr.com
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)
Exhibits
     Pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Company has filed certain agreements as exhibits to this Current Report on Form 8-K. These agreements may contain representations and warranties by the parties. These representations and warranties have been made solely for the benefit of the other party or parties to such agreements and (i) may been qualified by disclosure made to such other party or parties, (ii) were made only as of the date of such agreements or such other date(s) as may be specified in such agreements and are subject to more recent developments, which may not be fully reflected in such Company's public disclosure, (iii) may reflect the allocation of risk among the parties to such agreements and (iv) may apply materiality standards different from what may be viewed as material to investors. Accordingly, these representations and warranties may not describe the Company's actual state of affairs at the date hereof and should not be relied upon.
Table of Contents
 
Table of Contents
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents
 

Exhibit 3.1
The name of this corporation (the "Corporation") is:
Alpha Natural Resources, Inc.
The address of the registered office of the Corporation in the State of Delaware is Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, County of New Castle, Delaware 19801 and the name of its registered agent at that address is The Corporation Trust Company.
The purpose of the Corporation is to engage in any lawful act or activity for which corporations may be organized under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the "Delaware Code").
A. The total number of shares of all classes of stock that the Corporation shall have the authority to issue is 210,000,000, which shall be divided into two classes as follows:
     1. 200,000,000 shares of Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share ("Common Stock"); and
2. 10,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share (the "Preferred Stock"). The Board of Directors is hereby expressly authorized, by resolution or resolutions, to provide, out of the unissued shares of Preferred Stock, for series of Preferred Stock and, with respect to each such series, to fix the number of shares constituting such series and the designation of such series, the voting powers (if any) of the shares of such series, and the preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights, if any, and any qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, of the shares of such series, as are not inconsistent with this Certificate of Incorporation or any amendment hereto, and as may be permitted by the Delaware Code.
B. Each holder of record of Common Stock shall have one vote for each share of Common Stock which is outstanding in his, her or its name on the books of the Corporation and which is
 
entitled to vote. In the election of directors, each stockholder shall be entitled to cast for any one candidate no greater number of votes than the number of shares held by such stockholder; no stockholder shall be entitled to cumulate votes on behalf of any candidate. Except as otherwise required by law, holders of record of Common Stock shall not be entitled to vote on any amendment to this Certificate of Incorporation (including any certificate of designations relating to any series of Preferred Stock) that relates solely to the terms of one or more outstanding series of Preferred Stock if the holders of such affected series are entitled, either separately or together with the holders of one or more other such series, to vote thereon pursuant to this Certificate of Incorporation (including any certificate of designations relating to any series of Preferred Stock) or pursuant to the Delaware Code.
C. Except as otherwise required by law, holders of any series of Preferred Stock, shall be entitled only to such voting rights, if any, as shall expressly be granted thereto by this Certificate of Incorporation (including any certificate of designations relating to such series).
D. Subject to applicable law and rights, if any, of the holders of any outstanding series of Preferred Stock or any class or series of stock having preference over the right to participate with the Common Stock with respect to the payment of dividends, dividends may be declared and paid on the Common Stock at such times and in such amounts as the Board of Directors in its discretion shall determine.
E. Upon the dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the Corporation, subject to the rights, if any, of the holders of any outstanding series of Preferred Stock or any class or series of stock having a preference over the right to participate with the Common Stock with respect to the distribution of assets of the Corporation upon such dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the Corporation, the holders of Common Stock, shall be entitled to receive the assets of the Corporation available for distribution to its stockholders ratably in proportion to the number of shares held by them.
F. Holders of the Common Stock shall not have preemptive rights.
A. Notwithstanding anything contained in this Certificate of Incorporation to the contrary, the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 75% in voting power of all shares of the Corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, voting together as a single class, shall be required to alter, amend or repeal Article V, Article VI or Article VIII or to adopt any provision inconsistent therewith.
B. In furtherance and not in limitation of the powers conferred by statute, the Board of Directors is expressly authorized to make, repeal, alter, amend and rescind the bylaws of the Corporation. Notwithstanding anything contained in this Certificate of Incorporation to the contrary, the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 75% in voting power of all shares of the Corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, voting together as a single class, shall be required in order for the stockholders to alter, amend or repeal any provisions of
 
the bylaws which is to the same effect as Article V, Article VI and Article VIII of this Certificate of Incorporation or to adopt any provision inconsistent therewith.
A. The business and affairs of the Corporation shall be managed under the direction of a Board of Directors consisting of not less than three directors, the exact number of directors to be determined from time to time by resolution adopted by affirmative vote of a majority of the Board of Directors.
B. Any or all of the directors (other than the directors elected by the holders of any class or classes of Preferred Stock of the Corporation, voting separately as a class or classes, as the case may be) may be removed at any time either with or without cause by the affirmative vote of at least 75% in voting power of all shares of the Corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, voting as a single class.
C. Elections of directors need not be by written ballot unless the bylaws of the Corporation shall so provide.
A. The Corporation shall indemnify its directors, officers, employees and agents, or persons serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, where such person is made party or threatened to be made a party to any threatened, pending or completed action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal or administrative, by reason of the fact that the person is or was a director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation or serving such capacity in another corporation at the request of the Corporation, in each case to the fullest extent permitted by Section 145 of the Delaware Code as the same exists or may hereafter be amended.
B. To the fullest extent permitted by the Delaware Code as the same exists or may hereafter be amended, a director of the Corporation shall not be personally liable to the Corporation or its stockholders for monetary damages for breach of fiduciary duty as a director, except for any liability imposed by law (as in effect from time to time) (i) for any breach of the director's duty of loyalty to the Corporation or its stockholders, (ii) for any act or omission not in good faith or which involved intentional misconduct or a knowing violation of law, (iii) under Section 174 of the Delaware Code or (iv) for any transaction from which the director derived an improper personal benefit.
C. If the Delaware Code is amended after the date of the filing of this Certificate of Incorporation to authorize corporate action further eliminating or limiting the personal liability of directors or permitting indemnification to a fuller extent, then the liability of a director of the Corporation shall be eliminated or limited, and indemnification shall be extended, in each case to the fullest extent permitted by the Delaware Code, as so amended from time to time. No repeal or modification of this Article VII by the stockholders shall adversely affect any right or protection of a director of the Corporation existing by virtue of this Article VII at the time of such repeal or modification.
 
A. Any action required or permitted to be taken by the holders of the Common Stock of the Corporation must be effected at a duly called annual or special meeting of such holders and may not be effected by any consent in writing by such holders.
B. Except as otherwise required by law and subject to the holders of any series of Preferred Stock, special meetings of the stockholders of the Corporation for any purpose or purposes may be called at any time by the Board of Directors or a committee of the Board of Directors which has been duly designated by the Board of Directors and whose powers and authority, as provided in a resolution of the Board of Directors or in the bylaws of the Corporation, include the power to call such meetings, but such special meetings may not be called by any other person or persons.
The Corporation hereby expressly elects not to be governed by Section 203 of the Delaware Code.

Exhibit 3.2
          SECTION 1.01 . The Corporation shall maintain its registered office in the State of Delaware at The Corporation Trust Company, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, Delaware 19801. The Corporation may also have offices in such other places in the United States or elsewhere as the Board of Directors may, from time to time, appoint or as the business of the Corporation may require.
Registered Office
          SECTION 2.01 . (A) Annual meetings of stockholders may be held at such place, either within or without the State of Delaware, and at such time and date as the Board of Directors shall determine. The Board of Directors may, in its sole discretion, determine that the meeting shall not be held at any place, but may instead be held solely by means of remote communication as described in Section 2.02 of these Bylaws in accordance with Section 211(a)(2) of the Delaware General Corporation Law.
Annual Meetings
          (B) Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors and the proposal of other business to be considered by the stockholders may be made at an annual meeting of stockholders (1) pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting delivered pursuant to Section 2.03 of these Bylaws, (2) by or at the direction of the Chairman of the Board or (3) by any stockholder of the Corporation who is entitled to vote at the meeting, who complied with the notice procedures set forth in paragraphs (B), (C) and (D) of this Section 2.01 and who was a stockholder of record at the time such notice is delivered to the Secretary of the Corporation.
          (C) For nominations or other business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a stockholder pursuant to clause (3) of paragraph (B) of this Section 2.01, the stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in writing to the Secretary of the Corporation at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not less than ninety (90) days nor more than one hundred and twenty (120) days prior to the first anniversary of the date on which the
 
Corporation first mailed its proxy materials for the preceding year's annual meeting; provided, however, that in the event that the date of the annual meeting is changed by more than thirty (30) days from the anniversary date of the previous year's meeting, notice by the stockholder to be timely must be so delivered not earlier than one hundred and twenty (120) days prior to such annual meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the ninetieth (90th) day prior to such annual meeting or the tenth (10th) day following the day on which public announcement of the date of such meeting is first made. Public announcement of an adjournment of an annual meeting shall not commence a new time period for the giving of a stockholder's notice. Notwithstanding anything in this Section 2.01(C) to the contrary, if the number of directors to be elected to the Board of Directors of the Corporation at an annual meeting is increased and there is no public announcement by the Corporation naming all of the nominees for director or specifying the size of the increased board of directors at least one hundred (100) calendar days prior to the anniversary of the mailing of proxy materials for the prior year's annual meeting of stockholders, then a stockholder's notice required by this Section shall be considered timely, but only with respect to nominees for any new positions created by such increase, if it is received by the Secretary of the Corporation not later than the close of business on the tenth (10th) calendar day following the day on which such public announcement is first made by the Corporation.
          (D) Such stockholder's notice also shall set forth (1) as to each person whom the stockholder proposes to nominate for election or re-election as a director all information relating to such person that is required to be disclosed in solicitations of proxies for election of directors, or is otherwise required, in each case pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), including such person's written consent to being named in the proxy statement as a nominee and to serving as a director if elected; (2) as to any other business that the stockholder proposes to bring before the meeting, a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the meeting, the text of any resolution proposed to be adopted at the meeting, the reasons for conducting such business at the meeting and any material interest in such business of such stockholder and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the proposal is made; and (3) as to the stockholder giving the notice and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination or proposal is made (a) the name and address of such stockholder, as they appear on the Corporation's books, and of such beneficial owner and (b) the class and number of shares of the Corporation which are owned beneficially and of record by such stockholder and such beneficial owner.
          (E) (1) Only such persons who are nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 2.01 shall be eligible for election to serve as directors and only such business shall be conducted at a meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section. Except as otherwise provided by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, the chairman of the meeting shall have the power and duty to determine whether a nomination or any business proposed to be brought before the meeting was made or proposed, as the case may be, in accordance with the procedures set forth in these Bylaws and, if any proposed nomination or business is not in compliance with these Bylaws, to declare that such defective proposal or nomination shall be disregarded. The chairman of the meeting of stockholders shall, if the facts warrant, determine and declare to the meeting that any nomination or business was not properly brought before the meeting and in accordance with the provisions of these Bylaws, and if he or
 
she should so determine, the chairman shall so declare to the meeting, and any such nomination or business not properly brought before the meeting shall not be transacted.
          (2) Whenever used in these Bylaws, "public announcement" shall mean disclosure (a) in a press release released by the Corporation, provided such press release is released by the Corporation following its customary procedures, is reported by the Dow Jones News Service, Associated Press or comparable national news service, or is generally available on internet news sites, or (b) in a document publicly filed by the Corporation with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Section 13, 14 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act.
          (3) Nothing in these Bylaws shall be deemed to affect any rights (a) of stockholders to request inclusion of proposals in the Corporation's proxy statement pursuant to Rule 14a-8 under the Exchange Act, or (b) of the holders of any class or series of stock having a preference over the Common Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation to elect directors under specified circumstances.
          SECTION 2.02 . Special meetings of stockholders, unless otherwise prescribed by statute, may be called at any time by resolution of the Board of Directors or a committee of the Board of Directors which has been duly designated by the Board of Directors and whose powers and authority, as provided in a resolution of the Board of Directors or in these Bylaws, include the power to call such meetings, and no special meeting of stockholders shall be called by any other person or persons. Notice of each special meeting shall be given in accordance with Section 2.03 of these Bylaws. Unless otherwise permitted by law, business transacted at any special meeting of stockholders shall be limited to the purpose stated in the notice.
Special Meetings
          If authorized by the Board of Directors in its sole discretion, and subject to such guidelines and procedures as the Board of Directors may adopt, stockholders and proxy holders not physically present at a meeting of stockholders may, by means of remote communication:
     (a) participate in a meeting of stockholders; and
     (b) be deemed present in person and vote at a meeting of stockholders whether such meeting is to be held at a designated place or solely by means of remote communication, provided, that
     (i) the Corporation shall implement reasonable measures to verify that each person deemed present and permitted to vote at the meeting by means of remote communication is a stockholder or proxyholder;
     (ii) the Corporation shall implement reasonable measures to provide such stockholders and proxyholders a reasonable opportunity to participate in the meeting and to vote on matters submitted to the stockholders, including an opportunity to read or hear the proceedings of the meeting substantially concurrently with such proceedings; and
 
     (iii) if any stockholder or proxyholder votes or takes other action at the meeting by means of remote communication, a record of such vote or other action shall be maintained by the Corporation.
          SECTION 2.03 . Whenever stockholders are required or permitted to take any action at a meeting, a written notice or electronic transmission, in the manner provided in Section 232 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, of notice of the meeting, which shall state the place, if any, date and time of the meeting, and the means of remote communications, if any, by which stockholders and proxyholders may be deemed to be present in person and vote at such meeting, and, in the case of a special meeting, the purposes for which the meeting is called, shall be mailed to or transmitted electronically to each stockholder of record entitled to vote thereat. Except as otherwise required by law, such notice shall be given not less than 10 days nor more than 60 days before the date of any such meeting.
Notice of Meetings
          SECTION 2.04 . Unless otherwise required by law or the Certificate of Incorporation, the holders of a majority of the issued and outstanding stock entitled to vote thereat, present in person or represented by proxy, shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business at all meetings of stockholders. When a quorum is once present to organize a meeting, the quorum is not broken by the subsequent withdrawal of any stockholders.
Quorum
          SECTION 2.05 . Unless otherwise provided in the Certificate of Incorporation, each stockholder shall be entitled to one vote for each share of capital stock held by such stockholder. Upon the request of not less than 10% in interest of the stockholders entitled to vote at a meeting, voting shall be by written ballot. If a written ballot is so requested by the stockholders, the requirement of a written ballot may be satisfied by a written ballot submitted at the stockholders' meeting or by a ballot submitted by electronic transmission, provided that the Board of Directors approve the use of such electronic transmission and provided further that any such electronic transmission must either set forth or be submitted with information from which it can be determined that the electronic transmission was authorized by the appropriate stockholder or proxyholder.
Voting
          All elections of directors shall be determined by a plurality of the votes of the shares present in person or represented by proxy at the meeting and entitled to vote on the election of directors. Except as otherwise required by law, in all other matters the affirmative vote of the majority of shares present in person or represented by proxy at the meeting and entitled to vote on the subject matter shall be the act of the stockholders.
          SECTION 2.06 . The Chairman of the Board of Directors, if one is elected, or, in his absence or disability, the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation, or, in his absence or disability, the President of the Corporation, shall preside at all meetings of the stockholders.
Chairman of Meetings
          SECTION 2.07 . The Secretary of the Corporation shall act as Secretary at all meetings of the stockholders. In the absence or disability of the Secretary, the Chairman of the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer shall appoint a person to act as Secretary at such meetings.
Secretary of Meeting
 
          SECTION 2.08 . Any action required or permitted to be taken by the holders of the Common Stock must be effected at a duly called annual or special meeting of such holders and may not be effected by any consent in writing by such holders.
Consent of Stockholders in Lieu of Meeting
          SECTION 2.09 . At any meeting of stockholders of the Corporation, if less than a quorum be present, a majority of the stockholders entitled to vote thereat, present in person or by proxy, shall have the power to adjourn the meeting from time to time without notice other than announcement at the meeting until a quorum shall be present. Any business may be transacted at the adjourned meeting that might have been transacted at the meeting originally noticed. If the adjournment is for more than 30 days, or if after the adjournment a new record date is fixed for the adjourned meeting, a notice of the adjourned meeting shall be given to each stockholder of record entitled to vote at the meeting.
Adjournment
          SECTION 3.01 . The business and affairs of the Corporation shall be managed by or under the direction of its Board of Directors. The Board of Directors shall exercise all of the powers and duties conferred by law except as provided by the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws.
Powers
          SECTION 3.02 . The number of directors shall be fixed by resolution of the Board of Directors and shall initially be ten (10). The Board of Directors shall be elected by the stockholders at their annual meeting, and each director shall be elected to serve for the term of one year and until his successor shall be elected and qualified or until his earlier resignation or removal. Directors need not be stockholders.
Number and Term
          SECTION 3.03 . Any director may resign at any time upon notice given in writing or by electronic transmission. The resignation shall take effect at the time specified therein, and if no time is specified, at the time of its receipt by the Chief Executive Officer or Secretary. The acceptance of a resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective.
Resignations
          SECTION 3.04 . Except as otherwise provided in the Certificate of Incorporation, any director or the entire Board of Directors may be removed either with or without cause at any time by the affirmative vote of at least seventy-five percent (75%) in voting power of the shares of the Corporation then entitled to vote for the election of directors, voting as a single class, at any annual or special meeting of the stockholders called for that purpose.
Removal
          SECTION 3.05 . Except as provided in Section 3.04 of these Bylaws, as amended from time to time, among the Corporation and certain of the Corporation's stockholders, vacancies occurring in any directorship and newly created directorships may be filled by a majority vote of the remaining directors then in office. Any director so chosen shall hold office for the unexpired term of his predecessor and until his successor shall be elected and qualify or until his earlier death, resignation or removal.
Vacancies and Newly Created Directorships
 
          SECTION 3.06 . The newly elected directors shall hold their first meeting to organize the Corporation, elect officers and transact any other business that may properly come before the meeting. An annual organizational meeting of the Board of Directors shall be held immediately after each annual meeting of the stockholders, or at such time and place as may be noticed for the meeting.
Meetings
          Regular meetings of the Board of Directors may be held without notice at such places and times as shall be determined from time to time by written or electronic transmission of consent of a resolution of the directors.
          Special meetings of the Board of Directors shall be called by the Chief Executive Officer or by the Secretary on the written or electronic transmission of such request of any director with at least two days' notice to each director and shall be held at such place as may be determined by the directors or as shall be stated in the notice of the meeting.
          SECTION 3.07 . A majority of the total number of directors or any committee thereof shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. The vote of a majority of the directors present at a meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of the Board of Directors. In the absence of a quorum, a majority of the directors present thereat may adjourn such meeting to another time and place. Notice of such adjourned meeting need not be given if the time and place of such adjourned meeting are announced at the meeting so adjourned.
Quorum, Voting and Adjournment
          SECTION 3.08 . The Board of Directors may, by resolution passed by a majority of the whole Board of Directors, designate one or more committees, including but not limited to an audit committee, a compensation committee, and a nominating and governance committee, each such committee to consist of one or more of the directors of the Corporation. The Board of Directors may designate one or more directors as alternate members of any committee to replace any absent or disqualified member at any meeting of the committee. In the absence or disqualification of a member of a committee, the member or members present at any meeting and not disqualified from voting, whether or not he or they constitute a quorum, may unanimously appoint another member of the Board of Directors to act at the meeting in the place of any such absent or disqualified member. Any such committee, to the extent provided in the resolution of the Board of Directors establishing such committee, shall have and may exercise all the powers and authority of the Board of Directors in the management of the business and affairs of the Corporation, and may authorize the seal of the Corporation to be affixed to all papers which may require it; but no such committee shall have the power or authority in reference to the following matters: (a) approving or adopting, or recommending to the stockholders, any action or matter expressly required by law to be submitted to stockholders for approval or (b) adopting, amending or repealing any bylaw of the Corporation. All committees of the Board of Directors shall keep minutes of their meetings and shall report their proceedings to the Board of Directors when requested or required by the Board of Directors.
Committees
          SECTION 3.09 . Unless otherwise restricted by the Certificate of Incorporation, any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board of Directors or of any committee thereof may be taken without a meeting if all members of the Board of Directors or any committee thereof, as the case may be, consent thereto in
Action Without a Meeting
 
writing or by electronic transmission, and the writing or writings or electronic transmission or transmissions are filed in the minutes of proceedings of the Board of Directors. Such filing shall be in paper form if the minutes are maintained in paper form or shall be in electronic form if the minutes are maintained in electronic form.
          SECTION 3.10 . The Board of Directors shall have the authority to fix the compensation of directors for their services. A director may also serve the Corporation in other capacities and receive compensation therefor.
Compensation
          SECTION 3.11 . Unless otherwise restricted by the Certificate of Incorporation, members of the Board of Directors, or any committee designated by the Board of Directors, may participate in a meeting by means of conference telephone or other communications equipment in which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other. Participation in a meeting by means of conference telephone or other communications equipment shall constitute the presence in person at such meeting.
Remote Meeting
SECTION 4.01 . The officers of the Corporation shall include a Chief Executive Officer and a Secretary, both of whom shall be elected by the Board of Directors and who shall hold office for a term of one year and until their successors are elected and qualify or until their earlier resignation or removal. In addition, the Board of Directors may elect a Chairman of the Board of Directors, a President, one or more Vice Presidents, including an Executive Vice President, a Treasurer and one or more Assistant Treasurers and one or more Assistant Secretaries, who shall hold their office for such terms and shall exercise such powers and perform such duties as shall be determined from time to time by the Board of Directors. The initial officers shall be elected at the first meeting of the Board of Directors and, thereafter, at the annual organizational meeting of the Board of Directors. Any number of offices may be held by the same person.
Number
          SECTION 4.02 . The Board of Directors may appoint such other officers and agents as it deems advisable, who shall hold their office for such terms and shall exercise and perform such powers and duties as shall be determined from time to time by the Board of Directors.
Other Officers and Agents
          SECTION 4.03 . The Chairman of the Board of Directors shall be a member of the Board of Directors and shall preside at all meetings of the Board of Directors and of the stockholders. In addition, the Chairman of the Board of Directors shall have such powers and perform such other duties as from time to time may be assigned to him by the Board of Directors.
Chairman
          SECTION 4.04 .
Chief Executive Officer; President
          (a) The Chief Executive Officer shall exercise such duties as customarily pertain to the office of Chief Executive Officer, and shall have general and active management of the property, business and affairs of the Corporation, subject to the supervision and control of the
 
Board of Directors. He shall perform such other duties as prescribed from time to time by the Board of Directors or these Bylaws.
          In the absence, disability or refusal of the Chairman of the Board of Directors to act, or the vacancy of such office, the Chief Executive Officer shall preside at all meetings of the stockholders and of the Board of Directors. Except as the Board of Directors shall otherwise authorize, the Chief Executive Officer shall execute bonds, mortgages and other contracts on behalf of the Corporation, and shall cause the seal to be affixed to any instrument requiring it and, when so affixed, the seal shall be attested by the signature of the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary or the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer.
          (b) The President, if one is elected, shall have such powers and shall perform such duties as shall be assigned to him by the Chief Executive Officer or the Board of Directors.
          In the absence, disability or refusal of the Chief Executive Officer to act, or the vacancy of such office, the President shall be vested with all the powers and shall perform all the duties of the Chief Executive Officer, unless or until the Board of Directors shall otherwise determine.
          SECTION 4.05 . Each Vice President, if any are elected, of whom one or more may be designated an Executive Vice President, shall have such powers and shall perform such duties as shall be assigned to him by the Chief Executive Officer or the Board of Directors.
Vice Presidents
          SECTION 4.06 . The Treasurer shall have custody of the corporate funds, securities, evidences of indebtedness and other valuables of the Corporation and shall keep full and accurate accounts of receipts and disbursements in books belonging to the Corporation. He shall deposit all moneys and other valuables in the name and to the credit of the Corporation in such depositories as may be designated by the Board of Directors. The Treasurer shall disburse the funds of the Corporation, taking proper vouchers therefor. He shall render to the Chief Executive Officer and Board of Directors, upon their request, a report of the financial condition of the Corporation. If required by the Board of Directors, he shall give the Corporation a bond for the faithful discharge of his duties in such amount and with such surety as the Board of Directors shall prescribe.
Treasurer
          The Treasurer shall have such further powers and perform such other duties incident to the office of Treasurer as from time to time are assigned to him by the Board of Directors.
          SECTION 4.07 . The Secretary shall be the Chief Administrative Officer of the Corporation and shall: (a) cause minutes of all meetings of the stockholders and directors to be recorded and kept; (b) cause all notices required by these Bylaws or otherwise to be given properly; (c) see that the minute books, stock books, and other nonfinancial books, records and papers of the Corporation are kept properly; and (d) cause all reports, statements, returns, certificates and other documents to be prepared and filed when and as required. The Secretary shall have such further powers and perform such other duties as prescribed from time to time by the Board of Directors.
Secretary
 
          SECTION 4.08 . Each Assistant Treasurer and each Assistant Secretary, if any are elected, shall be vested with all the powers and shall perform all the duties of the Treasurer and Secretary , respectively, in the absence or disability of such officer, unless or until the Board of Directors shall otherwise determine. In addition, Assistant Treasurers and Assistant Secretaries shall have such powers and shall perform such duties as shall be assigned to them by the Board of Directors.
Assistant Treasurers and Assistant Secretaries
          SECTION 4.09 . The funds of the Corporation shall be kept in such depositories as shall from time to time be prescribed by the Board of Directors. All checks or other orders for the payment of money shall be signed by the Chief Executive Officer, the President or the Treasurer or such other person or agent as may from time to time be authorized and with such countersignature, if any, as may be required by the Board of Directors.
Corporate Funds and Checks
          SECTION 4.10 . The Chief Executive Officer, the President or the Treasurer, or such other officer or officers as may from time to time be authorized by the Board of Directors or any other committee given specific authority in the premises by the Board of Directors during the intervals between the meetings of the Board of Directors, shall have power to sign and execute on behalf of the Corporation deeds, conveyances and contracts, and any and all other documents requiring execution by the Corporation.
Contracts and Other Documents
          SECTION 4.11 . The compensation of the officers of the Corporation shall be fixed from time to time by the Board of Directors (subject to any employment agreements that may then be in effect between the Corporation and the relevant officer). None of such officers shall be prevented from receiving such compensation by reason of the fact that he is also a director of the Corporation. Nothing contained herein shall preclude any officer from serving the Corporation, or any subsidiary, in any other capacity and receiving such compensation by reason of the fact that he is also a director of the Corporation.
Compensation
          SECTION 4.12 . Unless otherwise directed by the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer, the President or the Treasurer, or such other officer or agent as shall be authorized by the Board of Directors, shall have the power and authority, on behalf of the Corporation, to attend and to vote at any meeting of stockholders of any corporation in which the Corporation holds stock and may exercise, on behalf of the Corporation, any and all of the rights and powers incident to the ownership of such stock at any such meeting, including the authority to execute and deliver proxies and consents on behalf of the Corporation.
Ownership of Stock of Another Corporation
          SECTION 4.13. . In the absence, disability or refusal of any officer to exercise and perform his duties, the Board of Directors may delegate to another officer such powers or duties.
Delegation of Duties
          SECTION 4.14. . Any officer of the Corporation may be removed from office for or without cause at any time by the Board of Directors. Any officer may resign at any time in the same manner prescribed under Section 3.03 of these Bylaws.
Resignation and Removal
 
          SECTION 4.15. . The Board of Directors shall have power to fill vacancies occurring in any office.
Vacancies
          SECTION 5.01 . Shares of the capital stock of the Corporation may be certificated or uncertificated, as provided under the Delaware General Corporation Law. Upon written request to the Corporation, transfer agent or registrar of the Corporation, any holder of stock in the Corporation is entitled to have a certificate in such form as may from time to time be prescribed by the Board of Directors signed by, or in the name of the Corporation by, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer, the President or a Vice President and by the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer or the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary, certifying the number and class of shares of stock in the Corporation owned by him. Any or all of the signatures on the certificate may be a facsimile. The Board of Directors shall have the power to appoint one or more transfer agents and/or registrars for the transfer or registration of stock of any class, and may require any stock certificates to be countersigned or registered by one or more of such transfer agents and/or registrars.
Certificates of Stock
          SECTION 5.02 . Upon surrender to the Corporation or the transfer agent of the Corporation of a certificate for shares duly endorsed or accompanied by proper evidence of succession, assignation or authority to transfer, it shall be the duty of the Corporation to issue a new certificate or evidence of the issuance of uncertificated shares to the stockholder entitled thereto, cancel the old certificate and record the transaction upon the Corporation's books. Upon the receipt of proper transfer instructions from the registered owner of uncertificated shares, such uncertificated shares shall be cancelled, the issuance of new equivalent uncertificated shares or certificated shares shall be made to the stockholder entitled thereto and the transaction shall be recorded upon the books of the Corporation. Whenever any transfer of shares shall be made for collateral security, and not absolutely, it shall be so expressed in the entry of the transfer if, when the certificates are presented or transfer instructions are given with respect to uncertificated shares, both the transferor and transferee request the Corporation to do so. The Board of Directors shall have power and authority to make such rules and regulations as it may deem necessary or proper concerning the issue, transfer and registration of shares of stock of the Corporation.
Transfer of Shares
          SECTION 5.03 . A new certificate of stock may be issued in the place of any certificate previously issued by the Corporation alleged to have been lost, stolen or destroyed, and the Board of Directors may, in their discretion, require the owner of such lost, stolen or destroyed certificate, or his legal representative, to give the Corporation a bond, in such sum as the Board of Directors may direct, in order to indemnify the Corporation against any claims that may be made against it in connection therewith. A new certificate of stock may be issued in the place of any certificate previously issued by the Corporation that has become mutilated without the posting by the owner of any bond upon the surrender by such owner of such mutilated certificate.
Lost, Stolen, Destroyed or Mutilated Certificates
 
          SECTION 5.04 . The stock ledger shall be the only evidence as to who are the stockholders entitled to examine the stock ledger, the list required by Delaware General Corporation Law  219 or the books of the Corporation, or to vote in person or by proxy at any meeting of stockholders.
List of Stockholders Entitled To Vote
          SECTION 5.05 . Subject to the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation, the Board of Directors may at any regular or special meeting, declare dividends upon the stock of the Corporation either (a) out of its surplus, as defined in and computed in accordance with Delaware General Corporation Law  154 and  244 or (b) in case there shall be no such surplus, out of its net profits for the fiscal year in which the dividend is declared and/or the preceding fiscal year. Before the declaration of any dividend, the Board of Directors may set apart, out of any funds of the Corporation available for dividends, such sum or sums as from time to time in their discretion may be deemed proper for working capital or as a reserve fund to meet contingencies or for such other purposes as shall be deemed conducive to the interests of the Corporation.
Dividends
          SECTION 5.06 . To determine the stockholders of record, the board of directors may fix a record date, provided that the record date shall not precede the date upon which the board adopts the resolution fixing the record date and provided further that the record date shall be: (a) in the case of determination of stockholders entitled to receive notice of or to vote at any meeting of stockholders or adjournment thereof, not more than sixty nor less than ten (10) days before the date of such meeting; provided that if no record date is fixed by the board of directors, the record date for determining stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall be at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which notice is given, or, if notice is waived, at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which the meeting is held; (b) in the case of determination of stockholders entitled to express consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting, in accordance with Section 2.08; and (c) in the case of any other action, not more than sixty (60) days prior to such other action. A determination of stockholders of record entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall apply to any adjournment of the meeting; provided, however, that the board may choose to fix a new record date for the adjourned meeting.
Fixing Date for Determination of Stockholders of Record
          SECTION 5.07 . Prior to the surrender to the Corporation of the certificate or certificates for a share or shares of stock with a request to record the transfer of such share or shares or the giving of transfer instructions with respect to uncertificated shares, the Corporation may treat the registered owner as the person entitled to receive dividends, to vote, to receive notifications, and otherwise to exercise all the rights and powers of an owner. The Corporation shall not be bound to recognize any equitable or other claim to or interest in such share or shares on the part of any other person, whether or not it shall have express or other notice thereof.
Registered Stockholders
 
          SECTION 6.01 . If mailed, notice to stockholders shall be deemed given when deposited in the mail, postage prepaid, directed to the stockholder at such stockholder's address as it appears on the records of the Corporation. Without limiting the manner by which notice otherwise may be given effectively to stockholders, any notice to stockholders may be given by electronic transmission in the manner provided in Section 232 of the Delaware General Corporation Law.
Notice
          SECTION 6.02 . A written waiver of any notice, signed by a stockholder or director, or waiver by electronic transmission by such person, whether given before or after the time of the event for which notice is to be given, shall be deemed equivalent to the notice required to be given to such person. Neither the business nor the purpose of any meeting need by specified in such a waiver. Attendance at any meeting shall constitute waiver of notice except attendance for the sole purpose of objecting to the timeliness of notice.
Waiver of Notice
          SECTION 7.01 . Each person who was or is made a party or is threatened to be made a party to or is otherwise involved in any action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative (hereinafter a "proceeding"), by reason of the fact that he is or was a director or an officer of the Corporation or is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, or trustee of another corporation or of a partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, including service with respect to an employee benefit plan (hereinafter an "indemnitee"), whether the basis of such proceeding is alleged action in an official capacity as a director, officer or trustee, or in any other capacity while serving as a director, officer or trustee, shall be indemnified and held harmless by the Corporation to the fullest extent authorized by the Delaware General Corporation Law, as the same exists or may hereafter be amended (but, in the case of any such amendment, only to the extent that such amendment permits the Corporation to provide prior to such amendment), against all expense, liability and loss (including attorneys' fees, judgments, fines, ERISA excise taxes or penalties and amounts paid in settlement) reasonably incurred or suffered by such indemnitee in connection therewith, if such person acted in good faith and in a manner such person reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Corporation, and, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, had no reasonable cause to believe his or her conduct was unlawful; provided, however, that, (i) except as provided in Section 7.03 of these Bylaws with respect to proceedings to enforce rights to indemnification, the Corporation shall indemnify any such indemnitee in connection with a proceeding (or part thereof) initiated by such indemnitee only if such proceeding (or part thereof) was authorized by the Board of Directors and (ii) the Corporation shall not be obligated to indemnify against any amount paid in settlement unless the Corporation has consented to such settlement.
Right to Indemnification
          SECTION 7.02 . In addition to the right to indemnification conferred in Section 7.01 of these Bylaws, an indemnitee shall also have the right to be paid by the Corporation the expenses (including attorney's fees) incurred in defending any such proceeding in advance of its final disposition (hereinafter an "advancement of expenses"); provided, however, that, if the Delaware General Corporation Law requires, an
Right to Advancement of Expenses
 
advancement of expenses incurred by an indemnitee in his or her capacity as a director or officer (and not in any other capacity in which service was or is rendered by such indemnitee, including, without limitation, service to an employee benefit plan) shall be made only upon delivery to the Corporation of an undertaking (hereinafter an "undertaking"), by or on behalf of such indemnitee, to repay all amounts so advanced if it shall ultimately be determined by final judicial decision from which there is no further right to appeal (hereinafter a "final adjudication") that such indemnitee is not entitled to be indemnified for such expenses under this Section 7.02 or otherwise.
          SECTION 7.03 . If a claim under Section 7.01 or 7.02 of these Bylaws is not paid in full by the Corporation within sixty (60) days after a written claim has been received by the Corporation, except in the case of a claim for an advancement of expenses, in which case the applicable period shall be 20 days, the indemnitee may at any time thereafter bring suit against the Corporation to recover the unpaid amount of the claim. If successful in whole or in part in any such suit, or in a suit brought by the Corporation to recover an advancement of expenses pursuant to the terms of an undertaking, the indemnitee shall be entitled to be paid also the expense of prosecuting or defending such suit. In (a) any suit brought by the indemnitee to enforce a right to indemnification hereunder (but not in a suit brought by the indemnitee to enforce a right to an advancement of expenses) it shall be a defense that, and (b) any suit brought by the Corporation to recover an advancement of expenses pursuant to the terms of an undertaking, the Corporation shall be entitled to recover such expenses upon a final adjudication that, the indemnitee has not met any applicable standard for indemnification set forth in the Delaware General Corporation Law. Neither the failure of the Corporation (including its directors who are not parties to such action, a committee of such directors, independent legal counsel, or its stockholders) to have made a determination prior to the commencement of such suit that identification of the indemnitee is proper in the circumstances because the indemnitee has met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in the Delaware General Corporation Law, nor an actual determination by the Corporation (including its directors who are not parties to such action, a committee of such directors, independent legal counsel, or its stockholders) that the indemnitee has not met such applicable standard of conduct, shall create a presumption that the indemnitee has not met the applicable standard of conduct or, in the case of such a suit brought by the indemnitee, be a defense to such suit. In any suit brought by the indemnitee to enforce a right to indemnification or to an advancement of expenses hereunder, or brought by the Corporation to recover an advancement of expenses pursuant to the terms of an undertaking, the burden of proving that the indemnitee is not entitled to be indemnified, or to such advancement of expenses, under this Article VII or otherwise shall be on the Corporation.
Right of Indemnitee to Bring Suit
          SECTION 7.04 . Any indemnification to be provided under Section 7.01 or 7.02 of these Restated Bylaws (unless ordered by a court of competent jurisdiction) shall be made by the Corporation only as authorized in the specific case upon a determination that the indemnification is proper under the circumstances because such person has met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in such paragraph. Such determination shall be made with respect to a person who is a director or officer at the time of such determination (i) by a majority vote of the Board of Directors who are not parties to such action, suit or proceeding, even though less than a quorum, or (ii) by a committee of such directors designated by majority vote of such directors, even though less than a quorum,
Determination of Entitlement to Indemnification
 
or (iii) if there are no such directors, or if such directors so direct, by independent legal counsel in a written opinion, or (iv) by the stockholders.
          SECTION 7.05 . The rights to indemnification and to the advancement of expenses conferred in this Article VII shall not be exclusive of any other right which any person may have or hereafter acquire under any statute, the Corporation's Certificate of Incorporation as amended from time to time, Bylaws as amended from time to time, agreement, vote of stockholders or disinterested directors or otherwise.
Non-Exclusivity of Rights
          SECTION 7.06 . The Corporation may maintain insurance, at its expense, to protect itself and any director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation or another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise against any expense, liability or loss, whether or not the Corporation would have the power to indemnify such person against such expense, liability or loss under the Delaware General Corporation Law.
Insurance
          SECTION 7.07 . The Corporation may, to the extent authorized from time to time by the Board of Directors, grant rights to indemnification and to the advancement of expenses to any employee or agent of the Corporation to the fullest extent of the provisions of this Article VII with respect to the indemnification and advancement of expenses of directors and officers of the Corporation.
Indemnification of Employees and Agents of the Corporation
          SECTION 7.08 . The rights conferred upon indemnitees in this Article VII shall be contract rights and such rights shall continue as to an indemnitee who has ceased to be a director, officer or trustee and shall inure to the benefit of the indemnitee's heirs, executors and administrators. Any amendment, alteration or repeal of this Article VII that adversely affects any right of an indemnitee or it successors shall be prospective only and shall not limit or eliminate any such right with respect to any proceeding involving any occurrence or alleged occurrence of any action or omission to act that took place prior to such amendment, alteration or repeal.
Nature of Rights
          SECTION 8.01 . In furtherance and not in limitation of the powers conferred by law, the Board of Directors is expressly authorized to adopt, amend and repeal these Bylaws subject to the power of the holders of capital stock of the Corporation to adopt, amend or repeal the Bylaws.
Amendments
          SECTION 8.02 . For purposes of these Bylaws, "electronic transmission" means any form of communication, not directly involving the physical transmission of paper, that creates a record that may be retained, retrieved, and reviewed by a recipient thereof, and that may be directly reproduced in paper form by such a recipient through an automated process.
Electronic Transmission
          SECTION 8.03 . The Board of Directors may provide a suitable seal, containing the name of the Corporation, which seal shall be in charge of the Secretary. If
Corporate Seal
 
and when so directed by the Board of Directors or a committee thereof, duplicates of the seal may be kept and used by the Treasurer or by an Assistant Secretary or Assistant Treasurer.
          SECTION 8.04 . The fiscal year of the Corporation shall end on December 31 of each year, or such other twelve consecutive months as the Board of Directors may designate.
Fiscal Year
          SECTION 8.05 . Section headings in these Bylaws are for convenience of reference only and shall not be given any substantive effect in limiting or otherwise construing any provision herein.
Section Headings
          SECTION 8.06 . In the event that any provision of these Bylaws is or becomes inconsistent with any provision of the Certificate of Incorporation, the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware or any other applicable law, the provision of these Bylaws shall not be given any effect to the extent of such inconsistency but shall otherwise be given full force and effect.
Inconsistent Provisions

Exhibit 4.4
     SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE NO. 2, dated as of July 31, 2009 (this ""), by and among the Company (as defined below) and UNION BANK, N.A. (formerly known as UNION BANK OF CALIFORNIA, N.A.), as trustee (the ""), under the Indenture dated as of April 7, 2008 (the ""), as supplemented by Supplemental Indenture No. 1, dated as of April 7, 2008 (""), between ALPHA NATURAL RESOURCES, INC., a Delaware corporation (""), and the Trustee.
Supplemental Indenture
Trustee
Base Indenture
Supplemental Indenture No. 1
Alpha
     WHEREAS, Alpha has heretofore executed and delivered to the Trustee the Base Indenture and Supplemental Indenture No. 1 providing for the issuance of 2.375% Convertible Senior Notes due April 15, 2015 (the "");
Securities
     WHEREAS, Alpha and FOUNDATION COAL HOLDINGS, INC., a Delaware corporation (""), entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of May 11, 2009 (the ""), providing for the merger of Alpha with and into Foundation (the ""), with Foundation as the surviving corporation (such surviving corporation, renamed Alpha Natural Resources, Inc., the "");
Foundation
Merger Agreement
Merger
Company
     WHEREAS, the Merger complies with the provisions of Section 10.01 of the Base Indenture and Section 11.11 of Supplemental Indenture No. 1;
     WHEREAS, the Company proposes in and by this Supplemental Indenture to supplement and amend the Base Indenture and Supplemental Indenture No. 1 in certain respects as it applies to the Securities issued thereunder;
     WHEREAS, Section 9.01 of the Base Indenture and Section 10.01 of Supplemental Indenture No. 1 permit the Company and the Trustee to amend the Base Indenture and Supplemental Indenture No. 1, respectively, without prior notice to or consent of any Holder of the Securities for the purpose of evidencing the assumption by a successor of Alpha of the covenants and obligations of Alpha thereunder and in the Securities; and
     WHEREAS, the Company has requested that the Trustee execute and deliver this Supplemental Indenture and the execution and delivery of this Supplemental Indenture has been duly authorized in all respects.
     NOW THEREFORE, the Company and the Trustee hereby agree that the following Sections of this Supplemental Indenture supplement the Base Indenture and Supplemental Indenture No. 1 with respect to the Securities issued thereunder:
 
     Section 1.1. CAPITALIZED TERMS. Capitalized terms used herein without definition shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Base Indenture or Supplemental Indenture No. 1, as the context requires.
     Section 2.1. ASSUMPTION OF OBLIGATIONS. The Company, as the surviving entity in the Merger, expressly assumes the due and punctual payment of the principal of, and premium, if any, and interest, if any, on all the Securities and the performance or observance of every covenant of the Securities, the Base Indenture and Supplemental Indenture No. 1 on the part of Alpha to be performed or observed.
     Section 2.2. CONVERSION RIGHTS. The Company, as the surviving entity in the Merger, agrees that at and after the effective time of the Merger, the Holder of each Security then outstanding shall have the right to convert such Security (if otherwise convertible pursuant to Article XI of Supplement No. 1) into the kind and amount of Reference Property receivable upon the Merger by a holder of a number of shares of Alpha common stock equal to a fraction whose denominator is one thousand (1,000) and whose numerator is the product of the principal amount of such Security and the Conversion Rate in effect immediately prior to the Merger; , , that at and after the effective time of the Merger, upon the conversion of a Security (w) the portion of each Daily Settlement Amount payable in cash shall continue to be payable in cash, (x) the portion (if any) of each Daily Settlement Amount payable in shares of Alpha common stock shall be payable in Reference Property, (y) the Daily Conversion Value shall be calculated based on the value of a unit of Reference Property corresponding to the amount of Reference Property that a holder of one share of Alpha common stock would have received in the Merger and (z) the Volume-Weighted Average Price per share of Alpha common stock and the Closing Sale Price shall be calculated with respect to a unit of Reference Property corresponding to the amount of Reference Property that a holder of one share of Alpha common stock would have received in the Merger.
provided
however
     Section 2.3. ADJUSTMENTS TO CONVERSION RATES. The Company further agrees that at and after the effective time of the Merger, the Conversion Rate shall be subject to adjustments in accordance with Article 11 of Supplemental Indenture No. 1.
     Section 3.1. NO RECOURSE AGAINST OTHERS. No past, present or future director, manager, officer, employee, incorporator, stockholder or member of the Company, any parent entity of the Company or any Subsidiary of the Company, as such, will have any liability for any obligations of the Company under the Securities, this Supplemental Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of, or by reason of, such obligations or their creation. Each Holder of Securities by accepting a Security waives and releases all such liability. The waiver and release
 
are part of the consideration for issuance of the Securities. The waiver may not be effective to waive liabilities under the federal securities laws.
     Section 3.2. BENEFIT OF SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE. Nothing in this Supplemental Indenture, express or implied, shall give to any person, other than the parties hereto, their successors hereunder, and the Holders of the Securities, any benefit of any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under this Supplemental Indenture.
     Section 3.3. EXECUTION AS SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE. This Supplemental Indenture is executed and shall be construed as an indenture supplemental to the Base Indenture and Supplemental Indenture No. 1 and, as provided in the Base Indenture and Supplemental Indenture No. 1, this Supplemental Indenture forms a part thereof.
     Section 3.4. RATIFICATION AND INCORPORATION OF INDENTURE. As supplemented hereby, the Base Indenture and Supplemental Indenture No. 1 are in all respects ratified and confirmed, and the Base Indenture, Supplemental Indenture No. 1 and this Supplemental Indenture shall be read, taken and construed as one and the same instrument.
     
Section 3.5. GOVERNING LAW. THIS SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE AND THE SECURITIES SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
     Section 3.6. SEPARABILITY. In case any one or more of the provisions contained in this Supplemental Indenture shall for any reason be held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect, then, to the extent permitted by law, such invalidity, illegality or unenforceability shall not affect any other provisions of this Supplemental Indenture, but this Supplemental Indenture shall be construed as if such invalid or illegal or unenforceable provision had never been contained herein.
     Section 3.7. COUNTERPARTS. The parties may sign any number of copies of this Supplemental Indenture. Each signed copy shall be an original, but all of them together represent the same agreement.
     Section 3.8. EFFECT OF HEADINGS. The Section headings herein are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof.
     Section 3.9. TRUSTEE MAKES NO REPRESENTATION. The Trustee makes no representation as to the validity or sufficiency of this Supplemental Indenture. The recitals and statements herein and in the Securities are deemed to be those of the Company and not of the Trustee, and the Trustee assumes no responsibility for the correctness thereof.
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed and attested, all as of the date first above written.
 

Exhibit 4.8
     THIRD SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE, dated as of August 1, 2009 (this ""), by and among FOUNDATION PA COAL COMPANY, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (the ""), the Parent (as defined below), each Domestic Subsidiary of the Parent identified on hereto (each, a "" and together with the Parent, the "" and each, a ""), and THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON (formerly known as The Bank of New York), as trustee (the ""), under the Indenture dated as of July 30, 2004 (as supplemented by the Supplemental Indenture dated as of September 6, 2005 and the Supplemental Indenture dated as of October 5, 2007, the ""), between the Company, the Guarantors and the Trustee.
Supplemental Indenture
Company
Annex A
New Subsidiary
New Guarantors
New Guarantor
Trustee
Indenture
     WHEREAS, the Company and the existing guarantors have heretofore executed and delivered to the Trustee the Indenture providing for the issuance of 7 1/4% Senior Notes due August 1, 2014 (the "");
Notes
     WHEREAS, ALPHA NATURAL RESOURCES, INC., a Delaware corporation (""), and FOUNDATION COAL HOLDINGS, INC., a Delaware corporation ("") and an indirect parent of the Company, entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of May 11, 2009 (the ""), providing for the merger of Alpha with and into Foundation (the ""), with Foundation as the surviving corporation (such surviving corporation, renamed Alpha Natural Resources, Inc., the "");
Alpha
Foundation
Merger Agreement
Parent Merger
Parent
     WHEREAS, after the effectiveness of the Parent Merger, FOUNDATION COAL CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation (""), and its direct parent company, FC 2 CORP., a Delaware corporation, each intend to merge with and into the Parent, with the Parent as the surviving corporation (the "");
Holdings
Roll-up Mergers
     WHEREAS, Section 4.17 of the Indenture provides that under certain circumstances each New Guarantor shall execute and deliver to the Trustee a supplemental indenture pursuant to which each New Guarantor shall unconditionally guarantee all of the Company's Obligations under the Notes and the Indenture on the terms and conditions set forth herein (the "");
Note Guarantee
     WHEREAS, Section 5.01 of the Indenture provides that upon the consolidation or merger of Holdings with or into another Person where such other Person is the surviving entity, the Person surviving such consolidation or merger shall assume all the obligations of Holdings under the Notes and the Indenture pursuant to agreements reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee;
     WHEREAS, Alpha American Coal Company, LLC (formerly known as Foundation American Coal Company, LLC) signed the Indenture as of July 30, 2004, but was inadvertently omitted from the definition of "Guarantors" under Section 1.01 of the Indenture;
     WHEREAS, all things necessary have been done to make this Supplemental Indenture, when executed and delivered by the Company and the New Guarantors, the legal,
 
valid and binding agreement of the Company and the New Guarantors, according to its terms; and
     WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 9.01 of the Indenture, the Trustee, the Company and the existing Guarantors are authorized to execute and deliver this Supplemental Indenture.
     NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt of which is hereby acknowledged, the Company, the Parent, the New Guarantors, the existing Guarantors and the Trustee agree as follows:
     Section 1.1. CAPITALIZED TERMS. Capitalized terms used herein without definition shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
     Section 2.1. DEFINITION OF "GUARANTORS". The list of Guarantors in paragraph (2) of the definition of "Guarantors" in Section 1.01 of the Indenture is hereby corrected pursuant to Section 9.01(1) of the Indenture by adding the name of "Alpha American Coal Company, LLC."
     Section 3.1. AGREEMENT TO GUARANTEE. Each New Guarantor hereby agrees, jointly and severally with all existing Guarantors (if any), to provide an unconditional Guarantee on the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in Article 10 of the Indenture and to be bound by all other applicable provisions of the Notes and the Indenture and to perform all of the obligations and agreements of a Guarantor under the Indenture.
     Section 3.2. ASSUMPTION OF OBLIGATIONS. Parent hereby agrees, upon the effectiveness of the Roll-up Mergers, to assume all the obligations of Holdings under the Notes and the Indenture.
     Section 3.3. NOTICES. All notices or other communications to the Company and/or any Guarantor shall be delivered to the following address:
Alpha Natural Resources One Alpha Place Abingdon, Virginia 24212 Facsimile No.: (276) 623-4321 Attention: Office of General Counsel
 
With a copy to:
Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP One Liberty Plaza New York, New York 10006 Facsimile No.: (212) 225-3999 Attention: Jeffrey Lewis, Esq.
All notices or other communications to the Company and/or any Guarantor shall otherwise be given as provided in Section 12.02 of the Indenture.
     Section 4.1. NO RECOURSE AGAINST OTHERS. No past, present or future director, manager, officer, employee, incorporator, stockholder or member of the Parent, Holdings, any parent entity of the Parent or any Subsidiary of the Parent, as such, will have any liability for any obligations of the Company or the Guarantors under the Notes, this Indenture, the Note Guarantees or for any claim based on, in respect of, or by reason of, such obligations or their creation. Each Holder of Notes by accepting a Note waives and releases all such liability. The waiver and release are part of the consideration for issuance of the Notes. The waiver may not be effective to waive liabilities under the federal securities laws.
     Section 4.2. EXECUTION AS SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE. This Supplemental Indenture is executed and shall be construed as an indenture supplemental to the Indenture and, as provided in the Indenture, this Supplemental Indenture forms a part thereof.
     Section 4.3. RATIFICATION AND INCORPORATION OF INDENTURE. As supplemented hereby, the Indenture is in all respects ratified and confirmed, and the Indenture and this Supplemental Indenture shall be read, taken and construed as one and the same instrument.
     
Section 4.4. GOVERNING LAW. THIS INDENTURE, THE NOTES AND THE NOTE GUARANTEES SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
     Section 4.5. SEPARABILITY. In case any one or more of the provisions contained in this Supplemental Indenture shall for any reason be held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect, then, to the extent permitted by law, such invalidity, illegality or unenforceability shall not affect any other provisions of this Supplemental Indenture, but this Supplemental Indenture shall be construed as if such invalid or illegal or unenforceable provision had never been contained herein.
     Section 4.6. COUNTERPARTS. The parties may sign any number of copies of this Supplemental Indenture. Each signed copy shall be an original, but all of them together represent the same agreement.
 
     Section 4.7. EFFECT OF HEADINGS. The Section headings herein are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof.
     Section 4.8. TRUSTEE MAKES NO REPRESENTATION. The Trustee makes no representation as to the validity or sufficiency of this Supplemental Indenture. The recitals and statements herein are deemed to be those of the Company and the New Guarantors and not of the Trustee.
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed, all as of the date first above written.
 
 
 
 
 
Annex A
ALPHA COAL SALES CO., LLC ALPHA LAND AND RESERVES, LLC ALPHA NATURAL RESOURCES, LLC ALPHA NATURAL RESOURCES CAPITAL CORP. ALPHA NATURAL RESOURCES SERVICES, LLC ALPHA TERMINAL COMPANY, LLC AMFIRE, LLC AMFIRE HOLDINGS, INC. AMFIRE MINING COMPANY, LLC AMFIRE WV, L.P. BLACK DOG COAL CORP. BROOKS RUN MINING COMPANY, LLC BUCHANAN ENERGY COMPANY, LLC CALLAWAY LAND AND RESERVES, LLC COBRA NATURAL RESOURCES, LLC CORAL ENERGY SERVICES, LLC DICKENSON-RUSSELL COAL COMPANY, LLC DICKENSON-RUSSELL LAND AND RESERVES, LLC ENTERPRISE LAND AND RESERVES, INC. ENTERPRISE MINING COMPANY, LLC ESPERANZA COAL CO., LLC HERNDON PROCESSING COMPANY, LLC KEPLER PROCESSING COMPANY, LLC KINGWOOD MINING COMPANY, LLC LITWAR PROCESSING COMPANY, LLC MAXXIM REBUILD CO., LLC MAXXIM SHARED SERVICES, LLC MAXXUM CARBON RESOURCES, LLC MCDOWELL-WYOMING COAL COMPANY, LLC NICEWONDER CONTRACTING, INC. PALLADIAN HOLDINGS, LLC PALLADIAN LIME, LLC PARAMONT COAL COMPANY VIRGINIA, LLC PREMIUM ENERGY, LLC RIVERSIDE ENERGY COMPANY, LLC SOLOMONS MINING COMPANY TWIN STAR MINING, INC. VIRGINIA ENERGY COMPANY, LLC WHITE FLAME ENERGY, INC.

Exhibit 14.1
     Integrity is one of the foundational principles upon which all successful businesses are built. Our customers, suppliers, shareholders, and employees all expect our conduct to be of the highest ethical standard, every day. We believe that our Company  Alpha Natural Resources, Inc. ("Alpha" or the "Company") and its subsidiaries  enjoy a reputation of which we can be proud and which underpins our business success. Our commitment to the highest standards of integrity begins with ensuring that everyone understands our Code of Business Ethics.
     The Company's standards of conduct are summarized in this Code of Business Ethics (the "Code"). Simply restating these standards, however, does not lead inevitably to ethical conduct. Each of us must continue to understand, support and live by these standards to enable the Company to achieve its business objectives in strict conformity with the Code. Violations of any of the provisions of this Code may result in discipline, up to and including termination of employment.
     It is important for our employees, officers, managers and directors to know what our Company expects of them when making decisions and conducting themselves in business activities. Of all business activities involving such decisions, among the most important are the handling and use of confidential information, the avoidance of potential conflicts of interest and compliance with governmental laws, rules and regulations. Diligent observance of this Code, as well as all legal requirements, by all of our employees, officers, managers and directors is, of course, essential to the proper conduct of our business. Violation of applicable laws may not only entail serious legal sanctions but, as in the case of violation of this Code, can also lead to disciplinary actions.
CONFIDENTIAL AND PROPRIETARY INFORMATION. It is imperative that all employees, officers, managers and directors keep confidential all information about Company operations and business activities that has not been made public or that is not common knowledge among investors, competitors, customers, suppliers and others, including other employees, officers, managers or directors who do not have a valid business reason for obtaining the information.
Employees, officers, managers and directors must not disclose to others (including family members), use for themselves or others, or duplicate for themselves or others any confidential information about the Company or its customers which he or she has originated or acquired in connection with employment or service to the Company. In addition, employees should not attempt to obtain or learn confidential information that they do not need to know unless it relates to performing their own employment duties. This non-disclosure obligation not only applies to employees, officers, managers and directors during their period of employment or service, but also after termination of employment or service or retirement. If an employee, officer, manager or director believes it is appropriate for business reasons, or required by law or regulation, to disclose or use confidential information outside the Company, such person should first contact the General Counsel and, if necessary, discuss the proper protective measures. Any employee, officer, manager or director who questions whether information he or she originates or acquires is confidential has a responsibility to determine its classification by asking his or her immediate supervisor or Company legal counsel. This obligation is in addition to contractual obligations an employee, officer, manager or director may have under any employment agreement or other arrangement.
 
All Company documents, records, memoranda, emails and other written materials (and all copies) are solely the Company's property and must be returned immediately to the Company upon termination of employment.
It is not possible to list all the types of information that must be treated as confidential. The following are examples of confidential information to assist in observing this important policy:
Employees, officers, managers and directors should be guided by the general principle that the Company considers confidential any information that is not officially disclosed or publicly known and which might be useful to or desired by others for any reason, such as using the information to compete against Alpha or any of its subsidiaries. Officially disclosed information is considered to be that which is contained in official reports, news releases and other forms of communication that have been released by management to the public through established communication channels.
In addition to the general requirement that employees, officers, managers and directors protect the confidential information of the Company, it is important that such persons also recognize that other companies regard their confidential information as extremely valuable as well. Therefore, if the Company executes a confidentiality agreement with a third party regarding confidential information with respect to that third party to be disclosed to the Company, all employees, officers, managers and directors of the Company are expected to honor the terms of such agreement.
Any technical innovations, discoveries, system designs, or technical enhancements that an employee designs or conceives while at Alpha are the sole property of Alpha. The employee must disclose such discoveries and innovations at Alpha.
CONFLICTS OF INTEREST. All employees, officers, managers and directors should avoid any investments, business interests or other associations, relationships or activities of which they are aware ("Business Interests") that interfere with or influence, or even appear to interfere with or influence, their objective judgment in furtherance of their responsibility to act in the Company's best interests. A conflict of interest arises when an employee's, officer's, manager's or director's judgment in acting on the Company's behalf is or influenced by an actual or potential personal benefit for the employee, officer, manager or director, or a member of the employee's, officer's, manager's or director's family or household, from a Business Interest unless such conflict of interest is disclosed to the Company as provided herein and approved in accordance with Company procedures. The benefits may be direct or indirect, financial or non-financial, through family connections, personal associations or otherwise.
may be
 
It is not possible to describe all the circumstances where a conflict of interest involving an employee, officer, manager, director or a member of his or her family or household exists or may exist. Except as otherwise contemplated by this Code, the following may be a conflict of interest:
These examples are given only to guide employees, officers, managers and directors in making judgments about such conflicts. If any employee, officer, manager or director finds himself or herself in a situation where a conflict of interest exists or may exist, he or she should immediately bring the matter to the attention of his or her supervisor, who will be responsible for contacting the Company's General Counsel or other Company legal counsel for appropriate guidance.
The Board of Directors has determined that any Business Interests that the Board of Directors (or any committee thereof) of the Company (or any predecessor) has previously approved or waived do not constitute a prohibited conflict of interest and are permitted under this Code.
ACCEPTANCE OF PAYMENTS. No employee, officer, manager or director shall directly or indirectly seek or accept any payments, fees, services or other gratuities (irrespective of size or amount) outside the normal course of the employee's, officer's, manager's or director's business duties from any person, company or organization which does or seeks to do business with the Company. Gifts of cash or cash equivalents of any amount are strictly prohibited. It is not inappropriate under this policy to be the recipient of common courtesies, sales promotional items of small value, occasional meals or reasonable entertainment appropriate to a business relationship and associated with business discussions. However, there's always a risk that a business associate may try to "buy your favor", a nice way of saying bribery. Any bribe or improper payment is prohibited. In addition to cash payments, bribes include kickbacks or kickback schemes, unexplained rebates, and payments for other disguised allowance or expenses. Questions as to the appropriateness or legality of any such favor or courtesy should be reviewed by an immediate supervisor in advance of the receipt of the courtesy.
BUSINESS ENTERTAINMENT. It is the Company's policy that all solicitations of or dealings with suppliers, customers or others doing or seeking to do business with the Company shall be conducted solely on a basis that reflects both the Company's best business interests and its high ethical standards. Providing common courtesies, entertainment and occasional meals for potential or actual suppliers, customers or others involved with aspects of the Company's business in a manner appropriate to the business relationship and associated with business discussions is permitted, provided expenses in this connection are appropriate, reasonable and lawful.
 
POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS. There are three basic tenets in the matter of business and personal political contributions and actions.
First, the Company unequivocally forbids the use of Company funds, resources or property for the support of political parties or political candidates for any office unless approved in advance by the Company's Chief Executive Officer, the Company's General Counsel or their designee.
Second, equally contrary to this Code is any pressure, direct or implied, that infringes upon the right of any employee, officer, manager or director to decide whether, to whom, and in what amount he or she will make a personal political contribution or render personal services to individual candidates or political committees where permitted by applicable laws. Employees, officers, managers and directors are free to endorse, advocate, contribute to, or otherwise support any political party, candidate, or cause they may choose. However, in personal public political statements, references to an employee's, officer's, manager's or director's affiliation with the Company should be avoided, and in any personal political activity it must be clear that the employee, officer, manager or director is not acting on behalf of or using the resources of the Company.
Third, the Company seeks the resolution of regulatory and political issues affecting its interests solely on the basis of the merits involved.
CITIZENSHIP. Our Company also has special responsibilities to be a good citizen in the communities in which we operate. We are sensitive to the economic role we play in those communities, and we encourage employees, officers, managers and directors to take an active personal role in organizations dedicated to public service.
COMPANY FUNDS AND ASSETS. Each employee, officer, manager and director is personally accountable for Company funds or assets over which he or she has control. All employees, officers, managers and directors should protect the Company's assets and ensure their efficient use. Theft, carelessness and waste have a direct impact on the Company's profitability and therefore the Company's assets should be used for legitimate business purposes.
Anyone spending Company money, or personal money that will be reimbursed, should always be sure the Company receives good value in return.
Anyone approving or certifying the correctness of a voucher or bill should have reasonable knowledge that the purchases and amounts are proper.
Anyone responsible for the handling of Company assets, as well as associated records and materials, is accountable for their safekeeping. In addition to cash, property and equipment, assets include checks and items such as Company credit cards.
Fraud, or the act or intent to cheat, trick, steal, deceive, or lie, is both dishonest and, in most cases, criminal. Intentional acts of fraud are subject to strict disciplinary action, including dismissal and possible civil and/or criminal action. It is important to understand what fraud can entail, so you can recognize it and avoid mistakes. Some examples include submitting false expense reports, forging or altering checks, misappropriating assets or misusing company property, unauthorized handling or reporting of transactions, or making an entry on Company records or financial statements that is not accurate and in accordance with proper accounting standards. Any fraudulent activity that violates
 
applicable law or Company policy may result in disciplinary action, including discharge and/or disclosure to appropriate law enforcement officials.
COMPANY PROPERTY. Protection of Company property and services is vital to our business. How well we prevent their fraudulent or negligent misuse or theft affects the rates our customers pay for products and services and will ultimately affect the success of the Company. Company property must not be used for improper personal benefit or any other improper purpose. It should not be sold, loaned, given away or otherwise disposed of, regardless of condition or value, except with proper authorization.
COMPUTER USE. The computer systems of the Company (including, but not limited to, the desk-top and laptop computer equipment; hard drives; printers, peripherals; software and operating systems; and network and/or internet-related accounts providing electronic mail, access to the Internet, newsgroup access, and/or file-transfer capabilities) are the property of the Company and are to be used for the business purposes of the Company. Like any record, the information in any computer-related file is Company property and should be treated and protected like any other piece of Company property or Company record. The computer or communication systems of the Company should not be used to commit any illegal act or to download, transmit, or receive sexually explicit or other offensive material. In addition, the Code prohibits employees from providing confidential information about the Company or its securities to the public. This policy also prohibits employees from posting opinions, messages or other information about the Company or its securities in internet "chat rooms" or otherwise publicly disclosing such information. If you see a comment or posting of concern, you are encouraged to bring it to the attention of the Company's General Counsel. In addition, the Company has the right to inspect the contents on all Company owned or leased computer equipment. Any activity that violates applicable law or Company policy may result in disciplinary action, including discharge and/or disclosure to appropriate law enforcement officials.
Any computer software utilized by the Company or its employees will be used in accordance with terms of any applicable software license or agreement. In general, the only software that should be loaded on your computer is that which the Company has approved and purchased. Illegal duplication or use of software can subject both the Company and the employee using the software to significant fines (civil and criminal) and legal action.
VIOLATIONS OF LAW OR ILLEGAL ACTIVITY. The Company prides itself in conducting its business in a manner that does not violate any applicable law and ensuring that no illegal or immoral activity is conducted on property owned, controlled or used by the Company. The employees, officers, managers and directors owe a duty to the Company to see that all laws are complied with and no illegal or immoral activity is conducted on its property. Any violation of law could result in disciplinary action or termination. Employees could also be terminated for (i) failure to report a violation of law or the Code, (ii) failure to cooperate in an investigation of violations, (iii) retaliation against another employee for reporting any violation or (iv) failure to effectively monitor actions of subordinates.
The sale of goods and services to the U.S. government is heavily regulated. Company employees involved in sales to government customers must take the necessary steps to ensure that all government related transactions and relationships comply with applicable laws and regulations. In addition, it is Company policy to cooperate with all reasonable requests concerning Company operations from governmental authorities. If an employee is unclear about the appropriate procedures in responding to such requests, notify the General Counsel immediately and wait for instructions before proceeding.
 
Company policy and the law forbid the purchase or sale of Company securities by an employee, officer, manager or director or by any others who learn material information from him or her, if such material information is not generally available to the public. "Material information" is any information that a reasonable investor would consider important in deciding whether to buy, sell or hold securities. Such insider trading is both illegal and unethical. The Company has adopted a policy against insider trading and tipping that is designed to promote compliance with securities laws and to protect the Company as well as Company representatives from the very serious liability and penalties that can result from violations of these laws. Contact the General Counsel to obtain the full text of the Company's Insider Trading Policy.
In addition, the Company's directors and executive officers are subject to reporting requirements and short-swing profits liability under the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Directors and executive officers will be responsible for filing related reports in a timely and accurate manner.
These policies are designed to help employees avoid the inadvertent disclosure of information or illegal securities trades. Any questions concerning the Company's policy, the law governing insider trading or directors' and executive officers' reporting obligations should be referred to the Company's General Counsel.
COMPANY RECORDS. Accurate, timely financial records provide the core information that is necessary to manage our business. Company business records must always be prepared accurately and reliably. They are of critical importance in meeting our financial, legal and management obligations to our shareholders and the general public at large. Records must be maintained to comply with applicable statutory, regulatory or contractual requirements, as well as those pursuant to prudent business practices.
Records are to be kept in accordance with accepted accounting rules and controls at all times, fully and accurately reflecting all transactions, and follow effective internal controls, including procedures to protect the Company's assets. No unrecorded or undisclosed corporate account, fund or asset may be maintained. No false or misleading entry, record or report may be made or permitted to go uncorrected. Mistakes should never be covered up, but should be immediately disclosed in full and corrected. No employee should rationalize or even consider misrepresenting facts or falsifying records.
All reports, vouchers, bills, payroll and service records, measurement and performance records, and other essential data must be prepared with care and honesty. All business transactions must be properly authorized as well as completely and accurately recorded on the Company's books. Procedures for doing so must comply with the Company's financial policies, as well as follow generally accepted accounting practices.
Misapplication or improper use of corporate or customers' funds or property, or false entry to records by employees or others, must be reported to the Company's General Counsel. Any such behavior may result in disciplinary action, up to and including termination.
Records containing personal data about employees, officers and directors are confidential. They are to be carefully safeguarded and kept current, relevant and accurate. They should be disclosed only to authorized personnel and in accordance with lawful process. Financial information can be made available outside the Company only with proper prior authorization.
Employees, officers, managers and directors must comply with the Company's policy concerning the retention, storage, retrieval and destruction of records. Of particular concern are records that are
 
potentially relevant to a violation of law or any litigation or any pending, threatened or foreseeable government investigation or proceeding. Destruction or falsification of any document that is potentially relevant to a violation of law or a government investigation may lead to prosecution. Employees can contact the Company's General Counsel for specific information on record retention.
DISCLOSURE POLICY. It is the Company's policy to provide full, fair, accurate, timely and understandable disclosure in all documents required to be filed, if applicable, with or submitted to the Securities and Exchange Commission and all other public communications. The Company expects employees, officers, managers and directors to act in a manner that supports this policy. The Company will endeavor to implement the necessary systems, procedures and controls to ensure that this policy is strictly followed. These procedures will include the formation of a Disclosure Control Policy administered by a Disclosure Committee. The goal of the Company's Disclosure Control Policy is to provide that all disclosures made by the Company or its subsidiaries to the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Company's security holders or the investment community would be accurate and complete and fairly present the Company's and its subsidiaries' financial condition and results of operations in all material respects on a timely basis as required by applicable laws and security listing requirements.
PUBLIC STATEMENTS AND RESPONSES TO INQUIRIES. The Company encourages participation by its employees in industry forums as well as civic, community, and political affairs. However, various legal and regulatory restrictions may be applicable to both the content and the timing of any public positions taken by employees. Prior to accepting any invitation to speak, submit articles or papers, or to give other presentations in any public forum, an employee must first receive approval from his or her direct supervisor. The supervisor, in turn, must seek written approval from the General Counsel who will ensure the proposed subject matter and timing is appropriate. Drafts of proposed speeches, articles and other presentations must be submitted to the General Counsel for approval before submittal or use. These materials must be submitted for approval at least two weeks prior to the submittal deadline, or the actual presentation date, whichever comes first.
All proposed press releases, advertisements, submittals of Company information to third party publications and other materials which may be printed or otherwise attributable to the Company are to be submitted to the General Counsel and the director of investor relations before release. These individuals will ensure that other necessary internal approvals have been obtained, and these are the only employees of the Company authorized to release such materials for publication.
Any inquiry to the Company from trade publications, newspapers, radio and television or other media, financial analysts and current or potential investors, must be referred to the director of investor relations for response.
IMPROPER PAYMENTS. No employee, officer, manager or director will make, or cause to be made, any improper payment or offer any improper inducement to any actual or potential customer or to an intermediary as a bribe, kickback or similar payment which is directly or indirectly for the benefit of any individual (including any government official), company or organization in any country, and which is designed, directly or indirectly, to secure favored treatment for the Company. Under laws in a number of jurisdictions, it is a crime, punishable by imprisonment and substantial fines, to make payments of this kind to government officials. The Company's policy, however, is broader in scope and is intended to apply regardless of whether the payment or use is lawful under the laws of a particular country. It is important that any questions about this policy be discussed with the Company's General Counsel before any payment is made which may be viewed as a possible violation of this policy.
 
ANTITRUST COMPLIANCE. The Company requires its employees, officers, managers and directors to engage in fair competition and to comply fully with all antitrust laws. Except in limited circumstances (which must be first reviewed with Company legal counsel), these laws severely restrict or prohibit anticompetitive activities such as entering into written or oral agreements to: fix, control or influence prices; boycott specific suppliers or customers; restrain trade by colluding with customers to allocate products or markets; or control trade by limiting the production of products or the delivery of services. In light of the foregoing, the Company has adopted an Antitrust Compliance Policy which includes an overview of the United States antitrust laws, and general guidance and restrictions on employees, officers, managers, and directors of the Company with respect thereto. The Board of Directors is vested with the authority to enforce the Antitrust Compliance Policy and, subject to the Board of Directors' supervision, has authorized the General Counsel to monitor compliance. A copy of the Antitrust Compliance Policy can be found on the Company's web page or obtained from the General Counsel. It is important that any questions about this policy be discussed with the General Counsel.
ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE. The Company is committed to operating in an environmentally responsible manner. It is the Company's policy to continually strive to improve compliance with environmental laws and regulations, to place primary responsibility for compliance with environmental laws with operations management and to encourage employee involvement in implementing this policy and reporting any suspected environmental problems.
EMPLOYEE SAFETY. Having a safe workplace is one of the most important benefits we offer to our employees and their families. The Company has established and is committed to maintain programs designed to protect the health and safety of our employees' safety, including preventing illness or injury to our employees and other persons on Company property, including by rigorously adhering to established safety procedures, following safety practices, avoiding short cuts, and following the Running Right principles.
These programs are structured to comply with applicable law. Employees are obligated to support the Company's commitment to health and safety by fully complying with the letter and spirit of health and safety laws and regulations and all of the related Company policies. Each employee is encouraged to report any health and safety concerns to his or her supervisor.
FAIR DEALING. Each employee, officer, manager and director should endeavor to respect the rights of and deal fairly with the Company's customers, suppliers, competitors and employees. No employee, officer, manager or director should take unfair advantage of anyone through manipulation, concealment, misuse of privileged or proprietary information, misrepresentation of material facts, or any other intentional unfair-dealing practice.
CORPORATE OPPORTUNITIES. Employees, officers, managers and directors are prohibited from taking for themselves personally opportunities that are discovered through the use of Company property, information, or position for improper personal gain. In addition, employees, officers, managers and directors are prohibited from using Company property, information or their position for personal gain or competing with the Company. Employees, officers, managers and directors owe a duty to the Company to advance its legitimate interests when the opportunity to do so arises.
DUTY TO REPORT VIOLATIONS OF LAW, REGULATIONS OR THE CODE. Each employee, officer, manager and director is responsible for promptly bringing to the Company's attention any circumstances which he or she believes in good faith may constitute a violation of applicable law,
 
regulations or this Code. The Company considers that failure to discharge this responsibility may be as serious as the violation itself. Employees, officers, managers and directors are encouraged and required to raise any concern about risks to the Company before these risks become actual problems.
Employees, officers, managers, directors and other persons should report apparent violations of this Code directly to a member of management, the General Counsel at (276) 619-4410, any member of the Internal Audit Department or, if they prefer, to the Company's ethics hotline by calling (866) 259-2480 (a toll-free service that is available 24 hours a day, 365 days of the year). Although it may be impossible in certain circumstances to keep an employee's identity confidential the Company will strive to take every action practicable to maintain confidentiality for any employee reporting a violation. The Board of Directors' Audit Committee has established a process described below that permits persons to submit concerns regarding questionable accounting or auditing matters to the Audit Committee.
The Company will not allow retaliation for reports made in good faith.
REPORTING QUESTIONABLE ACCOUNTING OR AUDITING MATTERS. Outside parties, including stockholders, who wish to submit concerns about the Company's accounting, financial reporting, internal accounting controls and/or auditing matters ("Accounting Matters") to the attention of the Audit Committee, may write to the chairman of the Audit Committee, in care of the Company's General Counsel. Additional details on the Company's procedure to report Accounting Matters can be found in the Company's Procedures for Submission of Concerns Regarding Accounting or Auditing Matters, available on the Company's web page and from the General Counsel.
The Company has established a separate procedure which allows employees to submit concerns about the Company's Accounting Matters, openly, confidentially or anonymously. The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors is responsible for addressing any Accounting Matters. The Audit Committee has authorized the retention of an outside, third-party vendor, Shareholder.com, to which concerns regarding Accounting Matters may be reported. Individuals wishing to submit concerns about Accounting Matters can contact Shareholder.com toll-free, at (866) 259-2480, via email at anr@openboard.info or via the internet at http://www.openboard.info/anr.
The process outlined above permits employees to notify the Company of Accounting Matters on an anonymous basis. A reporting employee's identity will be kept confidential to the extent possible in connection with the investigation except as otherwise required under applicable law. Prompt and appropriate corrective action will be taken when and as warranted in the judgment of the Audit Committee. Additional details on the Company's procedure to report Accounting Matters can be found in the Company's Procedures for Submission of Concerns Regarding Accounting or Auditing Matters, available on the Company's web page and from the General Counsel.
The Company will not discharge, demote, suspend, threaten, harass or in any manner discriminate against any employee in the terms and conditions of employment based upon any lawful actions of such employee with respect to good faith reporting of complaints regarding Accounting Matters or otherwise as specified in the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. However, employees who file reports or provide evidence which they know to be false or without a reasonable belief in the truth and accuracy of such information will not be protected by the above policy statement and may be subject to disciplinary action, including termination of employment. In addition, the reporting of a violation of this Code which implicates the reporting employee will not protect the reporting employee from disciplinary action for his or her own violation of this Code.
 
"AT WILL" EMPLOYMENT. This Code does not, nor is it intended to, contain contractual promises or constitute a contract of employment. Employees who are "at-will" employees will remain so after adoption of this Code. This means that, subject to any written contracts of employment, any employee may terminate employment at any time for any reason, and that the Company and its subsidiaries may terminate any employee's employment at any time for any non-discriminatory reason.
COMPLIANCE; WAIVERS OF THIS CODE. The Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring developments applicable to this Code and may make such changes to the Code as may be appropriate. In addition, the Audit Committee reports regularly to the full Board of Directors with respect to issues that arise with respect to the Company's compliance with legal or regulatory requirements, including the risk of criminal conduct. The Human Resources department is responsible for reviewing the day-to-day compliance by all employees with this Code and all other Human Resources policies and the issuance of related procedures regarding compliance. The General Counsel reports regularly to the Company's Audit Committee and the Board of Directors regarding employees' compliance with the Code and the overall effectiveness of the Code. The General Counsel, in coordination with the Human Resources department, will establish appropriate internal training programs concerning compliance and ethics matters for the Company's directors, officers and other high-level personnel, as well as employees and agents of the Company.
Any waiver of this Code for executive officers, financial officers, managers or directors may be made only by the Board of Directors of Alpha Natural Resources, Inc. or a committee designated by the Board of Directors and will, if applicable, be promptly disclosed as required by applicable law or stock exchange regulation.
ANNUAL QUESTIONNAIRE. The Company requires that selected employees, officers, managers and directors complete an annual questionnaire designed to elicit information and to provide further guidance as to compliance with many of the policies referred to in this Code. After review of these questionnaires, a report is made to the Company's Chief Executive Officer and the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors.
APPLICATION OF CODE  QUESTIONS AND INTERPRETATIONS. This Code does not constitute a comprehensive explanation of all laws and regulations applicable to the Company and the covered persons and does not include all of the Company's applicable employment policies. Company employees, officers, managers and directors may have questions regarding the application of the Code, applicable law or other policies of the Company in particular situations. All employees, officers, managers and directors are responsible for seeking guidance in case of any question or doubt. For this purpose, inquiries should be directed to the Company's General Counsel by calling (276) 619-4410.
Adopted July 31, 2009

Exhibit 16.1
August 5, 2009
Securities and Exchange Commission 100 F Street, N.E. Washington, DC 20549
Gentlemen:
We have read Item 4.01(a) of Form 8-K dated August 5, 2009, of Alpha Natural Resources, Inc. (formerly known as Foundation Coal Holdings, Inc.) and are in agreement with the statements contained in paragraph 2 and paragraphs 4-6 of that Item 4.01(a) on page 4 therein. We have no basis to agree or disagree with other statements of the registrant contained therein.
/s/ Ernst & Young LLP


