FILE:ANR/ANR-8K-20090731133419.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.01 Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
     On July 31, 2009, Alpha Natural Resources, Inc. ("Old Alpha") merged (the "Merger") with and into Foundation Coal Holdings, Inc. ("Foundation"), with Foundation continuing as the surviving corporation under the name Alpha Natural Resources, Inc. We refer to the surviving corporation as "New Alpha" or the "Company."
     As of the effective time of the Merger (the "Effective Time"), each issued and outstanding share of common stock, par value $0.01, of Foundation, other than any shares owned by Old Alpha, was converted into the right to receive 1.0840 shares of common stock, par value $0.01, of New Alpha, and each issued and outstanding share of common stock, par value $0.01, of Old Alpha, other than any shares owned by Foundation, automatically became one share of common stock of New Alpha. Immediately after the Effective Time, Old Alpha's stockholders owned approximately 59% of New Alpha common stock and Foundation's stockholders owned approximately 41% of New Alpha common stock.
     This description of the Merger does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of May 11, 2009, between Old Alpha and Foundation (the "Merger Agreement"), which is attached to this report as Exhibit 2.1 and incorporated herein by reference, and to the description of the Merger Agreement contained in the Current Report on Form 8-K filed by Foundation on May 12, 2009. A copy of the press release announcing the completion of the Merger is attached to this report as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(a)
Financial statements of business acquired
     The audited financial statements required by this item are incorporated by reference to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Old Alpha's Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on May 22, 2009, which is attached to this report as Exhibit 99.2.
     The unaudited financial statements required by this item are incorporated by reference to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Old Alpha's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2009, filed on May 7, 2009, which is attached to this report as Exhibit 99.3.
(b)
Pro forma financial information
     The pro forma financial information required by this item for the year ended December 31, 2008 and as of and for the three months ended March 31, 2009 is incorporated by reference to the Selected Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Financial Information included in the Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus on Form S-4 of Foundation, filed on June 22, 2009.
(d)
Exhibits
     Pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Company has filed certain agreements as exhibits to this Current Report on Form 8-K. These agreements may contain representations and warranties by the parties. These representations and warranties have been made solely for the benefit of the other party or parties to such agreements and (i) may been qualified by disclosure made to such other party or parties, (ii) were made only as of the date of such agreements or such other date(s) as may be specified in such agreements and are subject to more recent developments, which may not be fully reflected in such Company's public disclosure, (iii) may reflect the allocation of risk among the parties to such agreements and (iv) may apply materiality standards different from what may be viewed as material to investors. Accordingly, these representations and warranties may not describe the Company's actual state of affairs at the date hereof and should not be relied upon.
 
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 23.1
The Board of Directors and Stockholders Alpha Natural Resources, Inc.:
We consent to the incorporation by reference in the current report on Form 8-K of Alpha Natural Resources, Inc. (CIK#: 0001301063) dated July 31, 2009 of our report dated February 26, 2009, except for Notes 1, 2, 3, 6, 8, 11, 12, 15, 16, 17, 19, 20, 22, 24, 27, 28 and 29, which are as of May 22, 2009, with respect to the consolidated balance sheets of Alpha Natural Resources, Inc. (CIK#: 0001310243) as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, and the related consolidated statements of income, stockholders' equity and comprehensive income, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2008, which report appears in the current report on Form 8-K of Alpha Natural Resources, Inc. (CIK#: 0001310243) dated May 22, 2009, and of our report dated February 26, 2009 with respect to the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008, which report appears in the December 31, 2008 annual report on Form 10-K of Alpha Natural Resources, Inc. (CIK#: 0001310243).
Our report refers to the retrospective adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 160, , effective January 1, 2009, and the retrospective adoption of Financial Accounting Standards Board Staff Position Accounting Principles Board 14-1, , effective January 1, 2009.
Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements  an amendment of ARB No. 51
Accounting for Convertible Debt Instruments that may be settled in cash upon conversion (Including partial cash settlement)
/s/ KPMG LLP
Roanoke, Virginia July 31, 2009

Exhibit 99.1
,  Alpha Natural Resources, Inc. (NYSE: ANR) and Foundation Coal Holdings, Inc. (NYSE: FCL) announced today that they have completed their merger, creating one of America's foremost coal producers.
ABINGDON, VA
July 31, 2009
Stockholders of both companies approved the transaction at special stockholder meetings held today.
The new company, which will retain the name Alpha Natural Resources and continue to trade on the NYSE under the ticker symbol "ANR," becomes the third-largest coal producer in the U.S., with 2008 pro forma revenues of $4.2 billion. With the closing of the merger, Alpha now operates more than 60 coal mines and 14 preparation plants, maintains one of the most expansive geographic footprints in the industry, and controls reserves of more than 2.3 billion tons of coal.
Kevin Crutchfield, whose previously announced appointment to chief executive officer of Alpha Natural Resources becomes effective today, said, "This is an exciting day for our shareholders, employees and customers. With this merger, we have created a stronger, more diversified company with the balance, size and scale to compete successfully in today's market environment. Our combined production, demonstrated marketing expertise and vastly enhanced reserve base, as well as our strong balance sheet and credit profile, provide a tremendous foundation to invest in future growth for the benefit of all our stakeholders."
Effective with the completion of the merger, Michael Quillen, previously Alpha's chairman and chief executive officer, becomes executive chairman of the combined company; Kurt Kost, previously Foundation's president and chief operating officer, becomes president of the combined company; and James Roberts, previously Foundation's chairman and CEO, joins the combined company's board of directors.
In accordance with the terms of the definitive merger agreement announced on May 12, 2009, Foundation stockholders are entitled to receive 1.0840 shares of the new combined company for each share of Foundation common stock they owned at today's closing, and each share of Alpha automatically became one share of the new combined company. As a result of the stock-for-stock exchange, Foundation stockholders now own approximately 41 percent and Alpha stockholders now own approximately 59 percent of the new company on a fully diluted basis.
ANRG
 
Alpha Natural Resources, Inc.
Add 1
About Alpha Natural Resources
The merger with Foundation Coal positions Alpha Natural Resources as one of America's premier coal suppliers, ranked third-largest as measured by combined 2008 coal sales. Alpha is the nation's leading supplier and exporter of metallurgical coal used in the steel-making process and is a major supplier of thermal coal to electric utilities and manufacturing industries across the country. The company and its subsidiaries operate 61 mines and 14 coal preparation facilities in the regions of Northern and Central Appalachia and the Powder River Basin, with approximately 6,200 employees and 2008 combined revenues of more than $4 billion.
Investor and Media Contacts
Ted Pile Vice President, Corporate Communications Tel: 276-623-2920 Email:
tpile@alphanr.com
Todd Allen Vice President, Investor Relations Tel. 410-689-7632 Email:
tallen@foundationcoal.com
Forward Looking Statements
This news release includes forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are based on Alpha's expectations and beliefs concerning future events and involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from current expectations. These factors are difficult to predict accurately and may be beyond Alpha's control. The following factors are among those that may cause actual results to differ materially from our forward-looking statements:
 
Alpha Natural Resources, Inc.
Add 2
These and other risks and uncertainties are discussed in greater detail in Alpha's Annual Report on Form 10-K and other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Forward-looking statements in this news release or elsewhere speak only as of the date made. New uncertainties and risks come up from time to time, and it is impossible for Alpha to predict these events or how they may affect the company. Alpha has no duty to, and does not intend to, update or revise the forward-looking statements in this news release after the date it is issued. In light of these risks and uncertainties, investors should keep in mind that the results, events or developments disclosed in any forward-looking statement made in this news release may not occur.


