FILE:ANR/ANR-8K-20090527123038.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
Foundation Coal Holdings Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Foundation") and two subsidiaries of Foundation, Foundation Coal Corporation and Foundation PA Coal Company, LLC, have entered into an amendment dated as of May 22, 2009 ("Amendment No. 1"), to Foundation's existing Credit Agreement, dated as of July 30, 2004, as amended and restated as of July 7, 2006, by and among Foundation Coal Corporation, Foundation PA Coal Company, LLC, Citicorp North America, Inc. as administrative agent and the institutions from time to time party thereto as lenders (the "Foundation Credit Agreement"), following the receipt of consents from lenders holding more than 50% of the loans and commitments under the Foundation Credit Agreement. Foundation has a $500 million revolving credit line and a $335 million term loan with $302 million outstanding as of March 31, 2009 under the Foundation Credit Agreement. Repayment of outstanding indebtedness owed under the credit facility includes quarterly amortization of the term loan beginning in the third quarter of 2009 with both the term loan and revolving credit line maturing July 7, 2011.
Foundation and the other parties thereto have entered into Amendment No. 1 in connection with the previously announced Agreement and Plan of Merger (the "Merger Agreement"), dated as of May 11, 2009, between Foundation and Alpha Natural Resources, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Alpha"), pursuant to which and subject to the terms and conditions set forth therein, Foundation and Alpha will merge (the "Merger"), and the surviving corporation of the Merger will be named Alpha Natural Resources, Inc. The terms of Amendment No. 1 will not become operative until the closing of the Merger and satisfaction or waiver of the other conditions contained in Amendment No. 1. The closing of the Merger is not conditioned upon Amendment No. 1 becoming operational.
Pursuant to and subject to the terms and conditions therein, Amendment No. 1 provides for, among other things, the inclusion of the surviving corporation of the Merger and the subsidiaries of Alpha, other than certain excluded subsidiaries, as guarantors under the Foundation Credit Agreement. Amendment No. 1 also provides for an increase in the interest rate to 3.25 percentage points over the London interbank offered rate ("LIBOR"), subject, in the case of revolving loans, to adjustment based on leverage ratios. The current interest rate on Foundation's credit facilities is 1.25 percentage points over LIBOR. Upon Amendment No. 1 becoming operative, limitations on annual capital expenditure amounts will be eliminated and the amount of incremental credit facilities that may be incurred under the Foundation Credit Agreement will be increased from $100 million to $200 million to a potential total revolving credit line of $700 million.
In addition to consummation of the Merger, conditions to Amendment No. 1 becoming operative include termination and payoff of Alpha's existing credit facilities, payment of the amendment fee to consenting lenders and certain other conditions.
The foregoing description of Amendment No. 1 and the transactions contemplated thereby is not complete and is subject to and qualified in its entirety by reference to the complete text of Amendment No. 1, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1 and the terms of which are incorporated herein by reference.
Forward Looking Statements
Information set forth in this report contains forward-looking statements, which involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Alpha and Foundation caution readers that any forward-looking information is not a guarantee of future performance and that actual results could differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking information. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements about the benefits of the business combination transaction involving Alpha and Foundation, including future financial and operating results, the new company's plans, objectives, expectations and intentions and other statements that are not historical facts.
The following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements: the ability to obtain regulatory approvals of the transaction on the proposed terms and schedule; the failure of Alpha or Foundation stockholders to approve the transaction; the risk that the businesses will not be integrated successfully; the risk that the cost savings and any other synergies from the transaction may not be fully realized or may take longer to realize than expected; disruption from the transaction making it more difficult to maintain relationships with customers, employees or suppliers; competition and its effect on pricing, spending,
third-party relationships and revenues. Additional factors that may affect future results are contained in Alpha's and Foundation's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"), which are available at the SEC's web site http://www.sec.gov. Alpha and Foundation disclaim any obligation to update and revise statements contained in these materials based on new information or otherwise.
Important Additional Information and Where to Find It
In connection with the proposed merger, Alpha and Foundation will be filing documents with the SEC, including the filing by Foundation of a registration statement on Form S-4. The registration statement will include a joint proxy statement/prospectus regarding the proposed merger which will be mailed to Foundation and Alpha stockholders. INVESTORS ARE URGED TO READ ALL RELEVANT DOCUMENTS FILED WITH THE SEC WHEN THEY BECOME AVAILABLE, INCLUDING THE JOINT PROXY STATEMENT/PROSPECTUS, BECAUSE THEY WILL CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION ABOUT THE PROPOSED MERGER. You may obtain copies of all documents filed with the SEC regarding the proposed merger, free of charge, at the SEC's website (www.sec.gov). Free copies may also be obtained by accessing Foundation's website (www.foundationcoal.com) under "Investors/Financial Information & SEC Filings" or Alpha's website (www.alphanr.com) under "Investor Relations/SEC Filings", or by directing a request to Foundation at 999 Corporate Boulevard, Suite 300, Linthicum Heights, Maryland 21090, Attn: Investor Relations or to Alpha at One Alpha Place, P.O. Box 2345, Abingdon, Virginia 24212, Attn: Investor Relations.
Participants in Solicitation
Alpha, Foundation and their respective directors, executive officers and other certain other members of management and employees may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies in favor of the proposed merger. You can find information about Alpha's and Foundation's directors and executive officers in their respective definitive proxy statement filed with the SEC on April 3, 2009. Additional information regarding these participants and other persons who may be deemed participants and a description of their direct and indirect interests, by security holdings or otherwise, will be contained in the joint proxy statement/prospectus and other relevant materials filed with the SEC when they become available. You can obtain free copies of these documents from Alpha or Foundation using the contact information above.
Item 8.01. Other Events.
On May 27, 2009, Foundation issued a joint press release with Alpha regarding the matter described in Item 1.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
This Amendment No. 1 to Credit Agreement, dated as of May 22, 2009 (this ""), is entered into among Foundation Coal Holdings, Inc., a Delaware corporation (""), Foundation Coal Corporation, a Delaware corporation (""), Foundation PA Coal Company, LLC, a Delaware corporation (the ""), the Domestic Subsidiary Loan Parties and Citicorp North America, Inc., a Delaware corporation, in its capacity as administrative agent for the Lenders and as agent for the Secured Parties (in such capacity, the ""), and amends the Credit Agreement dated as of July 30, 2004, as amended and restated as of July 7, 2006 (as amended to the date hereof and as the same may be further amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, the "") entered into among Holdings, the Borrower, the institutions from time to time party thereto as Lenders (the ""), the Administrative Agent, Bank of America, N.A., LaSalle Bank National Association, PNC Bank, National Association and The Royal Bank of Scotland PLC, each as co-documentation agents and Citigroup Global Markets Inc., as sole syndication agent, sole lead arranger and sole book manager and the Collateral Agreement. Citigroup Global Markets Inc. shall be the lead arranger and each of Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Bank of America, N.A., PNC Bank, National Association and Union Bank, N.A. shall be joint bookrunners for the Amendment. Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings ascribed to them in the Credit Agreement, as amended on the date hereof.
Amendment
Foundation Parent
Holdings
Borrower
Administrative Agent
Credit Agreement
Lenders
WHEREAS, Foundation Parent and Alpha Natural Resources, Inc., a Delaware corporation (""), have entered into that certain Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of May 11, 2009 (the ""), providing for the merger of Alpha with and into Foundation Parent, with Foundation Parent as the surviving corporation (such surviving corporation "");
Alpha
Merger Agreement
Parent
WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 9.08 of the Credit Agreement, the parties hereto wish to make certain amendments set forth in Section 1 below;
Now, therefore, in consideration of the premises and for other good and valuable consideration (the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged), the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Section 1. Amendments to the Loan Documents
(a) The Credit Agreement is hereby amended to delete the stricken text (indicated textually in the same manner as the following example:
stricken text
) and to add the double-underlined text (indicated textually in the same manner as the following example: ) as set forth in the pages of the Credit Agreement attached as hereto. The Schedules to the Credit Agreement are hereby replaced with the Schedules attached as hereto.
double-underlined text
Exhibit A
Exhibit B
 
(b) The definition of "Obligations" in Section 1.02 of the Collateral Agreement is hereby amended by inserting the following immediately prior to the words "and (c) the due and punctual payment and performance of all obligations":
or (iii) is in effect on the Amendment No. 1 Effective Date with a counterparty that is a Lender or an Affiliate of a Lender as of the Amendment No. 1 Effective Date.
Section 2.
Conditions Precedent to the Effectiveness of this Amendment
This Amendment shall become effective as of the date first written above when the Required Lenders have consented to this Amendment, and the amendments in Section 1 shall become operative only when each of the following conditions precedent shall have been satisfied or waived (the "") by the Administrative Agent:
Amendment No. 1 Effective Date
(a) The Administrative Agent shall have received this Amendment, duly executed by Parent, Holdings, each Domestic Subsidiary Loan Party, the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the Required Lenders;
Executed Counterparts.
(b) . The Borrower shall have paid to the Administrative Agent, for the account of the relevant Lenders, a fee equal to 0.50% of the aggregate amount of outstanding Loans plus, without duplication, the aggregate amount of New Revolving Facility Commitments of the Lenders that have delivered an executed counterpart of this Amendment on or prior to 12:00 pm Local Time, on May 22, 2009, or such later date and time specified by the Borrower and notified in writing to the Lenders by the Administrative Agent;
Lender Fees
(c) . The Borrower shall have paid to the Administrative Agent all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Agent and invoiced to the Borrower prior to the Amendment No. 1 Effective Date in connection with the preparation, reproduction, execution and delivery of this Amendment (including, without limitation the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of (i) Cahill Gordon & Reindel LLP, special counsel to the Agent and (ii) Holland & Hart LLP, special mining counsel to the Agent);
Reimbursement of Expenses
(d) . (1) The representations set forth in clauses (b), (c), (d) and (f) of Section 3 of this Amendment shall be true and correct and the Administrative Agent shall have received a certificate to that effect from a Responsible Officer of Parent, (2) the representations and warranties of Foundation Parent set forth in the Merger Agreement that are material to the interests of the Lenders and as to which Alpha has the right to terminate its obligations under the Merger Agreement as a result of the breach of such representations and warranties by Foundation Parent under the Merger Agreement (determined without regard to whether any notice is required to be delivered by Alpha with respect thereto) have not been breached to the knowledge of Alpha as of the Amendment No. 1 Effective Date and the Administrative Agent shall have
Representations and Warranties
 
received a certificate to that effect from a Responsible Officer of Alpha, (3) the representations and warranties of Alpha set forth in the Merger Agreement that are material to the interests of the Lenders and as to which Foundation Parent has the right to terminate its obligations under the Merger Agreement as a result of the breach of such representations and warranties by Alpha under the Merger Agreement (determined without regard to whether any notice is required to be delivered by Foundation Parent with respect thereto) have not been breached to the knowledge of Foundation Parent as of the Amendment No. 1 Effective Date and the Administrative Agent shall have received a certificate to that effect from a Responsible Officer of Foundation Parent; provided that, notwithstanding anything in this Amendment or the Credit Agreement or any other letter agreement or other undertaking concerning the financing of the Merger Transaction to the contrary, the only representations and warranties (and related defaults) relating to Foundation Parent, Alpha, their respective subsidiaries and their respective businesses the making of which shall be a condition to the effectiveness of this Amendment shall be (A) such of the representations and warranties made by Foundation Parent and Alpha in the Merger Agreement as are material to the interests of the Lenders (it being understood that the representations and warranties set forth in Sections 3.6(b) and 4.6(b) of the Merger Agreement (including, for the avoidance of doubt, the defined terms referenced therein) are deemed to be material to the interests of the Lenders), but only to the extent that Foundation Parent or Alpha, as applicable, has the right to terminate its obligations under the Merger Agreement as a result of a breach of such representations and warranties in the Merger Agreement, (B) the Specified Representations (as defined below) and (C) clauses (c), (d) and (f) of Section 3. For purposes hereof, "" means the representations and warranties of the Borrower set forth in Sections 3.01, 3.02, 3.03, 3.07(c), 3.09, 3.10, 3.16 and 3.22 of the Credit Agreement;
Specified Representations
(e) . The Merger Transaction shall have been consummated or shall be consummated simultaneously with the closing under this Amendment in accordance with the Merger Agreement and all other related documentation (without amendment, modification or waiver thereof which is materially adverse to the Lenders without the prior consent of the Administrative Agent) and in any event on or prior to the Outside Date (as defined in the Merger Agreement as in effect on the date hereof) and the Administrative Agent shall have received a certificate to that effect from a Responsible Officer of Foundation Parent;
Acquisition
(f) . The Administrative Agent shall have received projections from Parent on a pro forma basis, after giving effect to the Amendment No. 1 Transactions, through and including the 2011 fiscal year (the "");
Projections
Projections
(g) . All requisite material Governmental Authorities and third parties (including, without limitation, all landlord consents as set forth on , substantially in the form of Exhibit H to the Execution Date Credit Agreement, necessary to encumber any leased property by a Mortgage except to the extent such consent cannot be obtained after commercially
Consents
Schedule 2(g)
 
reasonable efforts have been made) shall have approved or consented to the Amendment No. 1 Transactions to the extent required, and there shall be no governmental or judicial action, actual or threatened, that could reasonably be expected to restrain, prevent or impose burdensome conditions on the Amendment No. 1 Transactions or the other transactions contemplated hereby;
(h) [Reserved];
(i) . The Administrative Agent shall have received, on behalf of itself, the Collateral Agent, the Lenders and each Issuing Bank on the Amendment No. 1 Effective Date, a favorable written opinion of (i) the general counsel of Holdings, (ii) Cleary Gottlieb Steen and Hamilton LLP, special counsel for Alpha and those Loan Parties which are Subsidiaries of Alpha (prior to giving effect to the Merger Transaction), (iii) the general counsel of Alpha and (iv) to the extent required pursuant to Section 2(m) with respect to Mortgaged Property or with respect to the New Loan Parties, local counsel reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent as specified on , in each case (A) dated the Amendment No. 1 Effective Date, (B) addressed to the Administrative Agent, the Collateral Agent, each Issuing Bank and the Lenders and (C) in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent;
Opinions of Counsel
Schedule 2(i)
(j) . The Administrative Agent shall have received in the case of each New Loan Party each of the items referred to in clauses (i), (ii), (iii) and (iv) below:
Corporate Documents
(i) a copy of the certificate or articles of incorporation, partnership agreement or limited liability agreement, including all amendments thereto, of each such Loan Party, (A) in the case of a corporation, certified as of a recent date by the Secretary of State (or other similar official) of the jurisdiction of its organization, and a certificate as to the good standing (to the extent such concept or a similar concept exists under the laws of such jurisdiction) of each such Loan Party as of a recent date from such Secretary of State (or other similar official) or (B) in the case of a partnership or limited liability company, certified by the Secretary or Assistant Secretary of each such Loan Party;
(ii) a certificate of the Secretary or Assistant Secretary or similar officer of each Loan Party dated the Amendment No. 1 Effective Date and certifying to the following:
(A) that attached thereto is a true and complete copy of the by-laws (or partnership agreement, limited liability company agreement or other equivalent governing documents) of such Loan Party as in effect on the Amendment No. 1 Effective Date and at all times since a date prior to the date of the resolutions described in subclause (ii)(B) below,
 
(B) that attached thereto is a true and complete copy of resolutions duly adopted by the Board of Directors of such Loan Party (or its managing general partner or managing member) authorizing the execution, delivery and performance of the Loan Documents to which such person is a party and that such resolutions have not been modified, rescinded or amended and are in full force and effect on the Amendment No. 1 Effective Date,
(C) that the certificate or articles of incorporation, partnership agreement or limited liability agreement of such Loan Party have not been amended since the date of the last amendment thereto disclosed pursuant to clause (i) above,
(D) as to the incumbency and specimen signature of each officer executing any Loan Document or any other document delivered in connection herewith on behalf of such Loan Party, and
(E) as to the absence of any pending proceeding for the dissolution or liquidation of such Loan Party or, to the knowledge of such person, threatening the existence of such Loan Party;
(iii) a certificate of another officer as to the incumbency and specimen signature of the Secretary or Assistant Secretary or similar officer executing the certificate pursuant to clause (ii) above; and
(iv) such other documents as the Administrative Agent, the Lenders and any Issuing Bank on the Amendment No. 1 Effective Date may reasonably request (including without limitation, tax identification numbers and addresses);
(k) The Administrative Agent shall have received the results of state and local UCC, judgment and tax Lien searches, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent with respect to each Loan Party;
Lien Searches.
(l) . The Lenders shall have received from the Loan Parties all documentation and other information required by regulatory authorities under applicable "know your customer" and anti-money laundering rules and regulations, including the USA PATRIOT Act requested of such Loan Party at least 5 Business Days prior to the Amendment No. 1 Effective Date;
Patriot Act
(m) . The following shall have been executed and delivered to the Administrative Agent and Collateral Agent:
Collateral and Guarantee Requirement
(i) an updated Perfection Certificate containing information as to each Loan Party as of the Amendment No. 1 Effective Date;
 
(ii) with respect to each Mortgage in effect prior to the Amendment No. 1 Effective Date encumbering Mortgaged Property (including, without limitation, all Covered Property and all Non-Covered Property), a Mortgage Amendment to the applicable Mortgage duly executed and acknowledged by the applicable Loan Party, and in form for recording in the recording office where such Mortgaged Property is located, together with such certificates, affidavits, questionnaires or returns as shall be required in connection with the recording or filing thereof under applicable law, in each case in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Collateral Agent;
(iii) with respect to each property of the New Loan Parties listed on (the "") to the Credit Agreement, a Mortgage substantially in the form of (in the case of Covered Properties) or (in the case of Non-Covered Properties), as applicable, to the Execution Date Credit Agreement duly authorized and executed, in form for recording in the recording office of each jurisdiction where such property is situated, in favor of the Collateral Agent, for its benefit and the benefit of the Secured Parties, together with such other instruments as shall be necessary or appropriate (in the judgment of the Collateral Agent) to create a Lien under applicable law, all of which shall be in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to Collateral Agent, which Mortgage and other instruments shall be (and after giving effect to the Amendment No. 1 Transactions, continues to be) effective to create and/or maintain a first priority Lien on such property;
Schedule 1.01(y)
Parent Mortgaged Property
Exhibit D-1
Exhibit D-2
(iv) a completed "Life-of-Loan" Federal Emergency Management Agency Standard Flood Hazard Determination (i) with respect to each Mortgaged Property (other than any Parent Mortgaged Property) on which a "Building" (as defined in 12 CFR Chapter III, Section 339.2) is located and for which Standard Flood Hazard Determinations were previously delivered which Mortgaged Properties are set forth on to the Perfection Certificate (together with a notice about special flood hazard area status and flood disaster assistance duly executed by the Borrower and each Loan Party relating thereto) and (ii) with respect to each Parent Mortgaged Property on which a "Building" (as defined in 12 CFR Chapter III, Section 339.2) is located, which Parent Mortgaged Properties are set forth on to the Perfection Certificate (together with a notice about special flood hazard area status and flood disaster assistance duly executed by the Borrower and each Loan Party relating thereto);
Schedule 8(d)(i)
Schedule 8(d)(ii)
(v) the Collateral Agent shall have received a copy of, or a certificate as to coverage under, the insurance policies required by Section 5.02 of the Credit Agreement (including, without limitation, flood insurance policies) and the applicable provisions of the Security Documents, each of which shall be endorsed or otherwise amended to include a "standard" or
 
"New York" lender's loss payable or mortgagee endorsement (as applicable) and shall name the Collateral Agent, on behalf of the Secured Parties, as additional insured, in form and substance satisfactory to the Collateral Agent;
(vi) for each New Loan Party, (A) a supplement to the Collateral Agreement, in the form specified therein, duly executed and delivered on behalf of such Loan Party, (B) evidence that all documents and instruments, including UCC financing statements, required by law or reasonably requested by the Collateral Agent to be filed, registered or recorded to create the Liens intended to be created by the Security Documents (in each case, including any supplements thereto) and perfect such Liens to the extent required by, and with the priority required by, the Security Documents, shall have been filed, registered or recorded or delivered to the Collateral Agent for filing, registration or the recording concurrently with the execution and delivery of each such Security Document and (C) if such Subsidiary owns Equity Interests of a Foreign Subsidiary that, as a result the law of the jurisdiction of organization of such Foreign Subsidiary, cannot be pledged under local applicable law to the Collateral Agent under the Collateral Agreement, a foreign pledge agreement with respect to such Equity Interests ( that in no event shall more than 65% of the issued and outstanding Equity Interests of any Foreign Subsidiary be pledged to secure Obligations), duly executed and delivered on behalf of such Subsidiary;
provided
(vii) all the outstanding Equity Interests of any person that becomes a Domestic Subsidiary Loan Party on the Amendment No. 1 Effective Date (and the Equity Interests of Holdings after giving effect to the Merger Transaction) shall have been pledged pursuant to the Collateral Agreement, as applicable ( that in no event shall more than 65% of the issued and outstanding Equity Interests of any Foreign Subsidiary be pledged to secure Obligations), and the Collateral Agent shall have received all certificates or other instruments (if any) representing such Equity Interests, together with stock powers or other instruments of transfer with respect thereto endorsed in blank;
provided
(viii) the Intercompany Lease Agreement shall have been amended and restated or supplemented, as applicable, to include (x) all Loan Parties, including, without limitation, the New Loan Parties and (y) all Intercompany Leases;
(ix) all Indebtedness of Parent, Holdings, the Borrower and each other Subsidiary having an aggregate principal amount in excess of $10.0 million (other than intercompany current liabilities incurred in the ordinary course of business in connection with the cash management operations of Parent and its Subsidiaries) that is owing to any Loan Party shall be evidenced by a promissory note or an instrument and shall have been pledged pursuant to the Collateral Agreement, and the Collateral Agent shall have received all such promissory notes or instruments, together with note powers or other instruments of transfer with respect thereto endorsed in blank;
 
(x) evidence reasonably acceptable to Administrative Agent of payment by the Borrower of (i) all transfer tax obligations arising as a result of the Merger Transaction, if any, and (ii) all title insurance premiums, search and examination charges, mortgage recording taxes and related charges required for the recording of the Mortgages, Mortgage Amendments and issuance of the title insurance endorsements referred to in clause (xi) below;
(xi) with respect to (a) each Covered Property on which significant surface Improvements are located as indicated on to the Execution Date Credit Agreement (other than Covered Properties located in the State of Illinois or the State of West Virginia), an endorsement to the policy of title insurance insuring the Lien of the Mortgage (as amended by the Mortgage Amendment) encumbering such Covered Property as a valid first priority Lien (subject to this clause (xi)) on the Real Property and fixtures described therein and (b) each other Covered Property listed on to the Execution Date Credit Agreement, a bringdown title opinion confirming that the Lien of the Mortgage (as amended by the Mortgage Amendment) encumbering such Covered Property constitutes a valid first priority Lien thereon and fixtures described therein, in the case of subclauses (a) and (b) of this Section 2(m)(xi), in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Collateral Agent;
Schedule 1.01(d)
Schedule 1.01(h)(2)
(xii) upon execution and delivery of the Mortgage Amendments and Mortgages described in clauses (ii) and (iii) of this clause (m) all of the Mortgaged Properties shall be encumbered by Mortgages in favor of the Collateral Agent for its benefit and the benefit of the Secured Parties securing the Obligations;
(xiii) with respect to each Mortgaged Property, an opinion of local counsel in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent as specified on ; and
Schedule 2(i)
(xiv) with respect to each Mortgaged Property, all such other items requested by the Collateral Agent as shall be reasonably necessary in the opinion of counsel to the Collateral Agent to create a valid perfected first priority mortgage Lien on such Mortgaged Property subject only to Prior Liens (including, without limitation, any and all memoranda of leases and certificates of change of name and release, satisfactions and terminations of the liens and security interests securing the obligations under the Alpha Credit Facilities).
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, with respect to any Collateral of any New Loan Party, the security interest in which may not be perfected by filing of a UCC financing statement, delivery of instruments and stock certificates evidencing
 
pledged debt and capital stock of domestic subsidiaries held by such New Loan Party or execution and delivery of the Intercompany Lease Agreement by such New Loan Party, if the perfection of the Administrative Agent's security interest in such Collateral may not be accomplished prior to the Amendment No. 1 Effective Date without undue burden or expense, then delivery of documents and instruments for perfection of such security interest shall not constitute a condition precedent to the effectiveness of this Amendment and Parent agrees to deliver or cause to be delivered such documents or instruments, and take or cause to be taken such other actions as may be required to perfect such security interests, within forty-five (45) days after the Amendment No. 1 Effective Date.
(n) . All obligations under or relating to that certain credit agreement dated as of October 26, 2005 among Alpha, Citicorp North America, Inc., as Administrative Agent and Collateral Agent and the agents and lenders party thereto (the "") (other than customary indemnification obligations) and all liens, guarantees and security interests granted in respect thereof (including all adequate protection obligations related thereto) shall have been discharged, and the terms and conditions of such discharge shall be reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent. The Administrative Agent shall have received payoff and release letters with respect to the Alpha Credit Facilities in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent;
Payoff of Alpha Credit Facility
Alpha Credit Facilities
(o) . Except as set forth in the Alpha Disclosure Schedule (as defined in the Merger Agreement) and/or as disclosed in Alpha's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008 and Alpha's Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission prior to the date of the Merger Agreement (excluding any forward looking disclosures set forth in any "risk factor" section or under the heading "Forward Looking Statements" or any similar sections containing disclaimers or cautionary forward looking disclosure in any of such documents), the absence of any change, effect, event or occurrence that has had, or would reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, an Alpha Material Adverse Effect (as defined in the Merger Agreement), since December 31, 2008;
No Material Adverse Change of Alpha
(p) . Except as set forth in the Foundation Disclosure Schedule (as defined in the Merger Agreement) and/or as disclosed in Foundation Parent's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008 and Foundation Parent's Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission prior to the date of the Merger Agreement (excluding any disclosures set forth in any "risk factor" section or under the heading "Forward Looking Statements" or any similar sections containing disclaimers or cautionary forward looking disclosure in any of such documents), the absence of any change, effect, event or occurrence that has had, or would reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Foundation Material Adverse Effect (as defined in the Merger Agreement), since December 31, 2008;
No Material Adverse Change of Foundation Parent
 
(q) . No provision of any applicable law or regulation, including, without limitation, severance, subdivision, Mining Laws or similar laws, and no judgment, injunction, order or decree shall prohibit the consummation of the Amendment No. 1 Transactions, and all material actions by or in respect of or material filings with any Governmental Authority required to permit the consummation of the Amendment No. 1 Transactions shall have been taken, made or obtained, except for any such actions or filings the failure to take, make or obtain would not be material to Parent and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole;
No Prohibition
(r) . The Administrative Agent shall have received a pro forma consolidated balance sheet and related statements of income for Parent and its subsidiaries (the ""), as well as pro forma levels of EBITDA for Parent and its subsidiaries (""), for the latest four-quarter period ending more than 30 days prior to the Amendment No. 1 Effective Date, in each case after giving effect to the Amendment No. 1 Transactions;
Pro Forma Financial Statements
Pro Forma Financial Statements
Pro Forma EBITDA
(s) . Parent shall have caused a Responsible Officer to have delivered a certificate to the Administrative Agent in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent confirming the solvency of the Loan Parties on a consolidated basis after giving effect to the Amendment No. 1 Transactions.
Solvency
Section 3.
Representations and Warranties
On and as of the Amendment No. 1 Effective Date, after giving effect to this Amendment and the Merger Transaction, each Loan Party hereby represents and warrants to the Administrative Agent and each Lender as follows:
(a) this Amendment has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by each Loan Party and constitutes the legal, valid and binding obligation of such Loan Party enforceable against such Loan Party in accordance with its terms and the Credit Agreement as amended by this Amendment constitutes the legal, valid and binding obligation of the Borrower enforceable against the Borrower in accordance with its terms;
(b) each of the representations and warranties contained in Sections 3.01, 3.02, 3.03, 3.07(c), 3.09, 3.10, 3.16 and 3.22 of the Credit Agreement is true and correct in all material respects on and as of the Amendment No. 1 Effective Date, as if made on and as of such date and except to the extent that such representations and warranties specifically relate to a specific date, in which case such representations and warranties shall be true and correct in all material respects as of such specific date; , , that references in such representations to the "Credit Agreement" shall be deemed to refer to the Credit Agreement as amended hereby and after giving effect to the consents and waivers set forth herein;
provided
however
 
(c) the execution, delivery and performance of this Amendment by the Loan Parties will not (i) violate (A) any provision of law, statute, rule or regulation (including, without limitation, any Mining Law), or of the certificate or articles of incorporation or other constitutive documents or by-laws of such Loan Party, (B) any applicable order of any court or any rule, regulation or order of any Governmental Authority (including, without limitation, any Mining Permit) or (C) any provision of any indenture, lease (including, without limitation, any Mining Lease), agreement or other instrument to which Parent, the Borrower or any other Subsidiary is a party or by which any of them or any of their respective property is or may be bound, (ii) be in conflict with, result in a breach of or constitute (alone or with notice or lapse of time or both) a default under, give rise to a right of or result in any cancellation or acceleration of any right or obligation (including any payment) or to a loss of a material benefit under, any such indenture, lease (including, without limitation, any Mining Lease), agreement or other instrument, where any such conflict, violation, breach or default referred to in clause (i) or (ii) of this paragraph (c), could reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect or (iii) result in the creation or imposition of any Lien upon or with respect to any property or assets now owned or hereafter acquired by Parent, the Borrower or any other Subsidiary, other than the Liens created by the Loan Documents;
(d) (i) prior to giving effect to this Amendment and (ii) after giving effect to this Amendment and the Merger Transaction, no Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing (except for those that are waived);
(e) after giving effect to this Amendment, neither the modification of the Execution Date Credit Agreement effected pursuant to this Amendment nor the execution, delivery, performance or effectiveness of this Amendment
(i) impairs the validity, effectiveness or priority of the Liens granted pursuant any Loan Document (as such term is defined in the Original Credit Agreement and/or the Execution Date Credit Agreement) prior to the Amendment No. 1 Effective Date, and such Liens continue unimpaired with the same priority to secure repayment of all Obligations, whether heretofore or hereafter incurred; or
(ii) requires that any new filings be made or other action taken to perfect or to maintain the perfection of such Liens other than the actions required by Section 2(m)(iii) of this Amendment; and
(f) to the best of its knowledge, the Projections have been prepared in good faith based upon assumptions believed by Alpha to be reasonable as of the date thereof, as of the date such projections and estimates were furnished to the Lenders and as of the Amendment No. 1 Effective Date, it being recognized by the Agents and Lenders that, such financial information as it relates to future events is not to be viewed as fact and that actual results during the period or periods covered by such financial information may differ from the projected results set forth therein by a material amount. Alpha has supplemented the Projections from time to time until the Amendment No. 1 Effective Date such that, to the best of its knowledge, the representations and warranties in the preceding sentence remain true in all material respects.
 
Section 4.
Fees and Expenses
The Borrower and each other Loan Party agree to pay on demand in accordance with the terms of Section 9.05 (Expenses; Indemnity) of the Credit Agreement all reasonable out-of-pocket costs and expenses of the Administrative Agent in connection with the preparation, reproduction, execution and delivery of this Amendment (including, without limitation, the reasonable fees and out-of-pocket expenses of counsel for the Administrative Agent with respect thereto).
Section 5.
Reference to the Effect on the Loan Documents
(a) As of the Amendment No. 1 Effective Date, each reference in the Credit Agreement to "," "," "," "," or words of like import, and each reference in the other Loan Documents to the Credit Agreement (including, without limitation, by means of words like "" "" and words of like import), shall mean and be a reference to the Credit Agreement as amended hereby, and this Amendment and the Credit Agreement shall be read together and construed as a single instrument. Each of the Table of Contents and lists of Exhibits and Schedules of the Credit Agreement shall be amended to reflect the changes made in this Amendment as of the Amendment No. 1 Effective Date.
this Agreement
hereunder
hereof
herein
thereunder,
thereof
(b) Except as expressly amended hereby or specifically waived above, all of the terms and provisions of the Credit Agreement and all other Loan Documents are and shall remain in full force and effect and are hereby ratified and confirmed.
(c) The execution, delivery and effectiveness of this Amendment shall not, except as expressly provided herein, operate as a waiver of any right, power or remedy of the Lenders, the Borrower or the Administrative Agent under any of the Loan Documents, nor constitute a waiver or amendment of any other provision of any of the Loan Documents or for any purpose except as expressly set forth herein.
(d) This Amendment is a Loan Document.
Section 6. Execution in Counterparts
This Amendment may be executed in any number of counterparts and by different parties in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement. Signature pages may be detached from multiple separate counterparts and attached to a single counterpart so that all signature pages are attached to the same document. Delivery of an executed counterpart by telecopy or other electronic transmission shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Amendment.
 
Section 7. Affirmation of Guarantee and Collateral Agreement and Other Obligations
Each Loan Party (other than the Borrower) hereby consents to the amendments to the Credit Agreement effected hereby, and hereby confirms and agrees that, notwithstanding the effectiveness of this Amendment, the obligations of such Loan Party contained in the Collateral Agreement, or in any other Loan Documents to which it is a party are, and shall remain, in full force and effect and are hereby ratified and confirmed in all respects and the Original Collateral and the Original Loan Documents shall continue to secure, guarantee, support and otherwise benefit the Original Obligations and the Obligations of Parent, Holdings, the Borrower and the other Loan Parties under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents.
Section 8.
Governing Law
This Amendment shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the laws of the State of New York; , , that the interpretation of the definitions of Alpha Material Adverse Effect and Foundation Material Adverse Effect (and whether or not a Alpha Material Adverse Effect or Foundation Material Adverse Effect has occurred) in this Amendment shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of Delaware, regardless of the laws that might otherwise govern under applicable principles of conflicts of laws thereof.
provided
however
Section 9.
Section Titles
The section titles contained in this Amendment are and shall be without substantive meaning or content of any kind whatsoever and are not a part of the agreement between the parties hereto, except when used to reference a section. Any reference to the number of a clause, subclause or subsection of any Loan Document immediately followed by a reference in parentheses to the title of the section of such Loan Document containing such clause, subclause or subsection is a reference to such clause, subclause or subsection and not to the entire section; , , that, in case of direct conflict between the reference to the title and the reference to the number of such section, the reference to the title shall govern absent manifest error. If any reference to the number of a section (but not to any clause, subclause or subsection thereof) of any Loan Document is followed immediately by a reference in parentheses to the title of a section of any Loan Document, the title reference shall govern in case of direct conflict absent manifest error.
provided
however
Section 10.
Notices
All communications and notices hereunder shall be given as provided in the Credit Agreement.
 
Section 11.
Severability
The fact that any term or provision of this Agreement is held invalid, illegal or unenforceable as to any person in any situation in any jurisdiction shall not affect the validity, enforceability or legality of the remaining terms or provisions hereof or the validity, enforceability or legality of such offending term or provision in any other situation or jurisdiction or as applied to any person.
Section 12.
Successors
The terms of this Amendment shall be binding upon, and shall inure to the benefit of, the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns.
Section 13.
Waiver of Jury Trial
Each of the parties hereto irrevocably waives trial by jury in any action or proceeding with respect to this Amendment or any other Loan Document.
 
the parties hereto have caused this Amendment to be executed by their respective officers and general partners thereunto duly authorized, as of the date first written above.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF,
 
 
 
 
 
EXECUTION COPY
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CREDIT AGREEMENT, dated as of July 30, 2004, as amended and restated as of July 7, 2006 (as amended, restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, this ""), among FOUNDATION COAL CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation (""), FOUNDATION PA COAL COMPANY, LLC (formerly known as Foundation PA Coal Company, the successor to S2 Acquisition Corp
Agreement
Holdings
.
) (the ""), the LENDERS party hereto from time to time, the ISSUING BANKS party hereto from time to time, CITICORP NORTH AMERICA, INC., as administrative agent (in such capacity, the "") and as collateral agent (in such capacity, the "") for the Lenders, BANK OF AMERICA, N.A., LASALLE BANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, PNC BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION and THE ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND PLC, each as a co-documentation agent (each in such capacity, a ""), CITIGROUP GLOBAL MARKETS INC. (""), as sole syndication agent (in such capacity, the ""), and as sole lead arranger and sole book manager (in such capacity, the "").
Borrower
Administrative Agent
Collateral Agent
Co-Documentation Agent
CGMI
Syndication Agent
Lead Arranger
WHEREAS, the Borrower, FC 2 Corp., Holdings, the Lenders party thereto from time to time (the ", Citicorp North America, Inc., as administrative agent and as collateral agent for the Original Lenders, UBS AG, Stamford Branch, Bear Stearns Corporate Lending, Inc. and Natexis Banques Populaires, each as a co-documentation agent, Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and Credit Suisse First Boston, each as a co-syndication agent, and Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and Credit Suisse First Boston, as joint lead arrangers and joint book managers, originally entered into the Credit Agreement, dated as of July 30, 2004, as amended by (i) Amendment No. 1, dated as of November 12, 2004 and (ii) Amendment No. 2, dated as of October 18, 2005 (the "").
Original Lenders")
Original Credit Agreement
WHEREAS, on the Amendment Effective Date (as defined below), (a) the Tranche B Term Loans (as defined in the Original Credit Agreement) in an aggregate principal amount of $335.0 million are outstanding under the Original Credit Agreement and (b) Revolving Facility Loans (as defined in the Original Credit Agreement) in an aggregate principal amount of $0 are outstanding under the Original Credit Agreement.
WHEREAS, Holdings, the Borrower, the Lenders party hereto and the other parties hereto desire to amend and restate the Original Credit Agreement on and subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein and in the Amendment Agreement, dated as of the date of this Agreement (the ""), among FC 2 Corp., Holdings, the Borrower, the Lenders party thereto, the Administrative Agent, the Collateral Agent and the other parties thereto.
Amendment Agreement
WHEREAS, the Borrower desires (a) to create a new class of New Term Loans (as defined below) to refinance and replace the Tranche B Term Loans outstanding under the Original Credit Agreement, (b) to create a new class of New Revolving Facility Commitments (as defined below) to replace the Revolving Facility Commitments under the Original Credit Agreement, and the proceeds of the New Revolving Facility Loans (as defined below) made under the New Revolving Facility Commitments on the Amendment Effective Date shall be applied to refinance and replace the Revolving Facility Loans outstanding under the Original
Credit Agreement, (c) to provide for an increase in the amount available for Letters of Credit from $250.0 million to $500.0 million, (d) to release FC 2 Corp from its Guarantee under the Collateral Agreement, (e) to release Coal Gas (as defined below) of the Loan Parties from the Collateral, and (f) to make certain other changes as provided herein.
WHEREAS, the Obligations (as defined in the Original Credit Agreement) of Holdings, the Borrower and the other Loan Parties under the Original Credit Agreement and the Security Documents (as defined in the Original Credit Agreement, such Security Documents hereinafter the "") are secured by certain Collateral (as defined in the Original Credit Agreement) and are guaranteed or supported or otherwise benefited by the Original Security Documents.
Original Security Documents
WHEREAS, the parties hereto intend that (a) the Obligations of Holdings, the Borrower and the other Loan Parties under the Original Credit Agreement and the other Loan Documents (as defined in the Original Credit Agreement) (the "" and such other Loan Documents are referred to as the "") that remain unpaid and outstanding as of and after giving effect to the Amendment Effective Date shall continue to exist under and be evidenced by this Agreement and the other Loan Documents (as defined below), (b) any letters of credit outstanding under the Original Credit Agreement as of the date of this Agreement (the "") shall be Letters of Credit under and as defined herein and (c) subject to Sections 15 and 16 of the Amendment Agreement, the Collateral (as defined in the Original Credit Agreement)
Original Obligations
Original Loan Documents
Existing Letters of Credit
(the "Original Collateral")
and the Original Loan Documents shall continue to secure, guarantee, support and otherwise benefit the Original Obligations and the Obligations of Holdings, the Borrower and the other Loan Parties under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents.
WHEREAS, the proceeds of the Loans are to be used in accordance with .
Section 5.08
WHEREAS, the Lenders hereto are willing to amend and restate the Original Credit Agreement and are willing to continue and extend such credit to the Borrower and each Issuing Bank is willing to issue letters of credit for the account of any Loan Party and the other parties hereto are willing to amend and restate the Original Credit Agreement, in each case on the terms and subject to the conditions set forth herein.
NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and the agreements, provisions and covenants herein contained, the Original Credit Agreement is hereby amended and restated to read in its entirety as follows and, accordingly, the parties hereto agree as follows:
SECTION 1.01. . As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the meanings specified below:
Defined Terms
"" shall mean a Borrowing comprised of ABR Loans.
ABR Borrowing
 
"" shall mean any ABR New Term Loan, ABR New Revolving Loan or Swingline Loan.
ABR Loan
"" shall mean a Borrowing comprised of ABR New Revolving Loans.
ABR New Revolving Facility Borrowing
"" shall mean any New Revolving Facility Loan bearing interest at a rate determined by reference to the Alternate Base Rate in accordance with the provisions of Article II.
ABR New Revolving Loan
"" shall mean any New Term Loan bearing interest at a rate determined by reference to the Alternate Base Rate in accordance with the provisions of Article II.
ABR New Term Loan
"" shall have the meaning assigned to such term in the definition of the term
Acquisition
"
Acquisition Agreement
"
.
"" that certain Stock Purchase Agreement dated May 24, 2004 with RAG Coal International AG, a company organized under the laws of Germany, pursuant to which, among other things, Holdings acquired all of the issued and outstanding shares of each of (i) Foundation Coal West, Inc., a Delaware corporation (""), (ii) Foundation Wyoming Land Company, a Delaware corporation (""), and (iii) Foundation American Coal Holding, LLC (formerly known as Foundation Coal Holding, Inc., a Delaware corporation) ("") (collectively, the "").
Acquisition Agreement
Foundation West
Foundation Wyoming
Foundation American Coal Holding
Acquisition
"" shall mean cash amounts received by Holdings, the Borrower or any of their Affiliates in respect of any claim under the Acquisition Agreement or as a direct or indirect result of any breach of any term or provision of the Acquisition Agreement or otherwise in respect of any claim by Holdings, the Borrower or any of their Affiliates arising out of the Acquisition (other than any working capital or capital expenditure adjustments under the Acquisition Agreement), in an aggregate amount in excess of $5.0 million; , , that Acquisition Agreement Payments shall not include such cash amounts relating to indemnification of amounts actually paid or reasonably expected to be paid by any of Holdings, the Borrower or any of their Affiliates to persons other than Holdings, the Borrower or any of their Affiliates.
Acquisition Agreement Payments
provided
however
"" shall mean Holdings.
Acquisition Corp.
"" shall have the meaning assigned to such term in Section
Additional New Commitments
2.21.
2.21(a).
"" shall have the meaning assigned to such term in Section
Additional Lender
2.21.
2.21(a).
"" shall have the meaning assigned to such term in Section 5.10(c).
Additional Mortgage
 
"" shall have the meaning assigned to such term in Section
Additional New Revolving Facility Commitments
2.21.
2.21(a).
"" shall have the meaning assigned to such term in Section
Additional New Revolving Facility Lender
2.21.
2.21(a).
"" shall have the meaning assigned to such term in Section
Additional New Term Loan Commitments
2.21.
2.21(a).
"" shall have the meaning assigned to such term in Section
Additional New Term Loan Lender
2.21.
2.21(a).
"" shall have the meaning assigned to such term in Section
Additional New Term Loan
2.21.
2.21(a).
"" shall mean, with respect to any Eurocurrency Borrowing for any Interest Period, an interest rate per annum (rounded upwards, if necessary, to the next 1/16 of 1%) equal to the product of (a) the LIBO Rate in effect for such Interest Period and (b) Statutory Reserves applicable to such Eurocurrency Borrowing, if any.
Adjusted LIBO Rate
"" shall have the meaning assigned to such term in the introductory paragraph of this Agreement.
Administrative Agent
"" shall have the meaning assigned to such term in Section 2.12(c).
Administrative Agent Fees
"" shall mean an Administrative Questionnaire in the form of
Administrative Questionnaire
Exhibit B
to the Execution Date Credit Agreement.
"" shall mean, when used with respect to a specified person, another person that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, Controls or is Controlled by or is under common Control with the person specified.
Affiliate
"" shall have the meaning assigned to such term in Section 9.17(c).
Agent Parties
"" shall mean the Administrative Agent and the Collateral Agent.
Agents
"" shall have the meaning assigned to such term in the introductory paragraph of this Agreement.
Agreement
"Alpha" shall mean Alpha Natural Resources, Inc., a
Delaware
corporation.
"" shall mean, for any day, a rate per annum equal to the greater of (a) Citibank, N.A.'s Base Rate, (b) the three-month certificate of deposit plus 1/2 of 1% and (c) the Federal Funds Effective Rate in effect on such day plus 1/2 of 1%. If for any reason the Administrative Agent shall have determined (which determination shall be conclusive absent manifest error) that it is unable to ascertain the Federal Funds Effective Rate, including the failure of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York to publish
Alternate Base Rate
 
rates or the inability of the Administrative Agent to obtain quotations in accordance with the terms thereof, the Alternate Base Rate shall be determined without regard to clause (c) of the preceding sentence until the circumstances giving rise to such inability no longer exist. Any change in the Alternate Base Rate due to a change in the Base Rate or the Federal Funds Effective Rate shall be effective on the effective date of such change in the Base Rate or the Federal Funds Effective Rate, respectively.
"" shall have the meaning assigned to such term in the recitals hereto.
Amendment Agreement
"" shall mean the date, not later than July 7, 2006, that the conditions precedent set forth in Section 4.02(B) have been satisfied.
Amendment Effective Date
"Amendment No. 1" shall mean Amendment No. 1 to this Agreement among the Loan Parties, the Administrative Agent and certain Lenders party hereto dated as of [            ], 2009.
"Amendment No. 1 Transactions" shall mean the Merger Transaction, the execution and delivery of Amendment No. 1 and the transactions contemplated thereby (including, without limitation, the execution and delivery of the Security Documents contemplated thereby), the payment in full of all obligations under the Alpha Natural Resources, LLC credit agreement, dated as of October 26, 2005, and the payment of fees and expenses related thereto.
"Amendment No. 1 Effective Date" shall mean the date not later than [            ], 2009, that the conditions precedent set forth in Section 2 to Amendment No. 1 have been satisfied.
"" shall have the meaning assigned to such term in Section 3.22(a).
Anti-Terrorism Laws
"" shall mean (i) for any day with respect to any Eurocurrency Loan that is a New Revolving Facility Loan and any ABR Loan that is a New Revolving Facility Loan, the applicable margin per annum set forth below under the caption "New Revolving Facility Loan ABR Spread" and "New Revolving Facility Loan Eurocurrency Spread," as applicable, based upon the Leverage Ratio as of the most recent determination date, and (ii) for any day with respect to any Eurocurrency Loan that is a New Term Loan
Applicable Margin
, 3.25%
and any ABR Loan that is a New Term Loan,
the applicable margin per annum set forth below under the caption "New Term Loan ABR Spread" and "New Term Loan Eurocurrency Spread," as applicable, based upon the Leverage Ratio as of the most recent determination date
2.25%
.
 
For purposes of the foregoing, (1) the Leverage Ratio shall be determined as of the end of each fiscal quarter of
Holdings
Parent
'
s
fiscal year based upon the consolidated financial information of
Holdings
Parent
and the Subsidiaries delivered pursuant to Section 5.04(a) or (b) and (2) each change in the Applicable Margin resulting from a change in the Leverage Ratio shall be effective during the period commencing on and including the first Business Day after the date of delivery to the Administrative Agent of such consolidated financial information indicating such change and ending on the date immediately preceding the effective date of the next such change; that until the Trigger Date, the Leverage Ratio shall be deemed to be in Category
provided
2
3
; , , that the Leverage Ratio shall be deemed to be in Category 1 at the option of the Administrative Agent or the Required Lenders, at any time during which
provided
further
Holdings
Parent
fails to deliver the consolidated financial information when required to be delivered pursuant to Section 5.04(a) or (b), during the period from the expiration of the time for delivery thereof until such consolidated financial information is delivered.
"" shall mean, with respect to any Letter of Credit issued hereunder, the applicable Loan Party requesting issuance of such Letter of Credit.
Applicant Party
"" shall have the meaning assigned to such term in Section 9.04(b).
Approved Fund
"" shall mean any Permitted Business Acquisition, the aggregate consideration for which exceeds $25.0 million.
Asset Acquisition
"" shall mean any sale, transfer or other disposition by
Asset Disposition
Holdings
Parent
or any of the Subsidiaries to any person other than
Holdings
Parent
or any Subsidiary to the extent otherwise permitted hereunder of any asset or group of related assets (other than inventory or other assets sold, transferred or otherwise disposed of in the ordinary course of business) in one or a series of related transactions, the Net Proceeds from which exceed $25.0 million.
 
"" shall mean an assignment and acceptance entered into by a Lender and an assignee, and accepted by the Administrative Agent and the Borrower (if required by such assignment and acceptance), in the form of
Assignment and Acceptance
Exhibit A
to the Execution Date Credit Agreement
or such other form as shall be approved by the Administrative Agent.
"" shall mean the period from and including the Amendment Effective Date to but excluding the earlier of (i) the New Revolving Facility Maturity Date and (ii) the date of termination of the New Revolving Facility Commitments.
Availability Period
"" shall mean, on any date of determination, an amount equal to (a) the aggregate amount of proceeds received after the Amendment Effective Date and prior to such date that would have constituted Net Proceeds pursuant to clause (a) of the definition thereof except for the operation of clause (x) or (y) of the second proviso thereof, minus (b) any amounts thereof used to make Investments pursuant to Section 6.04(b) and/or clause (iii) of Section 6.04(m) after the Amendment Effective Date and on or prior to such date, minus (c) the aggregate amount of Capital Expenditures
Available Investment Basket Amount
(as defined in the Execution Date Credit Agreement)
made after the Amendment Effective Date and on or prior to
the earlier of
such date
and the Amendment No. 1 Effective Date
pursuant to Section 6.10(c)
of the Execution Date Credit Agreement
.
"" shall mean, with respect to a New Revolving Facility Lender at any time, an amount equal to the amount by which (a) the New Revolving Facility Commitment of such New Revolving Facility Lender at such time exceeds (b) the New Revolving Facility Credit Exposure of such New Revolving Facility Lender at such time.
Available Unused Commitment
"" shall mean the sum (adjusted to the nearest 0.25% or, if there is no nearest 0.25% to the next higher 0.25%) of (i) 0.5% per annum, (ii) the rate per annum obtained by dividing (A) the latest three-week moving average of secondary market morning offering rates in the United States for three-month certificates of deposit of major United States money market banks, such three-week moving average being determined weekly on each Monday (or, if any such day is not a Business Day, on the next succeeding Business Day) for the three-week period ending on the previous Friday by Citibank, N.A. on the basis of such rates reported by certificate of deposit dealers to and published by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York or, if such publication shall be suspended or terminated, on the basis of quotations for such rates received by Citibank, N.A. from three New York certificate of deposit dealers of recognized standing selected by Citibank, N.A., by (B) a percentage equal to 100% minus the average of the daily percentages specified during such three-week period by the Federal Reserve Board for determining the maximum reserve requirement (including any emergency, supplemental or other marginal reserve requirement) for Citibank, N.A. in respect of liabilities consisting of or including (among other liabilities) three-month U.S. dollar nonpersonal time deposits in the United States and (iii) the average during such three-week period of the maximum annual assessment rates estimated by Citibank, N.A. for determining the then current annual assessment payable by Citibank, N.A. to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (or any successor) for insuring U.S. Dollar deposits in the United States.
Base Rate
"" shall mean the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System of the United States of America.
Board
 
"" shall mean, with respect to any Person, (i) in the case of any corporation, the board of directors of such Person, (ii) in the case of any limited liability company, the board of managers of such Person, (iii) in the case of any partnership, the Board of Directors of the general partner of such Person and (iv) in any other case, the functional equivalent of the foregoing.
Board of Directors
"" shall have the meaning assigned to it in the recitals hereof.
Borrower
"" shall mean a group of Loans of a single Type under a single Facility and made on a single date and, in the case of Eurocurrency Loans, as to which a single Interest Period is in effect.
Borrowing
"" shall mean (a) in the case of an ABR New Revolving Facility Borrowing, $5.0 million, (b) in the case of a Eurocurrency New Revolving Facility Borrowing, $5.0 million, and (c) in the case of a Swingline Borrowing, $500,000.
Borrowing Minimum
"" shall mean (a) in the case of a New Revolving Facility Borrowing $1.0 million as applicable and (b) in the case of a Swingline Borrowing, $500,000.
Borrowing Multiple
"" shall mean a request by the Borrower in accordance with the terms of Section 2.03 and substantially in the form of
Borrowing Request
Exhibit C-
1
.
1 to the Execution Date Credit Agreement.
"" shall mean any day that is not a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which commercial banks in New York City are authorized or required by law to remain closed; that when used in connection with a Eurocurrency Loan, the term "Business Day" shall also exclude any day on which banks are not open for dealings in deposits in the applicable currency in the London interbank market.
Business Day
provided
"Capital Expenditures" shall mean, for any person in respect of any period, the aggregate of all expenditures incurred by such person during such period that, in accordance with GAAP, are or should be included in "additions to property, plant or equipment" or similar items reflected in the statement of cash flows of such person; provided, however, that Capital Expenditures for Holdings and the Subsidiaries shall not include:
(a)
[
intentionally
omitted],
(b)
expenditures of proceeds of insurance settlements, condemnation awards and other settlements in respect of lost, destroyed, damaged or condemned assets, equipment or other property to the extent such expenditures are made to replace or repair such lost, destroyed, damaged or condemned assets, equipment or other property or otherwise to acquire, maintain, develop, construct, improve, upgrade or repair assets or properties useful in the business of the Borrower and the Subsidiaries within 12 months of receipt of such proceeds,
(c)
interest
capitalized during such period,
 
(d)
expenditures that are accounted for as capital expenditures of such person and that actually are paid for by a third party (excluding Holdings or any Subsidiary thereof) and for which neither Holdings nor any Subsidiary thereof has provided or is required to provide or incur, directly or indirectly, any consideration or obligation to such third party or any other person (whether before, during or after such period),
(e)
the book value of any asset owned by such person prior to or during such period to the extent that such book value is included as a capital expenditure during such period as a result of such person reusing or beginning to reuse such asset during such period without a corresponding expenditure actually having been made in such period,
provided
that (
i
) any expenditure necessary in order to permit such asset to be reused shall be included as a Capital Expenditure during the period that such expenditure actually is made and (ii) such book value shall have been included in Capital Expenditures when such asset was originally acquired,
(f)
the purchase price of equipment purchased during such period to the extent the consideration
therefor
consists of any combination of (
i
) used or surplus equipment traded in at the time of such purchase and (ii) the proceeds of a concurrent sale of used or surplus equipment, in each case, in the ordinary course of business,
(g)
Investments in respect of a Permitted Business Acquisition,
(h)
the purchase price of equipment that is purchased substantially contemporaneously with the trade-in of existing equipment to the extent that the gross amount of such purchase price is reduced by the credit granted by the seller of such equipment for the equipment being traded in at such time, or
(
i
)
expenditures
incurred as a result of the Lease by Application in
Powder
River Basin
.
"" of any person shall mean the obligations of such person to pay rent or other amounts under any lease of (or other arrangement conveying the right to use) real or personal property, or a combination thereof, which obligations are required to be classified and accounted for as capital leases on a balance sheet of such person under GAAP and, for purposes hereof, the amount of such obligations at any time shall be the capitalized amount thereof at such time determined in accordance with GAAP.
Capital Lease Obligations
"" shall have the meaning assigned to it in Section 6.06(
Capital Stock Buyback Distributions
f
e
).
"" shall mean to collect, treat (if necessary), process (if necessary), transport, store (if necessary), market and sell Gas that is available from any well or any bore or vent hole.
Capture
"
Cash
Collateralize" means, in respect of an obligation, provide and pledge (as a first priority perfected security interest) cash collateral in Dollars, at a location and pursuant to documentation in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent (and "Cash Collateralization" has a corresponding meaning).
 
"Cash
" shall mean, with respect to
Interest Expense
Holdings
Parent
and the Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis for any period, Interest Expense for such period, less the sum of (a) pay-in-kind Interest Expense or other noncash Interest Expense (including as a result of the effects of purchase accounting), (b) to the extent included in Interest Expense, the amortization of any financing fees paid by, or on behalf of,
Holdings
Parent
or any Subsidiary, including such fees paid in connection with the Transactions, (c) the amortization of debt discounts, if any, or fees in respect of Swap Agreements and (d) cash interest income of
Holdings
Parent
and its Subsidiaries for such period; that Cash Interest Expense shall exclude any one-time financing fees paid in connection with the New Transactions or any amendment of this Agreement or upon entering into a Permitted Receivables Financing.
provided
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in the introductory paragraph of this Agreement.
CGMI
A "" shall be deemed to occur
Change in Control
(in each case, other than in connection with the Merger Transaction)
if:
(a)
at any time the Public
Parent
shall
fail
ceases
to
beneficially
own, directly or indirectly,
beneficially and of record, 100%
all
of the
issued and outstanding
Equity Interests of
Holdings, Foundation American Coal Holding, Foundation West, Foundation Wyoming and
the Borrower; or
(b) at any time, a majority of the seats (other than vacant seats) on the Board of Directors of
the Public
Parent shall at any time be occupied by persons who were neither (A) nominated by the Board of Directors of
the Public
Parent or (B) appointed by directors so nominated; or
(c) a "Change in Control" shall occur under the Senior Note Indenture or under any Permitted Debt Securities; or
(d) any "person" or "group" (each as used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Exchange Act as in effect on the Amendment Effective Date) is or becomes the beneficial owner (as defined in Rule 13d-3 of the Exchange Act as in effect on the Amendment Effective Date), directly or indirectly, in the aggregate Equity Interests representing 35% or more of the aggregate ordinary voting power represented by the issued and outstanding Equity Interests of
the Public
Parent
; or(e)
Holdings ceases to beneficially own, directly or indirectly, all of the Equity Interests of the Borrower
.
"" shall mean (a) the adoption of any law, rule or regulation after the Amendment Effective Date, (b) any change in law, rule or regulation or in the interpretation or application thereof by any Governmental Authority after the Amendment Effective Date or (c) compliance by any Lender or Issuing Bank (or, for purposes of Section 2.15(b), by any lending office of such Lender or by such Lender's or Issuing Bank's holding company, if any) with any written request, guideline or directive (whether or not having the force of law) of any Governmental Authority made or issued after the Amendment Effective Date.
Change in Law
"" shall have the meaning assigned to such term in Section 9.09.
Charges
 
"" shall mean all types of solid naturally occurring hydrocarbons (other than oil shale or Gilsonite), including without limitation, bituminous and sub-bituminous coal, and lignite.
Coal
"" shall mean occluded methane gas and all associated natural gas and other hydrocarbons of whatever quality or quantity, whether known or unknown, that are, can be, or historically have been produced or emitted from coalbeds, coal formations, coal seams, mined out areas, gob areas, or any related, associated, or adjacent rock material or strata, together with all substances produced with each of the foregoing or refined therefrom. For the avoidance of doubt, the term "Coal Gas" shall expressly include all substances commonly known as "coalbed methane," "coal mine methane," and "gob gas".
Coal Gas
"Coal Supply Agreements" shall mean those contracts entered into by Parent or any of the Subsidiaries from time to time for the sale, purchase, exchange, processing or handling of coal with an initial term of more than one year.
"" shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time.
Code
"" shall have the meaning assigned to such term in the introductory paragraph of this Agreement.
Co-Documentation Agent
"" shall mean all the "Collateral" as defined in any Security Document and
Collateral
all other assets that become subject to the Liens created by the Security
Documents from time to time and
shall also include the Mortgaged Properties
; provided, however, that Collateral shall not include Receivables Assets
.
"" shall have the meaning given such term in the introductory paragraph of this Agreement.
Collateral Agent
"" shall mean the Guarantee and Collateral Agreement, in the form of to the Original Credit Agreement, dated as of the Original Closing Date, among FC 2 Corp., Holdings, the Borrower, each Domestic Subsidiary Loan Party and the Collateral Agent, as amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time.
Collateral Agreement
Exhibit E
"" shall mean the requirement that:
Collateral and Guarantee Requirement
1
(a) on the Original Closing Date, the Collateral Agent shall have received from FC 2 Corp., Holdings, the Borrower and each Domestic Subsidiary Loan Party a counterpart of the Collateral Agreement duly executed and delivered on behalf of such person;
 
 
(b) on the Original Closing Date, the Collateral Agent shall have received all the issued and outstanding Equity Interests of (A) Holdings, (B) the Borrower, (C) each Domestic Subsidiary Loan Party and (D) any other Domestic Subsidiary owned on the Original Closing Date directly by or on behalf of FC 2 Corp. or any Domestic Subsidiary Loan Party, except to the extent that a pledge of such Equity Interests would violate applicable law or a contractual obligation binding upon such Equity Interests as of the Original Closing Date and for so long as such restriction exists; and the Collateral Agent shall have received all certificates or other instruments (if any) representing such Equity Interests, together with stock powers or other instruments of transfer with respect thereto endorsed in blank;
(c) in the case of
(
i
) Parent or (ii) 
any person that becomes a Domestic Subsidiary Loan Party after the Original Closing Date
(including, without limitation, any Special Purpose Receivables Subsidiary that ceases to be an Unrestricted Subsidiary as provided in the final proviso of the definition of "Unrestricted Subsidiary")
, the Collateral Agent shall have received (i) a supplement to the Collateral Agreement, in the form specified therein, duly executed and delivered on behalf of such Domestic Subsidiary Loan Party and (ii) if such Subsidiary owns Equity Interests of a Foreign Subsidiary that, as a result the law of the jurisdiction of organization of such Foreign Subsidiary, cannot be pledged under local applicable law to the Collateral Agent under the Collateral Agreement, a foreign pledge agreement with respect to such Equity Interests ( that in no event shall more than 65% of the issued and outstanding Equity Interests of any Foreign Subsidiary be pledged to secure Obligations), duly executed and delivered on behalf of such Subsidiary;
provided
(d) after the Original Closing Date, all the outstanding Equity Interests of (A) any person that becomes a Domestic Subsidiary Loan Party after the Original Closing Date and (B) subject to Section 5.10(f), all the Equity Interests that are acquired by a Loan Party
(including the Equity Interests of Holdings after giving effect to the Merger Transaction)
after the Original Closing Date, shall have been pledged pursuant to the Collateral Agreement, as applicable (provided that in no event shall more than 65% of the issued and outstanding Equity Interests of any Foreign Subsidiary be pledged to secure Obligations), and the Collateral Agent shall have received all certificates or other instruments (if any) representing such Equity Interests, together with stock powers or other instruments of transfer with respect thereto endorsed in blank;
(e) all Indebtedness of
Holdings, the
Borrower
Parent
and each
other
Subsidiary having an aggregate principal amount in excess of $10.0 million (other than intercompany current liabilities incurred in the ordinary course of business in connection with the cash management operations of
Holdings
Parent
and its Subsidiaries) that is owing to any Loan Party shall be evidenced by a promissory note or an instrument and shall have been pledged pursuant to the Collateral Agreement, and the Collateral Agent shall have received all such promissory notes or instruments, together with note powers or other instruments of transfer with respect thereto endorsed in blank;
(f) all documents and instruments, including UCC financing statements, required by law or reasonably requested by the Collateral Agent to be filed, registered or recorded to create the Liens intended to be created by the Security Documents (in each case, including any supplements thereto) and perfect such Liens to the extent required by, and with the priority required by, the Security Documents, shall have been filed, registered or recorded or delivered to the Collateral Agent for filing, registration or the recording concurrently with
, or promptly following,
the execution and delivery of each such Security Document;
 
(g) each Loan Party shall have obtained all consents and approvals required to be obtained by it in connection with the execution and delivery of all Security Documents (or supplements thereto) to which it is a party and the granting by it of the Liens thereunder and the performance of its obligations thereunder; and
(h) the Collateral Agent shall receive from the applicable Loan Parties the following documents and instruments relating to the Real Property Collateral on the dates specified below:
(i) with respect to each Covered Property and each after acquired Real Property to be encumbered by an Additional Mortgage pursuant to Section 5.10, on the Original Closing Date, in the case of Covered Property, and on the date specified in Section 5.10, in the case of such after acquired Real Property, a Mortgage substantially in the form of to the Original Credit Agreement duly authorized and executed, in form for recording in the recording office of each jurisdiction where the Covered Property or such after acquired Real Property to be encumbered thereby is situated, in favor of the Collateral Agent, for its benefit and the benefit of the Secured Parties, together with such other instruments as shall be necessary or appropriate (in the judgment of the Collateral Agent) to create a Lien under applicable law, all of which shall be in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to Collateral Agent, which Mortgage and other instruments is (and after giving effect to the New Transactions, continues to be) effective to create and/or maintain a first priority Lien on such Covered Property or such after acquired Real Property, as the case may be, subject to (i) no Liens other than Prior Liens applicable to such Covered Property or such after acquired Real Property, as the case may be and (ii) in the case of such after acquired Real Property, Permitted Encumbrances;
Exhibit D-1
(ii) on the Original Closing Date, with respect to each Non-Covered Property owned by Holdings and the applicable Loan Party as of such Original Closing Date, a Mortgage in the form of to the Original Credit Agreement, duly authorized and executed, in form for recording in the recording office of each jurisdiction where such Real Property encumbered thereby is situated, in favor of the Collateral Agent for its benefit and the benefit of the Secured Parties, together with such other instruments as shall be necessary or appropriate (in the judgment of the Collateral Agent) to create a Lien under applicable law, all of which shall be in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to Collateral Agent, which Mortgage and other instruments is (and after giving effect to the New Transactions, continues to be) effective to create and/or maintain a first priority Lien on such Non-Covered Property subject to (i) no Liens other than Prior Liens applicable to such Non-Covered Property, (ii) Permitted Encumbrances; and (iii) the inability of the Loan Parties to grant a security interest in unrecorded Real Property interests; , , that the Loan Parties shall endeavor to record such unrecorded instruments in accordance with Section 1.10 of the Mortgage;
Exhibit D-2
provided
however
 
(iii) on the Original Closing Date, an Intercompany Lease Agreement, duly authorized and executed, assigning each Loan Party's interest in the Intercompany Leases to the Collateral Agent, for its benefit and the benefit of the Secured Parties, in form for recording in the recording office of each jurisdiction where the Real Property demised under each Intercompany Lease is situated, together with such other instruments as shall be necessary or appropriate (in the judgment of the Collateral Agent) to create a Lien under applicable law, all of which shall be in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to Collateral Agent, which Intercompany Lease Agreement and other instruments is (and after giving effect to the New Transactions, continues to be) effective to create (upon recordation of such instruments at the times contemplated in the Intercompany Lease Agreement) a first priority Lien on such Loan Party's interests in the Intercompany Leases subject to no Liens other than Prior Liens permitted by the Intercompany Lease Agreement;
(iv) with respect to each Covered Property demised under a lease requiring consent to encumber such Covered Property by a Mortgage as set forth in to the Original Credit Agreement a landlord consent, substantially in the form of to the Original Credit Agreement, or such other form as is reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent, delivered on the Original Closing Date; and with respect to each Real Property listed on to the Original Credit Agreement a landlord consent, substantially in the form of to the Original Credit Agreement, or such other form as is reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent, delivered within the Original Post-Closing Matters Period, except to the extent such consent cannot be obtained after commercially reasonable efforts to obtain such consent within the Original Post-Closing Matters Period have been made;
Schedule 1.01(c)
Exhibit H
Schedule 1.01(h)(1)
Exhibit H
(v) on the Original Closing Date
, on the Amendment Effective Date,
and on the Amendment
No. 1
Effective Date
(subject to the last paragraph in Section 2(m) of Amendment No. 1)
, with respect to each Real Property (including both Covered Property and Non-Covered Property), policies or certificates of insurance of the type required by Section 5.02;
(vi) on the Original Closing Date
, on the Amendment Effective Date,
and on the Amendment
No. 1
Effective Date, with respect to each Real Property (including, without limitation, both Covered Property and Non-Covered Property), UCC, judgment and tax Lien searches in form and substance satisfactory to Administrative Agent;
(vii) on the Original Closing Date and within the Original Post-Closing Matters Period, as applicable, evidence acceptable to Administrative Agent of payment by
the
Borrower of all title insurance premiums, search and examination charges, mortgage recording taxes and related charges required for the recording of the Mortgages and issuance of the title insurance policies referred to in clause (ix) below;
(viii) [intentionally omitted];
 
(ix) within the Original Post-Closing Matters Period, with respect to (a) each Covered Property on which significant surface Improvements are located as indicated on to the Original Credit Agreement (other than Covered Properties located in the State of Illinois or the State of West Virginia), a policy of title insurance (or marked up commitment having the effect of a title insurance policy) or a binding commitment from the Title Company to issue such title insurance in the form approved by the Administrative Agent insuring the Lien of the Mortgage encumbering such Covered Property as a valid first priority Lien (subject to this paragraph (x)) on the Real Property and fixtures described therein and (b) each other Covered Property listed on to the Original Credit Agreement, a title opinion confirming that the Lien of the Mortgage encumbering such Covered Property constitutes a valid first priority Lien thereon and fixtures described therein. Each policy of title insurance (or marked up commitment having the effect of a title insurance policy) described in this clause (ix) shall be in an amount set forth on to the Original Credit Agreement and shall (a) be issued by the Title Company, (b) include such reinsurance arrangements (with provisions for direct access) as shall be reasonably acceptable to Administrative Agent, (c) have been supplemented by such endorsements (or where such endorsements are not available, opinions of special counsel or other professionals acceptable to Administrative Agent) as shall be reasonably requested by Administrative Agent and shall be available in the applicable jurisdiction at commercially reasonable rates (including, without limitation, endorsements on matters relating to usury, first loss, last dollar, zoning (or PZR report), revolving credit, doing business, variable rate, address, separate tax lot, subdivision, tie in or cluster, deletion of the creditors' rights exclusion, and, to the extent the Loan Parties shall, after utilizing commercially reasonable efforts, be successful in inducing the Title Company to accept an instrument of indemnification from the Loan Parties in lieu of a survey to issue such endorsements, contiguity, road access and so-called comprehensive coverage over covenants and restrictions), (d) include such affidavits and instruments of indemnifications by
Schedule 1.01(d)
Schedule 1.01(h)(2)
Schedule 1.01(f)
the
Borrower and the applicable Subsidiary as shall be reasonably required to induce the Title Company to issue the policy or policies (or commitment) and endorsements contemplated in this paragraph and (e) contain no exceptions to title other than exceptions for Prior Liens and other exceptions reasonably acceptable to Administrative Agent. Each title opinion referred to in the foregoing in this clause (ix) shall (a) contain such supplemental opinions as shall be reasonably requested by Administrative Agent and shall be commercially reasonably available (including, without limitation, opinions on matters relating to zoning (or PZR report), contiguity and road access), (b) be accompanied by such affidavits and instruments as shall be reasonably requested by Administrative Agent in connection with such opinions and (c) contain no exceptions to title other than exceptions for Prior Liens and other exceptions reasonably acceptable to Administrative Agent; it being understood that with respect to the legal descriptions attached to the Mortgages encumbering the Covered Properties insured by the policies of title insurance described by this clause (ix), in the event the Administrative Agent determines that any Mortgage does not include all of the real property which is owned or leased by
the
Borrower or a
 
Subsidiary at that particular site, then upon written notice of the Administrative Agent,
the
Borrower or its Subsidiary shall execute and deliver (at the sole cost and expense of
the
Borrower) all necessary documentation, including without limitation an amendment to the applicable Mortgage, to cause the unencumbered portion of said real property to be included in such Mortgage;
(x) within the Original Post-Closing Matters Period, with respect to each Mortgaged Property encumbered pursuant to this clause (h) and in which each mortgagor granted a Mortgage to the Collateral Agent on the Original Closing Date, the applicable Loan Parties shall comply with the requirements of Section 1.10 of each Mortgage and in connection therewith the Loan Parties shall (X) execute and deliver to the Collateral Agent amendments to the Mortgages in form and substance reasonably acceptable to the Collateral Agent to include the recording information of the memoranda of leases recorded in accordance with the provisions of Section 1.10 of each Mortgage, (Y) cause such amendments to be recorded at its sole cost and expense and (Z) deliver to the Collateral Agent an opinion of counsel in form and substance reasonably acceptable to the Collateral Agent as to the enforceability and validity of the mortgage lien, as so amended, and the adequacy of the legal descriptions as so amended;
(xi) within the Original Post-Closing Matters Period, the applicable Loan Parties shall, at their sole cost and expense, deliver to the Collateral Agent copies of each certificate of change of name, certified by the appropriate secretary of state, of each mortgagor under each Mortgage and cause such certified certificate to be recorded in each recorder's office in which each mortgagor granted a Mortgage to the Collateral Agent on the Original Closing Date;
(xii) with respect to each Covered Property, all such other items as shall be reasonably necessary in the opinion of counsel to the Lenders to create a valid perfected first priority mortgage Lien on such Covered Property subject only to Prior Liens, delivered within the Original Post-Closing Matters Period, in the case of those matters set forth in clauses (iv), (vii), (ix), (x), (xi) and (xii) of this paragraph (h), and on the Original Closing Date, in all other cases;
(xiii) for the avoidance of doubt, the documents and instruments to be delivered to the Collateral Agent with respect to the Parent Mortgaged Properties shall be delivered pursuant to the requirements set forth in Section 2(g), (i), (k) and (m) of Amendment No. 1 on the Amendment No. 1 Effective Date or by such other date provided thereunder;
(i) the Collateral Agent shall have received the items described in Section 4.02(B)(e)(ii)
on
of
the
Execution Date Credit Agreement on the
Amendment
No. 1 Effective Date;
(j) the Collateral Agent shall have received the items described in Sections 2(g), (i), (k) and (m) of Amendment No. 1 on the Amendment No. 1 Effective Date to the extent required to be provided thereunder on the Amendment No. 1
Effective Date; and
 
(k)
(
j
)
the applicable Loan Parties shall have delivered to the Administrative Agent the document required to be delivered to the Administrative Agent pursuant to Section 5.15 within the time period provided in such Section 5.15.
"" shall have the meaning assigned to such term in Section 2.12(a).
Commitment Fee
"" shall mean (a) with respect to any Lender, such Lender's New Revolving Facility Commitment and New Term Loan Commitment and (b) with respect to any Swingline Lender, its Swingline Commitment, as applicable.
Commitments
"" shall have the meaning assigned to such term in Section
Communications
9.17.
9.17(a).
"" at any date shall mean (without duplication) all Indebtedness consisting of Capital Lease Obligations, Indebtedness for borrowed money (other than letters of credit to the extent undrawn) and Indebtedness in respect of the deferred purchase price of property (excluding the Lease by Application in Powder River Basin) or services of
Consolidated Debt
Holdings
Parent
and its Subsidiaries determined on a consolidated basis on such date plus (ii) any Receivables Net Investment.
"" shall mean,
Consolidated Net Income
with respect to any person
for any period, the aggregate of the Net Income of
such
person
Parent
and its
subsidiaries
Subsidiaries
for such period, on a consolidated basis; , , that
provided
however
(i) any net after-tax extraordinary or nonrecurring gains or losses or income or expenses or charges (including, without limitation, income, expenses and charges attributable to litigation and arbitration settlements, severance, relocation and other restructuring costs), less all fees and expenses relating thereto, and fees, expenses or charges related to any Investment, acquisition or Indebtedness permitted to be incurred hereunder (in each case, whether or not successful); that, with respect to each nonrecurring item,
provided
Holdings
Parent
shall have delivered to the Administrative Agent an officers' certificate specifying and quantifying such item and stating that such item is a nonrecurring item,
(ii) any net after-tax income or loss from discontinued operations and any net after-tax gain or loss on disposal of discontinued operations shall be excluded,
(iii) any net after-tax gain or loss (less all fees and expenses or charges relating thereto) attributable to business dispositions or asset dispositions other than in the ordinary course of business (as determined in good faith by the Board of Directors of
Holdings
Parent
) shall be excluded,
(iv) any net after-tax income or loss (less all fees and expenses or charges relating thereto) attributable to the early extinguishment of indebtedness (including obligations under Swap Agreements) shall be excluded,
 
(v)(A) the Net Income for such period of any person that is not a
subsidiary of such
person
Subsidiary
, or that is accounted for by the equity method of accounting, shall be included only to the extent of the amount of dividends or distributions or other payments paid in cash (or to the extent converted into cash) to
the referent
person
Parent
or a
subsidiary
thereof
Subsidiary
in respect of such period and (B) the Net Income for such period shall include any dividend, distribution or other payment in cash received from any person in excess of the amounts included in clause (A),
(vi) the Net Income for such period of
Parent and
any
subsidiary
Subsidiary
(that is not a Guarantor)
of such person
shall be excluded to the extent that the declaration or payment of dividends or similar distributions by such
subsidiary
Subsidiary
of its Net Income is not at the date of determination permitted without any prior governmental approval (which has not been obtained) or, directly or indirectly, by the operation of the terms of its charter or any agreement, instrument, judgment, decree, order, statute, rule, or governmental regulation applicable to that
subsidiary
Subsidiary
or its stockholders, unless such restriction with respect to the payment of dividends or in similar distributions has been legally waived ( that the net loss of any such
provided
subsidiary
Subsidiary
shall be included and that the Consolidated Net Income of
such
person
Parent
shall be increased by the amount of dividends or distributions or other payments that are actually paid in cash (or to the extent converted into cash) by such
subsidiary
Subsidiary
in respect of such period to the extent not already, or previously, included therein),
(vii) Consolidated Net Income for such period shall not include the cumulative effect of a change in accounting principles during such period,
(viii)
an amount equal to the amount of Permitted Tax Distributions actually made for such period shall be included as though such amounts had been paid as income taxes, so long as such Permitted Tax Distributions are permitted to be made pursuant to Section 6.06(e),
(viii)
[
intentionally
omitted],
(ix) any increase in depreciation, depletion or amortization or any one-time noncash charges (such as purchased in-process research and development or capitalized manufacturing profit in inventory) resulting from purchase accounting in connection with any acquisition that is consummated prior to or after the Amendment Effective Date shall be excluded,
(x) [intentionally omitted],
(xi) any non-cash impairment charges resulting from the application of Statements of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142 and No. 144 and the amortization of intangibles pursuant to Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 141 shall be excluded, and
(xii) any long-term incentive plan accruals and any non-cash compensation expense realized from grants of stock appreciation or similar rights, stock options or other rights to officers, directors and employees of
such
person
Parent
or any of its
subsidiaries
Subsidiaries
shall be excluded.
 
"" shall mean, as of any date, the total assets of
Consolidated Total Assets
Holdings
Parent
and the consolidated Subsidiaries, determined in accordance with GAAP, as set forth on the consolidated balance sheet of
Holdings
Parent
as of such date
.
"Contract" means, with respect to any Receivable, any and all contracts, instruments, agreements, leases, invoices, notes or other writings pursuant to which such Receivable arises or that evidence such Receivable or under which an obligor becomes or is obligated to make payment in respect of such Receivable
.
"" shall mean the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of a person, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise, and "" and "" shall have meanings correlative thereto.
Control
Controlling
Controlled
"" shall mean all liquid or gaseous hydrocarbons, other than Coal Gas, including, without limitation, condensate, distillate, and other substances produced with each of the foregoing or refined therefrom, in each case, whether known or unknown. For the avoidance of doubt, the term "Conventional O & G" shall expressly include, without limitation, all substances commonly known as "conventional oil and gas."
Conventional O & G
"" shall mean
Covered Properties
, (
i
) prior to the Amendment No. 1 Effective Date,
those Real Properties listed on
Annex B
.
to the Execution Date Credit Agreement (the "Prior Covered Properties"), and (ii) from and after the Amendment No. 1 Effective Date, the Prior Covered Properties, the Parent Mortgaged Properties and other real properties of the Loan Parties other than the New Loan Parties listed on Schedule 1.01(y) to this Agreement.
"" shall have the meaning assigned to such term in
Credit Event
Article
IV
Section
4.01(a)
.
"" shall mean any event or condition that upon notice, lapse of time or both would constitute an Event of Default.
Default
"" shall mean any Lender with respect to which a Lender Default is in effect.
Defaulting Lender
"" shall have the meaning assigned to such term in the introductory paragraph to this Agreement.
Documentation Agent
"" or "" shall mean lawful money of the United States of America.
Dollars
$
"" or "" shall mean (A) each Wholly Owned Subsidiary of
Domestic Subsidiary Loan Party
Subsidiary Loan Party
Holdings
Parent
(other than
Holdings and
the Borrower) that is not (a) a Foreign Subsidiary or (b) a Special Purpose Receivables Subsidiary and (B) each Domestic Subsidiary of
Holdings
Parent
or the Subsidiaries that guarantees any Indebtedness of
Holdings
Parent
or any of the Subsidiaries
; provided that,
notwithstanding the foregoing, the terms "Domestic Subsidiary Loan Party" and "Subsidiary Loan Party" shall not include any Unrestricted Subsidiary for so long as it remains an Unrestricted Subsidiary
.
 
"
Domestic Subsidiary" shall mean any Subsidiary that is incorporated or organized under the laws of the
United States
of
America
, any State thereof or the
District of Columbia
"
" shall mean, with respect to
EBITDA
Holdings
Parent
and the Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis for any period, the Consolidated Net Income of
Holdings
Parent
and the Subsidiaries for such period (a) the sum of (in each case without duplication and to the extent the respective amounts described in subclauses (i) through (ix) of this clause (a) reduced such Consolidated Net Income for the respective period for which EBITDA is being determined):
plus
(i) provision for Taxes based on income, profits or capital of
Holdings
Parent
and the Subsidiaries for such period, including, without limitation, state, franchise and similar taxes (such as the Pennsylvania and West Virginia franchise tax
) (including any Permitted Tax Distributions made pursuant to Section 6.06(e) that was taken into account in calculating Consolidated Net Income
),
(ii) Interest Expense of
Holdings
Parent
and the Subsidiaries for such period (net of interest income of
Holdings
Parent
and its Subsidiaries for such period),
(iii) depreciation, depletion and amortization (including amortization of goodwill and other intangibles, deferred financing fees and any amortization included in pension, OPEB or other employee benefit expenses, but excluding amortization of prepaid cash expenses that were paid in a prior period) and other non-cash expenses (including, without limitation write-downs and impairment of property, plant, equipment and intangibles and other long-lived assets and the impact of purchase accounting but excluding any such non-cash expense to the extent that it represents an accrual of or reserve for cash expenses in any future period or amortization of a prepaid cash expenses that was paid in a prior period) of
Holdings
Parent
and its Subsidiaries for such period,
(iv) business optimization expenses and other restructuring charges; provided that with respect to each business optimization expense or other restructuring charge,
Holdings
Parent
shall have delivered to the Administrative Agent an officers' certificate specifying and quantifying such expense or charge and stating that such expense or charge is a business optimization expense or other restructuring charge, as the case may be,
(v) any other noncash charges (but excluding any such charge which requires an accrual of, or a cash reserve for, anticipated cash charges for any future period); provided that, for purposes of this subclause (v) of this clause (a), any noncash charges or losses shall be treated as cash charges or losses in any subsequent period during which cash disbursements attributable thereto are made,
(vi) the income attributable to minority equity interests of third parties in any non-Wholly Owned Subsidiary of
Holdings
Parent
in such period or any prior period, except to the extent of dividends declared or paid on Equity Interests held by third parties,
 
(vii) the noncash portion of "straight-line" rent expense,
(viii) [intentionally omitted], and
(ix) accretion of asset retirement obligations in accordance with SFAS No. 143, Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations, and any similar accounting in prior periods
, provided that to the extent that all or any portion of the income of any person is excluded from Consolidated Net Income pursuant to the definition thereof for all or any portion of such period any amounts set forth in the preceding clauses (
i
) through (ix) that are attributable to such person shall not be included for purposes of this definition for such period or portion thereof)
; and
(b) the sum of (in each case without duplication and to the extent the respective amounts described in subclauses (i) and (iii) of this clause (b) increased such Consolidated Net Income for the respective period for which EBITDA is being determined):
minus
(i) the loss attributable to the minority equity interests of third parties in any non-Wholly Owned Subsidiary of
Holdings
Parent
,
(ii) noncash items increasing Consolidated Net Income of
Holdings
Parent
and the Subsidiaries for such period (but excluding any such items (A) in respect of which cash was received in a prior period or will be received in a future period or (B) which represent the reversal of any accrual of, or cash reserve for, anticipated cash charges in any prior period) and
(iii) the cash portion of "straight-line" rent expense which exceeds the amount expensed in respect of such rent expense.
"" or "" shall have the meaning given such term in Section 6.14.
Embargoed Person
Embargoed Persons
"" shall mean ambient and indoor air, surface water and groundwater (including potable water, navigable water and wetlands), the land surface or subsurface strata, natural resources such as flora and fauna, the workplace or as otherwise defined in any Environmental Law.
Environment
"Environmental Claim" means any claim, cause of action, investigation or notice by any Person, including any Governmental Authority having jurisdiction, alleging potential liability
(including potential liability for investigatory costs, cleanup or
remediation costs, governmental or third party response costs, natural resource damages, property damage, personal injuries, or fines or penalties) based on or resulting from (A) the presence or Release of, or exposure to, any Hazardous Materials at any location, whether or not owned or operated by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries or Parent or any of its Subsidiaries, as applicable, or (B) any Environmental Law, Mining Law or Mining Permit, including the alleged or actual violation thereof.
 
"" shall mean collectively, all laws, including common law, that relate to (a) the prevention, abatement or elimination of pollution, or the protection of the Environment, or of natural resources, including (i) to the extent so related, Mining Laws (other than the Mine Safety and Health Act (30 U.S.C. Section 801 et seq.)), and (ii) all Reclamation Laws, and (b) the generation, handling, treatment, storage, disposal or transportation, the regulation of or exposure to Hazardous Materials, including the Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act, 42 U.S.C. 9601 et
Environmental Law
Seq
seq
.
("CERCLA"), the Endangered Species Act, 16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq., the Federal Land Policy and Management Act, 43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq., the Solid Waste Disposal Act, as amended by the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 6901 et seq. ("RCRA"), the Clean Air Act, 42 U.S.C. 7401 et. seq., the Clean Water Act, 33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq., the Toxic Substances Control Act, 15 U.S.C. 2601 et seq., the Emergency Planning and Community Right to Know Act, 42 U.S.C. 11001 et seq., each as amended, and their state or local counterparts or equivalents.
"" of any person shall mean any and all shares, interests, rights to purchase, warrants, options, participation or other equivalents of or interests in (however designated) equity of such person, including any preferred stock, any limited or general partnership interest and any limited liability company membership interest.
Equity Interests
"" shall mean the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as the same may be amended from time to time.
ERISA
"" shall mean any trade or business (whether or not incorporated) that, together with
ERISA Affiliate
Holdings, the
Borrower
Parent
or any
other
Subsidiary, is treated as a single employer under Section 414(b) or (c) of the Code, or, solely for purposes of Section 302 of ERISA and Section 412 of the Code, is treated as a single employer under Section 414 of the Code.
"" shall mean (a) any Reportable Event; (b) the existence with respect to any Plan of an "accumulated funding deficiency" (as defined in Section 412 of the Code or Section 302 of ERISA), whether or not waived; (c) the filing pursuant to Section 412(d) of the Code or Section 303(d) of ERISA of an application for a waiver of the minimum funding standard with respect to any Plan, the failure to make by its due date a required installment under Section 412(m) of the Code with respect to any Plan or the failure to make any required contribution to a Multiemployer Plan; (d) the incurrence by
ERISA Event
Holdings, the
Borrower
Parent
, any
other
Subsidiary or any ERISA Affiliate of any liability under Title IV of ERISA; (e) the receipt by
Holdings, the
Borrower
Parent
, any
other
Subsidiary or any ERISA Affiliate from the PBGC or a plan administrator of any notice relating to an intention to terminate any Plan or to appoint a trustee to administer any Plan under Section 4042 of ERISA, or the occurrence of any event or condition which could be reasonably be expected to constitute grounds under ERISA for the termination of, or the appointment of a trustee to administer, any Plan; (f) the incurrence by
Holdings, the
Borrower
Parent
, any
other
Subsidiary or any ERISA Affiliate of any liability with respect to the withdrawal or partial withdrawal from any Plan or Multiemployer Plan; (g) the receipt by
Holdings, the
Borrower
Parent
, any
other
Subsidiary or any ERISA Affiliate of any notice, or the receipt by any Multiemployer Plan from
Holdings, the
Borrower
Parent
, a Subsidiary or any ERISA Affiliate of any notice, concerning the imposition of Withdrawal Liability or a determination that a Multiemployer Plan is, or is expected to be, insolvent or in reorganization, within the meaning of Title IV of ERISA; or (h) the occurrence of a nonexempt prohibited transaction (within the meaning of Section 4975 of the Code or Section 406 of ERISA) which could reasonably be expected to result in liability to
Holdings, the
Borrower
Parent
or any
other
Subsidiary.
 
"" shall mean a Borrowing comprised of Eurocurrency Loans.
Eurocurrency Borrowing
"" shall mean any Eurocurrency New Term Loan or Eurocurrency New Revolving Loan.
Eurocurrency Loan
"" shall mean a Borrowing comprised of Eurocurrency New Revolving Loans.
Eurocurrency New Revolving Facility Borrowing
"" shall mean any New Revolving Facility Loan bearing interest at a rate determined by reference to the Adjusted LIBO Rate in accordance with the provisions of Article II.
Eurocurrency New Revolving Loan
"" shall mean any Term Loan bearing interest at a rate determined by reference to the Adjusted LIBO Rate in accordance with the provisions of Article II.
Eurocurrency New Term Loan
"" shall have the meaning assigned to such term in Section 7.01.
Event of Default
"" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Exchange Act
"Execution Date Credit Agreement" shall mean the Original Credit Agreement as amended and restated, and in effect, on July 7, 2006 (including all schedules, annexes and exhibits thereto).
"" shall have the meaning assigned to such term in the recitals hereof.
Existing Letters of Credit
"" shall mean all Indebtedness permitted to be incurred under Section 6.01 (other than
Excluded Indebtedness
Sections
to
the extent the provisions thereof require the Borrower to prepay New Term Loan Borrowings, Section
 6.01
(o) and
(t)).
"" shall mean, with respect to the Agents, any Lender, any Issuing Bank or any other recipient of any payment to be made by or on account of any obligation of
Excluded Taxes
the Borrower
hereunder
any
Loan Party under any Loan Document
, (a) income or franchise taxes imposed on (or measured by) its net income by
the
a
jurisdiction
under the laws of
which
as
a result of
such recipient
is
being
organized
or
in
which
, having
its principal office
is
located
in
,
or
,
in the case of any
lender, in
which
Lender
,
its applicable lending office
is
located
in
, or doing business in such jurisdiction (other than a business arising or deemed to arise by reason of executing, delivering, being a party to, engaging in any transactions pursuant to, performing its obligations under, receiving payments, receiving or perfecting a security interest under, or enforcing any Loan Document), including, for the avoidance of doubt, any U.S. federal backup withholding tax under Section 3406 of the Code
, (b) any branch profits tax or any similar tax that is imposed by any jurisdiction described in clause (a) above and (c) in the case of a Lender making a Loan to the Borrower (other than an assignee pursuant to a request by the Borrower under Section 2.19(b)),
(1) 
any
U.S. federal
withholding tax
that is
imposed
by the United States that
is
pursuant
to law
in effect
and would apply to amounts payable hereunder to such Lender
at the time such Lender becomes a party to such Loan (or designates a new lending office)
or is attributable to such Lender's failure to comply with Section 2.17(e) with respect to such Loan
,
except to the extent that such Lender (or its assignor, if any) was entitled, at the time of designation of a new lending office (or assignment), to receive additional amounts from a Loan Party with respect to any
such
withholding tax pursuant to Section 2.17(a) or Section 2.17(c)
and (2) any withholding tax that is attributable to such Lender's failure to comply with Section 2.17(e
).
 
"" shall have the meaning assigned to such term in Section 3.22(a).
Executive Order
"
Executive Orders" shall have the meaning given such term in Section 6.14.
"" shall mean the respective facility and commitments utilized in making Loans and credit extensions hereunder, it being understood that as of the date of this Agreement there are two Facilities, ., the New Term Loan Facility and the New Revolving Facility.
Facility
i.e
"" means FC 2 Corp., a Delaware corporation.
FC 2 Corp.
"" shall mean, for any day, the weighted average (rounded upward, if necessary, to the next 1/100 of 1%) of the rates on overnight Federal funds transactions with members of the Federal Reserve System arranged by Federal funds brokers, as published on the next succeeding Business Day by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, or, if such rate is not so published for any day which is a Business Day, the average (rounded upward, if necessary, to the next 1/100 of 1%) of the quotations for the day of such transactions received by the Administrative Agent from three Federal funds brokers of recognized standing selected by it.
Federal Funds Effective Rate
"" shall mean that certain Fee Letter dated June 5, 2006 by and among Holdings, the Borrower and CGMI, as amended from time to time.
Fee Letter
"" shall mean the Commitment Fees, the L/C Participation Fees, the Issuing Bank Fees and the Administrative Agent Fees.
Fees
"" of any person shall mean the Chief Financial Officer, principal accounting officer, Treasurer, Assistant Treasurer or Controller of such person.
Financial Officer
"Flood Insurance Laws" shall mean, collectively, (
i
) the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 as now or hereafter in effect or any successor statute thereto, (ii)
the Flood Disaster Protection Act of
1973 as now or hereafter in effect or any successor statute thereto, (iii) the National Flood Insurance Reform Act of 1994 as now or hereafter in effect or any successor statute thereto and (iv) the Flood Insurance Reform Act of 2004 as now or hereafter in effect or any successor statute thereto.
 
"" shall mean any Lender that is organized under the laws of a jurisdiction other than the United States of America. For purposes of this definition, the United States of America, each State thereof and the District of Columbia shall be deemed to constitute a single jurisdiction.
Foreign Lender
"" shall mean any Subsidiary that is incorporated or organized under the laws of any jurisdiction other than the United States of America, any State thereof or the District of Columbia.
Foreign Subsidiary
"" shall have the meaning assigned to such term in the definition of the term
Foundation American Coal Holding
"
Acquisition Agreement
".
"Foundation Parent" shall mean Foundation Coal Holdings, Inc., a
Delaware
corporation
.
"" shall have the meaning assigned to such term in the definition of the term
Foundation West
"
Acquisition Agreement
"
.
"" shall have the meaning assigned to such term in the definition of the term
Foundation Wyoming
"
Acquisition Agreement
"
.
"" shall mean generally accepted accounting principles in effect from time to time in the United States, applied on a consistent basis, subject to the provisions of Section 1.02.
GAAP
"" shall mean Conventional O & G and Coal Gas.
Gas
"" shall mean any Person that is created for the purpose of holding or that otherwise holds, directly or indirectly, Hydrocarbon Property, so long as such Person's only assets, held directly or indirectly, consist of Hydrocarbon Property.
Gas Co.
"" shall mean (a) any Hydrocarbon Property, and (b) any capital stock, partnership interests, membership interests, or other ownership interests of any Gas Co.
Gas Properties
"Gas Rights" shall have the meaning assigned to such term in the definition of "Hydrocarbon Property".
"" shall mean any federal, state, local or foreign court or governmental agency, authority, instrumentality or regulatory or legislative body.
Governmental Authority
"" of or by any person (the "") shall mean (a) any obligation, contingent or otherwise, of the guarantor guaranteeing or having the economic effect of guaranteeing any Indebtedness or other obligation of any other person (the "") in any manner, whether directly or indirectly, and including any obligation of the guarantor, direct or indirect, (i) to purchase or pay (or advance or supply funds for the purchase or payment of) such Indebtedness or other obligation (whether arising by virtue of partnership arrangements, by agreement to keep well, to purchase assets, goods, securities or services, to take-or- pay or otherwise) or to purchase (or to advance or supply funds for the purchase of) any security for the payment of such Indebtedness or other obligation, (ii) to purchase or lease property, securities or services for the purpose of assuring the owner of such Indebtedness or
Guarantee
guarantor
primary obligor
 
other obligation of the payment thereof, (iii) to maintain working capital, equity capital or any other financial statement condition or liquidity of the primary obligor so as to enable the primary obligor to pay such Indebtedness or other obligation, (iv) entered into for the purpose of assuring in any other manner the holders of such Indebtedness or other obligation of the payment thereof or to protect such holders against loss in respect thereof (in whole or in part) or (v) as an account party in respect of any letter of credit or letter of guaranty issued to support such Indebtedness or other obligation, or (b) any Lien on any assets of the guarantor securing any Indebtedness (or any existing right, contingent or otherwise, of the holder of Indebtedness to be secured by such a Lien) of any other person, whether or not such Indebtedness or other obligation is assumed by the guarantor; , , that the term "Guarantee" shall not include endorsements for collection or deposit, in either case in the ordinary course of business, or customary and reasonable indemnity obligations in effect on the Amendment Effective Date or entered into in connection with any acquisition or disposition of assets permitted under this Agreement.
provided
however
"" shall mean all pollutants, contaminants, wastes, chemicals, materials, substances and constituents, including, without limitation, explosive or radioactive substances or petroleum or petroleum distillates, asbestos or asbestos containing materials, polychlorinated biphenyls or radon gas, of any nature, in each case subject to regulation or which can give rise to liability under any Environmental Law.
Hazardous Materials
"" shall have the meaning assigned to such term in the introductory paragraph of this Agreement.
Holdings
"" shall mean all of the following:
Hydrocarbon Property
(a) all right, title, interest and estate of any Loan Party, whether now owned or hereafter acquired ("") in and to:
Gas Rights
(i) any "drilling unit", as that term is commonly used in the Gas business, including but not limited to those that are established or prescribed by field rules or other regulatory orders,
(ii) any well or any vent or bore hole drilled and permitted for the commercial production of Gas and/or degasification of a coalbed, coal formation, coal seam or mine area and any site on which it is located,
(iii) equipment that is used or useful solely in connection with the Capture or monitoring of Gas produced from any well or any vent or bore hole described in clause (a)(ii) above, including, without limitation, any wellhead equipment, compressor, treating facility, storage facility, processing plant and gathering or transportation line, and in no event including any equipment which if sold would disrupt or negatively affect the Coal operations of the Loan Parties in any material respect,
(iv) all assets associated solely with any item described in clauses (a)(i), (ii) and (iii) above, including, without limitation, Gas reserves, surface rights of way and all geological, geophysical, engineering, accounting, title, legal and other technical or business data concerning Gas,
 
(v) any Gas and any right to Capture Gas,
(vi) any lease, agreement, instrument, order, declaration, understanding or other arrangement, as the same may be amended, modified, supplemented, replaced, or amended and restated, relating to (A) the Capture of Gas, or (B) the pooling, utilization or communization of Gas, and
(vii) other assets solely used in the ordinary course of business in connection with the operation, administration or management of Gas operations;
(b) all tenements, hereditaments, appurtenances and properties now owned or hereafter acquired by any Loan Party to which the Gas Rights described above in paragraph (a) of this definition are, in any way, appertaining, belonging, fixed or incidental, including, without limitation, any and all property, real or personal, now owned or hereafter acquired and situated upon, used, held for use, or useful solely in connection with the operating, working or development of any of such Gas Rights or the lands pooled or unitized therewith including any and all surface leases, rights-of-way, easements, servitudes, licenses and other surface and subsurface rights together with all additions, substitutions, replacements, accessions and attachments to any and all of the foregoing properties;
(c) all of the rights, titles, and interests of every nature whatsoever now owned or hereafter acquired by any Loan Party in and to (i) the items described above in paragraphs (a) and (b) above of this definition, as the same may be enlarged by the discharge of any payment out of production or by the removal of any charge or Permitted Encumbrance to which any such item described above in paragraphs (a) and (b) above of this definition is subject, and (ii) any and all additional interests of any kind hereafter acquired by and Loan Party in and to Gas Rights; and
(d) all accounts, contract rights, inventory, general intangibles, insurance contracts and insurance proceeds constituting a part of, relating to, or arising out of those items that are described in paragraphs (a) through (c) above of this definition and all proceeds and products and payments in lieu of production (such as "take or pay" payments), whether such proceeds or payments are goods, money, documents, instruments, chattel paper, securities, accounts, general intangibles, fixtures, real property or other assets.
"" shall have the meaning assigned to such term in the Mortgages.
Improvements
"" shall have the meaning assigned to such term in Section
Increased Amount Date
2.21.
2.21(a).
"" of any person shall mean, without duplication, (a) all obligations of such person for borrowed money, (b) all obligations of such person evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes or similar instruments, (c) all obligations of such person under conditional sale or other title retention agreements relating to property or assets purchased by such person, (d) all obligations of such person issued or assumed as the deferred purchase price of property or services (other than current trade liabilities and current
Indebtedness
 
intercompany liabilities (but not any refinancings, extensions, renewals or replacements thereof) incurred in the ordinary course of business and maturing within 365 days after the incurrence thereof), (e) all Indebtedness of others secured by any Lien on property owned or acquired by such person, whether or not the obligations secured thereby have been assumed or is limited in recourse, but limited to the fair market value of such property, (f) all Guarantees by such person of Indebtedness of others, (g) all Capital Lease Obligations of such person, (h) all payments that such person would have to make in the event of an early termination, on the date Indebtedness of such person is being determined, in respect of outstanding Swap Agreements, (i) the principal component of all obligations, contingent or otherwise, of such person as an account party in respect of letters of credit, and (j) the principal component of all obligations of such person in respect of bankers' acceptances. The Indebtedness of any person shall include the Indebtedness of any partnership in which such person is a general partner, other than to the extent that the instrument or agreement evidencing such Indebtedness expressly limits the liability of such person in respect thereof. To the extent not otherwise included, Indebtedness shall include the amount of any Permitted Receivables Financing.
"" shall mean all Taxes other than Excluded Taxes.
Indemnified Taxes
"" shall have the meaning assigned to such term in Section 9.05(b).
Indemnitee
"" shall have the meaning assigned to such term in Section 3.13(a).
Information
"
Information Memorandum" shall mean the Confidential Information Memorandum dated June 2006, as modified or supplemented prior to the Amendment Effective Date.
"" shall mean a Collateral Assignment of Intercompany Lease, Subordination and Attornment Agreement substantially in the form of to the Original Credit Agreement among the Loan Parties and the Administrative Agent, as the same may be amended in accordance with the terms
Intercompany Lease Agreement
Exhibit I
of Amendment No. 1 and
thereof and hereof or such other agreements reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent as shall be effective to grant to the Collateral Agent a Lien on and security interest in the Intercompany Leases.
"" shall have the meaning assigned to such term in the Intercompany Lease Agreement delivered on the Original Closing Date or thereafter pursuant to Section 5.10 hereof and Sections 10(e) and 17 to the Intercompany Lease Agreement.
Intercompany Leases
"" shall have the meaning assigned to such term in Section 6.11.
Interest Coverage Ratio
"" shall mean a request by the Borrower to convert or continue a New Term Loan Borrowing or New Revolving Facility Borrowing in accordance with Section 2.07.
Interest Election Request
 
"" shall mean, with respect to any person for any period, the sum of (a) gross interest expense of such person for such period on a consolidated basis, including (i) the amortization of debt discounts, (ii) the amortization of all fees (including fees with respect to Swap Agreements) payable in connection with the incurrence of Indebtedness to the extent included in interest expense, (iii) the portion of any payments or accruals with respect to Capital Lease Obligations allocable to interest expense and (iv) commissions, discounts, yield and other fees and charges incurred in connection with any Permitted Receivables Financing which are payable to any person other than
Interest Expense
Holdings, the Borrower or a
Subsidiary
a
Loan Party, and (b) capitalized interest of such person. For purposes of the foregoing, gross interest expense shall be determined after giving effect to any net payments made or received and costs incurred by
Holdings
Parent
and the Subsidiaries with respect to Swap Agreements.
"" shall mean (a) with respect to any Eurocurrency Loan, the last day of the Interest Period applicable to the Borrowing of which such Loan is a part and, in the case of a Eurocurrency Borrowing with an Interest Period of more than three months' duration, each day that would have been an Interest Payment Date had successive Interest Periods of three months' duration been applicable to such Borrowing and, in addition, the date of any refinancing or conversion of such Borrowing with or to a Borrowing of a different Type, (b) with respect to any ABR Loan, the last day of each calendar quarter and (c) with respect to any Swingline Loan, the day that such Swingline Loan is required to be repaid pursuant to Section 2.09(a).
Interest Payment Date
"" shall mean, as to any Eurocurrency Borrowing, the period commencing on the date of such Borrowing or on the last day of the immediately preceding Interest Period applicable to such Borrowing, as applicable, and ending on the numerically corresponding day (or, if there is no numerically corresponding day, on the last day) in the calendar month that is 1, 2, 3 or 6 months thereafter (or 9 or 12 months, if at the time of the relevant Borrowing, all Lenders make interest periods of such length available), as the Borrower may elect, or the date any Eurocurrency Borrowing is converted to an ABR Borrowing in accordance with Section 2.07 or repaid or prepaid in accordance with Section 2.09, 2.10 or 2.11; , , that if any Interest Period would end on a day other than a Business Day, such Interest Period shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day unless such next succeeding Business Day would fall in the next calendar month, in which case such Interest Period shall end on the next preceding Business Day. Interest shall accrue from and including the first day of an Interest Period to but excluding the last day of such Interest Period.
Interest Period
provided
however
"" shall mean, as the context may require: (a) Citibank, N.A., (b) PNC Bank, National Association, (c) Bank of America, N.A., (d) National City Bank of Pennsylvania, (e) 
Issuing Bank
Union Bank, N.A., (f) 
each other Issuing Bank designated pursuant to Section 2.05(k), in each case in its capacity as an issuer of Letters of Credit hereunder, and its successors in such capacity as provided in Section 2.05(i), or (
f
g
) collectively, all of the foregoing. An Issuing Bank may, in its discretion, arrange for one or more Letters of Credit to be issued by Affiliates of such Issuing Bank, in which case the term "Issuing Bank" shall include any such Affiliate with respect to Letters of Credit issued by such Affiliate.
"" shall have the meaning assigned to such term in Section 2.12(b).
Issuing Bank Fees
"" shall have the meaning assigned to such term in Section 6.04.
Investment
 
"" shall have the meaning assigned to such term in the introductory paragraph of this Agreement.
Lead Arranger
"" shall mean a payment or disbursement made by an Issuing Bank pursuant to a Letter of Credit, including, for the avoidance of doubt, a payment or disbursement made by an Issuing Bank pursuant to a Letter of Credit upon or following the reinstatement of such Letter of Credit.
L/C Disbursement
"" shall have the meaning assigned such term in Section 2.12(b).
L/C Participation Fee
"" shall mean each financial institution listed on Schedule
Lender
2.01,
2.01 to the Execution Date Credit Agreement,
as well as any person that becomes a "Lender" hereunder pursuant to Section 9.04.
"" shall mean (i) the refusal
Lender Default
for three or more Business Days
(which has not been retracted) of a Lender to
(a) 
make available its portion of any Borrowing,
(b) 
to acquire participations in a Swingline Loan pursuant to Section 2.04 or
(c) 
to fund its portion of any unreimbursed payment under Section 2.05(e)
(each a "funding obligation")
,
or
(ii) a Lender having notified in writing the Borrower and/or the Administrative Agent
or stated publicly
that it does not intend to comply with its obligations under Section 2.04, 2.05 or
2.06.
2.06, (iii) such Lender has, for ten or more Business Days, failed to confirm in writing to the Administrative Agent, in response to a written request of the Administrative Agent, that it will comply with its funding obligations hereunder (subject to such Lender's rights in the case of a bona-fide dispute) or (iv) a Lender Insolvency Event has occurred and is continuing with respect to such Lender. Any determination that a Lender Default is in effect under clauses (
i
) through (
iv
) above will be made by the Administrative Agent in its sole discretion acting in good faith. The Administrative Agent will promptly send to all parties hereto a copy of any notice to the Borrower provided for in this definition.
"Lender Insolvency Event" means that (
i
) a Lender or its Parent Company is insolvent, or is generally unable to pay its debts as they become due, or admits in writing its inability to pay its debts as they become due, or makes a general assignment for the benefit of its creditors, or (ii) such Lender or its Parent Company is the subject of a bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, liquidation or similar proceeding, or a receiver, trustee, conservator,
intervenor
or
sequestrator
or the like has been appointed for such Lender or its Parent Company; provided, that a Lender shall not become a Defaulting Lender solely as the result of the acquisition or maintenance of an ownership interest in such Lender or Person controlling such Lender or the exercise of control over a Lender or Person controlling such Lender by a Governmental Authority or an instrumentality thereof.
"" shall mean any letter of credit issued pursuant to Section 2.05.
Letter of Credit
"" shall mean, on any date, the ratio of (a) Consolidated Debt as of such date less unrestricted cash and cash equivalents as of such date to (b) EBITDA for the period of four consecutive fiscal quarters of
Leverage Ratio
Holdings
Parent
most recently ended as of such date, all determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP; that to the extent any Asset Disposition or any Asset Acquisition (or any similar transaction or transactions that require a waiver or a consent of the Required Lenders pursuant to Section 6.04 or Section 6.05) or incurrence or repayment of Indebtedness (excluding normal fluctuations in revolving Indebtedness incurred for working capital purposes) has occurred during the relevant Test Period, EBITDA shall be determined for the respective Test Period on a Pro Forma Basis for such occurrences.
provided
 
"" shall mean, with respect to any Eurocurrency Borrowing for any Interest Period, the rate per annum determined by the Administrative Agent at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, on the Quotation Day for such Interest Period by reference to the British Bankers' Association Interest Settlement Rates for deposits in the currency of such Borrowing (as reflected on the applicable Telerate screen page), for a period equal to such Interest Period; that, to the extent that an interest rate is not ascertainable pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this definition, the "LIBO Rate" shall be the average (rounded upward, if necessary, to the next 1/100 of 1%) of the respective interest rates per annum at which deposits in the currency of such Borrowing are offered for such Interest Period to major banks in the London interbank market by Citicorp North America, Inc. at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, on the Quotation Day for such Interest Period.
LIBO Rate
provided
"" shall mean, with respect to any asset, (a) any mortgage, deed of trust, lien, hypothecation, pledge, encumbrance, charge or security interest in or on such asset, (b) the interest of a vendor or a lessor under any conditional sale agreement, capital lease or title retention agreement (or any financing lease having substantially the same economic effect as any of the foregoing) relating to such asset and (c) in the case of securities (other than securities representing an interest in a joint venture that is not a Subsidiary), any purchase option, call or similar right of a third party with respect to such securities.
Lien
"" shall mean this Agreement, the Amendment Agreement,
Loan Documents
Amendment
No. 1,
the Letters of Credit, the Security Documents and any promissory note issued under Section 2.09(e).
"" shall mean
Loan Parties
Parent,
Holdings, the Borrower and each Domestic Subsidiary Loan Party.
"" shall mean the New Term Loans, the New Revolving Facility Loans and the Swingline Loans (and shall include any Replacement New Term Loans and any Loans under the Additional New Revolving Facility Commitments or Additional New Term Loan Commitments).
Loans
"" shall mean New York City time.
Local Time
"" of any Facility shall mean, at any time, Lenders under such Facility having Loans and unused Commitments representing more than 50% of the sum of all Loans outstanding under such Facility and unused Commitments under such Facility at such time.
Majority Lenders
"" shall have the meaning assigned to such term in Regulation U.
Margin Stock
 
"" shall mean the existence of events, conditions and/or contingencies that have had or are reasonably likely to have (a) a materially adverse effect on the business, operations, properties, assets or financial condition of
Material Adverse Effect
Holdings
Parent
and the Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, or (b) a material impairment of the validity or enforceability of, or a material impairment of the material rights, remedies or benefits available to the Lenders, any Issuing Bank, the Administrative Agent or the Collateral Agent under, any Loan Document.
"" shall mean Indebtedness (other than Loans and Letters of Credit) of any one or more of
Material Indebtedness
Holdings
Parent
or any Subsidiary in an aggregate principal amount exceeding $
20.0
25.0
million.
"" shall have the meaning assigned to such term in Section 9.09.
Maximum Rate
"Merger Agreement" shall mean that certain Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of May 11, 2009 (including all schedules, annexes and attachments thereto) providing for the merger of Alpha with and into Foundation Parent, with Foundation Parent as the surviving corporation.
"Merger Transaction" shall mean the merger and related transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement.
"" means any excavation or opening into the earth now and hereafter made from which coal or other minerals are or can be extracted on or from any of the Real Properties in which any Loan Party holds an ownership, leasehold or other interest, including, without limitation, the mines described in the Reserve Reports.
Mine
"" means any and all applicable federal, state, local and foreign statutes, laws, regulations, guidance, ordinances, rules, judgments, orders, decrees, permits, concessions, grants, franchises, licenses, agreements or other governmental restrictions or common law causes of action relating to mining operations and activities. Mining Laws shall include
Mining Laws
,
but not be limited to, the
Mineral Lands Leasing Act of 1920, the
Federal Coal Leasing Amendments Act, the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act, all other land reclamation and use statutes and regulations relating to coal mining, the Federal Coal Mine Health and Safety Act, the Black Lung Act and the Coal Act, the Mine Safety and Health Act and the Occupational Safety and Health Act, each as amended, and their state and local counterparts or equivalents.
"" shall mean a lease, license or other use agreement
Mining Lease
held on the Amendment No. 1 Effective Date or thereafter acquired
which provides
the
Borrower
Parent
or any
other
Subsidiary the real property and water rights, other interests in land, including coal, mining and surface rights, easements, rights of way and options, and rights to timber and natural gas (including coalbed methane and gob gas) necessary to recover coal from any Mine (i) currently operated by
any
Borrower
Parent
or any
other
Subsidiary or (ii) part of any of
Borrower
Parent
's mine plans. Leases which provide
Borrower
Parent
or any
other
Subsidiary the right to construct and operate a preparation plant and related facilities on the surface of the Real Property containing such reserves shall also be deemed a Mining Lease.
"" means any and all permits, licenses, registrations, notifications, exemptions and any other authorization required under any applicable Mining Law or otherwise necessary to recover coal from any Mine being operated by
Mining Permits
any
Borrower
Parent
or any
other
Subsidiary.
 
"" shall mean Moody's Investors Service, Inc.
Moody's
"" shall
Mortgage Amendment
have the meaning assigned to such term in Section 4.02(B
)(
e)(ii)(A)
mean any amendment of a Mortgage encumbering Mortgaged Property
.
"" shall mean all Real Property which shall be subject to a Mortgage that is, (i) in the case of the Covered Properties, delivered on the Original Closing Date
Mortgaged Properties
or on the Amendment No. 1 Effective Date
, (ii) in the case of Non-Covered Properties
,
set forth on
Schedule 1.01(e)
to the Original Credit Agreement
delivered on the Original Closing
Date or on Schedule 1.01(z) to this Agreement delivered on the Amendment No. 1 Effective
Date, (iii) in the case of Intercompany Leases, those Intercompany Leases encumbered pursuant to the Intercompany Lease Agreement
, delivered
(as amended/supplemented
on the
Original
Closing
Amendment
No. 1 Effective
Date
)
or thereafter pursuant to Section 5.10 and the provisions of the Intercompany Lease Agreement
delivered on the Amendment No. 1 Effective Date pursuant to Amendment No. 1
and (iv) in the case of each additional Real Property (other than the Intercompany Leases) encumbered by an Additional Mortgage, delivered pursuant to Section 5.10.
"" shall mean the mortgages, deeds of trust, assignments of leases and rents and other security documents delivered on the Original Closing Date pursuant to Section 4.02(e) of the Original Credit Agreement
Mortgages
, on the Amendment No. 1 Effective Date pursuant to Section 2(m) of Amendment No. 1
or after the Original Closing Date pursuant to Section 5.18 of the Original Credit Agreement or Section 5.10, as amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, with respect to Mortgaged Properties (including as amended by any Mortgage Amendment with respect thereto, if any), (i) in the case of Covered Properties
, any Real Property to be encumbered pursuant to Section 2(m) of Amendment No. 1
or any after acquired Real Property to be encumbered by an Additional Mortgage pursuant to Section 5.10, each substantially in the form of to the Original Credit Agreement, with such changes thereto as shall be acceptable to the Collateral Agent and (ii) in the case of Non-Covered Properties, each substantially in the form of to the Original Credit Agreement,
Exhibit D-1
Exhibit D-2
any Real Property to be encumbered pursuant to Section 2(m) of Amendment No. 1,
with such changes thereto as shall be acceptable to the Collateral Agent.
"" shall mean a multiemployer plan as defined in Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA with respect to
Multiemployer Plan
which Holdings, the
Borrower
Parent
, any
other
Subsidiary or any ERISA Affiliate (a) is making or has an obligation to make contributions, (b) has within any of the preceding six plan years made or had an obligation to make contributions or (c) otherwise could incur liability.
"" shall mean, with respect to any person, the net income (loss) of such person, determined in accordance with GAAP and before any reduction in respect of preferred stock dividends.
Net Income
 
"" shall mean:
Net Proceeds
(a) 100% of the cash proceeds actually received by
Holdings
Parent
, or any of its Subsidiaries (including any cash payments received by way of deferred payment of principal pursuant to a note or installment receivable or purchase price adjustment receivable or otherwise and including casualty insurance settlements and condemnation awards, but only as and when received) from any loss, damage, destruction or condemnation of, or any sale, transfer or other disposition (including any sale and leaseback of assets and any mortgage or lease of real property) to any person of any asset or assets of
Holdings
Parent
or any Subsidiary (other than those pursuant to Section 6.05(a), (b), (c), (e), (f), (g), (i), (k) or (m)), net of (i) attorneys' fees, accountants' fees, investment banking fees, survey costs, title insurance premiums, and related search and recording charges, transfer taxes, deed or mortgage recording taxes, required debt payments and required payments of other obligations relating to the applicable asset (other than pursuant hereto or pursuant to the Senior Notes or any Permitted Debt Securities), other customary expenses and brokerage, consultant and other customary fees actually incurred in connection therewith and (ii) Taxes paid or payable as a result thereof; that, if no Event of Default exists and
provided
Holdings
Parent
shall deliver a certificate of a Responsible Officer of
Holdings
Parent
to the Administrative Agent promptly following receipt of any such proceeds setting forth
Holdings'
Parent's
intention to use any portion of such proceeds, to acquire, maintain, develop, construct, improve, upgrade or repair assets useful in the business of
Holdings
Parent
and the Subsidiaries, or make investments pursuant to Section 6.04(m), in each case within 12 months of such receipt, such portion of such proceeds shall not constitute Net Proceeds except to the extent (1) not so used within such 12-month period and (2) not contracted to be used within such 12-month period and not used within 18 months of such receipt, and , , that (x) no proceeds realized in a single transaction or series of related transactions shall constitute Net Proceeds unless such proceeds shall exceed $10.0 million and (y) no proceeds shall constitute Net Proceeds in any fiscal year until the aggregate amount of all such proceeds in such fiscal year shall exceed $20.0 million, and
provided
further
(b) 100% of the cash proceeds from the incurrence, issuance or sale by
Holdings
Parent
or any Subsidiary of any Indebtedness (other than Excluded Indebtedness), net of all taxes and fees (including investment banking fees), commissions, costs and other expenses, in each case incurred in connection with such issuance or sale.
For purposes of calculating the amount of Net Proceeds, fees, commissions and other costs and expenses payable to
Parent,
Holdings or the Borrower or any Affiliate of
either
any
of them shall be disregarded.
"New Loan Parties" shall mean those Loan Parties that become Loan Parties on the Amendment No. 1 Effective Date as a result of the Amendment No. 1 Transactions.
"" shall mean the New Revolving Facility Commitments and the extensions of credit made hereunder by the New Revolving Facility Lenders.
New Revolving Facility
"" shall mean a Borrowing comprised of New Revolving Facility Loans.
New Revolving Facility Borrowing
 
"" shall mean, with respect to each New Revolving Facility Lender, the commitment of such New Revolving Facility Lender to make New Revolving Facility Loans pursuant to Section 2.01, expressed as an amount representing the maximum aggregate permitted amount of such New Revolving Facility Lender's New Revolving Facility Credit Exposure hereunder, as such commitment may be (a) reduced from time to time pursuant to Section 2.08 and (b) reduced or increased from time to time pursuant to assignments by or to such Lender under Section 9.04. The initial amount of each New Revolving Facility Lender's New Revolving Facility Commitment is set forth on
New Revolving Facility Commitment
Schedule 2.01
to the Execution Date Credit Agreement
under the heading "New Revolving Facility Commitment" opposite such New Revolving Facility Lender's name, or in the Assignment and Acceptance pursuant to which such New Revolving Facility Lender shall have assumed its New Revolving Facility Commitment, as applicable. The aggregate amount of the New Revolving Facility Commitments on the Amendment Effective Date is $500.0 million.
"" shall mean, at any time, the sum of (a) the aggregate principal amount of the New Revolving Facility Loans outstanding at such time, (b) the Swingline Exposure at such time and (c) the New Revolving L/C Exposure at such time. The New Revolving Facility Credit Exposure of any New Revolving Facility Lender at any time shall be the sum of (a) the aggregate principal amount of such New Revolving Facility Lender's New Revolving Facility Loans outstanding at such time and (b) such New Revolving Facility Lender's New Revolving Facility Percentage of the Swingline Exposure and New Revolving L/C Exposure at such time.
New Revolving Facility Credit Exposure
"" shall mean a Lender with a New Revolving Facility Commitment or with outstanding New Revolving Facility Loans (including any Additional New Revolving Facility Lenders).
New Revolving Facility Lender
"" shall mean a Loan made by a New Revolving Facility Lender pursuant to Section 2.01 or an Additional New Revolving Facility Lender pursuant to Section 2.21. Each New Revolving Facility Loan shall be a Eurocurrency Loan or an ABR Loan.
New Revolving Facility Loan
"" shall mean July 7, 2011.
New Revolving Facility Maturity Date
"" shall mean, with respect to any New Revolving Facility Lender, the percentage of the total New Revolving Facility Commitments represented by such Lender's New Revolving Facility Commitment. If the New Revolving Facility Commitments have terminated or expired, the New Revolving Facility Percentages shall be determined based upon the New Revolving Facility Commitments most recently in effect, giving effect to any assignments pursuant to Section 9.04.
New Revolving Facility Percentage
"" shall mean at any time the sum of (a) the aggregate undrawn amount of all Letters of Credit outstanding at such time and (b) the aggregate principal amount of all L/C Disbursements that have not yet been reimbursed at such time. The New Revolving L/C Exposure of any New Revolving Facility Lender at any time shall mean its New Revolving Facility Percentage of the aggregate New Revolving L/C Exposure at such time.
New Revolving L/C Exposure
 
"" shall mean the
New Security Documents
Mortgages,
Mortgage Amendments, the amendment to each Intercompany Lease Agreement and each other amendment to any Security Document delivered in accordance with applicable local or foreign law to grant a valid, perfected security interest in any property as collateral for the Obligations, and all UCC or other financing statements or instruments of perfection required by this Agreement,
the Amended and Restated
Security
Amendment
No. 1, the Amendment
Agreement, any
Mortgage,
Mortgage Amendments or any other such security document or pledge agreement to be filed with respect to the security interests in property and fixtures created pursuant to the
Amended and Restated
Security
Collateral
Agreement
, Mortgage
or any Mortgage Amendment.
"" shall mean a Borrowing comprised of New Term Loans.
New Term Loan Borrowing
"" shall mean with respect to each Lender, the commitment of such Lender to make New Term Loans hereunder pursuant to Section 2.01. The initial amount of each New Term Loan Lender's New Term Loan Commitment is set forth on
New Term Loan Commitment
Schedule 2.01
to the Execution Date Credit Agreement
under the heading "New Term Loan Commitment" opposite such New Term Loan Lender's name, or in the Assignment and Acceptance pursuant to which such New Term Loan Lender shall have assumed its New Term Loan Commitment, as applicable. The aggregate amount of the New Term Loan Commitments on the Amendment Effective Date is $335.0 million.
"" shall mean the New Term Loan Commitments and the New Term Loans made hereunder.
New Term Loan Facility
"" shall have the meaning assigned to such term in Section 2.10(a).
New Term Loan Installment Date
"" shall mean a Lender with a New Term Loan Commitment or with outstanding New Term Loans (including any Additional New Term Loan Lender).
New Term Loan Lender
"" shall mean July 7, 2011.
New Term Loan Maturity Date
"" shall mean the term loans made by the Lenders to the Borrower pursuant to Section 2.01 or 2.21 (including any Additional New Term Loans).
New Term Loans
"" shall mean, collectively, the transactions to occur substantially concurrently with the effectiveness of this Agreement on the Amendment Effective Date as contemplated hereunder and in the Amendment Agreement, including (a) the execution and delivery of this Agreement and the New Security Documents, (b) the borrowing of the New Term Loans and (to the extent applicable) the borrowing of New Revolving Facility Loans and (c) the payment of all fees and expenses to be paid on or prior to the Amendment Effective Date and owing in connection with the foregoing.
New Transactions
"" shall have the meaning assigned to such term in Section 2.19(c).
Non-Consenting Lender
 
"" shall mean all Real Property of
Non-Covered Property
Holdings
Parent
and the Subsidiaries other than Covered Property
.
"Non-Defaulting Lender" means, at any time, a Lender that is not a Defaulting Lender
.
"" shall mean all amounts owing to any of the Agents or any Lender pursuant to the terms of this Agreement or any other Loan Document.
Obligations
"" shall have the meaning assigned to such term in Section 3.22(b)(v).
OFAC
"" shall mean July 30, 2004.
Original Closing Date
"Original Collateral" shall have the meaning assigned to it in the recitals hereof.
"" shall have the meaning assigned to it in the recitals hereof.
Original Credit Agreement
"" shall have the meaning assigned to it in the recitals hereof.
Original Lenders
"" shall have the meaning assigned to it in the recitals hereof.
Original Loan Documents
"" shall have the meaning assigned to it in the recitals hereof.
Original Obligations
"" shall mean "Post-Closing Matters Period", as such term is defined in the Original Credit Agreement.
Original Post-Closing Matters Period
"" shall have the meaning assigned to it in the recitals hereof.
Original Security Documents
"" shall mean, collectively, the "Transactions" (as defined in the Original Credit Agreement.
Original Transactions
"
Other List" shall have the meaning given such term in Section 6.14.
"" shall mean any and all present or future stamp or documentary taxes or any other excise or property taxes, charges or similar levies arising from any payment made hereunder or from the execution, delivery or enforcement of, or otherwise with respect to, the Loan Documents, and any and all interest and penalties related thereto.
Other Taxes
"
Parent
Entity
" shall mean the Public Parent and any person who directly or indirectly owns 100% of the issued and outstanding Equity Interests of any subsidiary of the Public Parent.
" shall mean, upon effectiveness of the Merger Agreement, Foundation Parent.
"Parent Company" means, with respect to a Lender, the bank holding company (as defined in Federal Reserve Board Regulation Y), if any, of such Lender, and/or any Person owning, beneficially or of record, directly or indirectly, a majority of the shares of such Lender.
 
"
Parent Convertible Debt" shall mean $287,500,000 principal amount of 2.375% convertible senior notes due 2015 of Alpha issued pursuant to that certain Supplemental Indenture dated as of April 7, 2008 between Alpha and Union Bank, N.A., as trustee.
"Parent Mortgaged Property" shall mean the Real Properties of the New Loan Parties listed on Schedule 1.01(y).
"" shall have the meaning assigned to such term in Section 9.04(c).
Participant
"Payment Office"
shall mean the principal office of Administrative Agent, located on the Amendment Effective Date at
2
Penns
Way
, 200,
New Castle
,
Delaware
19720
, or such other office as may be designated by Administrative Agent from time to time.
"Participant Register" shall have the meaning assigned to such term in Section 9.04(c).
"" shall mean the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation referred to and defined in ERISA.
PBGC
"" shall mean a certificate in the form of Exhibit II to the Collateral Agreement or any other form approved by the Collateral Agent.
Perfection Certificates
"Permit" shall mean any and all permits, approvals, registrations, notifications, exemptions and any other regulatory authorization, in each case, from a Governmental Authority having jurisdiction.
"" shall mean any acquisition of all or substantially all the assets of, or all the Equity Interests (other than directors' qualifying shares) in, a person or division, line of business, coal mine or other operating facility, of a person (or any subsequent investment made in a person, division, line of business, coal mine or other operating facility, previously acquired in a Permitted Business Acquisition) if (a) such acquisition was not preceded by, or effected pursuant to, an unsolicited or hostile offer and (b) immediately after giving effect thereto: (i) no Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing or would result therefrom; (ii) all transactions related thereto shall be consummated in accordance with applicable laws; and (iii) (A) 
Permitted Business Acquisition
Holdings
Parent
and the Subsidiaries shall be in compliance, on a Pro Forma Basis after giving effect to such acquisition or formation, with the covenants contained in Sections 6.11 and 6.12 recomputed as at the last day of the most recently ended fiscal quarter of
Holdings
Parent
and the Subsidiaries, and
Holdings
Parent
shall have delivered to the Administrative Agent a certificate of a Responsible Officer of
Holdings
Parent
to such effect, together with all relevant financial information for such Subsidiary or assets, and (B) any acquired or newly formed Subsidiary shall not be liable for any Indebtedness (except for Indebtedness permitted by Section 6.01).
 
"
Permitted
Business Acquisition Step-Up Period" shall mean any period commencing on the first day on which either (x) the Leverage Ratio on a Pro Forma Basis is less than 3.25 to 1.00 and ending on the first day thereafter on which the Leverage Ratio on a Pro Forma Basis is greater than or equal to 3.25 to 1.00, or (y) the Leverage Ratio on a Pro Forma Basis is less than 2.25 to 1.00 and ending on the first day thereafter on which the Leverage Ratio on a Pro Forma Basis is greater than or equal to 2.25 to 1.00 or (z) the Leverage Ratio on a Pro Forma Basis is less than 1.75 to 1.00 and ending on the first day thereafter on which the Leverage Ratio on a Pro Forma Basis is greater than or equal to 1.75 to 1.00.
"Permitted
" shall mean (i) with respect to each Covered Property
Encumbrances
(other than any Covered Property with respect to which a policy of title insurance (or marked up commitment having the effect of a title insurance policy) or title opinion is delivered to the Collateral Agent in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (h)(x) of the definition of "Collateral and Guarantee Requirement")
those Liens and other encumbrances permitted by paragraphs (b), (d), (
h), (m), (o) and (x) of Section 6.02, (ii) with respect to each Covered Property (other than each Covered Property described in clause (
i
) of this definition) those Liens and other encumbrances permitted by paragraphs (b) and (m) of Section 6.02 and (
iii
e
), (h), (j), (k), (m), (o), (v), (x) and (y) of Section 6.02 and (ii
) with respect to each Non-Covered Property and each Real Property acquired after the Original Closing Date, those Liens and other encumbrances permitted by paragraphs (b), (d), (e), (h), (k), (m), (o)
, (x)
 and (
x
y
) of Section 6.02; , , that in the case of those Liens and other encumbrances described in clause (o) of
provided
however
clauses (
i
) and (iii) of this
definition,
Section
6.02,
in the event any Loan Party shall constitute the lessor under any such lease or sublease, no Lien created or permitted to be incurred thereby shall be permitted hereunder except to the extent such Lien would otherwise constitute a Permitted Encumbrance.
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6.04(u).
Permitted Gas Properties Threshold Amount
"" shall mean a disposition, lease, merger, or distribution of Gas Properties to any party that is not a Loan Party. If the Gas Properties subject to such transaction have a fair market value of $10.0 million or more, whether in an individual transaction or as part of a series of related transactions, with the same party or parties or affiliates thereof, then to constitute a Permitted Gas Properties Transaction, such transaction shall meet all of the following requirements:
Permitted Gas Properties Transactions
(i) any liabilities and contractual obligations imposed on any Loan Party in connection with any such transaction are fair and reasonable and arm's-length (including without limitation that the indemnities are reasonable for a transaction of this type, that there is a reasonable purchase price adjustment, and there are reasonable time periods for representations and warranties);
(ii) no right, title or interest in any Coal, Coal reserves, or any facility that is associated with the extraction, loading, handling, processing or preparation of Coal is being sold, transferred, conveyed or encumbered in connection with such transaction;
(iii) such transaction will not, presently or in the future, disrupt or negatively affect the Coal operations of the Loan Parties in any material respect;
(iv) the Retained Assets are not, as a result of such transaction, adversely impacted or impaired in any material respect with any encumbrances, rights of first refusal, or restrictions and limitations of any nature;
 
(v) such transaction is not reasonably anticipated to have any material adverse effect on (i) the fair market value of the Retained Assets as compared with the value of such assets immediately prior to such event and (ii) the rights and remedies of the Secured Parties under the Loan Documents;
(vi) no Loan Party shall be obligated subsequent to such transaction to pay any material royalties or any other material payments of cash or property to Gas Co. or any other Person in order to conduct its Coal operations; and
(vii) except to the extent permitted by Sections 6.01(s) and 6.04(u), no Loan Party shall (A) provide any Indebtedness, Guarantee or otherwise directly or indirectly provide credit support to or for the benefit of Gas Co. or its subsidiaries, (B) suffer to exist any Indebtedness, Guarantee or otherwise directly or indirectly provide credit support, in each case, provided by a Loan Party to or for the benefit of Gas Co. or its subsidiaries, or (C) agree to maintain or preserve Gas Co.'s or its subsidiaries' financial condition, in each case, subsequent to any such transaction;
, , that each of the following additional requirements shall be complied with: (a) the Loan Parties, as soon as reasonably practical, shall advise the Administrative Agent of any pending transaction and shall deliver to the Administrative Agent such other information about such transaction as any Lender may reasonably require; (b) 
provided
further
Holdings
Parent
and the Subsidiaries shall be in compliance, on a Pro Forma Basis after giving effect to such acquisition or formation, with the covenants contained in Sections 6.11 and 6.12 recomputed as at the last day of the most recently ended fiscal quarter of
Holdings
Parent
and the Subsidiaries, and
Holdings
Parent
shall have delivered to the Administrative Agent a certificate of a Responsible Officer of
Holdings
Parent
to such effect, together with all relevant financial information for such Subsidiary or assets, (c) the Loan Parties shall deliver to the Administrative Agent promptly after the consummation of such transaction copies of any material agreements entered into by such Loan Parties in connection with such transaction; (d) no Default or Event of Default shall exist immediately prior to and after giving effect to such transaction; (e) the Loan Parties shall deliver to the Administrative Agent at the time of the consummation of such transaction, a certificate of a Responsible Officer of
the
Borrower
Parent
, representing and warranting that with respect to any such transaction, each of the foregoing clauses (i) through (v) is true and accurate and that each of the other requirements has been or will be complied with; (f) in the event any Hydrocarbon Property that is the subject of such transaction constitutes surface Improvements encumbered by a Mortgage, the Administrative Agent shall cause such surface Improvement Hydrocarbon Property to be released from the Lien of the applicable Mortgage, without recourse or warranty at the sole cost and expense of the Borrower; , , that to the extent such release involves the release of only a portion of any Mortgaged Property, the applicable Loan Party shall deliver to the Administrative Agent all documents reasonably requested by the Administrative Agent to confirm the continued perfection, priority and validity of the Lien of the affected Mortgage on the remaining Mortgaged Property prior to any release of the surface Improvements comprising the Hydrocarbon Property that is the subject of the applicable Permitted Gas Properties Transaction; and (g) in the event any Hydrocarbon Property that is the subject of such transaction shall constitute a right, title or interest other than any surface Improvement, the Administrative Agent shall, at the request and at the sole cost and expense of the Borrower, enter into a subordination, non-disturbance and attornment agreement in form and substance reasonably acceptable to it regarding same.
provided
however
 
"" shall mean:
Permitted Investments
(a) direct obligations of the United States of America or any agency thereof or obligations guaranteed by the United States of America or any agency thereof, in each case with maturities not exceeding two years;
(b) time deposit accounts, certificates of deposit and money market deposits maturing within 180 days of the date of acquisition thereof issued by a bank or trust company that is organized under the laws of the United States of America, or any state thereof having capital, surplus and undivided profits in excess of $500.0 million and whose long-term debt, or whose parent holding company's long-term debt, is rated A (or such similar equivalent rating or higher by at least one nationally recognized statistical rating organization (as defined in Rule 436 under the Securities Act);
(c) repurchase obligations with a term of not more than 180 days for underlying securities of the types described in clause (a) above entered into with a bank meeting the qualifications described in clause (b) above;
(d) commercial paper, maturing not more than one year after the date of acquisition, issued by a corporation (other than an Affiliate of
any
Borrower
Parent
) organized and in existence under the laws of the United States of America or any foreign country recognized by the United States of America with a rating at the time as of which any investment therein is made of P-1 (or higher) according to Moody's, or A-1 (or higher) according to S&P;
(e) securities with maturities of two years or less from the date of acquisition issued or fully guaranteed by any State, commonwealth or territory of the United States of America, or by any political subdivision or taxing authority thereof, and rated at least A by S&P or A by Moody's;
(f) shares of mutual funds whose investment guidelines restrict 95% of such funds' investments to those satisfying the provisions of clauses (a) through (e) above;
(g) money market funds that (i) comply with the criteria set forth in Rule 2a-7 under the Investment Company Act of 1940, (ii) are rated AAA by S&P and Aaa by Moody's and (iii) have portfolio assets of at least $500.0 million; and
(h) time deposit accounts, certificates of deposit and money market deposits in an aggregate face amount not in excess of 1/2 of 1% of the total assets of
Holdings
Parent
and the Subsidiaries, on a consolidated basis, as of the end of
Holdings'
Parent's
most recently completed fiscal year.
"" shall mean all documents and agreements evidencing, relating to or otherwise governing a Permitted Receivables Financing.
Permitted Receivables Documents
 
"" shall mean one or more transactions pursuant to which (i) Receivables Assets or interests therein are sold to or financed by one or more Special Purpose Receivables Subsidiaries, and (ii) such Special Purpose Receivables Subsidiaries finance their acquisition of such Receivables Assets or interests therein, or the financing thereof, by selling or borrowing against such Receivables Assets; that (A) recourse to
Permitted Receivables Financing
provided
Holdings
Parent
or any Subsidiary (other than the Special Purpose Receivables Subsidiaries) and any obligations or agreements of
Holdings
Parent
or any Subsidiary (other than the Special Purpose Receivables Subsidiaries) in connection with such transactions shall be limited to the extent customary for similar transactions in the applicable jurisdictions (including, to the extent applicable, in a manner consistent with the delivery of a "true sale"/"absolute transfer" opinion with respect to any transfer by
Holdings
Parent
or any Subsidiary (other than a Special Purpose Receivables Subsidiary), and (B) the aggregate Receivables Net Investment since the
Original
Closing Date shall not exceed $
125.0
250.0
million at any time.
"" shall mean any Indebtedness issued in exchange for, or the net proceeds of which are used to extend, refinance, renew, replace, defease or refund (collectively, to ""), the Indebtedness being Refinanced (or previous refinancings thereof constituting Permitted Refinancing Indebtedness); that (a) the principal amount (or accreted value, if applicable) of such Permitted Refinancing Indebtedness does not exceed the principal amount (or accreted value, if applicable) of the Indebtedness so Refinanced (plus unpaid accrued interest and premium thereon), (b) the average life to maturity of such Permitted Refinancing Indebtedness is greater than or equal to that of the Indebtedness being Refinanced, (c) if the Indebtedness being Refinanced is subordinated in right of payment to the Obligations under this Agreement, such Permitted Refinancing Indebtedness shall be subordinated in right of payment to such Obligations on terms at least as favorable to the Lenders as those contained in the documentation governing the Indebtedness being Refinanced, (d) no Permitted Refinancing Indebtedness shall have different obligors, or greater guarantees or security, than the Indebtedness being Refinanced and (e) if the Indebtedness being Refinanced is secured by any collateral (whether equally and ratably with, or junior to, the Secured Parties or otherwise), such Permitted Refinancing Indebtedness may be secured by such collateral (including in respect of working capital facilities of Foreign Subsidiaries otherwise permitted under this Agreement only, any collateral pursuant to after-acquired property clauses to the extent any such collateral secured the Indebtedness being Refinanced) on terms no less favorable to the Secured Parties than those contained in the documentation governing the Indebtedness being Refinanced.
Permitted Refinancing Indebtedness
Refinance
provided
"" shall mean unsecured senior (or subordinated) notes issued by
Permitted Senior Debt Securities
Parent or
the Borrower, (i) the terms of which do not provide for any scheduled repayment, mandatory redemption or sinking fund obligation prior to the date on which the final maturity of the Senior Notes occurs (as in effect on the Original Closing Date), (ii) the covenants, events of default, Subsidiary guarantees and other terms of which (other than interest rate and redemption premiums), taken as a whole, are not more restrictive to Holdings and the Subsidiaries than those in the Senior Notes and (iii) of which no Subsidiary of
Holdings
Parent
(other than
Holdings,
the Borrower or a Domestic Subsidiary Loan Party) is an obligor under such notes that is not an obligor under the Senior Notes.
"Permitted Tax Distributions" shall mean payments by the Borrower or any Subsidiary to Holdings and payments by Holdings to the Public Parent, in amounts required for Holdings or the Public Parent to pay federal, state or local income taxes (as the case may be) imposed directly on Holdings or the Public Parent to the extent such income taxes are attributable to the income of Holdings, the Borrower and the other Subsidiaries (including without limitation, by virtue of the Public Parent being the common parent of a consolidated or combined tax group of which Holdings is a member); provided, however, that the amount of such payments to the Public Parent in respect of any tax year (or portion thereof) does not exceed the excess (if any) of (i) the amount that Holdings, the Borrower and the other Subsidiaries would have been required to pay in respect of federal, state or local income taxes (as the case may be) in respect of
such year (or portion) if Holdings, the Borrower and the other Subsidiaries paid such taxes directly as a stand-alone taxpayer (or stand-alone group) over (ii) the amount of such taxes actually paid directly by Holdings, the Borrower, and the other Subsidiaries in respect of such year (or portion).
 
"" or "" shall mean any natural person, corporation, business trust, joint venture, association, company, partnership, limited liability company or government, individual or family trusts, or any agency or political subdivision thereof.
person
Person
"" shall mean any employee pension benefit plan (other than a Multiemployer Plan) subject to the provisions of Title IV of ERISA or Section 412 of the Code or Section 302 of ERISA which is maintained or contributed to by Holdings, the Borrower, any other Subsidiary or any ERISA Affiliate or with respect to which
Plan
Holdings, the
Borrower
Parent
or any
other
Subsidiary could incur liability (including under Section 4069 of ERISA).
"" shall have the meaning assigned to such term in Section 9.17(b).
Platform
"" shall have the meaning assigned to such term in the Collateral Agreement.
Pledged Collateral
"" shall have the meaning given such term in the definition of the term "Guarantee."
primary obligor
"" shall mean Liens which, pursuant to the provisions of any Security Document, are or may be superior to the Lien of such Security Document.
Prior Liens
"" shall mean, as to any person, for any events as described in clauses (i) and (ii) below that occur subsequent to the commencement of a period for which the financial effect of such events is being calculated, and giving effect to the events for which such calculation is being made, such calculation as will give effect to such events as if such events occurred on the first day of the four consecutive fiscal quarter period ended on or before the occurrence of such event (the ""):
Pro Forma Basis
pro forma
Reference Period
(i) in making any determination of EBITDA, effect shall be given to
pro forma
the Merger Transaction,
any Asset Disposition and to any Asset Acquisition (or any similar transaction or transactions that require a waiver or consent of the Required Lenders pursuant to Section 6.04 or 6.05), in each case that occurred during the Reference Period (or, in the case of determinations made pursuant to the definition of the term "Asset Acquisition," occurring during the Reference Period or thereafter and through and including the date upon which the respective Asset Acquisition is consummated); and
 
(ii) in making any determination on a Pro Forma Basis, (x) all Indebtedness (including Indebtedness incurred or assumed and for which the financial effect is being calculated, whether incurred under this Agreement or otherwise, but excluding normal fluctuations in revolving Indebtedness incurred for working capital purposes and amounts outstanding under any Permitted Receivables Financing, in each case, not to finance any acquisition) incurred or permanently repaid during the Reference Period (or, in the case of determinations made pursuant to the definition of the term "Asset Acquisition," occurring during the Reference Period or thereafter and through and including the date upon which the respective Asset Acquisition is consummated) shall be deemed to have been incurred or repaid at the beginning of such period and (y) Interest Expense of such person attributable to interest on any Indebtedness, for which effect is being given as provided in preceding clause (x), bearing floating interest rates shall be computed on a basis as if the rates that would have been in effect during the period for which effect is being given had been actually in effect during such periods.
pro
forma
pro
forma
pro
forma
calculations made pursuant to the definition of the term "Pro Forma Basis" shall be determined in good faith by a Responsible Officer of
Pro
forma
Holdings
Parent
and, for any fiscal period ending on or prior to the first anniversary of
the Merger Transaction,
an Asset Acquisition or Asset Disposition (or any similar transaction or transactions that require a waiver or consent of the Required Lenders pursuant to Section 6.04 or 6.05), may include adjustments to reflect operating expense reductions and other operating improvements or synergies reasonably expected to result from
the Merger Transaction,
such Asset Acquisition, Asset Disposition or other similar transaction, to the extent that
Holdings
Parent
delivers to the Administrative Agent (i) a certificate of a Financial Officer of
Holdings
Parent
setting forth such operating expense reductions and other operating improvements or synergies and (ii) information and calculations supporting in reasonable detail such estimated operating expense reductions and other operating improvements or synergies. For purposes of Pro Forma Basis, the purchase of Gas Properties shall be deemed a material Asset Acquisition.
"" shall mean
Projections
the projections of Holdings and the Subsidiaries included in the Information Memorandum and any
other
any
projections and any forward-looking statements (including statements with respect to booked business) of such entities
(or of Parent and its Subsidiaries)
furnished to the Lenders or the Administrative Agent by or on behalf of Holdings, the Borrower or any of the other Subsidiaries prior to the Amendment
No. 1
Effective Date
. "Public Parent" shall mean Foundation Coal Holdings, Inc., a Delaware corporation
.
"" shall mean, with respect to any Eurocurrency Borrowing and any Interest Period, the day on which it is market practice in the relevant interbank market for prime banks to give quotations for deposits in the currency of such Borrowing for delivery on the first day of such Interest Period. If such quotations would normally be given by prime banks on more than one day, the Quotation Day will be the last of such days.
Quotation Day
"
Real Property" shall mean, collectively, all right, title and interest of Parent or any Subsidiary (including, without limitation, any leasehold or mineral estate) in and to any and all parcels of real property owned or operated by Parent or any Subsidiary, whether by lease, license or other use agreement, together with, in each case, all Improvements and appurtenant
 
fixtures (including, without limitation, all preparation plants or other coal processing facilities and loadout and other transportation facilities), equipment, personal property, easements and other property and rights incidental to the ownership, lease or operation thereof.
"Rebuild Companies" shall mean Maxxim Rebuild Co., LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and a wholly owned subsidiary of Parent, and Powers Shop LLC, a Virginia limited liability company and a wholly owned subsidiary of Parent.
"Rebuild Equipment" shall mean mining and related equipment acquired from persons who are not Affiliates of Parent that is sold by either of the Rebuild Companies in the ordinary course of its business.
"Receivable" means any indebtedness and other obligations owed to any Loan Party or a Special Purpose Receivables Subsidiary or any right of a Special Purpose Receivables Subsidiary or any Loan Party to payment from or on behalf of a purchaser of goods from anyLoan Party or any right to reimbursement for funds paid or advanced by a Special Purpose Receivables Subsidiary or any Loan Party on behalf of a purchaser of goods from any Loan Party, whether constituting an account, chattel paper, payment intangible, instrument or general intangible, however arising (whether or not earned by performance), and includes, without limitation, the obligation to pay any finance charges, fees and other charges with respect thereto (it being understood that indebtedness and other obligations arising from any one transaction, including, without limitation, indebtedness and other obligations represented by an individual invoice or agreement, shall constitute a Receivable separate from a Receivable consisting of the indebtedness and other obligations arising from any other transaction).
"
" shall mean
Receivables Assets
accounts receivable (including any bills of exchange) and related assets and property
any Receivable and Related Security
from time to time originated, acquired or otherwise owned by
Holdings
Parent
or any Subsidiary.
"" shall mean the aggregate cash amount paid by the lenders or purchasers under any Permitted Receivables Financing in connection with their purchase of, or the making of loans secured by, Receivables Assets or interests therein, as the same may be reduced from time to time by collections with respect to such Receivables Assets or otherwise in accordance with the terms of the Permitted Receivables Documents; , , that if all or any part of such Receivables Net Investment shall have been reduced by application of any distribution and thereafter such distribution is rescinded or must otherwise be returned for any reason, such Receivables Net Investment shall be increased by the amount of such distribution, all as though such distribution had not been made.
Receivables Net Investment
provided
however
"Real Property" shall mean, collectively, all right, title and interest of the Borrower or any other Subsidiary (including, without limitation, any leasehold or mineral estate) in and to any and all parcels of real property owned or operated by the Borrower or any other Subsidiary, whether by lease, license or other use agreement, together with, in each case, all Improvements and appurtenant fixtures (including, without limitation, all preparation plants or other coal processing facilities and loadout and other transportation facilities), equipment, personal property, easements and other property and rights incidental to the ownership, lease or operation thereof.
 
"" shall mean all laws relating to mining reclamation or reclamation liabilities including the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977, as amended, and
Reclamation Laws
its state and local counterparts or equivalents, including those
applicable
in
Illinois, Kentucky, Pennsylvania, Utah, West Virginia and Wyoming state laws.
"" shall have the meaning assigned to such term in the definition of the term "Pro Forma Basis."
Reference Period
"" shall have the meaning assigned to such term in the definition of the term "Permitted Refinancing Indebtedness," and "" shall have a meaning correlative thereto.
Refinance
Refinanced
"" shall have the meaning assigned to such term in Section 9.08(e).
Refinanced New Term Loans
"" shall have the meaning assigned to such term in Section 9.04(b).
Register
"" shall mean Regulation U of the Board as from time to time in effect and all official rulings and interpretations thereunder or thereof.
Regulation U
"" shall mean Regulation X of the Board as from time to time in effect and all official rulings and interpretations thereunder or thereof.
Regulation X
"" shall mean, with respect to any specified person, such person's Affiliates and the respective directors, officers, employees, agents and advisors of such person and such person's Affiliates.
Related Parties
"Related Security" means, with respect to any Receivable:
(a) all of a Special Purpose Receivables Subsidiary and any Loan Party's interest in any goods (including returned goods), and documentation of title evidencing the shipment or storage of any goods (including returned goods), the sale of which gave rise to such Receivable;
(b) all instruments and chattel paper that may evidence such Receivable (and do not evidence any asset that is not a Receivable);
(c) all other security interests or liens and property subject thereto from time to time purporting to secure payment of such Receivable, whether pursuant to the Contract related to such Receivable or otherwise, together with all UCC financing statements or similar filings relating thereto;
(d) solely to the extent applicable to such Receivable, the rights interests and claims under the Contracts and all guaranties, indemnities, insurance and other agreements or arrangements of whatever character from time to time supporting or securing payment of such Receivable or otherwise relating to such Receivable, whether pursuant to the Contract related to such Receivable or otherwise;
 
(e) all of a Special Purpose Receivables Subsidiary's rights, interests and claims under the Permitted Receivables Documents; and
(f) all collections and other proceeds and products of any of the foregoing as defined in the UCC) that are or were received by a Loan Party or Special Purpose Receivables Subsidiary, including, without limitation, all funds which either are received by a Loan Party or Special Purpose Receivables Subsidiary from or on behalf of the obligors in payment of any amounts owed (including, without limitation, invoice price, finance charges, interest and all other chares) in respect of the above Receivables or are applied to such amounts owed by the obligors (including, without limitation, any insurance payments that a Loan Party or Special Purpose Receivables Subsidiary applies in the ordinary course of its business to amounts owed in respect of any of the above Receivables, and net proceeds of sale or other disposition of repossessed goods or other collateral or property of the obligors in repsect of the above Receivables or any other parties directly or indirectly liable for payment of any such Receivables, and all books and records of any Loan Party to the extent related to any of the Receivables Assets.
"" shall mean any spilling, leaking, seepage, pumping, pouring, emitting, emptying, discharging, injecting, escaping, leaching, dumping, disposing or depositing in, into or onto the Environment.
Release
"" shall mean, as of any date with respect to any lease, the present value as of such date of the scheduled future lease payments with respect to such lease, determined with a discount rate equal to a market rate of interest for such lease reasonably determined at the time such lease was entered into.
Remaining Present Value
"" shall have the meaning assigned to such term in Section 9.08(e).
Replacement New Term Loans
"" shall mean any reportable event as defined in Section 4043(c) of ERISA or the regulations issued thereunder, other than those events as to which the 30-day notice period referred to in Section 4043(c) of ERISA has been waived, with respect to a Plan.
Reportable Event
"" shall mean, at any time, Lenders having (a) Loans (other than Swingline Loans) outstanding, (b) New Revolving L/C Exposures, (c) Swingline Exposures, and (d) Available Unused Commitments, that taken together, represent more than 50% of the sum of (w) all Loans (other than Swingline Loans) outstanding, (x) New Revolving L/C Exposures, (y) Swingline Exposures, and (z) the total Available Unused Commitments at such time. The Loans, New Revolving L/C Exposures, Swingline Exposures and Available Unused Commitment of any Defaulting Lender shall be disregarded in determining Required Lenders at any time.
Required Lenders
"" shall mean the following reports prepared by Norwest Corporation: (i) Reasonableness Review of RAG American Coal Holding, Inc., dated April 8, 2004; (ii) Reserve Audit of RAG American Coal Holding, Inc., dated April 8, 2004;
Reserve Reports
and
(iii) RAG American Coal Holding, Inc. Collateral Analysis, dated April 9, 2004;
and
(iv)
the Phase I Geological Study and Reserve Evaluation of the No. 6 Seam in Wabash and Edwards counties of the State of Illinois and Gibson County in the State of Indiana, dated March 13, 2006, prepared by Marshall Miller and Associates
."Reset Date" shall have the meaning assigned to such term in Section 1.03(a)
and (v) the Updated Evaluation and Reserve Audit of Alpha Natural Resources, LLC, dated February 3, 2009, prepared by Marshall Miller & Associates, Inc
.
 
"" of any person shall mean any executive officer or Financial Officer of such person and any other officer or similar official thereof responsible for the administration of the obligations of such person in respect of this Agreement.
Responsible Officer
"" shall mean all Collateral retained by the Loan Parties subsequent to a Permitted Gas Properties Transaction.
Retained Assets
"" shall mean Standard & Poor's Ratings Group, Inc.
S&P
"" shall have the meaning assigned to such term in Section 6.03.
Sale and Lease-Back Transaction
"SDN List" shall have the meaning assigned to such term in Section 6.14.
"" shall mean the Securities and Exchange Commission or any successor thereto.
SEC
"" shall mean the "Secured Parties" as defined in the Collateral Agreement.
Secured Parties
"" shall mean the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Securities Act
"" shall mean the Mortgages, the Collateral Agreement, the New Security Documents, the Intercompany Lease Agreement and each of the security agreements, Additional Mortgages and other instruments and documents executed and delivered pursuant to any of the foregoing or pursuant to Section 5.10 of this Agreement or
Security Documents
Section
Sections 5.10 or
5.18 of the Original Credit Agreement.
"" shall mean the Senior Notes and the Senior Note Indenture.
Senior Note Documents
"" shall mean the Indenture dated as of July 30, 2004 under which the Senior Notes were issued, among the Borrower, FC 2 Corp., Holdings and certain of the Subsidiaries party thereto and the trustee named therein from time to time, as in effect on the Original Closing Date and as amended, restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time in accordance with the requirements thereof and of this Agreement.
Senior Note Indenture
"" shall mean the Borrower's 7
Senior Notes
 1
/
4
% Senior Notes due 2014 issued pursuant to the Senior Note Indenture in an aggregate principal amount of $300.0 million and any notes issued by the Borrower in exchange for, and as contemplated by, the Senior Notes and the related registration rights agreement with substantially identical terms as the Senior Notes.
"" shall mean a direct or indirect Subsidiary of
Special Purpose Receivables Subsidiary
Holdings
Parent
established in connection with a Permitted Receivables Financing for the acquisition of Receivables Assets or interests therein, and which is
 
organized in a manner intended to reduce the likelihood that it would be substantively consolidated with
Holdings
Parent
or any of the Subsidiaries (other than Special Purpose Receivables Subsidiaries) in the event
Holdings
Parent
or any such Subsidiary becomes subject to a proceeding under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code (or other insolvency law).
"" shall mean, with respect to any currency, any reserve, liquid asset or similar requirements established by any Governmental Authority of the United States of America or of the jurisdiction of such currency or any jurisdiction in which Loans in such currency are made to which banks in such jurisdiction are subject for any category of deposits or liabilities customarily used to fund loans in such currency or by reference to which interest rates applicable to Loans in such currency are determined.
Statutory Reserves
"" shall have the meaning assigned to such term in Section 6.01(e).
Subordinated Intercompany Debt
"" shall mean, with respect to any person (herein referred to as the ""), any corporation, partnership, association or other business entity (a) of which securities or other ownership interests representing more than 50% of the equity or more than 50% of the ordinary voting power or more than 50% of the general partnership interests are, at the time any determination is being made, directly or indirectly, owned, Controlled or held, or (b) that is, at the time any determination is made, otherwise Controlled, by the parent or one or more subsidiaries of the parent or by the parent and one or more subsidiaries of the parent.
subsidiary
parent
"Subsidiary" shall mean, unless the context otherwise requires, a subsidiary of Holdings.
"Subsidiary" shall mean, unless the context otherwise requires, a subsidiary of Parent. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the term "Subsidiary" shall not include any Unrestricted Subsidiary except (i) where the term "Subsidiary" is used in Sections 3.01, 3.08, 3.09, 3.10 3.12, 3.14, 3.15, 3.19, 5.04, 5.05, 5.06, 5.07, 5.09, 5.10 and 6.08(b) and (ii) for the purpose of determining whether a Default or an Event of Default has occurred under clause (f) or (j) of Section 7.01, the term "Subsidiary" shall include any Unrestricted Subsidiary if such Unrestricted Subsidiary was, as of the last day of the then most recently ended fiscal quarter of Parent, a significant subsidiary' (as defined in Article 1, Rule 1-02 of Regulation S-X, promulgated pursuant to the Securities Act, as such Regulation is in effect on the Amendment No. 1 Effective Date) of Parent; provided, however that, if it is necessary to exclude more than one Unrestricted Subsidiary from clause (f) or (j) of Section 7.01 in order to avoid a Default or an Event of Default thereunder, all excluded Unrestricted Subsidiaries shall be considered to be a single consolidated Unrestricted Subsidiary for the purpose of determining whether the significant subsidiary' condition specified in clause (ii) above is satisfied
,
"" shall mean any agreement with respect to any swap, forward, future or derivative transaction or option or similar agreement involving, or settled by reference to, one or more rates, currencies, commodities, equity or debt instruments or securities, or economic, financial or pricing indices or measures of economic, financial or pricing risk or value or any similar transaction or any combination of these transactions, that no phantom stock or similar plan providing for payments only on account of services provided by current or former directors, officers, employees or consultants of
Swap Agreement
provided
Holdings
Parent
or any of its Subsidiaries shall be a Swap Agreement.
 
"" shall mean a Borrowing comprised of Swingline Loans.
Swingline Borrowing
"" shall mean a request by the Borrower substantially in the form of
Swingline Borrowing Request
Exhibit C-
2.
2 to the Execution Date Credit Agreement.
"" shall mean, with respect to each Swingline Lender, the commitment of such Swingline Lender to make Swingline Loans pursuant to Section 2.04. The aggregate amount of the Swingline Commitments on the Amendment Effective Date
Swingline Commitment
is
was
$25.0 million.
The aggregate amount of the Swingline Commitments on the Amendment No. 1 Effective Date is $50.0 million.
"" shall mean at any time the aggregate principal amount of all outstanding Swingline Borrowings at such time. The Swingline Exposure of any New Revolving Facility Lender at any time shall mean its New Revolving Facility Percentage of the aggregate Swingline Exposure at such time.
Swingline Exposure
"" shall mean Citicorp North America, Inc., in its capacity as a lender of Swingline Loans, and/or any other New Revolving Facility Lender designated as such by the Borrower after the Amendment Effective that is reasonably satisfactory to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent and executes a counterpart to this Agreement as a Swingline Lender.
Swingline Lender
"" shall mean the swingline loans made to the Borrower pursuant to Section 2.04.
Swingline Loans
"" shall have the meaning assigned to such term in the introductory paragraph of this Agreement.
Syndication Agent
"" shall mean any and all present or future taxes, levies, imposts, duties (including stamp duties), deductions, charges (including charges) or withholdings imposed by any Governmental Authority and any and all interest and penalties related thereto.
Taxes
ad valorem
"" shall mean, on any date of determination, the period of four consecutive fiscal quarters of
Test Period
Holdings
Parent
then most recently ended (taken as one accounting period).
"" shall mean LandAmerica Inc. or such other title company as shall be approved by the Administrative Agent.
Title Company
"" shall mean the Original Transactions
Transaction
and
,
the New Transactions
and the Amendment No. 1 Transactions
, collectively.
"" shall mean the date of delivery of financial statements for the first full fiscal quarter ending after the Amendment
Trigger Date
No. 1
Effective Date.
 
"", when used in respect of any Loan or Borrowing, shall refer to the Rate by reference to which interest on such Loan or on the Loans comprising such Borrowing is determined. For purposes hereof, the term "" shall include the Adjusted LIBO Rate and the Alternate Base Rate.
Type
Rate
"" shall mean (i) the Uniform Commercial Code as in effect in the applicable state of jurisdiction and (ii) certificate of title or other similar statutes relating to "rolling stock" or barges as in effect in the applicable jurisdiction.
UCC
"Unrestricted Subsidiary" shall mean (i) any person that becomes an Unrestricted Subsidiary in accordance with Section 5.16(a) (other than the Borrower or Holdings), (ii) any Special Purpose Receivables Subsidiary; provided that any such Special Purpose Receivables Subsidiary of Parent that is an Unrestricted Subsidiary shall, upon the termination of any such Permitted Receivables Financing (other than as a result of an event of default thereunder unless and until the obligations thereunder are repaid in full), cease to be an Unrestricted Subsidiary and may not be re-designated as an Unrestricted Subsidiary and (iii) as of the Amendment No. 1 Effective Date, ANR Receivables Funding, LLC.
"" shall mean Title 11 of the United States Code, as amended, or any similar federal or state law for the relief of debtors.
U.S. Bankruptcy Code
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 3.08(a).
U.S. Patriot Act
"" of any person shall mean a subsidiary of such person, all of the Equity Interests of which (other than directors' qualifying shares or nominee or other similar shares required pursuant to applicable law) are owned by such person or another Wholly Owned Subsidiary of such person.
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
"" shall mean liability to a Multiemployer Plan as a result of a complete or partial withdrawal from such Multiemployer Plan, as such terms are defined in Part I of Subtitle E of Title IV of ERISA.
Withdrawal Liability
SECTION 1.02. . The definitions set forth or referred to in Section 1.01 shall apply equally to both the singular and plural forms of the terms defined. Whenever the context may require, any pronoun shall include the corresponding masculine, feminine and neuter forms. The words "include," "includes" and "including" shall be deemed to be followed by the phrase "without limitation." All references herein to Articles, Sections, Exhibits and Schedules shall be deemed references to Articles and Sections of, and Exhibits and Schedules to, this Agreement unless the context shall otherwise require. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, any reference in this Agreement to any Loan Document shall mean such document as amended, restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, all terms of an accounting or financial nature shall be construed in accordance with GAAP, as in effect from time to time; that, if
Terms Generally
provided
Holdings
Parent
notifies the Administrative Agent that
Holdings
Parent
requests an amendment to any provision hereof to eliminate the effect of any change occurring after the Amendment Effective Date in GAAP or in the application thereof on the operation of such provision (or if the Administrative Agent notifies
Holdings
Parent
that the Required Lenders request an amendment to any provision
 
hereof for such purpose), regardless of whether any such notice is given before or after such change in GAAP or in the application thereof, then such provision shall be interpreted on the basis of GAAP as in effect and applied immediately before such change shall have become effective until such notice shall have been withdrawn or such provision amended in accordance herewith. For purposes of determining compliance with Section 6.01 through Section 
6.10
6.09
with respect to any amount in a currency other than Dollars, such amount shall be determined as of the date of incurrence thereof, and shall not be affected as a result of fluctuations in currency values.
SECTION 1.03. . Each of the representations and warranties of Holdings
Effectuation of Transfers
, Parent
and the
Borrowers
Borrower
contained in this Agreement (and all corresponding definitions) are made after giving effect to the
New
Transactions, unless the context otherwise requires.
SECTION 1.04. . Upon satisfaction of the conditions precedent to the effectiveness of this Agreement set forth in Section 4.02(B)
Effect of this Agreement on the Original Credit Agreement and the Other Loan Documents
to the Execution Date Credit Agreement
, this Agreement shall be binding on Holdings, the Borrower, the Agents, the Lenders and the other parties hereto and the provisions of the Original Credit Agreement shall be replaced by the provisions of this Agreement; , that (a) the Original Obligations of Holdings, the Borrower and the other Loan Parties under the Original Credit Agreement and the Original Loan Documents that remain unpaid and outstanding as of and after giving effect to the Amendment Effective Date shall continue to exist under and be evidenced by this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, (b) all Existing Letters of Credit shall continue as Letters of Credit under this Agreement, (c) subject to Sections 15 and 16 of the Amendment Agreement, the Original Collateral and the Original Loan Documents shall continue to secure, guarantee, support and otherwise benefit the Original Obligations and the Obligations of Holdings, the Borrower and the other Loan Parties under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, and (d) any Person entitled to the benefits of Section 2.15, 2.16, 2.17 or 9.05 of the Original Credit Agreement shall continue to be entitled to the benefits of the corresponding provisions of this Agreement. Upon the effectiveness of this Agreement in accordance with Section 4.02(B)
provided
to the Execution Date Credit Agreement
, each Loan Document that was in effect immediately prior to the Amendment Effective Date shall continue to be effective and, unless the context otherwise requires, any reference to the Original Credit Agreement contained therein shall be deemed to refer to this Agreement.
SECTION 2.01. . Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, each Lender agrees
Commitments
(a) to make New Term Loans to the Borrower on the Amendment Effective Date in Dollars in a principal amount not to exceed its New Term Loan Commitment, and
 
(b) to make (i) New Revolving Facility Loans denominated in Dollars to the Borrower, at any time and from time to time during the Availability Period in an aggregate principal amount that will not result in (A) such Lender's New Revolving Facility Credit Exposure exceeding such Lender's New Revolving Facility Commitment or (B) the New Revolving Facility Credit Exposure exceeding the total New Revolving Facility Commitments. Within the foregoing limits and subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the
Borrowers
Borrower
may borrow, prepay and reborrow New Revolving Facility Loans.
Amounts repaid or prepaid in respect of New Term Loans may not be reborrowed.
SECTION 2.02. .
Loans and Borrowings
(a) Each Loan shall be made as part of a Borrowing consisting of Loans under the same Facility and of the same Type made by the Lenders ratably in accordance with their respective Commitments under the applicable Facility (or, in the case of Swingline Loans, in accordance with their respective Swingline Dollar Commitments); , , that New Revolving Facility Loans shall be made by the New Revolving Facility Lenders ratably in accordance with their respective New Revolving Facility Percentages on the date such Loans are made hereunder. The failure of any Lender to make any Loan required to be made by it shall not relieve any other Lender of its obligations hereunder; that the Commitments of the Lenders are several and no Lender shall be responsible for any other Lender's failure to make Loans as required.
provided
however
provided
(b) Subject to Section 2.14, each Borrowing (other than a Swingline Borrowing) shall be comprised entirely of ABR Loans or Eurocurrency Loans as the Borrower may request in accordance herewith. Each Swingline Borrowing shall be an ABR Borrowing. Each Lender at its option may make any ABR Loan or Eurocurrency Loan by causing any domestic or foreign branch or Affiliate of such Lender to make such Loan; that any exercise of such option shall not affect the obligation of the Borrower to repay such Loan in accordance with the terms of this Agreement and such Lender shall not be entitled to any amounts payable under Section 2.15, 2.17 or 2.20 solely in respect of increased costs resulting from such exercise and existing at the time of such exercise.
provided
(c) At the commencement of each Interest Period for any Eurocurrency New Revolving Facility Borrowing, such Borrowing shall be in an aggregate amount that is an integral multiple of the Borrowing Multiple and not less than the Borrowing Minimum. At the time that each ABR New Revolving Facility Borrowing is made, such Borrowing shall be in an aggregate amount that is an integral multiple of the Borrowing Multiple and not less than the Borrowing Minimum; that an ABR New Revolving Facility Borrowing may be in an aggregate amount that is equal to the entire unused balance of the New Revolving Facility Commitments or that is required to finance the reimbursement of an L/C Disbursement as contemplated by Section 2.05(e). Each Swingline Borrowing shall be in an amount that is an integral multiple of the Borrowing Multiple and not less than the Borrowing Minimum. Borrowings of more than one Type and under more than one Facility may be outstanding at the same time; that there shall not at any time be more than a total of (i) five Eurocurrency Borrowings outstanding under the New Term Loan Facility and (ii) 20 Eurocurrency Borrowings outstanding under the New Revolving Facility.
provided
provided
 
(d) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement,
no
the
Borrower shall
not
be entitled to request, or to elect to convert or continue, any Borrowing if the Interest Period requested with respect thereto would end after the New Revolving Facility Maturity Date or New Term Loan Maturity Date, as applicable.
SECTION 2.03. . To request a New Revolving Facility Borrowing and/or a New Term Loan Borrowing, the Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent of such request by telephone (a) in the case of a Eurocurrency Borrowing, not later than
Requests for Borrowings
11
12
:00
a
p
.m., Local Time, three Business Days before the date of the proposed Borrowing or (b) in the case of an ABR Borrowing, not later than 12:00 noon, Local Time, one Business Day before the date of the proposed Borrowing; that any such notice of an ABR New Revolving Facility Borrowing to finance the reimbursement of an L/C Disbursement as contemplated by Section 2.05(e) may be given not later than 10:00 a.m., Local Time, on the date of the proposed Borrowing. Each such telephonic Borrowing Request shall be irrevocable and shall be confirmed promptly by hand delivery or telecopy to the Administrative Agent of a written Borrowing Request in a form approved by the Administrative Agent and signed by the Borrower. Each such telephonic and written Borrowing Request shall specify the following information in compliance with Section 2.02:
provided
(i) whether the requested Borrowing is to be a New Revolving Facility Borrowing;
(ii) the aggregate amount of the requested Borrowing (expressed in Dollars);
(iii) the date of such Borrowing, which shall be a Business Day;
(iv) whether such Borrowing is to be an ABR Borrowing or a Eurocurrency Borrowing;
(v) in the case of a Eurocurrency Borrowing, the initial Interest Period to be applicable thereto; and
(vi) the location and number of the Borrower's account to which funds are to be disbursed.
If no election as to the Type of New Revolving Facility Borrowing is specified, then the requested New Revolving Facility Borrowing shall be an ABR Borrowing. If no Interest Period is specified with respect to any requested Eurocurrency Borrowing, then the Borrower shall be deemed to have selected an Interest Period of one month's duration. Promptly following receipt of a Borrowing Request in accordance with this Section, the Administrative Agent shall advise each Lender of the details thereof and of the amount of such Lender's Loan to be made as part of the requested Borrowing.
SECTION 2.04. .
Swingline Loans
(a) Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, each Swingline Lender agrees to make Swingline Loans to the Borrower from time to time during the Availability Period, in an aggregate principal amount at any time outstanding that will not
 
result in (x) the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Swingline Loans exceeding the Swingline Commitment or (y) the New Revolving Facility Credit Exposure exceeding the total New Revolving Facility Commitments; that no Swingline Lender shall be required to make a Swingline Loan to refinance an outstanding Swingline Borrowing. Within the foregoing limits and subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the
provided
Borrowers
Borrower
may borrow, prepay and reborrow Swingline Loans.
(b) To request a Swingline Borrowing the Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent and the Swingline Lenders of such request by telephone (confirmed by a Swingline Borrowing Request by telecopy), not later than
11
1
:00
a
p
.m., Local Time, on the day of a proposed Swingline Borrowing. Each such notice and Swingline Borrowing Request shall be irrevocable and shall specify (i) the requested date (which shall be a Business Day) and (ii) the amount of the requested Swingline Borrowing (expressed in Dollars). Each Swingline Lender shall make each Swingline Loan to be made by it hereunder in accordance with Section 2.02(a) on the proposed date thereof by wire transfer of immediately available funds by
3
4
:00 p.m., Local Time, to the account of the Borrower (or, in the case of a Swingline Borrowing made to finance the reimbursement of an L/C Disbursement as provided in Section 2.05(e), by remittance to the applicable Issuing Bank).
(c) A Swingline Lender may by written notice given to the Administrative Agent (and to the other Swingline Lenders) not later than 10:00 a.m., Local Time on any Business Day, require the New Revolving Facility Lenders to acquire participations on such Business Day in all or a portion of the outstanding Swingline Loans made by it. Such notice shall specify the aggregate amount of such Swingline Loans in which the New Revolving Facility Lenders will participate. Promptly upon receipt of such notice, the Administrative Agent will give notice thereof to each such Lender, specifying in such notice such Lender's New Revolving Facility Percentage of such Swingline Loan or Loans. Each New Revolving Facility Lender hereby absolutely and unconditionally agrees, upon receipt of notice as provided above, to pay to the Administrative Agent the Swingline Loan or Loans for the account of the applicable Swingline Lender, such New Revolving Facility Lender's New Revolving Facility Percentage of such Swingline Loan or Loans. Each New Revolving Facility Lender acknowledges and agrees that its respective obligation to acquire participations in Swingline Loans pursuant to this paragraph is absolute and unconditional and shall not be affected by any circumstance whatsoever, including the occurrence and continuance of a Default or reduction or termination of the Commitments, and that each such payment shall be made without any offset, abatement, withholding or reduction whatsoever. Each New Revolving Facility Lender shall comply with its obligation under this paragraph by wire transfer of immediately available funds, in the same manner as provided in Section 2.06 with respect to Loans made by such New Revolving Facility Lender (and Section 2.06 shall apply, , to the payment obligations of the Lenders), and the Administrative Agent shall promptly pay to the applicable Swingline Lender the amounts so received by it from the New Revolving Facility Lenders. The Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower of any participations in any Swingline Loan acquired pursuant to this paragraph (c), and thereafter payments in respect of such Swingline Loan shall be made to the Administrative Agent and not to the applicable Swingline Lender. Any amounts received by a Swingline Lender from the Borrower (or other party on behalf of
mutatis
mutandis
such
the
Borrower) in respect of a Swingline Loan after receipt by such
 
Swingline Lender of the proceeds of a sale of participations therein shall be promptly remitted to the Administrative Agent; any such amounts received by the Administrative Agent shall be promptly remitted by the Administrative Agent to the New Revolving Facility Lenders that shall have made their payments pursuant to this paragraph and to such Swingline Lender, as their interests may appear; that any such payment so remitted shall be repaid to such Swingline Lender or to the Administrative Agent, as applicable, if and to the extent such payment is required to be refunded to the Borrower for any reason. The purchase of participations in a Swingline Loan pursuant to this paragraph shall not relieve the Borrower of any default in the payment thereof.
provided
SECTION 2.05. .
Letters of Credit
(a) . Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, any Loan Party may request the issuance of Letters of Credit for its own account in a form reasonably acceptable to the applicable Issuing Bank, at any time and from time to time during the Availability Period and prior to the date that is five Business Days prior to the New Revolving Facility Maturity Date. In the event of any inconsistency between the terms and conditions of this Agreement and the terms and conditions of any form of letter of credit application or other agreement submitted by the Applicant Party to, or entered into by the Applicant Party with, an Issuing Bank relating to any Letter of Credit, the terms and conditions of this Agreement shall control. Notwithstanding any provision hereof, no Issuing Bank shall be required to issue any Letter of Credit to the extent that as a result of such issuance the aggregate face amount of all outstanding Letters of Credit issued by such Issuing Bank would exceed the amount set forth adjacent to such Issuing Bank's name on
General
Schedule 2.05(a)
to the Execution Date Credit Agreement
or as otherwise agreed by the Borrower and the applicable Issuing Bank and the Administrative Agent from time to time.
(b) . To request the issuance of a Letter of Credit (or the amendment, renewal (other than an automatic renewal in accordance with paragraph (c) of this Section) or extension of an outstanding Letter of Credit), the Applicant Party shall hand deliver or telecopy (or transmit by electronic communication, if arrangements for doing so have been approved by the applicable Issuing Bank) to the applicable Issuing Bank and the Administrative Agent (two Business Days in advance of the requested date of issuance, amendment, renewal or extension) a notice requesting the issuance of a Letter of Credit, or identifying the Letter of Credit to be amended, renewed or extended, and specifying the date of issuance, amendment, renewal or extension (which shall be a Business Day), the date on which such Letter of Credit is to expire (which shall comply with paragraph (c) of this Section), the amount of such Letter of Credit, the name and address of the beneficiary thereof and such other information as shall be necessary to issue, amend, renew or extend such Letter of Credit. If requested by the applicable Issuing Bank, the Applicant Party also shall submit a letter of credit application on such Issuing Bank's standard form in connection with any request for a Letter of Credit. A Letter of Credit shall be issued, amended, renewed or extended only if (and upon issuance, amendment, renewal or extension of each Letter of Credit the Borrower shall be deemed to represent and warrant that), after giving effect to such issuance amendment, renewal or extension (i) the New Revolving L/C Exposure shall not exceed $500.0 million, and (ii) the New Revolving Facility Credit Exposure shall not exceed the total New Revolving Facility Commitments.
Notice of Issuance, Amendment, Renewal, Extension; Certain Conditions
 
(c) . Each Letter of Credit shall expire at or prior to the close of business on the earlier of (A) the date one year after the date of the issuance of such Letter of Credit (or, in the case of any renewal or extension thereof, one year after such renewal or extension) and (B) the date that is five Business Days prior to the New Revolving Facility Maturity Date; that any Letter of Credit with a one-year tenor may provide for the automatic renewal thereof for additional one-year periods (which, in no event, shall extend beyond the date referred to in clause
Expiration Date
provided
(i)
(B) of this paragraph (c)).
(d) . By the issuance of a Letter of Credit (or an amendment to a Letter of Credit increasing the amount thereof) and without any further action on the part of the applicable Issuing Bank or the New Revolving Facility Lenders, such Issuing Bank hereby grants to each New Revolving Facility Lender, and each New Revolving Facility Lender hereby acquires from such Issuing Bank, a participation in such Letter of Credit equal to such New Revolving Facility Lender's New Revolving Facility Percentage of the aggregate amount available to be drawn under such Letter of Credit. In consideration and in furtherance of the foregoing, each New Revolving Facility Lender hereby absolutely and unconditionally agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent in Dollars, for the account of the applicable Issuing Bank, such New Revolving Facility Lender's New Revolving Facility Percentage of each L/C Disbursement made by such Issuing Bank in Dollars not reimbursed by the Borrower on the date due as provided in paragraph (e) of this Section, or of any reimbursement payment required to be refunded to the Borrower for any reason. Each New Revolving Facility Lender acknowledges and agrees that its obligation to acquire participations pursuant to this paragraph in respect of Letters of Credit is absolute and unconditional and shall not be affected by any circumstance whatsoever, including any amendment, renewal or extension of any Letter of Credit or the occurrence and continuance of a Default or reduction or termination of the Commitments, and that each such payment shall be made without any offset, abatement, withholding or reduction whatsoever.
Participations
(e) . If the applicable Issuing Bank shall make any L/C Disbursement in respect of a Letter of Credit, the Borrower and the Applicant Party (if other than
Reimbursement
the
Borrower) shall be jointly and severally liable for reimbursing such L/C Disbursement by paying to the Administrative Agent an amount equal to such L/C Disbursement in Dollars, not later than 5:00 p.m.,
New York City time
Local Time
, on the Business Day immediately following the date the Borrower receives notice under paragraph (g) of this Section of such L/C Disbursement
,
;
that
provided
the
Borrower may, subject to the conditions to borrowing set forth herein, request in accordance with Section 2.03 or 2.04 that such payment be financed with an ABR New Revolving Facility Borrowing or a Swingline Borrowing, as applicable, in an equivalent amount and, to the extent so financed, the Borrower's obligation to make such payment shall be discharged and replaced by the resulting ABR New Revolving Facility Borrowing or Swingline Borrowing. If the Borrower or the Applicant Party (if other than
the
Borrower) fails to reimburse any L/C Disbursement when due, then the Administrative Agent shall promptly notify the applicable Issuing Bank and each other New Revolving Facility Lender of the applicable L/C Disbursement, the payment then due from the and, in the case of a New Revolving Facility Lender, such Lender's New Revolving Facility Percentage thereof. Promptly following receipt of such notice, each New Revolving Facility Lender shall pay to the Administrative Agent in Dollars its New Revolving Facility Percentage of the payment then due from the Borrower, in the
 
same manner as provided in Section 2.06 with respect to Loans made by such Lender (and Section 2.06 shall apply, , to the payment obligations of the New Revolving Facility Lenders), and the Administrative Agent shall promptly pay to the applicable Issuing Bank in Dollars the amounts so received by it from the New Revolving Facility Lenders. Promptly following receipt by the Administrative Agent of any payment from the Borrower pursuant to this paragraph, the Administrative Agent shall distribute such payment to the applicable Issuing Bank or, to the extent that New Revolving Facility Lenders have made payments pursuant to this paragraph to reimburse such Issuing Bank, then to such Lenders and such Issuing Bank as their interests may appear. Any payment made by a New Revolving Facility Lender pursuant to this paragraph to reimburse an Issuing Bank for any L/C Disbursement (other than the funding of an ABR New Revolving Loan or a Swingline Borrowing as contemplated above) shall not constitute a Loan and shall not relieve the Borrower of its obligation to reimburse such L/C Disbursement.
mutatis mutandis
(f) . The joint and several obligation of the Borrower and the Applicant Party (if other than
Obligations Absolute
the
Borrower) to reimburse L/C Disbursements as provided in paragraph (e) of this Section shall be absolute, unconditional and irrevocable, and shall be performed strictly in accordance with the terms of this Agreement under any and all circumstances whatsoever and irrespective of (i) any lack of validity or enforceability of any Letter of Credit or this Agreement, or any term or provision therein, (ii) any draft or other document presented under a Letter of Credit proving to be forged, fraudulent or invalid in any respect or any statement therein being untrue or inaccurate in any respect, (iii) payment by the applicable Issuing Bank under a Letter of Credit against presentation of a draft or other document that does not comply with the terms of such Letter of Credit or (iv) any other event or circumstance whatsoever, whether or not similar to any of the foregoing, that might, but for the provisions of this Section, constitute a legal or equitable discharge of, or provide a right of setoff against, the Borrower's obligations hereunder; that, in each case, payment by the Issuing Bank shall not have constituted gross negligence or willful misconduct. Neither the Administrative Agent, the Lenders nor any Issuing Bank, nor any of their Related Parties, shall have any liability or responsibility by reason of or in connection with the issuance or transfer of any Letter of Credit or any payment or failure to make any payment thereunder (irrespective of any of the circumstances referred to in the preceding sentence), or any error, omission, interruption, loss or delay in transmission or delivery of any draft, notice or other communication under or relating to any Letter of Credit (including any document required to make a drawing thereunder), any error in interpretation of technical terms or any consequence arising from causes beyond the control of such Issuing Bank; that the foregoing shall not be construed to excuse the applicable Issuing Bank from liability to the extent of any direct damages (as opposed to consequential damages, claims in respect of which are hereby waived to the extent permitted by applicable law) suffered by the Borrower or the Applicant Party that are determined by a court having jurisdiction to have been caused by (i) such Issuing Bank's failure to exercise care when determining whether drafts and other documents presented under a Letter of Credit comply with the terms thereof or (ii) such Issuing Bank's refusal to issue a Letter of Credit in accordance with the terms of this Agreement. The parties hereto expressly agree that, in the absence of gross negligence or willful misconduct on the part of the applicable Issuing Bank, such Issuing Bank shall be deemed to have exercised care in each such determination and each refusal to issue a Letter of Credit. In furtherance of the foregoing and without limiting the generality
provided
provided
 
thereof, the parties agree that, with respect to documents presented which appear on their face to be in substantial compliance with the terms of a Letter of Credit, the applicable Issuing Bank may, in its sole discretion, either accept and make payment upon such documents without responsibility for further investigation, regardless of any notice or information to the contrary, or refuse to accept and make payment upon such documents if such documents are not in strict compliance with the terms of such Letter of Credit.
(g) . The applicable Issuing Bank shall, promptly following its receipt thereof, examine all documents purporting to represent a demand for payment under a Letter of Credit. Such Issuing Bank shall promptly notify the Administrative Agent, the Borrower and the Applicant Party (if other than the Borrower) by telephone (confirmed by telecopy) of such demand for payment and whether such Issuing Bank has made or will make a L/C Disbursement thereunder; that any failure to give or delay in giving such notice shall not relieve the Borrower of its obligation to reimburse such Issuing Bank and the New Revolving Facility Lenders with respect to any such L/C Disbursement.
Disbursement Procedures
provided
(h) . If an Issuing Bank shall make any L/C Disbursement, then, unless the Borrower or the Applicant Party shall reimburse such L/C Disbursement in full on the date such L/C Disbursement is made, the unpaid amount thereof shall bear interest, for each day from and including the date such L/C Disbursement is made to but excluding the date that the Borrower or the Applicant Party reimburses such L/C Disbursement, at the rate per annum then applicable to ABR New Revolving Loans; that, if such L/C Disbursement is not reimbursed by the Borrower or the Applicant Party when due pursuant to paragraph (e) of this Section, then Section 2.13(c) shall apply; , , that any L/C Disbursement that is reimbursed after the date such L/C Disbursement is required to be reimbursed under paragraph (e) of this Section, (A) be payable in Dollars, (B) bear interest at the rate per annum then applicable to ABR New Revolving Loans and (C) Section 2.13(c) shall apply. Interest accrued pursuant to this paragraph shall be for the account of the applicable Issuing Bank, except that interest accrued on and after the date of payment by any New Revolving Facility Lender pursuant to paragraph (e) of this Section to reimburse such Issuing Bank shall be for the account of such New Revolving Facility Lender to the extent of such payment.
Interim Interest
provided
provided
further
(i) . An Issuing Bank may be replaced at any time by written agreement among the Borrower, the Administrative Agent, the replaced Issuing Bank and the successor Issuing Bank. The Administrative Agent shall notify the Lenders of any such replacement of an Issuing Bank. At the time any such replacement shall become effective, the Borrower shall pay all unpaid fees accrued for the account of the replaced Issuing Bank pursuant to Section 2.12. From and after the effective date of any such replacement, (i) the successor Issuing Bank shall have all the rights and obligations of the replaced Issuing Bank under this Agreement with respect to Letters of Credit to be issued thereafter and (ii) references herein to the term "Issuing Bank" shall be deemed to refer to such successor or to any previous Issuing Bank, or to such successor and all previous Issuing Banks, as the context shall require. After the replacement of an Issuing Bank hereunder, the replaced Issuing Bank shall remain a party hereto and shall continue to have all the rights and obligations of such Issuing Bank under this Agreement with respect to Letters of Credit issued by it prior to such replacement but shall not be required to issue additional Letters of Credit.
Replacement of an Issuing Bank
 
(j) . If any Event of Default shall occur and be continuing, (i) in the case of an Event of Default described in Section 7.01(h) or (i), on the Business Day or (ii) in the case of any other Event of Default, on the third Business Day, in each case, following the date on which the Borrower receives notice from the Administrative Agent (or, if the maturity of the Loans has been accelerated, New Revolving Facility Lenders with New Revolving L/C Exposure representing greater than 50% of the total New Revolving L/C Exposure) demanding the deposit of cash collateral pursuant to this paragraph, the Borrower shall deposit in an account with the Administrative Agent, in the name of the Administrative Agent and for the benefit of the Lenders, an amount in Dollars in cash equal to the New Revolving L/C Exposure as of such date plus any accrued and unpaid interest thereon; that, upon the occurrence of any Event of Default with respect to the Borrower described in clause (h) or (i) of Section 7.01, the obligation to deposit such cash collateral shall become effective immediately, and such deposit shall become immediately due and payable in Dollars, without demand or other notice of any kind. The Borrower also shall deposit cash collateral pursuant to this paragraph as and to the extent required by Section 2.11(b). Each such deposit pursuant to this paragraph or pursuant to Section 2.11(b) shall be held by the Administrative Agent as collateral for the payment and performance of the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement. The Administrative Agent shall have exclusive dominion and control, including the exclusive right of withdrawal, over such account. Other than any interest earned on the investment of such deposits, which investments shall be made at the option and sole discretion of (i) for so long as an Event of Default shall be continuing, the Administrative Agent and (ii) at any other time, the Borrower, in each case, in Permitted Investments and at the risk and expense of the Borrower, such deposits shall not bear interest. Interest or profits, if any, on such investments shall accumulate in such account. Moneys in such account shall be applied by the Administrative Agent to reimburse each Issuing Bank for L/C Disbursements for which such Issuing Bank has not been reimbursed and, to the extent not so applied, shall be held for the satisfaction of the reimbursement obligations of the Borrower for the New Revolving L/C Exposure at such time or, if the maturity of the Loans has been accelerated (but subject to the consent of New Revolving Facility Lenders with New Revolving L/C Exposure representing greater than 50% of the total New Revolving L/C Exposure), be applied to satisfy other obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement. If the Borrower is required to provide an amount of cash collateral hereunder as a result of the occurrence of an Event of Default, such amount (to the extent not applied as aforesaid) shall be returned to the Borrower within three Business Days after all Events of Default have been cured or waived. If the Borrower is required to provide an amount of cash collateral hereunder pursuant to Section 2.11(b), such amount (to the extent not applied as aforesaid) shall be returned to the Borrower as and to the extent that, after giving effect to such return, the Borrower would remain in compliance with Section 2.11(b) and no Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing.
Cash Collateralization
provided
(k) . From time to time, the Borrower may by notice to the Administrative Agent designate up to three Lenders (in addition to the Issuing Banks referred to in clauses (a), (b), (c) and (d) in the definition of "Issuing Bank") that agree (in their sole discretion) to act in such capacity and are reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent as Issuing Banks. Each such additional Issuing Bank shall execute a counterpart of this Agreement upon the approval of the Administrative Agent (which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld) and shall thereafter be an Issuing Bank hereunder for all purposes. To the extent that any
Additional Issuing Banks
 
additional Issuing Bank becomes a party to this Agreement, then the Administrative Agent, in consultation with all Issuing Banks, shall amend and replace accordingly, notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in Section 9.08 (it being understood that no consent of the Lenders or
Schedule 2.05(a)
the
Borrower shall be required to amend and replace such schedule).
(l) . Unless otherwise requested by the Administrative Agent, each Issuing Bank shall (i) provide to the Administrative Agent copies of any notice received from the Borrower pursuant to Section 2.05(b) no later than the next Business Day after receipt thereof and (ii) report in writing to the Administrative Agent (A) on or prior to each Business Day on which such Issuing Bank expects to issue, amend, renew or extend any Letter of Credit, the date of such issuance, amendment, renewal or extension, and the aggregate face amount of the Letters of Credit to be issued, amended, renewed or extended by it and outstanding after giving effect to such issuance, amendment, renewal or extension occurred (and whether the amount thereof changed), and the Issuing Bank shall be permitted to issue, amend, renew or extend such Letter of Credit if the Administrative Agent shall not have advised the Issuing Bank that such issuance, amendment renewal or extension would not be in conformity with the requirements of this Agreement, (B) on each Business Day on which such Issuing Bank makes any L/C Disbursement, the date of such L/C Disbursement and the amount of such L/C Disbursement and (C) on any other Business Day, such other information as the Administrative Agent shall reasonably request, including but not limited to prompt verification of such information as may be requested by the Administrative Agent.
Reporting
(m) . The parties hereto agree that the Existing Letters of Credit shall be deemed Letters of Credit for all purposes under this Agreement, without any further action by the Borrower.
Existing Letters of Credit
SECTION 2.06. .
Funding of Borrowings
(a) Each Lender shall make each Loan to be made by it hereunder on the proposed date thereof by wire transfer of immediately available funds by 12:00 noon, Local Time, to the account of the Administrative Agent most recently designated by it for such purpose by notice to the Lenders; that Swingline Loans shall be made as provided in Section 2.04. The Administrative Agent will make such Loans available to the Borrower by promptly crediting the amounts so received, in like funds, to an account of the Borrower maintained with the Administrative Agent in New York City, and designated by the Borrower in the Borrowing Request; that ABR New Revolving Loans and Swingline Borrowings made to finance the reimbursement of a L/C Disbursement and reimbursements as provided in Section 2.05(e) shall be remitted by the Administrative Agent to the applicable Issuing Bank.
provided
provided
(b) Unless the Agent shall have received notice from a Lender prior to the proposed date of any Borrowing that such Lender will not make available to the Administrative Agent such Lender's share of such Borrowing, the Administrative Agent may assume that such Lender has made such share available on such date in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section and may, in reliance upon such assumption, make available to the Borrower a corresponding amount. In such event, if a Lender has not in fact made its share of the applicable Borrowing available to the Administrative Agent, then the applicable Lender and the Borrower
 
severally agree to pay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand (without duplication) such corresponding amount with interest thereon, for each day from and including the date such amount is made available to the Borrower to but excluding the date of payment to the Administrative Agent, at (i) in the case of such Lender, the greater of the Federal Funds Rate and a rate determined by the Administrative Agent in accordance with banking industry rules on interbank compensation or (ii) in the case of the Borrower, the interest rate applicable to ABR Loans. If such Lender pays such amount to the Administrative Agent, then such amount shall constitute such Lender's Loan included in such Borrowing.
SECTION 2.07. .
Interest Elections
(a) Each Borrowing initially shall be of the Type specified in the applicable Borrowing Request and, in the case of a Eurocurrency Borrowing, shall have an initial Interest Period as specified in such Borrowing Request. Thereafter, the Borrower may elect to convert such Borrowing to a different Type, or to continue such Borrowing and, in the case of a Eurocurrency Borrowing, may elect Interest Periods therefor, all as provided in this Section. The Borrower may elect different options with respect to different portions of the affected Borrowing, in which case each such portion shall be allocated ratably among the Lenders holding the Loans comprising such Borrowing, and the Loans comprising each such portion shall be considered a separate Borrowing. This Section shall not apply to Swingline Borrowings, which may not be converted or continued.
(b) To make an election pursuant to this Section, the Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent of such election by telephone by the time that a Borrowing Request would be required under Section 2.03 if
such
the
Borrower were requesting a Borrowing of the Type resulting from such election to be made on the effective date of such election. Each such telephonic Interest Election Request shall be irrevocable and shall be confirmed promptly by hand delivery or telecopy to the Administrative Agent of a written Interest Election Request in a form approved by the Administrative Agent and signed by the Borrower.
(c) Each telephonic and written Interest Election Request shall specify the following information in compliance with Section 2.02:
(i) the Borrowing to which such Interest Election Request applies and, if different options are being elected with respect to different portions thereof, the portions thereof to be allocated to each resulting Borrowing (in which case the information to be specified pursuant to clauses (iii) and (iv) below shall be specified for each resulting Borrowing);
(ii) the effective date of the election made pursuant to such Interest Election Request, which shall be a Business Day;
(iii) whether the resulting Borrowing is to be an ABR Borrowing or a Eurocurrency Borrowing; and
(iv) if the resulting Borrowing is a Eurocurrency Borrowing, the Interest Period to be applicable thereto after giving effect to such election.
 
If any such Interest Election Request requests a Eurocurrency Borrowing but does not specify an Interest Period, then the Borrower shall be deemed to have selected an Interest Period of one month's duration.
(d) Promptly following receipt of an Interest Election Request, the Administrative Agent shall advise each Lender to which such Interest Election Request relates of the details thereof and of such Lender's portion of each resulting Borrowing.
(e) If the Borrower fails to deliver a timely Interest Election Request with respect to a Eurocurrency Borrowing prior to the end of the Interest Period applicable thereto, then, unless such Borrowing is repaid as provided herein, at the end of such Interest Period such Borrowing shall be converted to an ABR Borrowing. Notwithstanding any contrary provision hereof, if an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing and the Administrative Agent, at the written request (including a request through electronic means) of the Required Lenders, so notifies the Borrower, then, so long as an Event of Default is continuing (i) no outstanding Borrowing may be converted to or continued as a Eurocurrency Borrowing and (ii) unless repaid, each Eurocurrency Borrowing shall be converted to an ABR Borrowing at the end of the Interest Period applicable thereto.
SECTION 2.08. .
Termination and Reduction of Commitments
(a) Unless previously terminated, the New Revolving Facility Commitments shall terminate on the New Revolving Facility Maturity Date. The parties hereto acknowledge that the New Term Loan Commitments will terminate at 5
:00
p.m.
New York City time
Local Time
on the Amendment Effective Date.
(b) The Borrower may at any time terminate, or from time to time reduce, the Commitments under any Facility; that (i) each reduction of the Commitments under any Facility shall be in an amount that is an integral multiple of $1.0 million and not less than $5.0 million (or, if less, the remaining amount of the New Revolving Facility Commitments) and (ii) the Borrower shall not terminate or reduce the New Revolving Facility Commitments if, after giving effect to any concurrent prepayment of the New Revolving Facility Loans in accordance with Section 2.11, the New Revolving Facility Credit Exposure would exceed the total New Revolving Facility Commitments.
provided
(c) The Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent of any election to terminate or reduce the New Revolving Facility Commitments under paragraph (b) of this Section at least three Business Days prior to the effective date of such termination or reduction, specifying such election and the effective date thereof. Promptly following receipt of any notice, the Administrative Agent shall advise the applicable Lenders of the contents thereof. Each notice delivered by the Borrower pursuant to this Section shall be irrevocable; that a notice of termination of the New Revolving Facility Commitments delivered by the Borrower may state that such notice is conditioned upon the effectiveness of other credit facilities, in which case such notice may be revoked by the Borrower (by notice to the Administrative Agent on or prior to the specified effective date) if such condition is not satisfied. Any termination or reduction of the Commitments shall be permanent. Each reduction of the Commitments under any Facility shall be made ratably among the Lenders in accordance with their respective Commitments under such Facility.
provided
 
SECTION 2.09. .
Repayment of Loans; Evidence of Debt
(a) The Borrower hereby unconditionally promises to pay (i) to the Administrative Agent for the account of each New Revolving Facility Lender the then unpaid principal amount of each New Revolving Facility Loan to the Borrower on the New Revolving Facility Maturity Date, (ii) to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender the then unpaid principal amount of each Term Loan of such Lender as provided in Section 2.10 and (iii) to the Swingline Lender the then unpaid principal amount of each Swingline Loan on the earlier of the New Revolving Facility Maturity Date and the first date after such Swingline Loan is made that is the 15th or last day of a calendar month and is at least five Business Days after such Swingline Loan is made; that on each date that a New Revolving Facility Borrowing is made by the Borrower, the Borrower shall repay all Swingline Loans then outstanding.
provided
(b) Each Lender shall maintain in accordance with its usual practice an account or accounts evidencing the indebtedness of
each
the
Borrower to such Lender resulting from each Loan made by such Lender, including the amounts of principal and interest payable and paid to such Lender from time to time hereunder.
(c) The Administrative Agent shall maintain accounts in which it shall record (i) the amount of each Loan made hereunder, the Facility and Type thereof and the Interest Period (if any) applicable thereto, (ii) the amount of any principal or interest due and payable or to become due and payable from
each
the
Borrower to each Lender hereunder and (iii) any amount received by such Administrative Agent hereunder for the account of the Lenders and each Lender's share thereof.
(d) The entries made in the accounts maintained pursuant to paragraph (b) or (c) of this Section shall be prima facie evidence of the existence and amounts of the obligations recorded therein; that the failure of any Lender or the Administrative Agent to maintain such accounts or any error therein shall not in any manner affect the obligation of
provided
any
the
Borrower to repay the Loans in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.
(e) Any Lender may request that Loans made by it be evidenced by a promissory note. In such event, the Borrower shall prepare, execute and deliver to such Lender a promissory note payable to the order of such Lender (or, if requested by such Lender, to such Lender and its registered assigns) and in a form approved by the Administrative Agent. Thereafter, the Loans evidenced by such promissory note and interest thereon shall at all times (including after assignment pursuant to Section 9.04) be represented by one or more promissory notes in such form payable to the order of the payee named therein (or, if such promissory note is a registered note, to such payee and its registered assigns).
 
SECTION 2.10. .
Repayment of New Term Loans and New Revolving Facility Loans
(a) Subject to adjustment pursuant to paragraph (c) of this Section, the Borrower shall repay New Term Loan Borrowings on each date set forth below in the aggregate principal amount set forth opposite such date (each such date being referred to as a ""):
New Term Loan Installment Date
 
In the event that any Additional New Term Loans are made on an Increased Amount Date, the amount due on each New Term Loan Installment Date (other than the New Term Loan Maturity Date) occurring after the Increased Amount Date shall increase as follows: (a) for each New Term Loan Installment Date occurring in the second and third years following the Amendment Effective Date, an amount equal to 1.25% of the original principal amount of such Additional New Term Loans, (b) for each New Term Loan Installment Date occurring in the fourth year following the Amendment Effective Date, an amount equal to 2.50% of the original principal amount of such Additional New Term Loans, (c) for each New Term Loan Installment Date occurring in the first nine months of the fifth year following the Amendment Effective Date, an amount equal to 2.50% of the original principal amount of such Additional New Term Loans and (d) for the remaining New Term Loan Installment Date, an amount equal to the remaining principal amount of the Additional New Term Loans being repaid on the New Term Loan Maturity Date.
(b) To the extent not previously paid all New Term Loans shall be due and payable on the New Term Loan Maturity Date.
 
(c) Prepayment of the New Term Loan Borrowings from:
(i) all Net Proceeds or Acquisition Agreement Payments pursuant to Section 2.11(c) or 2.11(e), respectively, shall be applied to reduce on a basis (based on the amount of such amortization payments) the remaining scheduled amortization payments in respect of such New Term Loan Borrowings; and
pro
rata
(ii) any optional prepayments pursuant to Section 2.11(a) shall be applied to reduce the remaining scheduled amortization payments in respect of New Term Loan Borrowings as directed by the Borrower.
(d) Any Lender holding New Term Loans may elect, on not less than two Business Days' prior written notice to the Administrative Agent with respect to any mandatory prepayment made pursuant to Section 2.11(c) or Section 2.11(e), not to have such prepayment applied to such Lender's New Term Loans, in which case, the full amount not so applied shall be retained by the Borrower.
(e) Prior to any repayment of any Borrowing under any Facility hereunder, the Borrower shall select the Borrowing or Borrowings under the applicable Facility to be repaid and shall notify the Administrative Agent by telephone (confirmed by telecopy) of such selection not later than 2:00 p.m., Local Time, (i) in the case of an ABR Borrowing, one Business Day before the scheduled date of such repayment and (ii) in the case of a Eurocurrency Borrowing, three Business Days before the scheduled date of such repayment. Each repayment of a Borrowing (x) in the case of the New Revolving Facility, shall be applied to the New Revolving Facility Loans included in the repaid Borrowing such that each New Revolving Facility Lender receives its ratable share of such repayment (based upon the respective New Revolving Facility Credit Exposures of the New Revolving Facility Lenders at the time of such repayment) and (y) in all other cases, shall be applied ratably to the Loans included in the repaid Borrowing. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the immediately preceding sentence, prior to any repayment of a Swingline Borrowing hereunder, the Borrower, shall select the Borrowing or Borrowings to be repaid and shall notify the Administrative Agent by telephone (confirmed by telecopy) of such selection not later than 1:00 p.m., Local Time, on the scheduled date of such repayment. Repayments of Borrowings shall be accompanied by accrued interest on the amount repaid.
SECTION 2.11. .
Prepayment of Loans
(a) The Borrower shall have the right at any time and from time to time to prepay any Borrowing in whole or in part, without premium or penalty (but subject to Section 2.16), in an aggregate principal amount that is an integral multiple of the Borrowing Multiple and not less than the Borrowing Minimum or, if less, the amount outstanding, subject to prior notice in accordance with Section 2.10(e).
(b) In the event and on such occasion that the New Revolving Facility Credit Exposure exceeds the total New Revolving Facility Commitments, the
Borrowers
Borrower
under the New Revolving Facility shall prepay New Revolving Facility Borrowings or Swingline Borrowings (or, if no such Borrowings are outstanding, deposit cash collateral in an account with the Administrative Agent pursuant to Section 2.05(j)) made to
such Borrowers
the Borrower
, in an aggregate amount equal to the amount by which the New Revolving Facility Credit Exposure exceeds the total New Revolving Facility Commitments.
 
(c)
Holdings
Parent
and the
Borrower
Subsidiaries
shall apply all Net Proceeds upon receipt thereof to prepay New Term Loan Borrowings in accordance paragraphs (c) and (d) of Section 2.10.
(d) [Intentionally Omitted].
(e) Following the receipt of any Acquisition Agreement Payments,
Holdings
Parent
and the Subsidiaries shall prepay, or cause to be prepaid, New Term Loan Borrowings in accordance with paragraphs (c) and (d) of Section 2.10.
(f) [Intentionally Omitted].
SECTION 2.12. .
Fees
(a) The Borrower agrees to pay to each Lender (other than any Defaulting Lender), through the Administrative Agent, 10 Business Days after the last day of March, June, September and December in each year, and three Business Days after the date on which the New Revolving Facility Commitments of all the Lenders shall be terminated as provided herein, a commitment fee
of 0.50%
(a "") on the daily amount of the Available Unused Commitment of such Lender during the preceding quarter (or other period commencing with the Amendment Effective Date or ending with the date on which the last of the Commitments of such Lender shall be terminated)
Commitment Fee
at the rate set forth under the caption "Commitment Fee" below based upon the Leverage Ratio as of the most recent determination date; provided that until the Trigger Date, the Leverage Ratio shall be deemed to be Category 2.
.
 
All Commitment Fees shall be computed on the basis of the actual number of days elapsed in a year of 360 days. For the purpose of calculating any Lender's Commitment Fee, the outstanding Swingline Loans during the period for which such Lender's Commitment Fee is calculated
shall be deemed to be zero
. The Commitment Fee due to each Lender shall begin to accrue on the Amendment Effective Date and shall cease to accrue on the date on which the last of the Commitments of such Lender shall be terminated as provided herein.
 
(b) The Borrower from time to time agrees to pay (i) to each New Revolving Facility Lender (other than any Defaulting Lender), through the Administrative Agent, 10 Business Days after the last day of March, June, September and December of each year and three Business Days after the date on which the New Revolving Facility Commitments of all the Lenders shall be terminated as provided herein, a fee (an "") on such Lender's New Revolving Facility Percentage of the daily aggregate New Revolving L/C Exposure (excluding the portion thereof attributable to unreimbursed L/C Disbursements), during the preceding quarter (or shorter period commencing with the Amendment Effective Date or ending with the New Revolving Facility Maturity Date or the date on which the New Revolving Facility Commitments shall be terminated) at the rate per annum equal to the Applicable Margin for Eurocurrency New Revolving Facility Borrowings effective for each day in such period and (ii) to each Issuing Bank, for its own account, (x) 10 Business Days after the last day of March, June, September and December of each year and three Business Days after the date on which the New Revolving Facility Commitments of all the Lenders shall be terminated as provided herein, a fronting fee in respect of each Letter of Credit issued by such Issuing Bank for the period from and including the date of issuance of such Letter of Credit to and including the termination of such Letter of Credit, computed at a rate equal to 0.125% (or such other percentage to be mutually agreed upon between the Borrower and the applicable Issuing Lender) per annum of the daily average stated amount of such Letter of Credit), plus (y) in connection with the issuance, amendment or transfer of any such Letter of Credit or any L/C Disbursement thereunder, such Issuing Bank's customary documentary and processing charges (collectively, ""). All L/C Participation Fees and Issuing Bank Fees that are payable on a per annum basis shall be computed on the basis of the actual number of days elapsed in a year of 360 days.
L/C Participation Fee
Issuing Bank Fees
(c) The Borrower agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent, for the account of the Administrative Agent, the fees set forth in the Fee Letter (the "").
Administrative Agent Fees
(d) All Fees shall be paid on the dates due, in immediately available funds, to the Administrative Agent for distribution, if and as appropriate, among the Lenders, except that Issuing Bank Fees shall be paid directly to the applicable Issuing Banks. Once paid, none of the Fees shall be refundable under any circumstances.
SECTION 2.13. .
Interest
(a) The Loans comprising each ABR Borrowing (including each Swingline Loan) shall bear interest at the Alternate Base Rate plus the Applicable Margin.
(b) The Loans comprising each Eurocurrency Borrowing shall bear interest at the Adjusted LIBO Rate for the Interest Period in effect for such Borrowing plus the Applicable Margin.
 
(c) Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any principal of or interest on any Loan or any Fees or other amount payable by the Borrower hereunder is not paid when due, whether at stated maturity, upon acceleration or otherwise, such overdue amount shall bear interest, after as well as before judgment, at a rate per annum equal to (i) in the case of overdue principal of any Loan, 2% plus the rate otherwise applicable to such Loan as provided in the preceding paragraphs of this Section or (ii) in the case of any other
overdue
amount, 2% plus the rate applicable to ABR Loans as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section; that this paragraph (c) shall not apply to any Event of Default that has been waived by the Lenders pursuant to Section 9.08.
provided
(d) Accrued interest on each Loan shall be payable in arrears (i) on each Interest Payment Date for such Loan, (ii) in the case of New Revolving Facility Loans, upon termination of the New Revolving Facility Commitments and (iii) in the case of the New Term Loans, on the New Term Loan Maturity Date; that (i) interest accrued pursuant to paragraph (c) of this Section shall be payable on demand, (ii) in the event of any repayment or prepayment of any Loan (other than a prepayment of an ABR New Revolving Loan prior to the end of the Availability Period), accrued interest on the principal amount repaid or prepaid shall be payable on the date of such repayment or prepayment and (iii) in the event of any conversion of any Eurocurrency Loan prior to the end of the current Interest Period therefor, accrued interest on such Loan shall be payable on the effective date of such conversion.
provided
(e) All interest hereunder shall be computed on the basis of a year of 360 days, except that interest computed by reference to the Alternate Base Rate at times when the Alternate Base Rate is based on the Base Rate shall be computed on the basis of a year of 365 days (or 366 days in a leap year), and in each case shall be payable for the actual number of days elapsed (including the first day but excluding the last day). The applicable Alternate Base Rate, Adjusted LIBO Rate or LIBO Rate shall be determined by the Administrative Agent, and such determination shall be conclusive absent manifest error.
SECTION 2.14. . If prior to the commencement of any Interest Period for a Eurocurrency Borrowing denominated in any currency:
Alternate Rate of Interest
(a) the Administrative Agent determines (which determination shall be conclusive absent manifest error) that adequate and reasonable means do not exist for ascertaining the Adjusted LIBO Rate or the LIBO Rate, as applicable, for such Interest Period; or
(b) the Administrative Agent is advised by the Required Lenders or the Majority Lenders under the New Revolving Facility that the Adjusted LIBO Rate or the LIBO Rate, as applicable, for such Interest Period will not adequately and fairly reflect the cost to such Lenders of making or maintaining their Loans included in such Borrowing for such Interest Period;
then the Administrative Agent shall give notice thereof to the Borrower and the Lenders by telephone or telecopy as promptly as practicable thereafter and, until the Administrative Agent notifies the Borrower and the Lenders that the circumstances giving rise to
 
such notice no longer exist, (i) any Interest Election Request that requests the conversion of any Borrowing to, or continuation of any Borrowing as, a Eurocurrency Borrowing shall be ineffective and such Borrowing shall be converted to or continued as on the last day of the Interest Period applicable thereto an ABR Borrowing and (ii) if any Borrowing Request requests a Eurocurrency Borrowing, such Borrowing shall be made as an ABR Borrowing or shall be made as a Borrowing bearing interest at such rate as the Majority Lenders under the New Revolving Facility shall agree adequately reflects the costs to the New Revolving Facility Lenders of making the Loans comprising such Borrowing.
SECTION 2.15. .
Increased Costs
(a) If any Change in Law shall:
(i) impose, modify or deem applicable any reserve, special deposit or similar requirement against assets of, deposits with or for the account of, or credit extended by, any Lender (except any such reserve requirement reflected in the Adjusted LIBO Rate or those for which payment has been requested pursuant to Section 2.20) or Issuing Bank; or
(ii) impose on any Lender or Issuing Bank or the London interbank market any other condition affecting this Agreement or Eurocurrency Loans made by such Lender or any Letter of Credit or participation therein (except those for which payment has been requested pursuant to Section 2.20);
and the result of any of the foregoing shall be to increase the cost to such Lender of making or maintaining any Eurocurrency Loan (or of maintaining its obligation to make any such Loan) or to increase the cost to such Lender or Issuing Bank of participating in, issuing or maintaining any Letter of Credit or to reduce the amount of any sum received or receivable by such Lender or Issuing Bank hereunder (whether of principal, interest or otherwise), then the Borrower (in the case of a Loan) or the Borrower (in the case of a Letter of Credit) will pay to such Lender or Issuing Bank, as applicable, such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender or Issuing Bank, as applicable, for such additional costs incurred or reduction suffered.
(b) If any Lender or Issuing Bank determines that any Change in Law regarding capital requirements has or would have the effect of reducing the rate of return on such Lender's or Issuing Bank's capital or on the capital of such Lender's or Issuing Bank's holding company, if any, as a consequence of this Agreement or the Loans made by, or participations in Letters of Credit held by, such Lender, or the Letters of Credit issued by such Issuing Bank, to a level below that which such Lender or such Issuing Bank or such Lender's or such Issuing Bank's holding company could have achieved but for such Change in Law (taking into consideration such Lender's or such Issuing Bank's policies and the policies of such Lender's or such Issuing Bank's holding company with respect to capital adequacy), then from time to time the Borrower (in the case of a Loan) or the Borrower (in the case of a Letter of Credit) shall pay to such Lender or such Issuing Bank, as applicable, such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender or such Issuing Bank or such Lender's or such Issuing Bank's holding company for any such reduction suffered.
 
(c) A certificate of a Lender or an Issuing Bank setting forth the amount or amounts necessary to compensate such Lender or Issuing Bank or its holding company, as applicable, as specified in paragraph (a) or (b) of this Section shall be delivered to the Borrower and shall be conclusive absent manifest error. The Borrower shall pay such Lender or Issuing Bank, as applicable, the amount shown as due on any such certificate within 10 days after receipt thereof.
(d) Promptly after any Lender or any Issuing Bank has determined that it will make a request for increased compensation pursuant to this Section 2.15, such Lender or Issuing Bank shall notify the Borrower thereof. Failure or delay on the part of any Lender or Issuing Bank to demand compensation pursuant to this Section shall not constitute a waiver of such Lender's or Issuing Bank's right to demand such compensation; that the Borrower shall not be required to compensate a Lender or an Issuing Bank pursuant to this Section for any increased costs or reductions incurred more than 180 days prior to the date that such Lender or Issuing Bank, as applicable, notifies
provided
such
the
Borrower of the Change in Law giving rise to such increased costs or reductions and of such Lender's or Issuing Bank's intention to claim compensation therefor; , , that, if the Change in Law giving rise to such increased costs or reductions is retroactive, then the 180-day period referred to above shall be extended to include the period of retroactive effect thereof.
provided
further
SECTION 2.16. . In the event of (a) the payment of any principal of any Eurocurrency Loan other than on the last day of an Interest Period applicable thereto (including as a result of an Event of Default), (b) the conversion of any Eurocurrency Loan other than on the last day of the Interest Period applicable thereto, (c) the failure to borrow, convert, continue or prepay any Eurocurrency Loan on the date specified in any notice delivered pursuant hereto or (d) the assignment of any Eurocurrency Loan other than on the last day of the Interest Period applicable thereto as a result of a request by the Borrower pursuant to Section 2.19, then, in any such event,
Break Funding Payments
such
the
Borrower shall compensate each Lender for the loss, cost and expense attributable to such event. In the case of a Eurocurrency Loan, such loss, cost or expense to any Lender shall be deemed to be the amount determined by such Lender to be the excess, if any, of (i) the amount of interest which would have accrued on the principal amount of such Loan had such event not occurred, at the Adjusted LIBO Rate that would have been applicable to such Loan, for the period from the date of such event to the last day of the then current Interest Period therefor (or, in the case of a failure to borrow, convert or continue a Eurocurrency Loan, for the period that would have been the Interest Period for such Loan), over (ii) the amount of interest which would accrue on such principal amount for such period at the interest rate which such Lender would bid were it to bid, at the commencement of such period, for deposits in Euros of a comparable amount and period from other banks in the Eurodollar market. A certificate of any Lender setting forth any amount or amounts that such Lender is entitled to receive pursuant to this Section shall be delivered to
such
the
Borrower and shall be conclusive absent manifest error.
Such
The
Borrower shall pay such Lender the amount shown as due on any such certificate within 10 days after receipt thereof.
 
SECTION 2.17. .
Taxes
(a) Any and all payments by or on account of any obligation of any Loan Party
hereunder
under any Loan Document
shall be made free and clear of and without deduction for any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes; that if a Loan Party
provided
or the Administrative Agent
shall be required to deduct any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes from such payments, then (i) the sum payable
by the Loan Party
shall be increased as necessary so that after making all required deductions
have been made
(including deductions applicable to additional sums payable under this Section) any Agent, Lender or Issuing Bank, as applicable, receives an amount equal to the sum it would have received had no such deductions for Indemnified Taxes and Other Taxes been made, (ii) such Loan Party
or the Administrative Agent
shall make such deductions and (iii) such Loan Party
or the Administrative Agent
shall timely pay the full amount deducted to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable law.
(b) In addition, the Loan Parties shall pay any Other Taxes to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable law.
(c) Each Loan Party shall
, jointly and severally,
indemnify the Agents, each Lender and each Issuing Bank, within 10 days after written demand therefor, for the full amount of any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes
paid
payable
by such Agent, Lender or Issuing Bank, as applicable, on or with respect to any payment by or on account of any obligation of such Loan Party
hereunder
under any Loan Document
(including Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes imposed or asserted on or attributable to amounts payable under this Section) and any reasonable expenses arising therefrom or with respect thereto, whether or not such Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes were correctly or legally imposed or asserted by the relevant Governmental Authority. A certificate as to the amount of such payment or liability delivered to
such
a
Loan Party by a Lender or an Issuing Bank, or by the Administrative Agent on its own behalf, on behalf of another Agent or on behalf of a Lender or an Issuing Bank, shall be conclusive absent manifest error
. If a Loan Party determines in good faith that a reasonable basis exists for contesting any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes for which indemnification payments have been made under this Section 2.17(c), the Administrative Agent, Issuing Bank, or Lender (as applicable) shall use reasonable efforts to cooperate with the Loan Party in challenging such Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes, at the Loan Party's expense, if so requested by the Loan Party in writing; provided that nothing in this Section 2.17(c) shall obligate the Administrative Agent, Issuing Bank, or any Lender to take any action that, in its reasonable judgment, would be materially disadvantageous to such Person
.
(d) As soon as practicable after any payment of Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes by a Loan Party to a Governmental Authority, such Loan Party shall deliver to the Administrative Agent the original or a certified copy of a receipt issued by such Governmental Authority evidencing such payment, a copy of the return reporting such payment or other evidence of such payment reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent.
(e) Any Lender that is entitled to an exemption from or reduction of withholding Tax under the law of the jurisdiction in which the Borrower is located, or any treaty to which such jurisdiction is a party, with respect to payments under this Agreement shall deliver to
such
the
Borrower (with a copy to the Administrative Agent), to the extent such Lender is legally entitled to do so, at the time or times prescribed by applicable law such properly completed and executed documentation prescribed by applicable law as may reasonably be requested by
such
the
Borrower
or the Administrative Agent
to permit such payments to be made without such
 
withholding tax or at a reduced rate; that no Lender shall have any obligation under this paragraph (e) with respect to any withholding Tax imposed by any jurisdiction other than the United States if in the reasonable judgment of such Lender such compliance would subject such Lender to any material unreimbursed cost or expense or would otherwise prejudice such Lender's interest in any material respect.
provided
Upon the reasonable request of the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, any Lender shall update any form or certification previously delivered pursuant to this Section 2.17(e). If any form or certification previously delivered pursuant to this Section 2.17(e) expires or becomes obsolete or inaccurate in any respect with respect to a Lender, such Lender shall promptly (and in any event within 10 days after such expiration, obsolescence or inaccuracy) notify the Borrower and the Administrative Agent in writing of such expiration, obsolescence or inaccuracy and update the form or certification if it is legally eligible to do so.
(f) If an Agent or a Lender determines, in good faith and in its sole discretion, that it has received a refund of any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes as to which it has been indemnified by a Loan Party or with respect to which such Loan Party has paid additional amounts pursuant to this Section 2.17, it shall pay over such refund to such Loan Party (but only to the extent of indemnity payments made, or additional amounts paid, by such Loan Party under this Section 2.17 with respect to the Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes giving rise to such refund), net of all out-of-pocket expenses of such Agent or such Lender (including any Taxes imposed with respect to such refund) as is determined by the Agent or Lender in good faith and in its sole discretion, and without interest (other than any interest paid by the relevant Governmental Authority with respect to such refund); that such Loan Party, upon the request of such Agent or such Lender, agrees to repay as soon as reasonably practicable the amount paid over to such Loan Party (plus any penalties, interest or other charges imposed by the relevant Governmental Authority) to such Agent or such Lender in the event such Agent or such Lender is required to repay such refund to such Governmental Authority. This Section shall not be construed to require any Agent or any Lender to make available its Tax returns (or any other information relating to its Taxes which it deems confidential) to the Loan Parties or any other person.
provided
SECTION 2.18. .
Payments Generally; Pro Rata Treatment; Sharing of Set-offs
(a) Unless otherwise specified,
each
the
Borrower shall make each payment required to be made by it hereunder (whether of principal, interest, fees or reimbursement of L/C Disbursements, or of amounts payable under Section 2.15, 2.16, 2.17 or 2.20, or otherwise) prior to 2:00 p.m., Local Time, on the date when due, in immediately available funds, without condition or deduction for any defense, recoupment, set-off or counterclaim. Any amounts received after such time on any date may, in the discretion of the Administrative Agent, be deemed to have been received on the next succeeding Business Day for purposes of calculating interest thereon. All such payments shall be made to the Administrative Agent to the applicable account designated to the Borrower by each Administrative Agent, except payments to be made directly to the applicable Issuing Bank or the applicable Swingline Lender as expressly provided herein and except that payments pursuant to Sections 2.15, 2.16, 2.17, 2.20 and 9.05 shall be made directly to the persons entitled thereto. The Administrative Agent shall distribute any such payments received by it for the account of any other person to the appropriate recipient promptly following receipt thereof. If any payment hereunder shall be due on a day that is not a
 
Business Day, the date for payment shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day, and, in the case of any payment accruing interest, interest thereon shall be payable for the period of such extension. All payments hereunder of (i) principal or interest in respect of any Loan, (ii) reimbursement obligations with respect to any Letter of Credit or (iii) any other amount due hereunder or under another Loan Document shall be made in Dollars. Any payment required to be made by the Administrative Agent hereunder shall be deemed to have been made by the time required if such Administrative Agent shall, at or before such time, have taken the necessary steps to make such payment in accordance with the regulations or operating procedures of the clearing or settlement system used by such Administrative Agent to make such payment.
(b) If at any time insufficient funds are received by and available to the Administrative Agent from
any
the
Borrower to pay fully all amounts of principal, unreimbursed L/C Disbursements, interest and fees then due from
such
Borrower hereunder, such funds shall be applied (i) , towards payment of interest and fees then due from
first
such
Borrower hereunder, ratably among the parties entitled thereto in accordance with the amounts of interest and fees then due to such parties, and (ii) , towards payment of principal and unreimbursed L/C Disbursements then due from
second
such
Borrower hereunder, ratably among the parties entitled thereto in accordance with the amounts of principal and unreimbursed L/C Disbursements then due to such parties.
(c) If any Lender shall, by exercising any right of set-off or counterclaim or otherwise, obtain payment in respect of any principal of or interest on any of its Term Loans, New Revolving Facility Loans or participations in L/C Disbursements or Swingline Loans resulting in such Lender receiving payment of a greater proportion of the aggregate amount of its Term Loans, New Revolving Facility Loans and participations in L/C Disbursements and Swingline Loans and accrued interest thereon than the proportion received by any other Lender, then the Lender receiving such greater proportion shall purchase (for cash at face value) participations in the Term Loans, New Revolving Facility Loans and participations in L/C Disbursements and Swingline Loans of other Lenders to the extent necessary so that the benefit of all such payments shall be shared by the Lenders ratably in accordance with the aggregate amount of principal of and accrued interest on their respective Term Loans, New Revolving Facility Loans and participations in L/C Disbursements and Swingline Loans; that (i) if any such participations are purchased and all or any portion of the payment giving rise thereto is recovered, such participations shall be rescinded and the purchase price restored to the extent of such recovery, without interest, and (ii) the provisions of this paragraph (c) shall not be construed to apply to any payment made by the Borrower pursuant to and in accordance with the express terms of this Agreement or any payment obtained by a Lender as consideration for the assignment of or sale of a participation in any of its Loans or participations in L/C Disbursements to any assignee or participant, other than to
provided
such
the
Borrower or any Subsidiary or Affiliate thereof (as to which the provisions of this paragraph (c) shall apply).
Each
The
Borrower consents to the foregoing and agrees, to the extent it may effectively do so under applicable law, that any Lender acquiring a participation pursuant to the foregoing arrangements may exercise against
such
the
Borrower rights of set-off and counterclaim with respect to such participation as fully as if such Lender were a direct creditor of
such
the
Borrower in the amount of such participation.
 
(d) Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from the Borrower prior to the date on which any payment is due to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Lenders or the applicable Issuing Bank hereunder that
such
the
Borrower will not make such payment, the Administrative Agent may assume that
such
the
Borrower has made such payment on such date in accordance herewith and may, in reliance upon such assumption, distribute to the Lenders or the applicable Issuing Bank, as applicable, the amount due. In such event, if
such
the
Borrower has not in fact made such payment, then each of the Lenders or the applicable Issuing Bank, as applicable, severally agrees to repay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand the amount so distributed to such Lender or Issuing Bank with interest thereon, for each day from and including the date such amount is distributed to it to but excluding the date of payment to the Administrative Agent, at (i) the greater of the Federal Funds Effective Rate and a rate determined by the Administrative Agent in accordance with banking industry rules on interbank compensation.
(e) If any Lender shall fail to make any payment required to be made by it pursuant to Section 2.04(c), 2.05(d) or (e), 2.06(b) or 2.18(d), then the Administrative Agent may, in its discretion (notwithstanding any contrary provision hereof), apply any amounts thereafter received by the Administrative Agent for the account of such Lender to satisfy such Lender's obligations under such Sections until all such unsatisfied obligations are fully paid.
SECTION 2.19. .
Mitigation Obligations; Replacement of Lenders
(a) If any Lender requests compensation under Section 2.15 or 2.20, or if the Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to Section 2.17, then such Lender shall use reasonable efforts to designate a different lending office for funding or booking its Loans hereunder or to assign its rights and obligations hereunder to another of its offices, branches or Affiliates, if, in the reasonable judgment of such Lender, such designation or assignment (i) would eliminate or reduce amounts payable pursuant to Section 2.15, 2.17 or 2.20, as applicable, in the future and (ii) would not subject such Lender to any material unreimbursed cost or expense and would not otherwise be disadvantageous to such Lender in any material respect.
Each
The
Borrower hereby agrees to pay all reasonable costs and expenses incurred by any Lender in connection with any such designation or assignment.
(b) If any Lender requests compensation under Section 2.15 or 2.20, or if the Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to Section 2.17, or is a Defaulting Lender, then
such
the
Borrower may, at its sole expense and effort, upon notice to such Lender and the Administrative Agent, require such Lender to assign and delegate, without recourse (in accordance with and subject to the restrictions contained in Section 9.04), all its interests, rights and obligations under this Agreement to an assignee that shall assume such obligations (which assignee may be another Lender, if a Lender accepts such assignment); that (i) 
provided
such
the
Borrower shall have received the prior written consent of the Administrative Agent, which consent shall not unreasonably be withheld, (ii) such Lender shall have received payment of an amount equal to the outstanding principal of its Loans and participations in L/C Disbursements and Swingline Loans, accrued interest thereon, accrued fees and all other amounts payable to it hereunder, from the assignee (to the extent of such outstanding principal and
 
accrued interest and fees) or
such
the
Borrower (in the case of all other amounts) and (iii) in the case of any such assignment resulting from a claim for compensation under Section 2.15 or 2.20 or payments required to be made pursuant to Section 2.17, such assignment will result in a reduction in such compensation or payments. Nothing in this Section 2.19 shall be deemed to prejudice any rights that
any
the
Borrower may have against any Lender that is a Defaulting Lender.
(c) If any Lender (such Lender, a "") has failed to consent to a proposed amendment, waiver, discharge or termination which pursuant to the terms of Section 9.08 requires the consent of all of the Lenders affected and with respect to which the Required Lenders shall have granted their consent, then provided no Event of Default then exists, the Borrower shall have the right (unless such Non-Consenting Lender grants such consent) to replace such Non-Consenting Lender by requiring such Non-Consenting Lender to assign its Loans, and its Commitments hereunder to one or more assignees reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent, that: (a) all Obligations of
Non-Consenting Lender
provided
Borrowers
the Borrower
owing to such Non-Consenting Lender being replaced shall be paid in full to such Non-Consenting Lender concurrently with such assignment, and (b) the replacement Lender shall purchase the foregoing by paying to such Non-Consenting Lender a price equal to the principal amount thereof plus accrued and unpaid interest thereon. In connection with any such assignment the Borrower, Administrative Agent, such Non-Consenting Lender and the replacement Lender shall otherwise comply with Section 9.04.
SECTION 2.20. .
Additional Reserve Costs
(a) For so long as any Lender is required to make special deposits with the Bank of England or comply with reserve assets, liquidity, cash margin or other requirements of the Bank of England, to maintain reserve asset ratios or to pay fees, in each case in respect of such Lender's Eurocurrency Loans, the Borrower shall pay, contemporaneously with each payment of interest on each of such Loans, additional interest on such Loan at a rate per annum equal to the Mandatory Costs Rate calculated in accordance with the formula and in the manner set forth in to the Original Credit Agreement.
Exhibit F
(b) Any additional interest owed pursuant to paragraph (a) above shall be determined by the applicable Lender, which determination shall be conclusive absent manifest error, and notified to the Borrower (with a copy to the Administrative Agent) at least five Business Days before each date on which interest is payable for the applicable Loan, and such additional interest so notified to the Borrower by such Lender shall be payable to the Administrative Agent for the account of such Lender on each date on which interest is payable for such Loan.
SECTION 2.21. .
Increase in New Revolving Facility Commitments and/or New Term Loan Commitments
(a) . At any time following the completion of the syndication of the Facilities (as reasonably determined by CGMI), the Borrower may by written notice to the Administrative Agent elect to request an increase to the existing New Revolving Facility Commitments (any such increase, the "") and/or the New
Additional New Commitments
Additional New Revolving Facility Commitments
 
Term Loan Commitments (any such increase, the "" and together with the Additional New Revolving Facility Commitments, if any, the ""), by an amount not in excess of $
Additional
New Term Loan Commitments
Additional New Commitments
100.0
200.0
million in the aggregate or a lesser amount in integral multiples of $10.0 million. Such notice shall (A) specify the date (an "") on which the Borrower proposes that the Additional New Commitments and, in the case of Additional New Term Loan Commitments, the date for borrowing, as applicable, be made available, which shall be a date not less than
Increased Amount Date
five (
5
)
 Business Days after the date on which such notice is delivered to the Administrative Agent, and (B) offer each New Revolving Facility Lender (in the case of Additional New Revolving Facility Commitments) and/or New Term Loan Lender (in the case of Additional New Term Loan Commitments) the right to increase its New Revolving Facility Commitment and/or New Term Loan Commitment, as applicable, on a basis. The Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent in writing of the identity of each New Revolving Facility Lender, New Term Loan Lender or other financial institution reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent (each,
pro
rata
a
an
","
Additional New Revolving Facility Lender
a
an
"" or generally,
Additional New Term Loan Lender
a
an
"") to whom the Additional New Commitments have been (in accordance with the prior sentence) allocated and the amounts of such allocations; that any Lender approached to provide all or a portion of the Additional New Commitments may elect or decline, in its sole discretion, to provide an Additional New Commitment. Such Additional New Commitments shall become effective as of such Increased Amount Date, and in the case of Additional New Term Loan Commitments, such Additional New Term Loans in respect hereof ("") shall be made on such Increased Amount Date; that (1) no Default or Event of Default shall exist on such Increased Amount Date before or after giving effect to such Additional New Commitments and Loans; (2) such increase in the New Revolving Facility Commitments and/or the New Term Loan Commitments shall be evidenced by one or more joinder agreements executed and delivered to
Additional Lender
provided
Additional New Term Loans
provided
the
Administrative Agent by each Additional Lender, as applicable, and each shall be recorded in the register, each of which shall be subject to the requirements set forth in Section 2.17(e); and (3) the Borrower shall make any payments required pursuant to Section 2.16 in connection with the provisions of the Additional New Commitments.
(b) On any Increased Amount Date on which Additional New Revolving Facility Commitments are effected, subject to the satisfaction of the foregoing terms and conditions, (i) each of the existing New Revolving Facility Lenders shall assign to each of the Additional New Revolving Facility Lenders, and each of the Additional New Revolving Facility Lenders shall purchase from each of the existing New Revolving Facility Lenders, at the principal amount thereof, such interests in the outstanding New Revolving Facility Loans and participations in Letters of Credit and Swingline Loans outstanding on such Increased Amount Date that will result in, after giving effect to all such assignments and purchases, such New Revolving Facility Loans and participations in Letters of Credit and Swingline Loans being held by existing New Revolving Facility Lenders and Additional New Revolving Facility Lenders ratably in accordance with their New Revolving Facility Commitments after giving effect to the addition of such Additional New Revolving Facility Commitments to the New Revolving Facility Commitments, (ii) each Additional New Revolving Facility Commitment shall be deemed for all purposes a New Revolving Facility Commitment and each Loan made thereunder shall be deemed, for all purposes, a New Revolving Facility Loan and have the same terms as any existing New Revolving Facility Loan and (iii) each Additional New Revolving Facility Lender shall become a Lender with respect to the New Revolving Facility Commitments and all matters relating thereto.
 
(c) On any Increased Amount Date on which Additional New Term Loan Commitments are effected and borrowed, subject to the satisfaction of the foregoing terms and conditions, (i) each Additional New Term Loan Commitment shall be deemed for all purposes a New Term Loan Commitment and each Loan made thereunder shall be deemed, for all purposes, a New Term Loan, (ii) each Additional New Term Loan Lender shall become a Lender with respect to the New Term Loan Commitments and all matters relating thereto and (iii) the Additional New Term Loans shall have the same terms as the existing New Term Loans (except as provided in the last paragraph in Section 2.10(a)) and be made by each Additional New Term Loan Lender on the Increased Amount Date. All Additional New Term Loans made on any Increased Amount Date will be made in accordance with the procedures set forth in Section 2.03.
(d) The Administrative Agent shall notify the Lenders promptly upon receipt of the Borrower's notice of an Increased Amount Date and, in respect thereof, the Additional New Commitments and the Additional Lenders.
SECTION 2.22. . If any Lender reasonably determines that any change in law has made it unlawful, or that any Governmental Authority has asserted after the Amendment Effective Date that it is unlawful, for any Lender or its applicable lending office to make or maintain any Eurocurrency Loans, then, on notice thereof by such Lender to the Borrower through the Administrative Agent, any obligations of such Lender to make or continue Eurocurrency Loans or to convert ABR Borrowings to Eurocurrency Borrowings shall be suspended until such Lender notifies the Administrative Agent and the Borrower that the circumstances giving rise to such determination no longer exist. Upon receipt of such notice, the Borrower shall upon demand from such Lender (with a copy to the Administrative Agent), convert all Eurocurrency Borrowings of such Lender to ABR Borrowings, either on the last day of the Interest Period therefor, if such Lender may lawfully continue to maintain such Eurocurrency Borrowings to such day, or immediately, if such Lender may not lawfully continue to maintain such Loans. Upon any such prepayment or conversion,
Illegality
such
the
Borrower shall also pay accrued interest on the amount so prepaid or converted.
SECTION 2.23. Defaulting Lender.
(a) Cash Collateral Call. If any Lender becomes, and during the period it remains, a Defaulting Lender, if any Letter of Credit or Swingline Loan is at the time outstanding, each Issuing Bank and the Swingline Lender, as the case may be, may, by notice to the Borrower and such Defaulting Lender through the Administrative Agent, require the Borrower to Cash Collateralize the obligations of the Borrower to such Issuing Bank and the Swingline Lender in respect of such Letter of Credit or Swingline Loan in amount equal to the aggregate amount of the obligations (contingent or otherwise) of such Defaulting Lender in respect thereof, or to make other arrangements reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent, and to the Issuing Bank and the Swingline Bank, as the case may be, in their sole discretion to protect them against the risk of non-payment by such Defaulting Lender. Upon termination of any Letter of Credit or repayment of any Swingline Loan, the Issuing Banks and Swingline Lender shall return any Cash Collateral and terminate such other arrangements relating to such Letter of Credit or Swingline Loan.
 
(b) Right to Give Drawdown Notices. In furtherance of the foregoing, if any Lender becomes, and during the period it remains, a Defaulting Lender, each of the Issuing Bank and the Swingline Lender is hereby authorized by the Borrower (which authorization is irrevocable and coupled with an interest) to give, in its discretion, through the Administrative Agent, Notices of Borrowing pursuant to Section 2.03 in such amounts and in such times as may be required to (i) reimburse an outstanding L/C Disbursement, (ii) repay an outstanding Swingline Loan, and/or (iii) Cash Collateralize the obligations of the Borrower in respect of outstanding Letters of Credit or Swingline Loans in an amount at least equal to the aggregate amount of the obligations (contingent or otherwise) of such Defaulting Lender in respect of such Letter of Credit or Swingline Loan.
(c) Cure. If the Borrower, the Administrative Agent, each Issuing Bank and the Swingline Lender agree in writing in their discretion that a Lender that is a Defaulting Lender should no longer be deemed to be a Defaulting Lender the Administrative Agent will so notify the parties hereto, whereupon as of the effective date specified in such notice and subject to any conditions set forth therein, whereupon such Lender will cease to be a Defaulting Lender and will be a Non-Defaulting Lender. Upon receipt of any such notice, the Issuing Banks and the Swingline Lender shall return any Cash Collateral held in respect of such Non-Defaulting Lender's obligations. If any Defaulting Lender is replaced pursuant to Section 2.19(b), the Issuing Banks and the Swingline Lender shall return any Cash Collateral held in respect of such replaced Defaulting Lender.
Each of
Parent,
Holdings and the Borrower represents and warrants to each of the Lenders that:
SECTION 3.01. . Except as set forth on , each of
Organization; Powers
Schedule 3.01
Holdings, the Borrower
Parent
and each of the
other
Subsidiaries (a) is a partnership, limited liability company or corporation duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its organization, (b) has all requisite power and authority to own its property and assets and to carry on its business as now conducted, (c) is qualified to do business in each jurisdiction where such qualification is required, except where the failure so to qualify could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, and (d) has the power and authority to execute, deliver and perform its obligations under each of the Loan Documents and each other agreement or instrument contemplated thereby to which it is or will be a party and, in the case of
each
the
Borrower, to borrow and otherwise obtain credit hereunder.
SECTION 3.02. . The execution, delivery and performance by
Authorization
Holdings, the Borrower,
Parent
and each of the
other
Subsidiaries of each of the Loan Documents to which it is a party, and the borrowings hereunder and the
 
New
Amendment
No. 1
Transactions
to which it is party
(a) have been duly authorized by all corporate, stockholder, limited liability company or partnership action required to be obtained by
Holdings, the Borrower
Parent
and such Subsidiaries and (b) will not (i) violate (A) any provision of law, statute, rule or regulation (including, without limitation, any Mining Law), or of the certificate or articles of incorporation or other constitutive documents or by-laws of
Holdings, the Borrower
Parent
or any
such
Subsidiary, (B) any applicable order of any court or any rule, regulation or order of any Governmental Authority (including, without limitation, any Mining Permit) or (C) any provision of any indenture, lease (including, without limitation, any Mining Lease), agreement or other instrument to which
Holdings, the Borrower
Parent
or any such Subsidiary is a party or by which any of them or any of their respective property is or may be bound, (ii) be in conflict with, result in a breach of or constitute (alone or with notice or lapse of time or both) a default under, give rise to a right of or result in any cancellation or acceleration of any right or obligation (including any payment) or to a loss of a material benefit under, any such indenture, lease (including, without limitation, any Mining Lease), agreement or other instrument, where any such conflict, violation, breach or default referred to in clause (i) or (ii) of this Section 3.02, could reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect, or (iii) result in the creation or imposition of any Lien upon or with respect to any property or assets now owned or hereafter acquired by
Holdings, the Borrower
Parent
or any such Subsidiary, other than the Liens created by the Loan Documents.
SECTION 3.03. . This Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by Holdings and the Borrower and constitutes, and each other Loan Document when executed and delivered by each Loan Party that is party thereto will constitute, a legal, valid and binding obligation of such Loan Party enforceable against each such Loan Party in accordance with its terms, subject to (i) the effects of bankruptcy, insolvency, moratorium, reorganization, fraudulent conveyance or other similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally, (ii) general principles of equity (regardless of whether such enforceability is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law) and (iii) implied covenants of good faith and fair dealing.
Enforceability
SECTION 3.04. . No action, consent or approval of, registration or filing with or any other action by any Governmental Authority is or will be required in connection with the
Governmental Approvals
New
Transactions except for (a) the filing of UCC financing statements and certificates of title, (b) filings with the United States Patent and Trademark Office and the United States Copyright Office, (c) recordation of the Mortgages and the Mortgage Amendments, (d) such consents, authorizations, filings or other actions that have either (i) been made or obtained and are in full force and effect or (ii) are listed on and (e) such actions, consents and approvals the failure to be obtained or made which could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Schedule 3.04
SECTION 3.05. . There has heretofore been furnished to the Lenders:
Financial Statements
(A)
the consolidated balance sheets and related statements of income, stockholders' equity and cash flows of Holdings (i) as of and for the fiscal years ended December 31,
2004
2007
and December 31,
2005,
2008,
audited by and accompanied by the unqualified opinion of Ernst & Young LLP, independent public accountants, and (ii) as of and for the three-month period ended
 
March 31,
2006
2009
and for the comparable period of the preceding fiscal year, in each case, certified by the chief financial officer of Holdings
and (B) the consolidated balance sheets and related statements of income, stockholders' equity and cash flows of Alpha (i) as of and for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2007 and December 31, 2008, audited by and accompanied by the unqualified opinion of KPMG LLP, independent public accountants, and (ii) as of and for the three-month period ended March 31, 2009 and for the comparable period of the preceding fiscal year, in each case, certified by the chief financial officer of Alpha
. Such financial statements and all financial statements delivered pursuant to Sections 5.04(a) and (b) have been prepared in accordance with GAAP and present fairly and accurately the financial condition and results of operations and cash flows of Holdings
or Alpha
as of the dates and for the periods to which they relate.
SECTION 3.06. . Since December 31,
No Material Adverse Change or Material Adverse Effect
2005,
2008,
there has been no event or occurrence which has resulted in or would reasonably be expected to result in, individually or in the aggregate, any Material Adverse Effect.
SECTION 3.07. .
Title to Properties; Possession Under Leases
(a) Each of
Holdings, the Borrower
Parent
and the
other
Subsidiaries has good and
valid record fee simple
marketable
title to, or valid leasehold interests in, or easements or other limited property interests in, all its properties and assets, including all Mortgaged Properties, subject solely to Permitted Encumbrances and except where the failure to have such title
or interest
could not reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect.
Holdings, the Borrower
Parent
and the
other
Subsidiaries have maintained, in all material respects and in accordance with normal mining industry practice, all of the machinery, equipment, vehicles, preparation plants or other coal processing facilities, loadout and other transportation facilities and other tangible personal property now owned or leased by
Holdings, the Borrower
Parent
and the
other
Subsidiaries that is necessary to conduct their business as it is now conducted. All such properties and assets are free and clear of Liens, other than Liens expressly permitted by Section 6.02 or arising by operation of law.
(b) Each of
Holdings, the Borrower
Parent
and the
other
Subsidiaries has complied with all obligations under all leases (including, without limitation, Mining Leases) to which it is a party, except where the failure to comply would not have a Material Adverse Effect, and all such leases are in full force and effect, except
(i) 
leases in respect of which the failure to be in full force and effect could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect
. Each of Holdings, the Borrower and the other
and (ii) that are less than fully marketable because the consent of the lessor to a future assignment has not been obtained. Each of Parent and the
Subsidiaries enjoys peaceful and undisturbed possession under all such leases, other than leases in respect of which the failure to enjoy peaceful and undisturbed possession could not reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect.
(c) As of the Amendment
No. 1
Effective Date, the estate, title and interest of
Holdings, the Borrower
Parent
and the
other
Subsidiaries in the Covered Properties
and those Real Properties set forth on Schedule 3.07(c)
constitute all of the estate, title and interest in Real Properties necessary for the conduct of the business and operations of
Holdings, the Borrower
Parent
and the
other
 
Subsidiaries as currently conducted. As of the Amendment
No. 1
Effective Date, the Covered Properties constitute (i) substantially all of the coal reserves and related surface Improvements owned and leased by
Holdings
Parent
and the Subsidiaries in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania; (ii) substantially all of the coal reserves and related surface Improvements owned and leased by
Holdings
Parent
and the Subsidiaries in the State of Wyoming; (iii) substantially all of the coal reserves and related surface Improvements owned or leased by
Holdings
Parent
and the Subsidiaries in the State of Illinois
that will be mined in the five-year period following the Original Closing Date in accordance with the current mine plan of Holdings and the Subsidiaries with respect to coal reserves in such state; and (iv
; (iv) substantially all of the coal reserves and related surface Improvements owned and leased by Parent and the Subsidiaries in the State of Kentucky; (v) substantially all of the coal reserves and related surface Improvements owned and leased by Parent and the Subsidiaries in the State of Virginia; (vi) substantially all of the coal reserves and related surface Improvements owned and leased by Alpha and its Subsidiaries in the State of West Virginia; and (vii
) less than 25% of the coal reserves owned and leased by Holdings and the Subsidiaries
of Holdings
in the State of West Virginia. As of the Amendment
No. 1
Effective Date, none of Holdings or any Subsidiary
of Holdings
own or lease any material coal reserves in jurisdictions other than those listed in clauses (i) through (iv) of the preceding sentence. All of the Covered Properties are, as of the Amendment
No. 1
Effective Date
(or such later date on which Mortgages are excecuted and delivered in accordance with Section 2(m) of Amendment No. 1)
, encumbered by Mortgages in favor of the Collateral Agent for its benefit and the benefit of the Secured Parties securing the Obligations.
Annex C
has
Schedule 3.07(c)(i) and Schedule 3.07(c)(ii) have
been prepared in good faith and
is
are
a true and correct summary of all the
Real
Mortgaged
Property owned or leased by
Holdings
Parent
and the Subsidiaries to be encumbered in favor of the Collateral Agent, for its benefit and the benefit of the Secured Parties, as of the Amendment
No. 1
Effective Date.
(d)
Except
As of the Amendment No. 1 Effective Date, except
as set forth on , none of
Schedule 3.07(d)
Holdings
Parent
or any of the Subsidiaries has received written or, to the knowledge of
Holdings
Parent
and the Subsidiaries, other notice of claims that
Holdings
Parent
or any Subsidiary has mined any coal that it did not have the right to mine
any Mortgaged Property
or mined any coal in such a manner as to give rise to any claims for loss, waste or trespass
on any Mortgaged Property
, and, to the knowledge of
Holdings
Parent
and the Subsidiaries, no facts exist upon which such a claim could be based.
(e) Each of
Holdings, the Borrower
Parent
and the
other
Subsidiaries owns or possesses, or could obtain ownership or possession of, on terms not materially adverse to it, all patents, trademarks, service marks, trade names, copyrights, licenses and rights with respect thereto necessary for the present conduct of its business, without any known conflict with the rights of others, and free from any burdensome restrictions, except where such conflicts and restrictions could not reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect or except as set forth on .
Schedule 3.07(e)
(f) As of the Amendment
No. 1
Effective Date, none of
Holdings, the Borrower
Parent
and
their
its
Subsidiaries has received any
written or, to the knowledge of Parent, Holdings or the Borrower, other
notice of any pending or contemplated condemnation proceeding affecting any of the Mortgaged Properties or any sale or disposition thereof in lieu of condemnation that remains unresolved as of the Amendment
No. 1
Effective Date, except as set forth on .
Schedule 3.07 (f)
 
(g) None of
Holdings, the Borrower
Parent
and
their
its
Subsidiaries is obligated on the Amendment
No. 1
Effective Date under any right of first refusal, option or other contractual right to sell, assign or otherwise dispose of any Mortgaged Property or any interest therein, except as permitted under Section 
6.02 or 6.05.
6.02, 6.05 and other than customary buy-back provisions following the termination of mining operations, satisfaction of reclamation obligations and release of applicable Mining Permits with respect to a Mortgaged Property.
(h) sets forth as of the Amendment
Schedule 3.07(h)
No. 1
Effective Date the name and jurisdiction of incorporation, formation or organization of each Subsidiary of
Holdings
Parent
and, as to each such Subsidiary, the percentage of each class of Equity Interests owned by
Holdings
Parent
or by any such Subsidiary, indicating the ownership thereof.
(i) As of the Amendment
No. 1
Effective Date, there are no outstanding subscriptions, options, warrants, calls, rights or other agreements or commitments (other than stock options granted to employees or directors and directors' qualifying shares) of any nature relating to any Equity Interests of
Holdings
Parent
or any of the Subsidiaries, except as set forth on .
Schedule 3.07(i)
(j) As of the Amendment
No. 1
Effective Date, there are no Intercompany Leases other than those encumbered pursuant to the Intercompany Lease Agreement by the Collateral Agent for the benefit of the Secured Parties securing the Obligations.
(k) With respect to each Covered Property on which significant surface Improvements are located, there are no rights or claims of parties in possession not shown by the public records, encroachments, overlaps, boundary line disputes or other matters which would be disclosed by an accurate survey or inspection of the premises except as could not reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect.
SECTION 3.08. .
Litigation; Compliance with Laws
(a) Except as set forth on , there are no actions, suits, investigations or proceedings at law or in equity or by or on behalf of any Governmental Authority or in arbitration now pending against, or, to the knowledge of
Schedule 3.08(a)
Parent,
Holdings or the Borrower, threatened in writing against or affecting,
Parent,
Holdings or the Borrower or any of the other Subsidiaries or any business, property or rights of any such person (i) as of the Amendment
No. 1
Effective Date, that involve any Loan Document or the
New
Transactions or (ii) which individually could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect or which could reasonably be expected, individually or in the aggregate, to materially adversely affect the
New
Transactions. None of
Holdings, the Borrower
Parent
or any
other
Subsidiary has been notified in writing, or, to the knowledge of
Holdings
Parent
and the Subsidiaries, otherwise notified, by the Federal Office of Surface Mining or the agency of any state administering the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977, as amended, or any comparable state statute that it is: (i) ineligible to receive additional surface mining permits; or (ii) under investigation to determine whether their eligibility to receive any Mining Permit should be revoked, , "permit blocked." To the knowledge of
i.e.
Parent,
Holdings and the Borrower, no facts exist that presently or upon the giving of notice or the lapse of time or otherwise would render any of
Holdings
Parent
or any Subsidiary ineligible to receive surface mining permits.
 
Neither the Borrower nor, to the knowledge of any of the Loan Parties, any of its Affiliates is in violation of any laws relating to terrorism or money laundering, including Executive Order No. 13224 on Terrorist Financing, effective September 23, 2001, and the Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001, Public Law 107-56 (signed into law on October 26, 2001) (the "").
U.S. Patriot Act
(b) Except as set forth in , none of
Schedule 3.08(b)
Parent,
Holdings, the Borrower, the other Subsidiaries and their respective properties or assets is in violation of (nor will the continued operation of their material properties and assets as currently conducted violate) any currently applicable law, rule or regulation (including any zoning, building, Environmental Law, ordinance, code or approval, Mining Law, Mining Permit
, Mining Lease
or any building permit) or any restriction of record or agreement affecting any Mortgaged Property, or is in default with respect to any
order,
judgment, writ, injunction or decree of any Governmental Authority, where such violation or default could reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect.
SECTION 3.09. .
Federal Reserve Regulations
(a) None of
Holdings,
Parent or
the
Borrower and the other
Subsidiaries is engaged principally, or as one of its important activities, in the business of extending credit for the purpose of purchasing or carrying Margin Stock.
(b) No part of the proceeds of any Loan will be used, whether directly or indirectly, and whether immediately, incidentally or ultimately, (i) to purchase or carry Margin Stock or to extend credit to others for the purpose of purchasing or carrying Margin Stock or to refund indebtedness originally incurred for such purpose, or (ii) for any purpose that entails a violation of, or that is inconsistent with, the provisions of the Regulations of the Board, including Regulation U or Regulation X.
SECTION 3.10. Investment Company Act
; Public Utility Holding Company Act
. None of
Holdings, the Borrower
Parent
or any
other
Subsidiary is an "investment company" as defined in, or subject to regulation under, the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended.
SECTION 3.11. . The Borrower (a) will use the proceeds from borrowings of the New Term Loans to refinance the outstanding Tranche B Term Loans (as defined in the Original Credit Amendment) on the Amendment Effective Date
Use of Proceeds
and
,
(b) will use the proceeds of the New Revolving Facility Loans made on the Amendment Effective Date to refinance the outstanding Revolving Facility Loans (as defined in the Original Credit Agreement) on the Amendment Effective Date and (c) will use the proceeds from Borrowings of New Revolving Facility Loans after the Amendment Effective Date for working capital and general corporate purposes.
SECTION 3.12. . Except as set forth on :
Tax Returns
Schedule 3.12
(a) Each of
Holdings, the Borrower
Parent
and
their
each of its
Subsidiaries (i) has timely filed or caused to be timely filed all federal, state, local and non-U.S. Tax returns required to have been filed by it that are material to such companies taken as a whole
 
and each such Tax return is true and correct in all material respects and (ii) has timely paid or caused to be timely paid all material Taxes shown thereon to be due and payable by it and all other material Taxes or assessments, except Taxes or assessments that are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings in accordance with Section 5.03 and for which
Holdings, the Borrower
Parent
or any of
other
its
Subsidiaries (as the case may be) has set aside on its books adequate reserves
in accordance with GAAP
;
(b) Each of
Holdings, the Borrower
Parent
and
the other
each of its
Subsidiaries has paid in full or made adequate provision (in accordance with GAAP) for the payment of all Taxes
not yet
due
with respect to all periods or portions thereof ending on or before the Amendment Effective Date
, which Taxes, if not paid or adequately provided for, could individually or in the aggregate reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect; and
(c) Other than as could not be, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably expected to have a Material Adverse Effect:
as of the Amendment Effective Date,
with respect to each of
Holdings, the Borrower
Parent
and
their
each of its
Subsidiaries, (i) there are no claims being asserted in writing with respect to any Taxes, (ii) no presently effective waivers or extensions of statutes of limitation with respect to Taxes have been given or requested and (iii) no Tax returns are being examined by, and no written notification of intention to examine has been received from, the Internal Revenue Service or any other taxing authority.
SECTION 3.13. .
No Material Misstatements
(a) All written information (other than the Projections, estimates and information of a general economic nature) (the "") concerning
Information
Holdings
Parent
, the
Borrower, the other
Subsidiaries, the
New
Transactions and any other transactions contemplated hereby
included in the Information Memorandum or otherwise
prepared by or on behalf of the foregoing or their representatives (excluding any reserve reports) and made available to any Lenders or the Administrative Agent in connection with the
New
Transactions or the other transactions contemplated hereby, when taken as a whole, were true and correct in all material respects, as of the date such Information was furnished to the Lenders and as of the Amendment
No. 1
Effective Date and did not contain any untrue statement of a material fact as of any such date or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements contained therein not materially misleading in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made.
(b) The Projections, the Reserve Reports and estimates and information of a general economic nature prepared by or on behalf of the
Parent, the
Borrower or any of its representatives and that have been made available to any Lenders or the Administrative Agent in connection with the
New
Transactions or the other transactions contemplated hereby (i) have been prepared in good faith based upon assumptions believed by the Borrower to be reasonable as of the date thereof, as of the date such Projections and estimates were furnished to the initial Lenders hereunder
on the Amendment Effective Date
, and as of the Amendment
No. 1
Effective Date, and (ii) as of the Amendment
No. 1
Effective Date, have not been modified in any material respect by the Borrower.
 
SECTION 3.14. . Each of Holdings, the Borrower, the other Subsidiaries and the ERISA Affiliates is in compliance with the applicable provisions of ERISA and the provisions of the Code relating to Plans and the regulations and published interpretations thereunder, except for such noncompliance that could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. As of the Amendment
Employee Benefit Plans
No. 1
Effective Date, the excess of the present value of all benefit liabilities under each Plan of
Holdings, the Borrower,
Parent
and each
other
Subsidiary and the ERISA Affiliates (based on those assumptions used to fund such Plan), as of the last annual valuation date applicable thereto for which a valuation is available, over the value of the assets of such Plan could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, and the excess of the present value of all benefit liabilities of all underfunded Plans (based on those assumptions used to fund each such Plan) as of the last annual valuation dates applicable thereto for which valuations are available, over the value of the assets of all such under funded Plans could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. No ERISA Event has occurred or is reasonably expected to occur that, when taken together with all other ERISA Events which have occurred or for which liability is reasonably expected to occur, could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
SECTION 3.15. . Except as disclosed on and except as to matters that could not reasonably be
Environmental Matters
Schedule 3.15
expected
likely
to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect (i) no written notice, request for information, order, complaint or penalty has been received by
Holdings, the Borrower
Parent,
or any of the
other
Subsidiaries, and there are no judicial, administrative or other actions, suits or proceedings pending or threatened in writing against
Holdings, the Borrower
Parent
or any of the
other
Subsidiaries which allege a violation of or liability under any Environmental Laws, in each case relating to
Holdings, the Borrower
Parent
or any of the
other
Subsidiaries, (ii) each of
Holdings, the Borrower
Parent
and the
other
Subsidiaries has obtained or
in a timely manner
applied for all
material environmental permits
Permits
necessary for
ownership of its assets and for
its operations as currently conducted to comply with all applicable Environmental Laws and is, and since June 30, 1999 has been, in compliance with the terms of such
permits
Permits
and with all other applicable Environmental Laws, (iii) 
Holdings, the Borrower
Parent
and the
other
Subsidiaries have made available to the Administrative Agent prior to the Amendment
No. 1
Effective Date the most recent environmental audit, if any, with respect to the operations of each of
Holdings, the Borrower
Parent
and the
other
Subsidiaries, (iv) to the knowledge of
Holdings, the Borrower
Parent
and the
other
Subsidiaries, no Hazardous Material is located at
, on, under or is emanating from
any property
or facility
currently owned, operated or leased by
Holdings, the Borrower
Parent
or any of the
other
Subsidiaries that would reasonably be
expected
likely
to give rise to any cost, liability or obligation of
Holdings, the Borrower or any of the other
Parent or any of the
Subsidiaries under any Environmental Laws, and no Hazardous Material has been generated, owned or controlled by
Holdings, the Borrower
Parent
or any of the
other
Subsidiaries and
disposed of, or
transported to or
released
Released
at any location in a manner that would reasonably be
expected
likely
to give rise to any cost, liability or obligation of
Holdings, the Borrower or any of the other
Parent or any of the
Subsidiaries under any Environmental Laws, (v) to the knowledge of
Holdings, the Borrower
Parent
and the
other
Subsidiaries, there are no agreements in effect as of the Amendment
No. 1
Effective Date pursuant to which
Holdings, the Borrower
Parent
or any of the
other
Subsidiaries has
 
expressly assumed or undertaken responsibility for any liability or obligation of any other Person arising under or relating to Environmental Laws, which in any such case has not been made available to the Administrative Agent prior to the Amendment
No. 1
Effective Date, (vi) to the knowledge of
Holdings, the Borrower
Parent
and the
other
Subsidiaries, there are no landfills
or
,
disposal areas
, or surface impoundments (including slurry impoundments)
located at, on, in or under the assets of
Holdings
Parent
or any Subsidiary for which
Holdings
Parent
or any Subsidiary does not hold
an authorization
a valid Permit
pursuant to Mining Laws
and Environmental Laws,
and which are closed or to be closed and reclaimed pursuant to
Reclamation
Mining
Laws
and Environmental Laws,
and (vii) to the knowledge of
Holdings, the Borrower
Parent
and the
other
Subsidiaries as of the Amendment
No. 1
Effective Date, except as listed on , there are not currently and since January 1, 1996 there have not been any underground storage tanks "owned," or "operated" (as defined by applicable Environmental Law) by any of
Schedule 3.15(vii)
Holdings, the Borrower
Parent
or any
other
Subsidiary or present or located on the
Holdings', the Borrower
Parent
's or any
other
Subsidiary's Real Property. For purpose of Section 7.01(a), each of the representations and warranties contained in clauses (iv), (v), (vi) and (vii) of this Section 3.15 that are qualified by the knowledge of Holdings, the Borrower and the other Subsidiaries shall be deemed not to be so qualified.
SECTION 3.16. .
Security Documents
(a) The Collateral Agreement is (and, after giving effect to the
New
Amendment No. 1
Transactions
, with respect to Loan Parties existing prior to the Amendment No. 1 Effective Date
, continues to be) effective to create in favor of the Collateral Agent (for the benefit of the Secured Parties) a legal, valid and enforceable security interest in the Collateral described therein and proceeds thereof. In the case of the Pledged Collateral described in the Collateral Agreement, when certificates or promissory notes, as applicable, representing such Pledged Collateral are delivered to the Collateral Agent, and in the case of the other Collateral described in the Collateral Agreement (other than the Intellectual Property (as defined in the Collateral Agreement)), when financing statements and other filings specified on Schedule 6 of the Perfection Certificate dated as of the
Original Closing
Amendment No. 1 Effective
Date in appropriate form are filed in the offices specified on Schedule 7 of the Perfection Certificate dated as of the
Original Closing
Amendment No. 1 Effective
Date , the Liens created by the Collateral Agreement in favor of the Collateral Agent (for the benefit of the Secured Parties) constitute (and, after giving effect to the
New
Transactions
, with respect to Loan Parties existing prior to the Amendment No. 1 Effective Date
, continues to constitute) fully perfected Liens on, and security interests in, all right, title and interest of the Loan Parties in such Collateral and, subject to Section 9-315 of the New York Uniform Commercial Code, the proceeds thereof, as security for the Obligations to the extent perfection can be obtained by filing UCC financing statements, in each case prior and superior in right to any other person (except, in the case of Collateral other than Pledged Collateral, Liens expressly permitted by Section 6.02 and Liens having priority by operation of law).
(b) When the Collateral Agreement or a summary thereof is properly filed in the United States Patent and Trademark Office and the United States Copyright Office, and, with respect to Collateral in which a security interest cannot be perfected by such filings, upon the proper filing of the financing statements referred to in paragraph (a) above, the Liens created by the Collateral Agreement in favor of the Collateral Agent (for the benefit of the Secured Parties) constitute (and, after giving effect to the
New
Amendment No. 1
Transactions
, with respect to
Loan Parties existing prior to the Amendment No. 1 Effective Date
, continues to
 
constitute) fully perfected Liens on, and security interests in, all right, title and interest of the Loan Parties thereunder in the Intellectual Property, in each case prior and superior in right to any other person (it being understood that subsequent recordings in the United States Patent and Trademark Office and the United States Copyright Office may be necessary to perfect a lien on registered trademarks and patents, trademark and patent applications and registered copyrights acquired by the grantors after the Amendment Effective Date).
(c) The Mortgages executed and delivered on the Original Closing Date pursuant to Section 4.02 of the Original Credit Agreement and the Mortgages executed and delivered after the Original Closing Date pursuant to Section 5.18 of the Original Credit Agreement
, Section 2(m) to Amendment No. 1
or Section 5.10 shall be (including after giving effect to the
New
Amendment No. 1
Transactions and the Mortgage Amendments) effective to create in favor of the Collateral Agent (for the benefit of the Secured Parties) a legal, valid and enforceable Lien on all of the Loan Parties' right, title and interest in and to the Mortgaged Property thereunder and the proceeds thereof, and when such Mortgages and Mortgage Amendments are filed or recorded in the proper real estate filing or recording offices, the Liens created by the Mortgages in favor of the Collateral Agent (for the benefit of the Secured Parties) constitute (and, after giving effect to the
New
Amendment No. 1
Transactions, continues to constitute) fully perfected Liens on, and security interests in, all right, title and interest of the Loan Parties in such Mortgaged Property and, to the extent applicable, subject to Section 9-315 of the UCC, the proceeds thereof, in each case prior and superior in right to any other Person, other than with respect to the rights of a Person pursuant to Liens expressly permitted by Section 6.02(a) and Liens having priority by operation of law.
(d) The Intercompany Lease Agreement executed and delivered on the Original Closing Date
(as amended or supplemented on the Amendment No. 1 Effective Date)
pursuant to Section 4.02(A) is (and after giving effect to the
New
Amendment No. 1
Transactions continues to be) effective to create in favor of the Collateral Agent (for the benefit of the Secured Parties) a legal, valid and enforceable Lien on all of the Loan Parties' right, title and interest in and to the Intercompany Leases and any other Collateral pledged thereunder and the proceeds thereof, and when such Intercompany Lease Agreement is filed or recorded in the proper real estate filing or recording offices, the Liens created by the Intercompany Lease Agreement in favor of the Collateral Agent (for the benefit of the Secured Parties) constitute (and, after giving effect to the
New
Amendment No. 1
Transactions, continues to constitute) fully perfected Liens on, and security interests in, all right, title and interest of the Loan Parties in such Intercompany Leases and Collateral pledged thereunder and, to the extent applicable, subject to Section 9-315 of the Uniform Commercial Code, the proceeds thereof, in each case prior and superior in right to any other Person, other than with respect to the rights of a Person pursuant to Liens expressly permitted by Section 6.02(a).
SECTION 3.17. .
Location of Real Property and Leased Premises
(a) Schedule 8 to the Perfection Certificate dated as of the Amendment
No. 1
Effective Date lists completely and correctly as of the Amendment
No. 1
Effective Date all Real Property (including, without limitation, each Covered Property) owned by
Holdings, the Borrower and the Subsidiary
the
Loan Parties and the addresses or location thereof.
 
(b) Schedule 8 to the Perfection Certificate dated as of the Amendment
No. 1
Effective Date lists completely and correctly as of the Amendment
No. 1
Effective Date all Real Property leased by
Holdings, the Borrower and the Domestic Subsidiary
the
Loan Parties (including, without limitation, each leased Covered Property) and the addresses or location thereof.
SECTION 3.18. .
Solvency
(a) Immediately after giving effect to the
New
Amendment No. 1
Transactions to occur on the Amendment
No. 1
Effective Date, (i) the fair value of the assets of the Borrower (individually) and
Holdings
Parent
and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, at a fair valuation, will exceed the debts and liabilities, direct, subordinated, contingent or otherwise, of the Borrower (individually) and
Holdings
Parent
and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, respectively; (ii) the present fair saleable value of the property of the Borrower (individually) and
Holdings
Parent
and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis will be greater than the amount that will be required to pay the probable liability of the Borrower (individually) and
Holdings
Parent
and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, respectively, on their debts and other liabilities, direct, subordinated, contingent or otherwise, as such debts and other liabilities become absolute and matured; (iii) the Borrower (individually) and
Holdings
Parent
and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis will be able to pay their debts and liabilities, direct, subordinated, contingent or otherwise, as such debts and liabilities become absolute and matured; and (iv) the Borrower (individually) and
Holdings
Parent
and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis did not and will not have unreasonably small capital with which to conduct the businesses in which they are engaged as such businesses are now conducted and are proposed to be conducted following the Amendment Effective Date.
(b) None of
Parent,
Holdings or the Borrower intend to, and does not believe that it or any of the Subsidiaries will, incur debts beyond its ability to pay such debts as they mature, taking into account the timing and amounts of cash to be received by it or any such Subsidiary and the timing and amounts of cash to be payable on or in respect of its Indebtedness or the Indebtedness of any such Subsidiary.
SECTION 3.19. . There are no strikes pending or threatened against
Labor Matters
Holdings, the Borrower
Parent
or any of the
other
Subsidiaries that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. The hours worked and payments made to employees of
Holdings, the Borrower
Parent
and the
other
Subsidiaries have not been in violation in any material respect of the Fair Labor Standards Act or any other applicable law dealing with such matters. All material payments due from
Holdings, the Borrower
Parent
or any of the
other
Subsidiaries or for which any claim may be made against
Holdings, the Borrower
Parent
or any of the
other
Subsidiaries, on account of wages and employee health and welfare insurance and other benefits have been paid or accrued as a liability on the books of
Holdings, the Borrower
Parent
or such Subsidiary to the extent required by GAAP. Except as set forth on , consummation of the
Schedule 3.19
New
Transactions will not give rise to a right of termination or right of renegotiation on the part of any union under any collective bargaining agreement to which
Holdings, the Borrower
Parent
or any of the
other
Subsidiaries (or any predecessor) is a party or by which
Holdings, the Borrower
Parent
or any of the
other
Subsidiaries (or any predecessor) is bound, other than collective bargaining agreements that, individually or in the aggregate, are not material to
Holdings, the Borrower
Parent
and the
other
Subsidiaries, taken as a whole.
 
SECTION 3.20. . sets forth a true, complete and correct description of all material insurance maintained by or on behalf of
Insurance
Schedule 3.20
Holdings
Parent
, the Borrower or the other Subsidiaries as of the Amendment
No. 1
Effective Date. As of such date, such insurance is in full force and effect. The Borrower believes that the insurance maintained by or on behalf of
Holdings
Parent
, the Borrower and
their
the
Subsidiaries is adequate.
SECTION 3.21. [].
Intentionally Omitted
SECTION 3.22. .
Anti-Terrorism Law
(a) No Loan Party and, to the knowledge of
Parent,
Holdings and the Borrower, none of its respective Affiliates is in violation of any laws relating to terrorism or money laundering (""), including Executive Order No. 13224 on Terrorist Financing, effective September 24, 2001 (the ""), and the Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001, Public Law 107-56.
Anti-Terrorism Laws
Executive Order
(b) No Loan Party and to the knowledge of
the
Parent,
Holdings and the Borrower, no Affiliate or broker or other agent of any Loan Party acting or benefiting in any capacity in connection with the Loans is any of the following:
(i) a person that is listed in the annex to, or is otherwise subject to the provisions of, the Executive Order;
(ii) a person owned or controlled by, or acting for or on behalf of, any person that is listed in the annex to, or is otherwise subject to the provisions of, the Executive Order;
(iii) a person with which any Lender is prohibited from dealing or otherwise engaging in any transaction by any Anti-Terrorism Law;
(iv) a person that commits, threatens or conspires to commit or supports "terrorism" as defined in the Executive Order; or
(v) a person that is named as a "specially designated national and blocked person" on the most current list published by the U.S. Treasury Department Office of Foreign Assets Control ("") at its official website or any replacement website or other replacement official publication of such list.
OFAC
(c) No Loan Party and, to the knowledge of
Parent,
Holdings and the Borrower, no broker or other agent of any Loan Party acting in any capacity in connection with the Loans (i) conducts any business or engages in making or receiving any contribution of funds, goods or services to or for the benefit of any person described in Section 3.22(b), (ii) deals in, or otherwise engages in any
 
transaction relating to, any property or interests in property blocked pursuant to the Executive Order, or (iii) engages in or conspires to engage in any transaction that evades or avoids, or has the purpose of evading or avoiding, or attempts to violate, any of the prohibitions set forth in any Anti-Terrorism Law.
SECTION 4.01. . On the date of each Borrowing and on the date of each issuance, amendment, extension or renewal of a Letter of Credit
All Credit Events
(each such event a "Credit Event")
:
(a) The Administrative Agent shall have received, in the case of a Borrowing, a Borrowing Request as required by Section 2.03 (or a Borrowing Request shall have been deemed given in accordance with the last paragraph of Section 2.03) or, in the case of the issuance of a Letter of Credit, the applicable Issuing Bank and the Administrative Agent shall have received a notice requesting the issuance of such Letter of Credit as required by Section 2.05(b).
(b) The representations and warranties set forth in Article III hereof shall be true and correct in all material respects on and as of the date of such Borrowing or issuance, amendment, extension or renewal of a Letter of Credit (other than an amendment, extension or renewal of a Letter of Credit without any increase in the stated amount of such Letter of Credit), as applicable, with the same effect as though made on and as of such date, except to the extent such representations and warranties expressly relate to an earlier date (in which case such representations and warranties shall be true and correct in all material respects as of such earlier date).
(c) At the time of and immediately after such Borrowing or issuance, amendment, extension or renewal of a Letter of Credit (other than an amendment, extension or renewal of a Letter of Credit without any increase in the stated amount of such Letter of Credit), as applicable, no Event of Default or Default shall have occurred and be continuing.
Each Borrowing and each issuance, amendment, extension or renewal of a Letter of Credit shall be deemed to constitute a representation and warranty by the Borrower on the date of such Borrowing, issuance, amendment, extension or renewal as applicable, as to the matters specified in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this Section 4.01.
In addition to the other conditions precedent herein set forth, if any Lender becomes, and during the period it remains, a Defaulting Lender, each Issuing Bank will not be required to issue any Letter of Credit or to amend any outstanding Letter of Credit to increase the face amount thereof, alter the drawing terms thereunder or extend the expiry date thereof, and the Swingline Lender will not be required to make any Swingline Loan, unless such Issuing Bank or the Swingline Lender, as the case may be, is satisfied that any exposure that would result therefrom is eliminated or fully covered by Cash Collateralization satisfactory to each Issuing Bank or Swingline Lender.
 
SECTION 4.02. .
First Credit Event
(A) . The obligations of (a) the Lenders (including the Swingline Lenders) to make Loans and (b) any Issuing Bank to issue Letters of Credit or increase the stated amounts of Letters of Credit requested in each case to be made by them on the Original Closing Date was subject to the satisfaction of all of the conditions precedent set forth in Section 4.02 of the Original Credit Agreement.
Original Closing Date
(B) . The
Amendment Effective Date
obligation of each New Term Loan Lender to fund a New Term Loan and the obligation of each New Revolving Facility Lender to fund a New Revolving Facility Loan requested to be made by it
obligations of (a) the Lenders (including the Swingline Lenders) to make Loans and (b) any Issuing Bank to issue Letters of Credit or increase the stated amounts of Letters of Credit requested in each case to be made by them
on the Amendment Effective Date
shall be
was
subject to the
prior or concurrent
satisfaction of
each
all
of the
following
conditions precedent set forth in
this
Section 
4.01(B):
4.02 of the Execution Date Credit Agreement.
(a) Executed Agreement and Amendment Agreement. There shall have been delivered to the Administrative Agent an executed counterpart of each of this Agreement and the New Security Documents each dated as of the Amendment and Restatement Effective Date. The Administrative Agent shall have also received: (i) executed counterparts to the Amendment Agreement executed by (A) New Term Lenders for not less than $335.0 million in New Term Loan Commitments in the aggregate, (B) New Revolving Facility Lenders for $500.0 million in New Revolving Facility Commitments in the aggregate and (C) the other parties thereto; (ii) executed counterparts to this Agreement by (A) Holdings; (B) the Borrower; (C) the Administrative Agent; (D) the Collateral Agent; (E) the Issuing Banks party hereto on the Amendment Effective Date; (F) each New Term Loan Lender on the Amendment Effective Date; (G) each New Revolving Facility Lender on the Amendment Effective Date; and (H) the other parties to this Agreement on the Amendment Effective Date.
(b) Opinions of Counsel. The Administrative Agent shall have received, on behalf of itself, the Collateral Agent, the Lenders and each Issuing Bank on the Amendment Effective Date, a favorable written opinion of (i) Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP, special counsel for the Loan Parties, (ii) the general counsel of Holdings, and (iii) local counsel reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent as specified on Schedule 4.02(B)(b) (including the opinions referred to in Section 4.02(B)(e)(ii)(C), in each case (A) dated the Amendment Effective Date, (B) addressed to the Administrative Agent, the Collateral Agent, each Issuing Bank, and the Lenders and (C) in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent.
(c) Legal Matters. All legal matters incident to this Agreement, the borrowings and extensions of credit hereunder and the other Loan Documents shall be reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent, to the Lenders and to each Issuing Bank on the Amendment Effective Date.
 
(d) Corporate Documents. The Administrative Agent shall have received in the case of each Loan Party each of the items referred to in clauses (i), (ii), (iii) and (iv) below:
(i) a copy of the certificate or articles of incorporation, partnership agreement or limited liability agreement, including all amendments thereto, of each Loan Party, (A) in the case of a corporation, certified as of a recent date by the Secretary of State (or other similar official) of the jurisdiction of its organization, and a certificate as to the good standing (to the extent such concept or a similar concept exists under the laws of such jurisdiction) of each such Loan Party as of a recent date from such Secretary of State (or other similar official) or (B) in the case of a partnership of or limited liability company, certified by the Secretary or Assistant Secretary of each such Loan Party;
(ii) a certificate of the Secretary or Assistant Secretary or similar officer of each Loan Party dated the Amendment Effective Date and certifying to the following:
(A) that attached thereto is a true and complete copy of the by-laws (or partnership agreement, limited liability company agreement or other equivalent governing documents) of such Loan Party as in effect on the Amendment Effective Date and at all times since a date prior to the date of the resolutions described in clause (B) below,
(B) that attached thereto is a true and complete copy of resolutions duly adopted by the Board of Directors of such Loan Party (or its managing general partner or managing member) authorizing the execution, delivery and performance of the Loan Documents to which such person is a party and, in the case of the Borrower, the borrowings hereunder, and that such resolutions have not been modified, rescinded or amended and are in full force and effect on the Amendment Effective Date,
(C) that the certificate or articles of incorporation, partnership agreement or limited liability agreement of such Loan Party have not been amended since the date of the last amendment thereto disclosed pursuant to clause (i) above,
(D) as to the incumbency and specimen signature of each officer executing any Loan Document or any other document delivered in connection herewith on behalf of such Loan Party, and
(E) as to the absence of any pending proceeding for the dissolution or liquidation of such Loan Party or, to the knowledge of such person, threatening the existence of such Loan Party;
 
(iii) a certificate of another officer as to the incumbency and specimen signature of the Secretary or Assistant Secretary or similar officer executing the certificate pursuant to clause (ii) above; and
(iv) such other documents as the Administrative Agent, the Lenders and any Issuing Bank on the Amendment Effective Date may reasonably request (including without limitation, tax identification numbers and addresses).
(e) Collateral Requirements.
(i) The Collateral and Guarantee Requirement shall have been satisfied.
(ii) The Collateral Agent shall have received:
(A) with respect to each Mortgage encumbering Mortgaged Property, an amendment thereof (each a "Mortgage Amendment") duly executed and acknowledged by the applicable Loan Party, and in form for recording in the recording office where each such Mortgage was recorded, together with such certificates, affidavits, questionnaires or returns as shall be required in connection with the recording or filing thereof under applicable law, in each case in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Collateral Agent;
(B) with respect to each Mortgage Amendment, (i) a copy of the existing mortgage title insurance policy and an endorsement with respect thereto relating to the Mortgage encumbering such Mortgaged Property assuring the Collateral Agent that the Mortgage, as amended by the Mortgage Amendment is a valid and enforceable first priority lien on such Mortgaged Property in favor of the Collateral Agent for the benefit of the Secured Parties free and clear of all defects and encumbrances and liens except as expressly permitted by Section 6.02 of the Original Credit Agreement, and such Mortgage Policy shall otherwise be in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Collateral Agent and (ii) evidence acceptable to Administrative Agent of payment by Borrower of all title insurance premiums, search and examination charges, mortgage recording taxes and related charges required for the recording of the Mortgage Amendments and issuance of the endorsements to the title insurance policies; and
(C) to the extent reasonably requested by the Administrative Agent, with respect to each Mortgage Amendment, opinions of local counsel to the Loan Parties, which opinions (x) shall be addressed to each Agent, each of the Lenders and each Issuing Bank and be dated the Amendment Effective Date, (y) shall cover the enforceability of the respective Mortgage as amended by the Mortgage Amendment and such other matters incident to the transactions contemplated herein as the Agents may reasonably request and (z) shall be in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent.
 
(iii) The Administrative Agent shall have received a completed Perfection Certificate dated the Amendment Effective Date and signed by a Responsible Officer of Holdings, the Borrower and each Domestic Subsidiary Loan Party, together with all attachments contemplated thereby and the following: (A) the results of a search of the UCC (or equivalent) filings made with respect to the Loan Parties in the jurisdictions specified in the Perfection Certificates and copies of the financing statements (or similar documents) disclosed by such search and evidence reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent that the Liens indicated by such financing statements (or similar documents) are permitted by Section 6.02 or have been released or discharged pursuant to documentation reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent; and (B) any necessary termination statements (or similar documents), including UCC termination statements, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and duly executed or authorized by all applicable Persons for filing in all applicable jurisdictions as may be necessary to terminate any effective financing statements (or equivalent filings), including UCC financing statements, disclosed in such search (other than any such financing statements in respect of Permitted Encumbrances and Liens permitted by Section 6.02).
(iv) The Collateral Agent shall have received an amendment to each Intercompany Lease Agreement duly executed by the applicable Loan Parties, in form and substance reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent.
(f) Projections. The Administrative Agent shall have received the Borrower's most recent (as of the Amendment Effective Date) projections through and including the 2011 fiscal year, prepared on a quarterly basis through the end of the 2006 fiscal year.
(g) Material Adverse Change. The absence of any event or occurrence which has resulted in or would reasonably be expected to result in, individually or in the aggregate, any material adverse change in the business, operations, properties, assets or financial condition of the Loan Parties and their respective subsidiaries, taken as a whole, since December 31, 2005.
(h) Consents. All requisite material Governmental Authorities and third parties shall have approved or consented to the New Transactions to the extent required, and there shall be no governmental or judicial action, actual or threatened, that could reasonably be expected to restrain, prevent or impose burdensome conditions on the New Transactions or the other transactions contemplated hereby.
(i) No Prohibition. No provision of any applicable law or regulation, including, without limitation, severance, subdivision, Mining Laws or similar laws, and no judgment, injunction, order or decree shall prohibit the consummation of the New Transactions, and all material actions by or in respect of or material filings with any Governmental Authority
required to permit the consummation of the New Transactions shall have been taken, made or obtained, except for any such actions or filings the failure to take, make or obtain would not be material to Holdings, Borrower and the other Subsidiaries, taken as a whole.
 
(j) Fees. The Agents shall have received all fees payable thereto or to any Lender on or prior to the Amendment Effective Date and, to the extent invoiced, all other amounts due and payable pursuant to the Loan Documents on or prior to the Amendment Effective Date, including, to the extent invoiced, reimbursement or payment of all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses (including reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of Cahill Gordon & Reindel LLP and local counsel) required to be reimbursed or paid by the Loan Parties hereunder or under any Loan Document.
(k) Reserve Report. There shall have been delivered to the Administrative Agent signed and complete copies of the Reserve Report identified in clause (iv) of the definition of "Reserve Report".
Each of
Parent,
Holdings and the Borrower covenants and agrees with each Lender that so long as this Agreement shall remain in effect and until the commitments have been terminated and the principal of and interest on each Loan, all Fees and all other expenses or amounts payable under any Loan Document shall have been paid in full and all Letters of Credit have been canceled or have expired and all amounts drawn thereunder have been reimbursed in full, unless the Required Lenders shall otherwise consent in writing, each of
Parent,
Holdings and the Borrower will, and will cause each of the Subsidiaries to:
SECTION 5.01. .
Existence; Businesses and Properties
(a) Do or cause to be done all things necessary to preserve, renew and keep in full force and effect its legal existence, except as otherwise expressly permitted under Section 6.05, and except for the liquidation or dissolution of Subsidiaries if the assets of such Subsidiaries to the extent they exceed estimated liabilities are acquired by
Holdings
Parent
or a Wholly Owned Subsidiary of
Holdings
Parent
in such liquidation or dissolution; that Subsidiaries that are Loan Parties may not be liquidated into Subsidiaries that are not Loan Parties.
provided
(b) Do or cause to be done all things necessary to (i) obtain, preserve, renew, extend and keep in full force and effect the permits, franchises, authorizations, patents, trademarks, service marks, trade names, copyrights, licenses and rights with respect thereto necessary to the normal conduct of its business, (ii) comply in all material respects with all material applicable laws, rules, regulations (including any zoning, mining, building, ordinance, code or approval or any building permits or any restrictions of record or agreements affecting the Mortgaged Properties) and judgments, writs, injunctions, decrees and orders of any Governmental Authority, whether now in effect or hereafter enacted and (iii) at all times maintain and preserve all property necessary to the normal
 
conduct of its business and keep such property in good repair, working order and condition and from time to time make, or cause to be made, all needful and proper repairs, renewals, additions, improvements and replacements thereto necessary in order that the business carried on in connection therewith, if any, may be properly conducted at all times (in each case except as expressly permitted by this Agreement).
SECTION 5.02. .
Insurance
(a) Keep its insurable properties insured at all times by financially sound and reputable insurers in such amounts as shall be customary for similar businesses and maintain such other reasonable insurance (including, to the extent consistent with past practices, self-insurance), of such types, to such extent and against such risks, as is customary with companies in the same or similar businesses and maintain such other insurance as may be required by law or any other Loan Document.
(b) Cause all such property and casualty insurance policies with respect to the Mortgaged Properties to be endorsed or otherwise amended to include a "standard" or "New York" lender's loss payable endorsement, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and the Collateral Agent, which endorsement shall provide that, from and after the Amendment
No. 1
Effective Date, if the insurance carrier shall have received written notice from the Administrative Agent or the Collateral Agent of the occurrence of an Event of Default, the insurance carrier shall pay all proceeds otherwise payable to
the Borrower or
any of
the Loan Parties under such policies directly to the Collateral Agent; cause all such policies to provide that neither
Parent,
the Borrower, the Administrative Agent, the Collateral Agent nor any other party shall be a coinsurer thereunder and
, with respect to all Covered Properties,
to contain a "Replacement Cost Endorsement," without any deduction for depreciation, and such other provisions as the Administrative Agent or the Collateral Agent may reasonably (in light of a Default or a material development in respect of the insured Mortgaged Property) require from time to time to protect their interests; deliver original or certified copies of all such policies or a certificate of an insurance broker to the Collateral Agent; cause each such policy to provide that it shall not be canceled or not renewed upon less than 30 days' prior written notice thereof by the insurer to the Administrative Agent and the Collateral Agent; deliver to the Administrative Agent and the Collateral Agent, prior to the cancellation or nonrenewable of any such policy of insurance, a copy of a renewal or replacement policy (or other evidence of renewal of a policy previously delivered to the Administrative Agent and the Collateral Agent), or insurance certificate with respect thereto, together with evidence satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and the Collateral Agent of payment of the premium therefor.
(c) If
at any time the area in which the Premises (as defined in the Mortgages) are located is designated a "flood hazard area" in any Flood Insurance Rate Map published
any portion of any Mortgaged Property upon which a "Building" (as defined in 12 CFR Chapter 11, Section 339.2) is located is at any time located in an area identified
by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (or any successor agency)
, obtain flood insurance in such reasonable total amount as the Administrative Agent or the Collateral Agent may from time to time reasonably require, and otherwise to ensure compliance with
as a Special Flood Hazard Area with respect to which flood insurance has been made available under
the National Flood Insurance
Program as set forth in the Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973, as it may be amended from time to time
Act of 1968 (as now or hereafter in effect or successor act thereto),
 
then Parent or the
Borrower shall, or shall cause each Loan Party to (i) maintain, or cause to be maintained, with a financially sound and reputable insurer, flood insurance in an amount and otherwise sufficient to comply with all applicable rules and regulations promulgated pursuant to the Flood Insurance Laws and (ii) deliver to the Collateral Agent evidence of such compliance in form and substance reasonably acceptable to the Collateral Agent
.
(d) With respect to each Mortgaged Property, carry and maintain comprehensive general liability insurance including the "broad form CGL endorsement" (or equivalent coverage) and coverage on an occurrence basis against claims made for personal injury (including bodily injury, death and property damage) and umbrella liability insurance against any and all claims, in each case in amounts and against such risks as are customarily maintained by companies engaged in the same or similar industry operating in the same or similar locations naming the Collateral Agent as an additional insured, on forms reasonably satisfactory to the Collateral Agent.
(e) Notify the Administrative Agent and the Collateral Agent promptly whenever any separate insurance concurrent in form or contributing in the event of loss with that required to be maintained under this Section 5.02 is taken out by
Holdings, the Borrower
Parent
or any of the Subsidiaries; and promptly deliver to the Administrative Agent and the Collateral Agent a duplicate original copy of such policy or policies, or an insurance certificate with respect thereto.
(f) In connection with the covenants set forth in this Section 5.02, it is understood and agreed that:
(i) none of the Agents, the Lenders, the Issuing Bank and their respective agents or employees shall be liable for any loss or damage insured by the insurance policies required to be maintained under this Section 5.02, it being understood that (A) the Borrower and the other Loan Parties shall look solely to their insurance companies or any other parties other than the aforesaid parties for the recovery of such loss or damage and (B) such insurance companies shall have no rights of subrogation against the Agents, the Lenders, any Issuing Bank or their agents or employees. If, however, the insurance policies do not provide waiver of subrogation rights against such parties, as required above, then each of
Parent,
Holdings, and the Borrower hereby agree, to the extent permitted by law, to waive, and to cause each of their Subsidiaries to waive, its right of recovery, if any, against the Agents, the Lenders, any Issuing Bank and their agents and employees; and
(ii) the designation of any form, type or amount of insurance coverage by the Administrative Agent, the Collateral Agent under this Section 5.02 shall in no event be deemed a representation, warranty or advice by the Administrative Agent, the Collateral Agent or the Lenders that such insurance is adequate for the purposes of the business of
Holdings, the Borrower
Parent
and
their
its
Subsidiaries or the protection of their properties.
 
SECTION 5.03. .
Taxes
(a) Pay and discharge promptly when due all material Taxes, assessments and governmental charges or levies imposed upon it or upon its income or profits or in respect of its property, before the same shall become delinquent or in default, as well as all lawful claims for labor, materials and supplies or otherwise that, if unpaid, might give rise to a Lien upon such properties or any part thereof; , , that such payment and discharge shall not be required with respect to any such Tax, assessment, charge, levy or claim so long as the validity or amount thereof shall be contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings, and
provided
however
Holdings, the Borrower
Parent
or the affected Subsidiary, as applicable, shall have set aside on its books
adequate
reserves in accordance with GAAP with respect thereto.
(b) Use all commercially reasonable efforts to do or cause to be done all things necessary to prevent any recapture of the excess loss accounts in the stock of the Foundation PA Coal Company (whether as a result of a deconsolidation, worthlessness or other reasons).
SECTION 5.04. . Furnish to the Administrative Agent (which will promptly furnish such information to the Lenders):
Financial Statements, Reports, etc
(a) within 90 days (or such shorter period as the SEC shall specify for the filing of Annual Reports on Form 10-K) after the end of each fiscal year, commencing with the fiscal year ended December 31,
2006,
2009,
a consolidated balance sheet and related statements of operations, cash flows and owners' equity showing the financial position of
Holdings
Parent
and the Subsidiaries as of the close of such fiscal year and the consolidated results of their operations during such year and setting forth in comparative form the corresponding figures for the prior fiscal year, all audited by independent public accountants of recognized national standing reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent and accompanied by an opinion of such accountants (which shall not be qualified in any material respect) to the effect that such consolidated financial statements fairly present, in all material respects, the financial position and results of operations of
Holdings
Parent
and the Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP (it being understood that the delivery by
Holdings
Parent
of Annual Reports on Form 10-K of
Holdings
Parent
and its consolidated Subsidiaries shall satisfy the requirements of this Section 5.04(a) to the extent such Annual Reports include the information specified herein);
(b) commencing with the fiscal quarter ended June 30,
2006,
2009,
within 45 days (or such shorter period as the SEC shall specify for the filing of Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q) after the end of each of the first three fiscal quarters of each fiscal year, a consolidated balance sheet and related statements of operations and cash flows showing the financial position of
Holdings
Parent
and the Subsidiaries as of the close of such fiscal quarter and the consolidated results of their operations during such fiscal quarter and the then-elapsed portion of the fiscal year and setting forth in comparative form the corresponding figures for the corresponding periods of the prior fiscal year, all certified by a Financial Officer of
Holdings
Parent
, on behalf of
Holdings
Parent
, as fairly presenting, in all material respects, the financial position and results of operations of
Holdings
Parent
and the Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP (subject to normal year-end audit adjustments and the absence of footnotes) (it being understood that the delivery by
Holdings
Parent
of Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q of
Holdings
Parent
and its consolidated Subsidiaries shall satisfy the requirements of this Section 5.04(b) to the extent such Quarterly Reports include the information specified herein);
 
(c)(x) concurrently with any delivery of financial statements under (a) or (b) above, a certificate of a Financial Officer of
Holdings
Parent
(i) certifying that no Event of Default or Default has occurred or, if such an Event of Default or Default has occurred, specifying the nature and extent thereof and any corrective action taken or proposed to be taken with respect thereto and (ii) commencing with the fiscal period ending June 30,
2006,
2009,
setting forth computations in reasonable detail satisfactory to the Administrative Agent demonstrating compliance with the covenants contained in Sections
6.10,
6.11 and 6.12 and (y) concurrently with any delivery of financial statements under (a) above, a certificate of the accounting firm opining on or certifying such statements stating whether they obtained knowledge during the course of their examination of such statements of any Default or Event of Default (which certificate may be limited to accounting matters and disclaims responsibility for legal interpretations);
(d) promptly after the same become publicly available, copies of all periodic and other publicly available reports, proxy statements and, to the extent requested by the Administrative Agent, other materials filed by
Holdings, the Borrower
Parent
or any of
the
its
Subsidiaries with the SEC or distributed to the stockholders of Holdings or the
Public
Parent generally, as applicable;
(e) if, as a result of any change in accounting principles and policies from those as in effect on the Amendment
No. 1
Effective Date, the consolidated financial statements of
Parent or
Holdings
, as applicable,
and the Subsidiaries delivered pursuant to paragraphs (a) or (b) above will differ in any material respect from the consolidated financial statements that would have been delivered pursuant to such clauses had no such change in accounting principles and policies been made, then, together with the first delivery of financial statements pursuant to
paragraph
paragraphs
(a) and (b) above following such change, a schedule prepared by a Financial Officer on behalf of
Holdings
Parent
reconciling such changes to what the financial statements would have been without such changes;
(f) within 90 days after the beginning of each fiscal year, an operating and capital expenditure budget, in form satisfactory to the Administrative Agent prepared by
Holdings
Parent
for each of the four fiscal quarters of such fiscal year prepared in reasonable detail, of
Holdings
Parent
and the Subsidiaries, accompanied by the statement of a Financial Officer of
Holdings
Parent
to the effect that, to the best of his knowledge, the budget is a reasonable estimate for the period covered thereby;
(g) upon the reasonable request of the Administrative Agent, updated Perfection Certificates (or, to the extent such request relates to specified information contained in the Perfection Certificates, such information) reflecting all changes since the date of the information most recently received pursuant to this paragraph (g) or Section 5.10(e);
(h) promptly, a copy of all reports submitted to the Board of Directors (or any committee thereof) of any of
Holdings, the Borrower
Parent
or any Subsidiary (x) in connection with any material interim or special audit made by independent accountants of the books of
Holdings, the Borrower
Parent
or any Subsidiary or (y) valuing the coal reserves or constituting, in whole or in part, a material mine plan or material change to any material mining plan;
 
(i) promptly, from time to time, such other information regarding the operations (including
as to coal
all reports of
reserves
prepared by Parent or any of its Subsidiaries, or their consultants
), business affairs and financial condition of
Holdings, the Borrower
Parent
or any of the Subsidiaries, or compliance with the terms of any Loan Document, or such consolidating financial statements, as in each case the Administrative Agent may reasonably request (for itself or on behalf of any Lender);
and
(j) promptly upon request by the Administrative Agent, copies of: (i) each Schedule B (Actuarial Information) to the annual report (Form 5500 Series) filed with the Internal Revenue Service with respect to a Plan; (ii) the most recent actuarial valuation report for any Plan; (iii) all notices received from a Multiemployer Plan sponsor or any governmental agency concerning an ERISA Event; and (iv) such other documents or governmental reports or filings relating to any Plan or Multiemployer Plan as the Administrative Agent shall reasonably request
;
(k) Deliver to the Administrative Agent for prompt further distribution to each Lender, simultaneously with the delivery of each set of consolidated financial statements referred to in Sections 5.04(a) and (b), a summary statement of revenues, EBITDA, assets and liabilities of subsidiaries of Parent that are Unrestricted Subsidiaries for the relevant period and use commercially reasonable efforts to make senior officers of Parent available to discuss such information or the information specified in Section 5.04(a) promptly after such information is delivered to the Administrative Agent.
(l) The Borrower shall provide statutory financial information for Parent and such other financial information as the Administrative Agent shall reasonably request, together with the financial information required under Section 5.04(a) and (b)
.
Documents required to be delivered pursuant to Section 5.04(a), 5.04(b) or 5.04(d) (to the extent any such documents are included in materials otherwise filed with the SEC) may be delivered electronically and if so delivered, shall be deemed to have been delivered on the date (i) on which
Holdings
Parent
and
the
Borrower posts such documents, or provides a link thereto on the
Holding
Parent
's website on the Internet
,
at
"
www.
foundationcoal
alphanr
.com
"; provided that: (i) Holdings and the Borrower shall deliver paper copies of such documents to the Administrative Agent or any Lender that requests the Borrower to deliver such paper copies until a written request to cease delivering paper copies is given by the Administrative Agent or such Lender and (ii) Holdings
; provided that: Parent
and the Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent and each Lender (by telecopier or electronic mail) of the posting of any such documents and provide to the Administrative Agent by electronic mail electronic versions (, soft copies) of such documents
i.e.
. Notwithstanding anything contained herein, in every instance Holdings and the Borrower shall be required to provide paper copies of the certificates required by Section 5.04(c) to the Administrative Agent
.
 
SECTION 5.05. Furnish to the Administrative Agent written notice of the following promptly after any Responsible Officer of
Litigation and Other Notices.
Holdings
Parent
or the Borrower obtains actual knowledge thereof:
(a) any Event of Default or Default, specifying the nature and extent thereof and the corrective action (if any) proposed to be taken with respect thereto;
(b) the filing or commencement of, or any written threat or notice of intention of any person to file or commence, any action, suit or proceeding, whether at law or in equity or by or before any Governmental Authority or in arbitration, against
Holdings, the Borrower
Parent
or any of
the
its
Subsidiaries as to which an adverse determination is reasonably probable and which, if adversely determined, could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect;
(c) any other development specific to
Holdings
Parent
, the Borrower or any of the Subsidiaries that is not a matter of general public knowledge and that has had, or could reasonably be expected to have, a Material Adverse Effect; and
(d) the occurrence of any ERISA Event, that together with all other ERISA Events that have occurred, could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
SECTION 5.06. . Comply with all laws, rules, regulations and orders of any Governmental Authority applicable to it or its property (owned or leased)
Compliance with Laws
and
, including
all Mining Laws and Mining Permits, except where the failure to do so, individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect; that this Section 5.06 shall not apply to Environmental Laws, which are the subject of Section 5.09, or to laws related to Taxes, which are the subject of Section 5.03.
provided
SECTION 5.07. . Maintain all financial records in accordance with GAAP and permit any persons designated by the Administrative Agent or, upon the occurrence and during the continuance of an Event of Default, any Lender to visit and inspect the financial records and the properties of
Maintaining Records; Access to Properties and Inspections
Holdings, the Borrower
Parent
or any of the Subsidiaries at reasonable times, upon reasonable prior notice to
Holdings
Parent
or the Borrower, and as often as reasonably requested and to make extracts from and copies of such financial records, and permit any persons designated by the Agents or, upon the occurrence and during the continuance of an Event of Default, any Lender upon reasonable prior notice to
Holdings
Parent
or the Borrower to discuss the affairs, finances and condition of
Holdings, the Borrower
Parent
or any of the Subsidiaries with the officers thereof and independent accountants therefor (subject to reasonable requirements of confidentiality, including requirements imposed by law or by contract).
SECTION 5.08. . Use the proceeds of the Loans and the issuance of Letters of Credit solely for the purposes described in Section 3.11.
Use of Proceeds
SECTION 5.09. . Comply, and make commercially reasonable efforts to cause all lessees and other persons occupying its properties to comply, with all Environmental Laws applicable to its operations
Compliance with Environmental Laws
, facilities
and properties; and obtain and renew all
material authorizations and permits
Permits
required pursuant to Environmental
 
Law
Laws
for its operations
, facilities
and properties, in each case in accordance with Environmental Laws, except, in each case with respect to this Section 5.09, to the extent the failure to do so could not reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect.
SECTION 5.10. .
Further Assurances; Additional Mortgages
(a) Execute any and all further documents, financing statements, agreements and instruments, and take all such further actions (including the filing and recording of financing statements, fixture filings, Mortgages and other documents and recordings of Liens in stock registries), that may be required under any applicable law, or that the Administrative Agent may reasonably request, to cause the Collateral and Guarantee Requirement to be and remain satisfied, all at the expense of the Loan Parties and provide to the Administrative Agent, from time to time upon reasonable request, evidence reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent as to the perfection and priority of the Liens created or intended to be created by the Security Documents.
(b) If any asset (
including any real property (
other than real property
, which is
covered by Section 5.10(c) below)
or improvements thereto or any interest therein)
that has an individual fair market value in an amount greater than $5.0 million is acquired by
Holdings, the Borrower
Parent
or any other Loan Party after the Original Closing Date or owned by an entity at the time it becomes a Subsidiary Loan Party (in each case other than assets constituting Collateral under a Security Document that become subject to the Lien of such Security Document upon acquisition thereof), cause such asset to be subjected to a Lien securing the Obligations and take, and cause the Subsidiary Loan Parties to take, such actions as shall be necessary or reasonably requested by the Administrative Agent to grant and perfect such Liens, including actions described in paragraph (a) of this Section, all at the expense of the Loan Parties, subject to paragraph (f) below.
(c) In the case of
the Borrower
Parent
, grant and cause each of the
Domestic Subsidiary
Loan Parties to grant to the Collateral Agent security interests and Mortgages in such real property of the
Borrower
Parent
or any such
Domestic Subsidiary
Loan Parties as are not covered by the Mortgages delivered on the Original Closing Date, to the extent acquired after the Original Closing Date and
(i) in the case of owned real property, any property in which a Loan Party owns a fee interest and on which an active preparation plant site or an active mine site is located, (ii) in the case of leased real property, any property in which a Loan Party has a leasehold interest (x) that is subject to an annual minimum royalty in excess of $500,000, (y) that had an annual production royalty in excess of $750,000 in the immediately preceding fiscal year or (z) on which an active preparation plant site or an active mine is located or (iii) any real property
having a value at the time of acquisition in excess of $
5.0
10.0
million pursuant to documentation substantially in the form of the Mortgages delivered to the Collateral Agent on the Original Closing Date or in such other form as is reasonably satisfactory to the Collateral Agent (each, an "") and constituting valid and enforceable perfected Liens superior to and prior to the rights of all third persons subject to no other Liens except as are permitted by Section 6.02 or arising by operation of law, at the time of perfection thereof, record or file, and cause each such Subsidiary to record or file, the Additional Mortgage or instruments related thereto in such manner and in such places as is required by law to establish, perfect, preserve and
Additional Mortgage
 
protect the Liens in favor of the Collateral Agent required to be granted pursuant to the Additional Mortgages and pay, and cause each such Subsidiary to pay, in full, all Taxes, fees and other charges payable in connection therewith, in each case subject to paragraph (f) below. With respect to each such Additional Mortgage, the Borrower shall deliver to the Collateral Agent contemporaneously therewith an opinion of counsel and such other documents, instruments, certificates and materials to the extent reasonably requested by the Collateral Agent.
(d) If any additional direct or indirect Subsidiary of
Holdings
Parent
is formed or acquired after the Original Closing Date and if such Subsidiary is a
Domestic Subsidiary
Loan Party, within five Business Days after the date such Subsidiary is formed or acquired, notify the Administrative Agent and the Lenders thereof and, within 20 Business Days after the date such Subsidiary is formed or acquired, cause the Collateral and Guarantee Requirement to be satisfied with respect to such Subsidiary and with respect to any Equity Interest in or Indebtedness of such Subsidiary owned by or on behalf of any Loan Party.
(e) In the case of
the Borrower
any Loan Party
, (i) furnish to the Collateral Agent prompt written notice of any change (
which shall be in any event furnished within 30 days of such change) (
A) in any Loan Party's corporate or organization name, (B) in any Loan Party's identity or organizational structure
or
,
(C) in any Loan Party's organizational identification number
or (D) in any Loan Party's jurisdiction of organization
; that the
provided
Borrower
Parent
shall not effect or permit any such change unless all filings have been made, or will have been made within any statutory period, under the UCC or otherwise that are required in order for the Collateral Agent to continue at all times following such change to have a valid, legal and perfected security interest in all the Collateral for the benefit of the Secured Parties
with the same priority as immediately prior to such change
and (ii) promptly notify the Administrative Agent if any material portion of the Collateral is damaged or destroyed.
(f) The Collateral and Guarantee Requirement and the other provisions of this Section 5.10 need not be satisfied with respect to (i) any Real Property held by
Holdings, the Borrower
Parent
or any
the other
Subsidiaries as a lessee under a lease; that the Collateral Agent determines (in its reasonable discretion) that the Real Property subject to such lease is not material to the business or operations of
provided
Holdings
Parent
and the Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, (ii) any Equity Interests acquired after the Original Closing Date in accordance with this Agreement if, and to the extent that, and for so long as (A) doing so would violate applicable law or a contractual obligation binding on such Equity Interests and (B) such law or obligation existed at the time of the acquisition thereof and was not created or made binding on such Equity Interests in contemplation of or in connection with the acquisition of such Subsidiary ( that the foregoing clause (B) shall not apply in the case of a joint venture, including a joint venture that is a Subsidiary), (iii) any assets acquired after the Original Closing Date, to the extent that, and for so long as, taking such actions would violate a contractual obligation binding on such assets that existed at the time of the acquisition thereof and was not created or made binding on such assets in contemplation or in connection with the acquisition of such assets (except in the case of assets acquired with Indebtedness permitted pursuant to Section 6.01(i) that is secured by a Lien permitted pursuant to Section 6.02(i)), (iv) any asset of a Foreign Subsidiary if the granting of a Lien on such asset would result in materially adverse tax or legal consequences to
provided
Holdings
Parent
and its Subsidiaries (as determined by the Borrower reasonably and in good faith)
or
;
(v) any asset of a Foreign
 
Subsidiary if the Borrower demonstrates to the Collateral Agent and the Collateral Agent determines (in its reasonable discretion) that the cost of the satisfaction of the Collateral and Guarantee Requirement of this Section 5.10 with respect thereto exceeds the value of the security offered thereby;
(vi) any Equity Interests of any Special Purpose Receivables Subsidiary or (vii) any promissory note made in favor of any Subsidiary Loan Party by any Special Purpose Receivables Subsidiary with respect to the purchase price of Receivables from such Subsidiary Loan Party in connection with a Permitted Receivables Financing;
that, upon the reasonable request of the Collateral Agent,
provided
Holdings
Parent
shall, and shall cause any applicable Subsidiary to, use commercially reasonable efforts to have waived or eliminated any contractual obligation of the types described in clauses (ii) and (iii) above, other than those set forth in a joint venture agreement to which
Holdings
Parent
or any Subsidiary is a party.
(g) In the case of the Parent and the other Loan Parties, notwithstanding the existence of any Permitted Receivables Financing, any and all payments by any Special Purpose Receivables Subsidiary to, and all proceeds of any Permitted Receivables Financing payable to, any Loan Party (or to any other Person that is required to be a Loan Party hereunder) shall be made to and deposited in one or more deposit or securities accounts subject to the Collateral and Guarantee Requirement set forth herein, with such deposit or securities accounts subject at all times to control agreements in favor of, and in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to, the Collateral Agent.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Section 5.10, any documents or instruments required to be delivered as a condition precedent to the effectiveness of Amendment No. 1, pursuant to Section 2 thereof, shall be delivered on or prior to the Amendment No. 1 Effective Date.
SECTION 5.11. . In the case of
Fiscal Year; Accounting
Holdings
Parent
and the Subsidiaries, cause their fiscal year to end on December 31.
SECTION 5.12. []
Intentionally Omitted
.
SECTION 5.13. . If, as a result of the receipt of any cash proceeds by the Borrower or any Subsidiary in connection with any sale, transfer, lease or other disposition of any asset, including any Equity Interest, the Borrower would be required by the terms of the Senior Note Indenture to make an offer to purchase any Senior Notes, as applicable, then, in the case of the Borrower or a Subsidiary, prior to the first day on which the Borrower would be required to commence such an offer to purchase, (i) prepay Loans in accordance with Section 2.11 or (ii) acquire assets, Equity Interests or other securities in a manner that is permitted by Section 6.04 or Section 6.05, in each case in a manner that will eliminate any such requirement to make such an offer to purchase.
Proceeds of Certain Dispositions
SECTION 5.14. . Upon request of the Collateral Agent, each Loan Party shall deliver to the Collateral Agent originals of the certificates of title or ownership for the motor vehicles (and any other equipment covered by certificates of title or ownership) owned by it with the Collateral Agent listed as lienholder therein except to the extent such motor vehicles or equipment constitutes inventory as contemplated by Section 9-311(d) of the UCC and the Collateral Agent has obtained a perfected Security Interest pursuant to Section 4.01, in which case such material need not be provided. Such requirement shall apply
Motor Vehicles
 
to such Loan Party only if any such motor vehicle (or any such other Equipment) has a fair market value greater than $1.0 million or is otherwise material to the business and operations of
Holdings
Parent
and the Subsidiaries.
SECTION 5.15. . Execute and deliver the documents and complete the tasks set forth below in each case within thirty (30) days from the Amendment Effective Date; that the Administrative Agent may, in its sole discretion, extend such number of days with respect to any such documents or tasks, subject to such conditions as the Administrative Agent may, in its sole discretion, reasonably determine:
New Post-Closing Matters
provided
(a) deliver to the Administrative Agent a legal opinion of Penn, Stuart & Eskridge, Virginia counsel to Neweagle Coal Sales Corp., Neweagle Development Corp., Neweagle Industries, Inc., Neweagle Mining Corp. and Rivereagle Corp., all Virginia corporations, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent; and
(b) deliver to the Administrative Agent evidence reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent that, with respect to the copyright registrations that are owned by Foundation American Coal Holding, LLC as shown on Schedule 14(b) to the Perfection Certificate dated the Amendment Effective Date, a name change has been filed with the United States Copyright Office to reflect the change of the name of record from RAG American Coal Holdings, Inc. to Foundation American Coal Holding, LLC.
SECTION 5.16. Unrestricted Subsidiaries
.
(a) The Board of Directors or other applicable governing body of Parent may at any time designate any Subsidiary as an Unrestricted Subsidiary or designate any Unrestricted Subsidiary as a Restricted Subsidiary (provided that such Subsidiary may not be re-designated as an Unrestricted Subsidiary), upon receipt by the Administrative Agent of written notice from Parent that from and after such notice such subsidiary shall be or cease to be an Unrestricted Subsidiary, as applicable; provided that (i) immediately before and after such designation, no Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, (ii) other than for purposes of designating a Restricted Subsidiary as an Unrestricted Subsidiary that is a Special Purpose Receivables Subsidiary, immediately after giving effect to such designation, on a Pro Forma Basis, Parent shall be in compliance with Sections 6.11 and 6.12, and, as a condition precedent to the effectiveness of any such designation, the Borrower shall deliver to the Administrative Agent a certificate notifying the Administrative Agent of any such designation and also setting forth in reasonable detail the calculations demonstrating compliance with the such covenants. The designation of any Subsidiary as an Unrestricted Subsidiary shall constitute an Investment under Section 6.04 by the Borrower therein at the date of designation in an amount equal to the net book value of the Parent's investment therein. The designation of any Unrestricted Subsidiary as a Restricted Subsidiary shall constitute the incurrence at the time of designation of any Indebtedness or Liens of such Subsidiary existing at such time.
(b) Parent shall cause each Unrestricted Subsidiary to: (i) maintain entity records and books of account separate from those of Parent and its Subsidiaries, (ii) not commingle its funds or assets with those of any of Parent and its Subsidiaries and (iii) provide that its board of directors or other analogous governing body will hold all appropriate meetings to authorize and approve such entity's actions, which meetings will be separate from those of the Parent and its Subsidiaries.
 
Each of
Parent,
Holdings and the Borrower covenants and agrees with each Lender that, so long as this Agreement shall remain in effect and until the Commitments have been terminated and the principal of and interest on each Loan, all Fees and all other expenses or amounts payable under any Loan Document have been paid in full and all Letters of Credit have been canceled or have expired and all amounts drawn thereunder have been reimbursed in full, unless the Required Lenders shall otherwise consent in writing, neither
Parent,
Holdings nor the Borrower will, or will cause or permit any of the Subsidiaries to:
SECTION 6.01. . Incur, create, assume or permit to exist any Indebtedness, except:
Indebtedness
(a) Indebtedness
(i) of Holdings and its Subsidiaries
existing on the Amendment Effective Date in an amount not to exceed $1.0 million and
set forth on Schedule 6.01 to the Execution Date Credit Agreement and (ii) Alpha and the Subsidiaries (prior to the Merger Transaction) existing on the Amendment No. 1 Effective Date not to exceed $300.0 million and, for each individual obligation in excess of $1.0 million, set forth on Schedule 6.01(a)
(other than in the case of any existing letters of credit to be replaced with Letters of Credit issued hereunder)
set forth on Schedule 6.01
and any Permitted Refinancing Indebtedness incurred to Refinance such Indebtedness (other than intercompany Indebtedness Refinanced with Indebtedness owed to a person not affiliated with
Holdings
Parent
or any Subsidiary);
(b) Indebtedness created hereunder and under the other Loan Documents;
(c) Indebtedness of
Holdings
Parent
and the Subsidiaries pursuant to Swap Agreements permitted by Section 6.13;
(d) Indebtedness owed to (including obligations in respect of letters of credit or bank guarantees or similar instruments for the benefit of) any person providing workers' compensation, health, disability or other employee benefits or property, casualty or liability insurance to
Holdings
Parent
or any Subsidiary, pursuant to reimbursement or indemnification obligations to such person; that upon the incurrence of Indebtedness with respect to reimbursement obligations regarding workers' compensation claims, such obligations are reimbursed not later than 30 days following such incurrence;
provided
(e) Indebtedness of the
Borrower
Parent
to any other Subsidiary and of any Subsidiary to the
Borrower
Parent
or any other Subsidiary; that (i) Indebtedness of any Subsidiary that is not a Loan Party to the Loan Parties shall be subject to Section 6.04(b) and (ii) Indebtedness of any Loan Party to any Subsidiary that is not a Loan Party (the "") shall be subordinated to the Obligations on terms reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent;
provided
Subordinated Intercompany Debt
 
(f) Indebtedness in respect of performance bonds, bid bonds, appeal bonds, surety bonds and completion guarantees and similar obligations, in each case provided in the ordinary course of business, including those incurred to secure health, safety and environmental obligations in the ordinary course of business;
(g) Indebtedness arising from the honoring by a bank or other financial institution of a check, draft or similar instrument drawn against insufficient funds in the ordinary course of business or other cash management services in the ordinary course of business, that (x) such Indebtedness (other than credit or purchase cards) is extinguished within three Business Days of its incurrence and (y) such Indebtedness in respect of credit or purchase cards is extinguished within 60 days from its incurrence;
provided
(h)(i) Indebtedness of a Subsidiary acquired after the Amendment
No. 1
Effective Date or a corporation merged into or consolidated with the Borrower or any Subsidiary after the Amendment
No. 1
Effective Date and Indebtedness assumed in connection with the acquisition of assets, which Indebtedness in each case, exists at the time of such acquisition, merger or consolidation and is not created in contemplation of such event and where such acquisition, merger or consolidation is permitted by this Agreement and (ii) any Permitted Refinancing Indebtedness incurred to Refinance such Indebtedness, that the aggregate principal amount of such Indebtedness at the time of, and after giving effect to, such acquisition, merger or consolidation, such assumption or such incurrence, as applicable (together with Indebtedness outstanding pursuant to this paragraph (h), paragraph (i) of this Section 6.01 and the Remaining Present Value of outstanding leases permitted under Section 6.03), would not exceed 7.50% of Consolidated Total Assets as of the end of the fiscal quarter immediately prior to the date of such acquisition, merger or consolidation, such assumption or such incurrence, as applicable, for which financial statements have been delivered pursuant to Section 5.04;
provided
(i) Capital Lease Obligations, mortgage financings and purchase money Indebtedness incurred by
Holdings
Parent
or any Subsidiary prior to or within 270 days after the acquisition, lease or improvement of the respective asset permitted under this Agreement in order to finance such acquisition or improvement, and any Permitted Refinancing Indebtedness in respect thereof, in an aggregate principal amount that at the time of, and after giving effect to, the incurrence thereof (together with Indebtedness outstanding pursuant to paragraph (h) of this Section 6.01, this paragraph (i) and the Remaining Present Value of leases permitted under Section 6.03) would not exceed 7.50% of Consolidated Total Assets as of the end of the fiscal quarter immediately prior to the date of such incurrence for which financial statements have been delivered pursuant to Section 5.04;
(j) Capital Lease Obligations incurred by
Holdings
Parent
or any Subsidiary in respect of any Sale and Lease-Back Transaction that is permitted under Section 6.03;
(k) other Indebtedness, in an aggregate principal amount at any time outstanding pursuant to this paragraph (k) not in excess of $
200.0
400.0
million;
(l) Indebtedness of the Borrower pursuant to the Senior Notes in an aggregate principal amount that is not in excess of the sum of $300.0 million and any Permitted Refinancing Indebtedness incurred to Refinance such Indebtedness in the form of Permitted Senior Debt Securities;
 
(m) Guarantees (i) by the Loan Parties of the Indebtedness of the Borrower described in paragraph (l), (ii) by any Loan Party of any Indebtedness of the Borrower or any Loan Party expressly permitted to be incurred under this Agreement, (iii) by the Borrower or any Loan Party of Indebtedness otherwise expressly permitted hereunder of any Subsidiary that is not a Loan Party to the extent permitted by Section 6.04(b), (iv) by any Foreign Subsidiary that is not a Loan Party of Indebtedness of another Foreign Subsidiary that is not a Loan Party; that all Foreign Subsidiaries may guarantee obligations of other Foreign Subsidiaries under ordinary course cash management obligations, and (v) by the Borrower of Indebtedness of Foreign Subsidiaries incurred for working capital purposes in the ordinary course of business on ordinary business terms so long as such Indebtedness is permitted to be incurred under 6.01(a), (k) or (u); that Guarantees by any Loan Party under this Section 6.01(m) of any other Indebtedness of a person that is subordinated to other Indebtedness of such person shall be expressly subordinated to the Obligations on terms consistent with those used, or to be used, for Subordinated Intercompany Debt;
provided
provided
(n) Indebtedness arising from agreements of
Holdings
Parent
or any Subsidiary providing for indemnification, adjustment of purchase price, earn outs or similar obligations, in each case, incurred or assumed in connection with the disposition of any business, assets or a Subsidiary, other than Guarantees of Indebtedness incurred by any person acquiring all or any portion of such business, assets or a Subsidiary for the purpose of financing such acquisition;
(o) Indebtedness in connection with Permitted Receivables Financings;
provided that the proceeds thereof are applied in accordance with Section 2.11(c);
(p) letters of credit or bank guarantees (other than Letters of Credit issued pursuant to Section 2.05) having an aggregate face amount not in excess of $30.0 million;
(q)
[intentionally omitted];
Guarantees of Indebtedness or other obligations of contractors and suppliers of Parent or any of the Subsidiaries or of persons who are not Affiliates of Parent and with whom Parent has an existing business relationship in support of financing or bonding arrangements for such contractors, or suppliers or such other person in connection with such business relationship; provided that the obligations of Parent or any of the Subsidiaries pursuant to this Section 6.01(q) shall not exceed $10.0 million at any time outstanding;
(r) Indebtedness supported by a Letter of Credit, in a principal amount not in excess of the stated amount of such Letter of Credit;
(s) Guarantee of the
Borrower
Parent
or any Subsidiary of obligations of any Gas Co. in connection with any Permitted Gas Properties Transaction so long as the sum of the aggregate amount outstanding under such Guarantee and the aggregate outstanding amount of Investments made pursuant to Section 6.04(u) shall not exceed at any time the then Permitted Gas Properties Threshold Amount;
 
(t) Indebtedness consisting of Permitted Senior Debt Securities
to the extent
; provided that to the extent that the Leverage Ratio as of the end of the most recently ended Test Period calculated on a Pro Forma Basis for the incurrence of such Indebtedness is greater than or equal to 3.0:1.0,
the Net Proceeds in respect thereof are actually utilized to repay New Term Loan Borrowings;
(u) Indebtedness of Foreign Subsidiaries for working capital purposes incurred in the ordinary course of business on ordinary business terms in an aggregate amount not to exceed $10.0 million outstanding at any time;
(v) Indebtedness relating to the financing of insurance policy premiums; provided that (i) such insurance is for the benefit of the Loan Parties and (ii) the aggregate principal amount of Indebtedness permitted by this Section 6.01(v) shall not exceed $50.0 million at any time outstanding;
and
(w)
(v)
all premium (if any), interest (including post-petition interest), fees, expenses, charges and additional or contingent interest on obligations described in paragraphs (a) through (
u
v
) above.
SECTION 6.02. . Create, incur, assume or permit to exist any Lien on any property or assets (including stock or other securities of any person, including any Subsidiary) at the time owned by it or on any income or revenues or rights in respect of any thereof, except:
Liens
(a) Liens on property or assets of
(i) 
Holdings and the Subsidiaries existing on the Amendment Effective Date and set forth on
Schedule 6.02(a
) to the Execution Date Credit Agreement and (ii) Alpha and its Subsidiaries (prior to the Merger Transaction) existing on the Amendment No. 1 Effective Date and, for each individual Lien in excess of $1.0 million, set forth on Schedule 6.02(a)(ii
)
; that such Liens shall secure only those obligations that they secure on the Amendment Effective Date (and extensions, renewals and refinancings of such obligations permitted by Section 6.01(a)) and shall not subsequently apply to any other property or assets of
provided
Holdings
Parent
or any Subsidiary;
(b) any Lien created under the Loan Documents or permitted in respect of any Mortgaged Property by the terms of the applicable Mortgage;
(c) any Lien on any property or asset of
Holdings
Parent
or any Subsidiary securing Indebtedness or Permitted Refinancing Indebtedness permitted by Section 6.01(h), that such Lien (i) does not apply to any other property or assets of
provided
Holdings
Parent
or any of the Subsidiaries not securing such Indebtedness at the date of the acquisition of such property or asset (other than after acquired property subjected to a Lien securing Indebtedness and other obligations incurred prior to such date and which Indebtedness and other obligations are permitted hereunder that require a pledge of after acquired property, it being understood that such requirement shall not be permitted to apply to any property to which such requirement would not have applied but for such acquisition), (ii) such Lien is not created in contemplation of or in connection with such acquisition and (iii) in the case of a Lien securing Permitted Refinancing Indebtedness, any such Lien is permitted, subject to compliance with clause (e) of the definition of the term "Permitted Refinancing Indebtedness";
 
(d) Liens for Taxes, assessments or other governmental charges or levies not yet delinquent or that are being contested in compliance with Section 5.03;
(e) landlord's, carriers', warehousemen's, mechanics', materialmen's, repairmen's, construction or other like Liens arising in the ordinary course of business and securing obligations that are not overdue by more than 30 days or that are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings and in respect of which, if applicable,
Holdings
Parent
or any Subsidiary shall have set aside on its books reserves in accordance with GAAP;
(f)(i) pledges and deposits made in the ordinary course of business in compliance with the Federal Employers Liability Act or any other workers' compensation, unemployment insurance and other social security laws or regulations and deposits securing liability to insurance carriers under insurance or self-insurance arrangements in respect of such obligations and (ii) pledges and deposits securing liability for reimbursement or indemnification obligations of (including obligations in respect of letters of credit or bank guarantees for the benefit of) insurance carriers providing property, casualty or liability insurance to
Holdings
Parent
or any Subsidiary;
(g) deposits to secure the performance of bids, trade contracts (other than for Indebtedness), leases (other than Capital Lease Obligations), statutory obligations, surety and appeal bonds, performance and return of money bonds, bids, leases, government contracts, trade contracts, and other obligations of a like nature incurred in the ordinary course of business, including those incurred to secure health, safety and environmental obligations in the ordinary course of business;
(h) zoning restrictions, easements, trackage rights, leases (other than Capital Lease Obligations), licenses, special assessments, rights-of-way, restrictions on use of real property and other similar encumbrances incurred in the ordinary course of business that, in the aggregate, do not interfere in any material respect with the ordinary conduct of the business of
Holdings
Parent
or any Subsidiary or would
not
result in a Material Adverse Effect;
(i) purchase money security interests in equipment or other property or improvements thereto hereafter acquired (or, in the case of improvements, constructed) by
Holdings
Parent
or any Subsidiary (including the interests of vendors and lessors under conditional sale and title retention agreements); that (i) such security interests secure Indebtedness permitted by Section 6.01(i)
provided
or 6.01(j)
(including any Permitted Refinancing Indebtedness in respect thereof), (ii) such security interests are incurred, and the Indebtedness secured thereby is created, within 270 days after such acquisition (or construction), (iii) the Indebtedness secured thereby does not exceed 100% of the cost of such equipment or other property or improvements at the time of such acquisition (or construction), including transaction costs incurred by
Holdings
Parent
or any Subsidiary in connection with such acquisition (or construction) and (iv) such security interests do not apply to any other property or assets of
Holdings
Parent
or any Subsidiary (other than to accessions to such equipment or other property or improvements); , , that individual financings of equipment provided by a single lender may be cross-collateralized to other financings of equipment provided solely by such lender;
provided
further
 
(j) Liens arising out of capitalized lease transactions permitted under Section 6.03, so long as such Liens attach only to the property sold and being leased in such transaction and any accessions thereto or proceeds thereof and related property;
(k) Liens securing judgments that do not constitute an Event of Default under Section 7.01(j);
(l) other Liens with respect to property or assets of
Holdings
Parent
or any Subsidiary
not constituting Collateral for the Obligations with an aggregate fair market value (valued at the time of creation thereof)
securing obligations in an aggregate principal amount
of not more than $
25.0
40.0
million at any time;
(m) Liens disclosed by the title insurance policies or title opinions delivered within the Original Post-Closing Matters Period to the extent such Liens are reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent and any replacement, extension or renewal of any such Lien; that such replacement, extension or renewal Lien shall not cover any property other than the property that was subject to such Lien prior to such replacement, extension or renewal; , , that the Indebtedness and other obligations secured by such replacement, extension or renewal Lien are permitted by this Agreement; , , that the following Liens shall be deemed to be reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent (and shall be deemed Permitted Encumbrances without regard to whether a title insurance policy or title opinion has been provided with respect to a particular parcel): (i) Liens for Taxes, assessments or other governmental charges or levies not yet delinquent and (ii) zoning restrictions, easements, trackage rights, leases (other than Capital Lease Obligations), licenses, rights-of-way, restrictions on use of real property and other similar encumbrances incurred in the ordinary course of business that do not in the aggregate interfere in any material respect with the ordinary conduct of the business of
provided
provided
further
provided
further
Holdings
Parent
or any Subsidiary at the Covered Property
effected
affected
thereby.
(n) Liens in respect of Permitted Receivables Financings;
(o) any interest or title of, or Liens created by, a lessor under any leases or subleases entered into by
Holdings
Parent
or any Subsidiary, as tenant, in the ordinary course of business
and any precautionary UCC financing statement filing in respect of operating leases (and not any Indebtedness) entered into in the ordinary course of business
;
(p) Liens that are contractual rights of set-off (i) relating to the establishment of depository relations with banks not given in connection with the issuance of Indebtedness, (ii) relating to pooled deposit or sweep accounts of
Holdings
Parent
or any Subsidiary to permit satisfaction of overdraft or similar obligations incurred in the ordinary course of business of
Holdings
Parent
and the Subsidiaries or (iii) relating to purchase orders and other agreements entered into with customers of
Holdings
Parent
or any Subsidiary in the ordinary course of business;
 
(q) Liens arising solely by virtue of any statutory or common law provision relating to banker's liens, rights of set-off or similar rights;
(r) Liens securing obligations in respect of trade-related letters of credit permitted under Section 6.01(f) or (p) and covering the goods (or the documents of title in respect of such goods) financed by such letters of credit and the proceeds and products thereof;
(s) licenses
or sublicenses
of intellectual property granted in a manner consistent with past practice;
(t) Liens in favor of customs and revenue authorities arising as a matter of law to secure payment of customs duties in connection with the importation of goods;
(u) Liens on the assets of a Foreign Subsidiary that do not constitute Collateral and which secure Indebtedness of such Foreign Subsidiary that is not otherwise secured by a Lien on the Collateral under the Loan Documents and that is permitted to be incurred under Section 6.01(a), (k) or (u);
(v) Liens upon specific items of inventory or other goods and proceeds of
Holdings
Parent
or any of the Subsidiaries securing such person's obligations in respect of bankers' acceptances issued or created for the account of such person to facilitate the purchase, shipment or storage of such inventory or other goods;
(w) Liens solely on any cash earnest money deposits made by
Holdings
Parent
or any of the Subsidiaries in connection with any letter of intent or purchase agreement permitted hereunder;
(x) Liens in the nature of dedication of reserves under Coal Supply Agreements consistent with normal practices in the mining industry; and
(y)
(x)
The following encumbrances which do not, in any case, individually or in the aggregate, materially detract from the value of any Mine subject thereto or interfere with the ordinary conduct of the business or operations of any Loan Party as presently conducted on, at or with respect to such Mine and as to be conducted following the Amendment
No. 1
Effective Date, in each case as described in and contemplated by the Reserve Reports:
(i) encumbrances typically found upon Real Property used for mining purposes in the applicable jurisdiction in which the applicable Real Property is located to the extent such encumbrances would be permitted or granted by a prudent operator of mining property similar in use and configuration to such Real Property (e.g., surface rights agreements, wheelage agreements and reconveyance agreements);
(ii) rights and easements of owners (i) of undivided interests in any of the Real Property where the applicable Loan Party or
Subsidary
Subsidiary
owns less than 100% of the fee interest, (ii) of interests in the surface of any Real Property where the applicable Loan Party or
Subsidary
Subsidiary
does not own or lease such surface interest, (iii) and lessees, if any, of coal or other minerals (including oil, gas and coalbed methane) where the applicable Loan Party or
Subsidary
Subsidiary
does not
 
own such coal or other minerals, and (iv) and lessees of other coal seams and other minerals (including oil, gas and coalbed methane) not owned or leased by such Loan Party or
Subsidary
Subsidiary
; , , that the rights and easements described in clauses (i) through (iv) of this subclause (x) shall in no event cause any breach of the representations made in Section 3.07(c);
provided
however
(iii) with respect to any Real Property in which
Holdings
Parent
or any Subsidiary holds a leasehold interest, terms, agreements, provisions, conditions, and limitations (other than royalty and other payment obligations which are otherwise permitted hereunder) contained in the leases granting such leasehold interest and the rights of lessors thereunder (and their heirs, executors, administrators, successors, and assigns);
(iv) farm, grazing, hunting, recreational and residential leases with respect to which
Holdings
Parent
or any Subsidiary is the lessor encumbering portions of the Real Properties to the extent such leases would be granted or permitted by, and contain terms and provisions that would be acceptable to, a prudent operator of mining properties similar in use and configuration to such Real Properties;
(v) royalty and other payment obligations to sellers or transferors of fee coal or lease properties to the extent such obligations constitute a lien not yet delinquent;
(vi) rights of others to subjacent or lateral support and absence of subsidence rights or to the maintenance of barrier pillars or restrictions on mining within certain areas as provided by any Mining Lease, unless in each case waived by such other person;
and
(vii) rights of repurchase or reversion when mining and reclamation are completed
; and
(viii) Liens on the Equity Interests of any Unrestricted Subsidiary to secure Indebtedness or other obligations of such Unrestricted Subsidiary; and
(z) Liens on insurance policy proceeds; provided that such Liens secure only Indebtedness permitted by Section 6.01(v)
.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, no Liens shall be permitted to exist, directly or indirectly, on (x) Pledged Collateral, other than Liens in favor of the Collateral Agent and Liens permitted by Section 6.02(d), (e) or (q), or (y) Mortgaged Property, other than Liens in favor of the Collateral Agent, Prior Liens and Permitted Encumbrances.
SECTION 6.03. . Enter into any arrangement, directly or indirectly, with any person whereby it shall sell or transfer any property, real or personal, used or useful in its business, whether now owned or hereafter acquired, and thereafter rent or lease such property or other property that it intends to use for substantially the same purpose or
Sale and Lease-Back Transactions
 
purposes as the property being sold or transferred (a ""), that a Sale and Lease-Back Transaction shall be permitted so long as at the time the lease in connection therewith is entered into, and after giving effect to the entering into of such Lease, the Remaining Present Value of such lease (together with Indebtedness outstanding pursuant to paragraphs (h) and (i) of Section 6.01 and the Remaining Present Value of outstanding leases previously entered into under this Section 6.03) would not exceed 7.50% of Consolidated Total Assets as of the end of the fiscal quarter immediately prior to the date such lease is entered into for which financial statements have been delivered pursuant to Section 5.04.
Sale and Lease-Back Transaction
provided
SECTION 6.04. . Purchase, hold or acquire (including pursuant to any merger with a person that is not a Wholly Owned Subsidiary immediately prior to such merger) any Equity Interests, evidences of Indebtedness or other securities of, make or permit to exist any loans or advances (other than intercompany current liabilities incurred in the ordinary course of business in connection with the cash management operations of
Investments, Loans and Advances
Holdings
Parent
and the Subsidiaries) to or Guarantees of the obligations of, or make or permit to exist any investment or any other interest in (each, an ""), in any other person, except:
Investment
(a) Investments by Holdings or any Subsidiary resulting from capital expenditures incurred as a result of the Lease by Application in Powder River Basin;
(b)(i) Investments by
Holdings
Parent
or any Subsidiary in the Equity Interests of any Subsidiary; (ii) intercompany loans from the Borrower to any Subsidiary that is a Loan Party
and intercompany loans permitted by Section 6.01(e)
; and (iii) Guarantees by the Borrower or any Loan Party of Indebtedness otherwise expressly permitted hereunder of the Borrower or any Subsidiary; that the sum of (A) Investments (valued at the time of the making thereof and without giving effect to any write-downs or write-offs thereof) after the Amendment Effective Date by the Loan Parties pursuant to clause (i) in Subsidiaries that are not Loan Parties, (B) intercompany loans after the Amendment Effective Date to Subsidiaries that are not Loan Parties pursuant to clause (ii), (C) Guarantees of Indebtedness after the Amendment Effective Date of Subsidiaries that are not
provided
plus
plus
Domestic Subsidiary
Loan Parties pursuant to clause (iii), shall not exceed an aggregate amount equal to (x) $25.0 million ( any return of capital actually received by the respective investors in respect of investments theretofore made by them pursuant to
plus
clause (i) of
this paragraph
(
b
(i
)), (y) the portion, if any, of the Available Investment Basket Amount on the date of such election that
plus
Holdings
Parent
elects to apply to this Section 6.04(b);
(c) Permitted Investments and investments that were Permitted Investments when made;
(d)
[intentionally omitted];
Investments required in connection with Alpha Terminal Company, LLC partnership interest in Dominion Terminal Associates, so long as the aggregate amount invested, loaned or advanced pursuant to this clause (d) does not exceed $10.0 million in any fiscal year, with any unused amount for any fiscal year being carried forward to the immediately succeeding fiscal year (it being understood and agreed that no such amount may be carried forward beyond the fiscal year immediately succeeding the fiscal year in which it arose);
 
(e) [intentionally omitted];
(f) Investments arising out of the receipt by
Holdings
Parent
or any Subsidiary of noncash consideration for the sale of assets permitted under Section 6.05;
(g)(i) loans and advances to employees of
Holdings
Parent
or any Subsidiary in the ordinary course of business not to exceed $2.5 million in the aggregate at any time outstanding (calculated without regard to write-downs or write-offs thereof) and (ii) advances of payroll payments and expenses to employees in the ordinary course of business;
(h) accounts receivable arising and trade credit granted in the ordinary course of business and any securities received in satisfaction or partial satisfaction thereof from financially troubled account debtors to the extent reasonably necessary in order to prevent or limit loss and any prepayments and other credits to suppliers made in the ordinary course of business;
(i) Swap Agreements permitted pursuant to Section 6.13;
(j) Investments
(i) of Holdings and its Subsidiaries
existing on the Amendment Effective Date and set forth on
Schedule 6.04
to the Execution Date Credit Agreement and (ii) of Alpha and its Subsidiaries (prior to the Merger Transaction) existing on the Amendment No. 1 Effective Date and, for each individual Investment in excess of $1.0 million, to the extent set forth on Schedule 6.04(a)
;
(k) Investments resulting from pledges and deposits referred to in Sections 6.02(f) and (g);
(l) other Investments by
Holdings
Parent
or any Subsidiary in an aggregate amount (valued at the time of the making thereof, and without giving effect to any write-downs or write-offs thereof) not to exceed
$100.0
the greater of (i) $35.0
million
(
and (ii) 5.0% of Consolidated Total Assets (in each case,
plus any returns of capital actually received by the respective investor in respect of investments theretofore made by it pursuant to this paragraph (l)
)
;
(m) Investments constituting Permitted Business Acquisitions
in an aggregate amount, which shall be deemed to include the principal amount of Indebtedness that is assumed pursuant to Section 6.01 in connection with such Permitted Business Acquisitions, not to exceed (i) $75.0 million (net of any return representing return of capital in respect of any such investment and valued at the time of the making thereof); provided that (x) during any Permitted Business Acquisition Step Up Period, such amount shall be increased to (a) $150.0 million, during any period that is a Permitted Business Acquisition Step Up Period pursuant to clause (x) of the definition thereof, (b) $250.0 million, during any period that is a Permitted Business Acquisition Step Up Period pursuant to clause (y) of the definition thereof or (c) an unlimited amount during any period that is a Permitted Business Acquisition Step Up Period pursuant to clause (z) of the definition thereof, in each case plus (y) the portion, if any, of the Available Investment Basket
 
Amount on the date such election is made that the Borrower elects to apply to this paragraph (m), (ii) if any person acquired in a Permitted Business Acquisition is not merged into the Borrower or a Loan Party or does not become upon consummation of such Permitted Business Acquisition a Loan Party, the aggregate amount expended in respect thereof and for all such similar Permitted Business Acquisitions shall not exceed an amount equal to 50% of the amount of Permitted Business Acquisitions otherwise permitted under this Section 6.04(m) and (iii) if the amount of Investments constituting Permitted Business Acquisitions in accordance with this Section 6.04(m) and outstanding at the time a Permitted Business Acquisition Step-Up Period ends exceeds the amount of Investments constituting Permitted Business Acquisitions that would be permitted under this Section 6.04(m) immediately after the end of such Permitted Business Acquisition Step-Up Period, then the amount of such excess (less the amount by which investments constituting Permitted Business Acquisitions are reduced from such time until the commencement of the next Permitted Business Acquisition Step-Up Period, if any) shall be deemed to be permitted under this Section 6.04(m); provided, further, that such excess, if any, shall be deemed an election by the Borrower to utilize the Available Investment Basket Amount in any amount equal to such excess;;
;
(n) additional Investments may be made from time to time to the extent made with proceeds of Equity Interests of
the Public
Parent, which proceeds or Investments in turn are contributed (as common equity) to any Loan Party;
(o) intercompany loans between Foreign Subsidiaries that are not Loan Parties or from a Foreign Subsidiary to any Domestic Subsidiary of
Holdings
Parent
that is not a Loan Party and Guarantees permitted by Section 6.01(m)(i), (ii), (iv) and (v);
(p) Investments arising as a result of Permitted Receivables Financings;
(q) the Transactions;
(r) Investments received in connection with the bankruptcy or reorganization of, or settlement of delinquent accounts and disputes with or judgments against, customers and suppliers, in each case in the ordinary course of business;
(s) Investments of a Subsidiary acquired after the Amendment Effective Date or of a corporation merged into the Borrower or merged into or consolidated with a Subsidiary in accordance with Section 6.05 after the Amendment Effective Date to the extent that such Investments were not made in contemplation of or in connection with such acquisition, merger or consolidation and were inexistence on the date of such acquisition, merger or consolidation;
(t) Investments comprising Permitted Gas Properties Transactions permitted by Section 6.05(m);
(u) Investments in the form of loans or advances to any Gas Co., or Guarantees of obligations of any Gas Co., by any Loan Party in connection with any Permitted Gas Properties Transaction, so long as the sum of the aggregate amount outstanding of such Investments under this clause (u) and the aggregate outstanding amount of Guarantees made pursuant to Section 6.01(s) shall not exceed at any time an amount equal to $35.0 million
,
any returns of capital actually received by the respective Loan Party in respect of investments theretofore made by it pursuant to this Section 6.04(u)) (such amount, the "");
plus
Permitted Gas Properties Threshold Amount
and
 
(v) Guarantees by
Holdings
Parent
or any Subsidiary of operating leases (other than Capital Lease Obligations) or of other obligations that do not constitute Indebtedness, in each case entered into by any Subsidiary in the ordinary course of business
; and
(w) Investments in the Equity Interests of Parent in connection with the purchase or redemption of Equity Interests held by then present or former directors, consultants, officers or employees of Parent, the Borrower or any of the Subsidiaries or by any Plan upon such person's death, disability, retirement or termination of employment or under the terms of any such Plan (including the Alpha Natural Resources, Inc. Long-term Incentive Plan and the Alpha Management, LLC Long-term Incentive Plan); provided that the aggregate amount of such purchases or redemptions under this paragraph (w) shall not exceed in any fiscal year $2.5 million (plus the amount of net proceeds (i) received by Parent (as a contribution to equity) during such calendar year from sales of Equity Interests of Parent to directors, consultants, officers or employees of Parent or any of its Subsidiaries in connection with permitted employee compensation and incentive arrangements, which, if not used in any year, may be carried forward to any subsequent calendar year and (ii) of any key-man life insurance policies recorded during such calendar year)
.
SECTION 6.05. . Merge into or consolidate with any other person, or permit any other person to merge into or consolidate with it, or sell, transfer, lease or otherwise dispose of (in one transaction or in a series of transactions) all or any part of its assets (whether now owned or hereafter acquired), or issue, sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of any Equity Interests of
Mergers, Consolidations, Sales of Assets and Acquisitions
Holdings, the Borrower
Parent
or any
other
Subsidiary or preferred equity interests of
Holdings,
Parent
or purchase, lease or otherwise acquire (in one transaction or a series of transactions) all or any substantial part of the assets of any other person, except that this Section shall not prohibit:
(a)(i) the purchase
and
, lease, sublease or
sale of inventory in the ordinary course of business by
Holdings
Parent
or any Subsidiary, (ii) the acquisition
, lease or sublease
of any other asset in the ordinary course of business by
Holdings
Parent
or any Subsidiary, (iii) the sale
or other disposition
of surplus, obsolete or worn out equipment or other property in the ordinary course of business by
Holdings
Parent
or any Subsidiary or (iv) the sale of Permitted Investments in the ordinary course of business;
(b) if at the time thereof and immediately after giving effect thereto no Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, (i) the merger of any Subsidiary into the Borrower in a transaction in which the Borrower is the surviving corporation, (ii) the merger or consolidation of any Subsidiary into or with any Loan Party in a transaction in which the surviving or resulting entity is a Loan Party (subject to clause (i) above) and, in the case of each of clauses (i) and (ii) above, no person other than the Borrower or a Loan Party receives any consideration, (iii) the merger or consolidation of any Subsidiary that is not a Loan Party into
 
or with any other Subsidiary that is not a Loan Party or (iv) the liquidation or dissolution (other than the Borrower) if
Holdings
Parent
determines in good faith that such liquidation or dissolution is in the best interests of
Holdings
Parent
and is not materially disadvantageous to the Lenders or change in form of entity of
Holdings
Parent
or any Subsidiary
,
;
that, in the case of any such change in form of entity,
provided
Holdings
Parent
shall give 30 days prior written notice to the Administrative Agent and the Collateral Agent of such change;
(c) sales, transfers, leases or other dispositions to
Holdings
Parent
or a Subsidiary (upon voluntary liquidation or otherwise); that any sales, transfers, leases or other dispositions by a Loan Party to a Subsidiary that is not a Loan Party shall be made in compliance with Section 6.07; , that the aggregate gross proceeds of any sales, transfers, leases or other dispositions by a Loan Party to a Subsidiary that is not a Loan Party in reliance upon this paragraph (c) and the aggregate gross proceeds of any or all assets sold, transferred or leased in reliance upon paragraph (h) below shall not exceed, in any fiscal year of
provided
provided
further
Holdings, 5.0
Parent, 10.0
% of Consolidated Total Assets as of the end of the immediately preceding fiscal year;
(d) Sale and Lease-Back Transactions permitted by Section 6.03;
(e) Investments permitted by Section 6.04, Liens permitted by Section 6.02 and Dividends permitted by Section 6.06;
(f) the purchase and sale or other transfer (including by capital contribution) of Receivables Assets pursuant to Permitted Receivables Financings;
(g) the sale of defaulted receivables in the ordinary course of business and not as part of an accounts receivables financing transaction;
(h) sales, transfers, leases or other dispositions of assets not otherwise permitted by this Section 6.05; that the aggregate gross proceeds (including noncash proceeds) of any or all assets sold, transferred, leased or otherwise disposed of in reliance upon this paragraph (h) and in reliance upon the second proviso to paragraph (c) above shall not exceed, in any fiscal year of
provided
Holdings
Parent
,
7.50
10.0
% of Consolidated Total Assets as of the end of the immediately preceding fiscal year; , , that the Net Proceeds thereof are applied in accordance with Section 2.11(c);
provided
further
(i) any merger or consolidation in connection with a Permitted Business Acquisition, that following any such merger or consolidation (i) involving the Borrower, the Borrower is the surviving corporation, (ii) involving a domestic Subsidiary, the surviving or resulting entity shall be a domestic Loan Party that is a Wholly Owned Subsidiary of Holdings and (iii) involving a Foreign Subsidiary, the surviving or resulting entity shall be a Foreign Subsidiary Loan Party that is a Wholly Owned Subsidiary of
provided
Holdings
Parent
;
(j)
[intentionally omitted];
dispositions of Rebuild Equipment by either of the Rebuild Companies;
(k) licensing and cross-licensing arrangements involving any technology or other intellectual property of the Borrower or any Subsidiary in the ordinary course of business;
 
(l) sales, leases
, subleases
or other dispositions of inventory
of Holdings
, equipment, reserves or other assets of Parent
and its Subsidiaries determined by the management of
Holdings
Parent
or the Borrower to be no longer useful or necessary in the operation of the business of
Holdings
Parent
or any of the Subsidiaries; that the Net Proceeds thereof are applied in accordance with Section 2.11(c);
provided
and
(m) transactions pursuant to any Permitted Gas Properties Transactions
; and
(n) the Merger Transaction
.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in Section 6.05 above, (i) 
Holdings
Parent
shall at all times own, directly or indirectly, 100% of the Equity Interests of the Borrower free and clear of any Liens other than Liens created by the Security Documents, (ii) [intentionally omitted], (iii) [intentionally omitted], (iv) [intentionally omitted], (v) no sale, transfer or other disposition of assets shall be permitted by this Section 6.05 (other than sales, transfers, leases or other dispositions to Loan Parties pursuant to paragraph (c) hereof and purchases, sales or transfers pursuant to paragraph (f) hereof) unless such disposition is for fair market value, (vi) no sale, transfer or other disposition of assets shall be permitted by paragraph (a), (d) or (l) of this Section 6.05 unless such disposition is for at least 75% cash consideration and (vii) no sale, transfer or other disposition of assets in excess of $10.0 million shall be permitted by paragraph (h) of this Section 6.05 unless such disposition is for at least 75% cash consideration; that for purposes of clauses (v) and (vi), the amount of any secured Indebtedness or other Indebtedness of a Subsidiary that is not a Loan Party (as shown on
provided
Holdings'
Parent's
or such Subsidiary's most recent balance sheet or in the notes thereto) of
Holdings
Parent
or any Subsidiary of
Holdings
Parent
that is assumed by the transferee of any such assets shall be deemed cash.
SECTION 6.06. . Declare or pay, directly or indirectly, any dividend or make any other distribution (by reduction of capital or otherwise), whether in cash, property, securities or a combination thereof, with respect to any of its Equity Interests (other than dividends and distributions on Equity Interests payable solely by the issuance of additional shares of Equity Interests of the person paying such dividends or distributions) or directly or indirectly redeem, purchase, retire or otherwise acquire for value (or permit any Subsidiary to purchase or acquire) any shares of any class of its Equity Interests or set aside any amount for any such purpose; , , that:
Dividends and Distributions
provided
however
(a) any Subsidiary of
Holdings
Parent
may declare and pay dividends to, repurchase its Equity Interests from or make other distributions to
Holdings
Parent
or to any Wholly Owned Subsidiary of
Holdings
Parent
(or, in the case of non-Wholly Owned Subsidiaries of
Holdings
Parent
, to
Holdings
Parent
or any subsidiary that is a direct or indirect parent of such subsidiary and to each other owner of Equity Interests of such subsidiary on a basis (or more favorable basis from the perspective of
pro
rata
Holdings
Parent
, or such subsidiary) based on their relative ownership interests);
(b)
Holdings and each Subsidiary may declare and pay dividends or make other distributions to any Parent Entity: (x) in respect of overhead of such Parent Entity, including, without limitation, to make distributions under Section 6.06(e) hereof, legal,
 
accounting and professional fees and other fees and expenses in connection with the maintenance of its existence and its ownership of Holdings, in each case, to the extent attributable to the ownership of such Parent Entity in Holdings or such Subsidiary and (y)
Parent may declare and pay ordinary cash dividends on its common stock
if no Event of Default has occurred or is continuing
, to the extent necessary to pay an ordinary cash dividend on the common stock of the Public Parent
, that the aggregate of such dividend amount for any quarter (together with the preceding three quarters), shall not exceed $12.5 million; , , that if the Leverage Ratio as of the last day of any two consecutive fiscal quarters is less than or equal to 3.0 to 1.0 (as set forth in the officer's certificates for such fiscal quarters), then such aggregate permitted dividend amount for the quarter after such two consecutive fiscal quarters (together with the preceding three quarters) shall increase to $30.0 million, and if the Leverage Ratio as of the last day of any two consecutive fiscal quarters is less than or equal to 2.0 to 1.0 (as set forth in the officer's certificates for such fiscal quarters), then such aggregate permitted dividend amount for the quarter after such two consecutive fiscal quarters (together with the preceding three quarters) shall increase to $45.0 million;
provided
provided
however
(c) Holdings and any of its Subsidiaries may declare and pay dividends or make other distributions, directly or indirectly, to the Public Parent so long as the proceeds thereof are used by the Public Parent to
Parent may
repurchase or redeem the Equity Interests of
the Public
Parent (including related stock appreciation rights or similar securities) held by then present or former directors, consultants, officers or employees of
the Public
Parent
, Holdings
or any of
Holding
Parent
's Subsidiaries or by any Plan upon such person's death, disability, retirement or termination of employment or under the terms of any such Plan or any other agreement under which such shares of stock or related rights were issued, that the aggregate amount of such purchases or redemptions under this paragraph (c) shall not exceed in any fiscal year $2.5 million (plus the amount of net proceeds (x) received by
provided
the Public
Parent during such calendar year from sales of Equity Interests of
Public
Parent to directors, consultants, officers or employees of
Public
Parent
, Holdings
or any Subsidiary
of Holdings
in connection with permitted employee compensation and incentive arrangements), which, if not used in any year, may be carried forward to any subsequent calendar year and (y) of any key-man life insurance policies recorded during such calendar year;
(d) noncash repurchases of Equity Interests deemed to occur upon exercise of stock options if such Equity Interests represent a portion of the exercise price of such options;
and
(e) Permitted Tax Distributions by Borrower or any Subsidiary to Holdings and by Holdings to the Public Parent, so long as Holdings or the Public Parent uses such Permitted Tax Distributions to pay income taxes; and
(e)
(f) Holdings and any of its Subsidiaries may declare and pay dividends or make other distributions, directly or indirectly, to the Public Parent so long as the proceeds thereof are used by the Public Parent to
Parent may
repurchase or redeem the capital stock of
the Public
Parent held by any person (the ""); , that (i) the aggregate amount of all Capital Stock Buyback Distributions made under this paragraph (f) shall not exceed $100.0 million (or, if after giving effect to any such Capital Stock Buyback Distribution, on basis as if such Capital Stock Buyback Distribution had occurred
Capital Stock Buyback Distributions
provided
pro
forma
 
on the first day of the most recent period of four consecutive fiscal quarters, the Leverage Ratio on the last day of such period would be less than 2.25 to 1.00, $200.0 million) and (ii) no Event of Default shall have then occurred and be continuing or would result from any Capital Stock Buyback Distribution.
SECTION 6.07. .
Transactions with Affiliates
(a) Sell or transfer any property or assets to, or purchase or acquire any property or assets from, or otherwise engage in any other transaction with, any of its Affiliates or any known direct or indirect holder of 10% or more of any class of capital stock of
Holdings
Parent
, unless such transaction is (i) otherwise permitted (or required) under this Agreement (including in connection with any Permitted Receivables Financing) or (ii) upon terms no less favorable to
Holdings, Borrower
Parent
or such Subsidiary, as applicable, than would be obtained in a comparable arm's-length transaction with a person that is not an Affiliate; that this clause (ii) shall not apply to the indemnification of directors of
provided
Holdings
Parent
and the
other
Subsidiaries in accordance with customary practice.
(b) The foregoing paragraph (a) shall not prohibit, to the extent otherwise permitted under this Agreement,
(i) any issuance of securities, or other payments, awards or grants in cash, securities or otherwise pursuant to, or the funding of, employment arrangements, stock options and stock ownership plans approved by the Board of Directors of
Holdings
Parent or the Subsidiaries
,
(ii) loans or advances to employees of
Holdings
Parent
or any of the Subsidiaries in accordance with Section 6.04(g),
(iii) transactions among the Borrower and the Loan Parties and transactions among the Loan Parties otherwise permitted by this Agreement,
(iv) the payment of fees and indemnities to directors, officers, consultants and employees of
Holdings
Parent
and the Subsidiaries in the ordinary course of business,
(v) transactions pursuant to permitted agreements in existence on the Amendment Effective Date and set forth on
Schedule 6.07
to the Execution Date Credit Agreement
or any amendment thereto to the extent such amendment is not adverse to the Lenders in any material respect,
(vi) any employment agreement or employee benefit plan entered into by
Holdings
Parent
or any of the Subsidiaries in the ordinary course of business or consistent with past practice,
(vii) dividends, redemptions and repurchases permitted under Section 6.06,
 
(viii) any contribution by
Holdings
Parent
to, or purchase by
Holdings
Parent
of, the equity capital of
the Borrower
Holdings
; that any Equity Interests of the
provided
Borrower
Holdings
purchased by
Holdings
Parent
shall be pledged to the Collateral Agent on behalf of the Lenders pursuant to the Collateral Agreement,
(ix) [intentionally omitted],
(x) [intentionally omitted],
(xi) transactions with Wholly Owned Subsidiaries of
Holdings
Parent
for the purchase or sale of goods, products, parts and services entered into in the ordinary course of business in a manner consistent with past practice,
(xii) any transaction in respect of which
Holdings
Parent
delivers to the Administrative Agent (for delivery to the Lenders) a letter addressed to the Board of Directors of
Holdings
Parent
from an accounting, appraisal or investment banking firm, in each case of nationally recognized standing that is (A) in the good faith determination of
Holdings
Parent
qualified to render such letter and (B) reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent, which letter states that such transaction is on terms that are no less favorable to
Holdings
Parent
or such Subsidiary, as applicable, than would be obtained in a comparable arm's-length transaction with a person that is not an Affiliate,
(xiii) [intentionally omitted],
(xiv) [intentionally omitted],
(xv) transactions pursuant to any Permitted Receivables Financing; and
(xvi) transactions pursuant to any Permitted Gas Properties Transactions.
(c) [intentionally omitted].
SECTION 6.08.
Business of Holdings and the Subsidiaries
Business of Parent and the Subsidiaries.
(a)
.
Notwithstanding any other provisions hereof, engage at any time in any business or business activity other than any business or business activity conducted by it on the Amendment Effective Date and any business or business activities incidental or related thereto, or any business or activity that is reasonably similar thereto or a reasonable extension, development or expansion thereof or ancillary thereto, including the consummation of the Transactions.
(b) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, no Subsidiary that is a Special Purpose Receivables Subsidiary shall engage in any business or business activity other than a Permitted Receivables Financing and any business or business activities incidental or related thereto.
 
SECTION 6.09. .
Limitation on Modifications of Indebtedness; Modifications of Certificate of Incorporation, By-Laws and Certain Other Agreements; etc
(a) Amend or modify in any manner materially adverse to the Lenders, or grant any waiver or release under or terminate in any manner (if such granting or termination shall be materially adverse to the Lenders), the articles or certificate of incorporation or by-laws or partnership agreement or limited liability company operating agreement of
Holdings
Parent
, the Borrower or any of the other Subsidiaries or the Acquisition Agreement.
(b)(i) Make, or agree or offer to pay or make, directly or indirectly, any payment or other distribution (whether in cash, securities or other property) of or in respect of principal of or interest on the Senior Notes
, the Parent Convertible Debt
or any Permitted Senior Debt Securities, or any payment or other distribution (whether in cash, securities or other property), including any sinking fund or similar deposit, on account of the purchase, redemption, retirement, acquisition, cancellation or termination of the Senior Notes
, the Parent Convertible Debt
or any Permitted Senior Debt Securities (except for Refinancings permitted by Section 6.01(l)), except for
(x)
 (A) payments of regularly scheduled interest and (B) payments on the account of the repurchase of the Senior Notes; , that (1) the aggregate amount of payments made under this clause (B) shall not exceed $100.0 million, (2) no Event of Default shall have then occurred and be continuing or would result therefrom, and (3) after giving effect to such payment on a basis as if such payments had occurred on the first day of the most recent period of four consecutive fiscal quarters, the Leverage Ratio on the last day of such period would not have been equal to or greater than 2.25 to 1.00
provided
pro forma
;
or
(y) (i) payments of scheduled installments of interest (and fees and expenses) then due on any Parent Convertible Debt and (ii) payments (whether in cash or Equity Interests of Parent) of or in respect of any principal or premium on any Parent Convertible Debt then due as a result of the conversion thereof.
(ii) Amend or modify, or permit the amendment or modification of, any provision of any Senior Note or any Permitted Debt Securities, any Permitted Receivables Document or any agreement (including any Senior Notes Document or any document relating to any Permitted Debt Securities) relating thereto, other than amendments or modifications that are not in any manner materially adverse to Lenders and that do not affect the subordination provisions thereof (if any) in a manner adverse to the Lenders.
(c) Permit any Subsidiary to enter into any agreement or instrument that by its terms restricts (i) the payment of dividends or distributions or the making of cash advances by such Subsidiary to
Holdings
Parent
or any Subsidiary that is a direct or indirect parent of such Subsidiary or (ii) the granting of Liens by such Subsidiary pursuant to the Security Documents, in each case other than those arising under any Loan Document, except, in each case, restrictions existing by reason of:
(A) restrictions imposed by applicable law;
 
(B) restrictions contained in any Permitted Receivables Document with respect to any Special Purpose Receivables Subsidiary;
(C) contractual encumbrances or restrictions in effect on the Amendment Effective Date under (x) any Senior Note Document or (y) any agreements related to any permitted renewal, extension or refinancing of any Indebtedness existing on the Amendment Effective Date that does not expand the scope of any such encumbrance or restriction;
(D) any restriction on a Subsidiary imposed pursuant to an agreement entered into for the sale or disposition of all or substantially all the Equity Interests or assets of a Subsidiary pending the closing of such sale or disposition;
(E) customary provisions in joint venture agreements and other similar agreements applicable to joint ventures entered into in the ordinary course of business;
(F) any restrictions imposed by any agreement relating to secured Indebtedness permitted by this Agreement to the extent that such restrictions apply only to the property or assets securing such Indebtedness;
(G) customary provisions contained in leases or licenses of intellectual property and other similar agreements entered into in the ordinary course of business;
(H) customary provisions restricting subletting or assignment of any lease governing a leasehold interest;
(I) customary provisions restricting assignment of any agreement entered into in the ordinary course of business;
(J) customary restrictions and conditions contained in any agreement relating to the sale of any asset permitted under Section 6.05 pending the consummation of such sale; or
(K) any agreement in effect at the time such subsidiary becomes a Subsidiary, so long as such agreement was not entered into in contemplation of such person becoming a Subsidiary.
SECTION 6.10.
Capital Expenditures
[Intentionally Omitted]
.
Permit Holdings or the Subsidiaries to make any Capital Expenditure, except that:
(a) During any fiscal year, Holdings and the Subsidiaries may make Capital Expenditures so long as the aggregate amount thereof does not exceed the amount set forth opposite such fiscal year below:
 
(b) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in paragraph (a) above, to the extent that the aggregate amount of Capital Expenditures made by Holdings and the Subsidiaries in any fiscal year of Holdings pursuant to Section 6.10(a) is less than the amount set forth for such fiscal year, the amount of such difference may be carried forward and used to make Capital Expenditures in the two succeeding fiscal years; provided that in any fiscal year, the amount permitted to be applied to make Capital Expenditures pursuant to this paragraph (b) shall in no event exceed an amount equal to 50% of the amount set forth in Section 6.10(a) for such fiscal year; and
(c) In addition to the Capital Expenditures permitted pursuant to the preceding paragraphs (a) and (b), Holdings and the Subsidiaries may make additional Capital Expenditures at any time in an amount not to exceed the portion, if any, of the Available Investment Basket Amount on the date of such Capital Expenditure that the Borrower elects to apply to this Section 6.10(c).
.
SECTION 6.11. . Permit the ratio (the "") on the last day of each fiscal quarter of
Interest Coverage Ratio
Interest Coverage Ratio
Holdings
Parent
, for the four quarter period ended as of such day of (a) EBITDA to (b) Cash Interest Expense to be less than 2.50 to 1.00; that to the extent any Asset Disposition or any Asset Acquisition (or any similar transaction or transactions for which a waiver or a consent of the Required Lenders pursuant to Section 6.05 has been obtained) or incurrence or repayment of Indebtedness (excluding normal fluctuations in revolving Indebtedness incurred for working capital purposes) has occurred during the relevant Test Period, the Interest Coverage Ratio shall be determined for the respective Test Period on a Pro Forma Basis for such occurrences.
provided
SECTION 6.12. . Permit the Leverage Ratio on the last day of any fiscal quarter set forth below, to be in excess of the ratio set forth below for such period.
Leverage Ratio
 
 
SECTION 6.13. . Enter into any Swap Agreement, other than (a) Swap Agreements required by any Permitted Receivables Financing, (b) Swap Agreements entered into in the ordinary course of business to hedge or mitigate risks to which
Swap Agreements
Holdings
Parent
or any Subsidiary is exposed in the conduct of its business or the management of its liabilities, and (c) Swap Agreements entered into in order to effectively cap, collar or exchange interest rates (from fixed to floating rates, from one floating rate to another floating rate or otherwise) with respect to any interest-bearing liability or investment of
Holdings
Parent
or any Subsidiary.
SECTION 6.14. . Cause or permit (a) any of the funds or properties of the Loan Parties that are used to repay the Loans to constitute property of, or be beneficially owned directly or indirectly by, any person subject to sanctions or trade restrictions under United States law ("" or "") that is identified on (1) the "List of Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons"
Embargoed Person
Embargoed Person
Embargoed Persons
(the "SDN List")
maintained by OFAC and/or on any other similar list
("Other List")
maintained by OFAC pursuant to any authorizing statute including, but not limited to, the International Emergency Economic Powers Act, 50 U.S.C.  1701 ., The Trading with the Enemy Act, 50 U.S.C. App. 1 ., and any Executive Order or regulation promulgated thereunder, with the result that the investment in the Loan Parties (whether directly or indirectly) is prohibited by law, or the Loans made by the Lenders would be in violation of law, or (2) the Executive Order, any related enabling legislation or any other similar Executive Orders
et seq
et seq
(collectively, "Executive Orders")
, or (b) any Embargoed Person to have any direct or indirect interest, of any nature whatsoever in the Loan Parties, with the result that the investment in the Loan Parties (whether directly or indirectly) is prohibited by law or the Loans are in violation of law.
SECTION 6.15. .
Anti-Terrorism Law; Anti-Money Laundering
(a) Directly or indirectly, (i) knowingly conduct any business or engage in making or receiving any contribution of funds, goods or services to or for the benefit of any person described in , (ii) knowingly deal in, or otherwise engage in any transaction relating to, any property or interests in property blocked pursuant to the Executive Order or any other Anti-Terrorism Law, or (iii) knowingly engage in or conspire to engage in any transaction that evades or avoids, or has the purpose of evading or avoiding, or attempts to violate, any of the prohibitions set forth in any Anti-Terrorism Law (and the Loan Parties shall deliver to the Lenders any certification or other evidence requested from time to time by any Lender in its reasonable discretion, confirming the Loan Parties' compliance with this Section 6.15).
Section 3.22
(b) Cause or permit any of the funds of such Loan Party that are used to repay the Loans to be derived from any unlawful activity with the result that the making of the Loans would be in violation of law.
 
SECTION 7.01. . In case of the happening of any of the following events (""):
Events of Default
Events of Default
(a) any representation or warranty made or deemed made by
Holdings, the Borrower
Parent
or any other Loan Party in any Loan Document
or in the Execution Date Credit Agreement
, or any representation, warranty, statement or information contained in any report, certificate, financial statement or other instrument furnished in connection with or pursuant to any Loan Document
or in the Execution Date Credit Agreement
, shall prove to have been false or misleading in any material respect when so made, deemed made or furnished by
Holdings, the Borrower
Parent
or any other Loan Party;
(b) default shall be made in the payment of any principal of any Loan or the reimbursement with respect to any L/C Disbursement when and as the same shall become due and payable, whether at the due date thereof or at a date fixed for prepayment thereof or by acceleration thereof or otherwise;
(c) default shall be made in the payment of any interest on any Loan or on any L/C Disbursement or in the payment of any Fee or any other amount (other than an amount referred to in (b) above) due under any Loan Document, when and as the same shall become due and payable, and such default shall continue unremedied for a period of five Business Days;
(d) default shall be made in the due observance or performance by
Holdings, the Borrower
Parent
or any of the
other
Subsidiaries of any covenant, condition or agreement contained in Section 5.01(a) (with respect to
Parent,
Holdings or the Borrower), 5.05(a), 5.08, 5.10(d) or in Article VI;
(e) default shall be made in the due observance or performance by
Holdings, the Borrower
Parent
or any of the
other
Subsidiaries of any covenant, condition or agreement contained in any Loan Document (other than those specified in paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) above) and such default shall continue unremedied for a period of 30 days after notice thereof from the Administrative Agent or any Lender to the Borrower;
(f)(i) any event or condition occurs that (A) results in any Material Indebtedness becoming due prior to its scheduled maturity or (B) enables or permits (with all applicable grace periods having expired) the holder or holders of any Material Indebtedness or any trustee or agent on its or their behalf to cause any Material Indebtedness to become due, or to require the prepayment, repurchase, redemption or defeasance thereof, prior to its scheduled maturity or (ii) 
Holdings, any Borrower
Parent
or any of the
other
Subsidiaries shall fail to pay the principal of any Material Indebtedness at the stated final maturity thereof; that this clause (f) shall not apply to secured Indebtedness that becomes due as a result of the voluntary sale or transfer of the property or assets securing such Indebtedness if such sale or transfer is permitted hereunder and under the documents providing for such Indebtedness;
provided
 
(g) there shall have occurred a Change in Control;
(h) an involuntary proceeding shall be commenced or an involuntary petition shall be filed in a court of competent jurisdiction seeking (i) relief in respect of
Holdings, any Borrower
Parent
or any of the
other
Subsidiaries, or of a substantial part of the property or assets of
Holdings, any Borrower
Parent
or any
other
Subsidiary, under Title 11 of the United States Code, as now constituted or hereafter amended, or any other federal, state or foreign bankruptcy, insolvency, receivership or similar law, (ii) the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian, sequestrator, conservator or similar official for
Holdings, the Borrower
Parent
or any of the
other
Subsidiaries or for a substantial part of the property or assets of
Holdings, the Borrower
Parent
or any
of the
other Subsidiaries or (iii) the winding-up or liquidation of
Holdings, any Borrower
Parent
or any
other
Subsidiary (except, in the case of any Subsidiary (other than the Borrower), in a transaction permitted by Section 6.05); and such proceeding or petition shall continue undismissed for 60 days or an order or decree approving or ordering any of the foregoing shall be entered;
(i)
Holdings, the Borrower
Parent
or any
other
Subsidiary shall (i) voluntarily commence any proceeding or file any petition seeking relief under Title 11 of the United States Code, as now constituted or hereafter amended, or any other federal, state or foreign bankruptcy, insolvency, receivership or similar law, (ii) consent to the institution of, or fail to contest in a timely and appropriate manner, any proceeding or the filing of any petition described in paragraph (h) above, (iii) apply for or consent to the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian, sequestrator, conservator or similar official for
Holdings, the Borrower
Parent
or
any of
the
other
Subsidiaries or for a substantial part of the property or assets of
Holdings, the Borrower
Parent
or any
other
Subsidiary, (iv) file an answer admitting the material allegations of a petition filed against it in any such proceeding, (v) make a general assignment for the benefit of creditors or (vi) become unable, admit in writing its inability or fail generally to pay its debts as they become due;
(j) the failure by
Holdings, the Borrower
Parent
or any
other
Subsidiary to pay one or more final judgments aggregating in excess of $
20.0
25.0
million, which judgments are not discharged or effectively waived or stayed for a period of 30 consecutive days, or any action shall be legally taken by a judgment creditor to levy upon assets or properties of
Holdings, the Borrower
Parent
or any
other
Subsidiary to enforce any such judgment;
(k) one or more ERISA Events shall have occurred that, when taken together with all other ERISA Events that have occurred, could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect; or
(l)(i) any Loan Document shall for any reason be asserted in writing by
Holdings, the Borrower
Parent
or any
other
Subsidiary not to be a legal, valid and binding obligation of any party thereto, (ii) any security interest purported to be created by any Security Document and to extend to assets that are not immaterial to
Holdings, the Borrower
Parent
and the
other
Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis shall cease to be, or shall be asserted in writing by
the Borrower
Parent
or any other Loan Party not to be, a valid
 
and perfected security interest (having the priority required by this Agreement or the relevant Security Document) in the securities, assets or properties covered thereby, except to the extent that any such loss of perfection or priority results from the failure of the Collateral Agent to maintain possession of certificates actually delivered to it representing securities pledged under the Collateral Agreements or to file UCC continuation statements and except to the extent that such loss is covered by a lender's title insurance policy and the Administrative Agent shall be reasonably satisfied with the credit of such insurer, or (iii) the Guarantees pursuant to the Security Documents by
Parent,
Holdings or the Subsidiary Loan Parties of any of the Obligations shall cease to be in full force and effect (other than in accordance with the terms thereof), or shall be asserted in writing by
Holdings or the Borrower or any Subsidiary
any
Loan Party not to be in effect or not to be legal, valid and binding obligations;
then, and in every such event (other than an event with respect to the Borrower described in paragraph (h) or (i) above), and at any time thereafter during the continuance of such event, the Administrative Agent, at the request of the Required Lenders, shall, by notice to the
Borrowers
Borrower
, take any or all of the following actions, at the same or different times: (i) terminate forthwith the Commitments, (ii) declare the Loans then outstanding to be forthwith due and payable in whole or in part, whereupon the principal of the Loans so declared to be due and payable, together with accrued interest thereon and any unpaid accrued Fees and all other liabilities of the
Borrowers
Borrower
accrued hereunder and under any other Loan Document, shall become forthwith due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or any other notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived by the
Borrowers
Borrower
, anything contained herein or in any other Loan Document to the contrary notwithstanding and (iii) demand cash collateral pursuant to Section 2.05(j); and in any event with respect to the Borrower described in paragraph (h) or (i) above, the Commitments shall automatically terminate, the principal of the Loans then outstanding, together with accrued interest thereon and any unpaid accrued Fees and all other liabilities of the
Borrowers
Borrower
accrued hereunder and under any other Loan Document, shall automatically become due and payable and the Administrative Agent shall be deemed to have made a demand for cash collateral to the full extent permitted under Section 2.05(j), without presentment, demand, protest or any other notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived by the
Borrowers
Borrower
, anything contained herein or in any other Loan Document to the contrary notwithstanding.
SECTION 7.02. . Solely for the purposes of determining whether an Event of Default has occurred under clause (h) or (i) of Section 7.01, any reference in any such clause to any subsidiary (other than the Borrower) shall be deemed not to include any subsidiary (other than the Borrower) affected by any event or circumstance referred to in any such clause that did not, as of the last day of the fiscal quarter of
Exclusion of Immaterial Subsidiaries
Holdings
Parent
most recently ended, have assets with a value in excess of 5.0% of the Consolidated Total Assets or 5.0% of total revenues of
Holdings
Parent
and the Subsidiaries as of such date; that if it is necessary to exclude more than one Subsidiary from clause (h) or (i) of Section 7.01 pursuant to this Section 7.02 in order to avoid an Event of Default thereunder, all excluded Subsidiaries shall be considered to be a single consolidated Subsidiary for purposes of determining whether the condition specified above is satisfied.
provided
 
SECTION 8.01. .
Appointment
(a) In order to expedite the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, (i) Citicorp North America, Inc. is hereby appointed to act as Administrative Agent and Collateral Agent, (ii) Citigroup Global Markets Inc. is hereby appointed to act as a Syndication Agent and (iii) Bank of America, N.A., LaSalle Bank National Association, PNC Bank, National Association and The Royal Bank of Scotland plc, each is hereby appointed to act as Co-Documentation Agents. Each of the Lenders and each assignee of any such Lender hereby irrevocably authorizes the Administrative Agent to take such actions on behalf of such Lender or assignee and to exercise such powers as are specifically delegated to the Administrative Agent by the terms and provisions hereof and of the other Loan Documents, together with such actions and powers as are reasonably incidental thereto. The Administrative Agent is hereby expressly authorized by the Lenders and each Issuing Bank, without hereby limiting any implied authority, (a) to receive on behalf of the Lenders and such Issuing Bank all payments of principal of and interest on the Loans, all payments in respect of L/C Disbursements and all other amounts due to the Lenders and such Issuing Bank hereunder, and promptly to distribute to each Lender or such Issuing Bank its proper share of each payment so received; (b) to give notice on behalf of each of the Lenders of any Event of Default specified in this Agreement of which the Administrative Agent has actual knowledge acquired in connection with the performance of its duties as Administrative Agent hereunder; and (c) to distribute to each Lender copies of all notices, financial statements and other materials delivered by
the Borrower
Parent or any of its Subsidiaries
pursuant to this Agreement as received by the Administrative Agent. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Collateral Agent is hereby expressly authorized to execute any and all documents (including releases) with respect to the Collateral and the rights of the Secured Parties with respect thereto, as contemplated by and in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement and the Security Documents, and all rights and remedies in respect of such Collateral shall be controlled by the Collateral Agent.
(b) Neither the Agents nor any of their respective directors, officers, employees or agents shall be liable as such for any action taken or omitted by any of them except for its or his own gross negligence or willful misconduct, or be responsible for any statement, warranty or representation herein or the contents of any document delivered in connection herewith, or be required to ascertain or to make any inquiry concerning the performance or observance by the
Borrowers
Borrower
or any other Loan Party of any of the terms, conditions, covenants or agreements contained in any Loan Document. The Agents shall not be responsible to the Lenders for the due execution, genuineness, validity, enforceability or effectiveness of this Agreement or any other Loan Documents or other instruments or agreements. The Agents shall in all cases be fully protected in acting, or refraining from acting, in accordance with written instructions signed by the Required Lenders and, except as otherwise specifically provided herein, such instructions and any action or inaction pursuant thereto shall be binding on all the Lenders. Each Agent shall, in the absence of knowledge to the contrary, be entitled to rely on any instrument or document believed by it in good faith to be genuine and correct and to have been signed or sent by the proper person or persons. Neither the Agents nor any of their respective directors, officers, employees
 
or agents shall have any responsibility to the Borrower or any other Loan Party or any other party hereto or to any Loan Document on account of the failure, delay in performance or breach by, or as a result of information provided by, any Lender or Issuing Bank of any of its obligations hereunder or to any Lender or Issuing Bank on account of the failure of or delay in performance or breach by any other Lender or Issuing Bank or
any
the
Borrower or any other Loan Party of any of their respective obligations hereunder or under any other Loan Document or in connection herewith or therewith. Each Agent may execute any and all duties hereunder by or through agents, employees or any sub-agent appointed by it and shall be entitled to rely upon the advice of legal counsel selected by it with respect to all matters arising hereunder and shall not be liable for any action taken or suffered in good faith by it in accordance with the advice of such counsel.
SECTION 8.02. . The Lenders hereby acknowledge that no Agent shall be under any duty to take any discretionary action permitted to be taken by it pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement unless it shall be requested in writing to do so by the Required Lenders. The Lenders further acknowledge and agree that so long as an Agent shall make any determination to be made by it hereunder or under any other Loan Document in good faith, such Agent shall have no liability in respect of such determination to any person. Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary elsewhere in this Agreement, the Administrative Agent shall not have any duties or responsibilities, except those expressly set forth herein, or any fiduciary relationship with any Lender, and no implied covenants, functions, responsibilities, duties, obligations or liabilities shall be read into the Loan Documents or otherwise exist against the Administrative Agent. Each Lender recognizes and agrees that each Co-Documentation Agent, the Syndication Agent and the Lead Arranger shall have no duties or responsibilities under this Agreement or any other Loan Document, or any fiduciary relationship with any Lender, and shall have no functions, responsibilities, duties, obligations or liabilities for acting as such hereunder.
Nature of Duties
SECTION 8.03. . Subject to the appointment and acceptance of a successor Agent as provided below, any Agent may resign at any time by notifying the Lenders and the Borrower. Upon any such resignation, the Required Lenders shall have the right to appoint a successor with the consent of the Borrower (not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed). If no successor shall have been so appointed by the Required Lenders and approved by the Borrower and shall have accepted such appointment within 45 days after the retiring Agent gives notice of its resignation, then the retiring Agent may, on behalf of the Lenders with the consent of the Borrower (not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed), appoint a successor Agent which shall be a bank with an office in New York, New York and an office in London, England (or a bank having an Affiliate with such an office) having a combined capital and surplus that is not less than $500.0 million or an Affiliate of any such bank. Upon the acceptance of any appointment as Agent hereunder by a successor bank, such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring Agent and the retiring Agent shall be discharged from its duties and obligations hereunder. After the Agent's resignation hereunder, the provisions of this Article and Section 9.05 shall continue in effect for its benefit in respect of any actions taken or omitted to be taken by it while it was acting as Agent.
Resignation by the Agents
 
SECTION 8.04. . With respect to the Loans made by it hereunder, each Agent in its individual capacity and not as Agent shall have the same rights and powers as any other Lender and may exercise the same as though it were not an Agent, and the Agents and their Affiliates may accept deposits from, lend money to and generally engage in any kind of business with
Each Agent in Its Individual Capacity
the Borrower
Parent
or any of the Subsidiaries or other Affiliates thereof as if it were not an Agent.
SECTION 8.05. . Each Lender agrees (a) to reimburse the Agents, on demand, in the amount of its share (based on its Commitments hereunder (or if such Commitments shall have expired or been terminated, in accordance with the respective principal amounts of its applicable outstanding Loans or participations in L/C Disbursements, as applicable)) of any reasonable expenses incurred for the benefit of the Lenders by the Agents, including reasonable counsel fees and compensation of agents and employees paid for services rendered on behalf of the Lenders, which shall not have been reimbursed by the Borrower and (b) to indemnify and hold harmless each Agent and any of its directors, officers, employees or agents, on demand, in the amount of such share, from and against any and all liabilities, Taxes
Indemnification
pro
rata
pro
rata
(including in its capacity as a withholding agent)
, obligations, losses, damages, penalties, actions, judgments, suits, costs, expenses or disbursements of any kind or nature whatsoever which may be imposed on, incurred by or asserted against it in its capacity as Agent or any of them in any way relating to or arising out of this Agreement or any other Loan Document or any action taken or omitted by it or any of them under this Agreement or any other Loan Document, to the extent the same shall not have been reimbursed by the Borrower, that no Lender shall be liable to an Agent for any portion of such liabilities, obligations, losses, damages, penalties, actions, judgments, suits, costs, expenses or disbursements resulting from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Agent or any of its directors, officers, employees or agents.
provided
SECTION 8.06. . Each Lender acknowledges that it has, independently and without reliance upon the Agents and any Lender and based on such documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Agreement. Each Lender also acknowledges that it will, independently and without reliance upon the Agents, any other Lender and based on such documents and information as it shall from time to time deem appropriate, continue to make its own decisions in taking or not taking action under or based upon this Agreement or any other Loan Document, any related agreement or any document furnished hereunder or thereunder.
Lack of Reliance on Agents
SECTION 9.01. .
Notices
(a) Notices and other communications provided for herein shall be in writing and shall be delivered by hand or overnight courier service, mailed by certified or registered mail or sent by telecopy, as follows:
(i) if to any Loan Party,
to it at
 
999 Corporate Boulevard, Suite 300
Linthicum Heights, MD 21090-2227
Alpha Natural Resources
One Alpha Place
Abingdon, Virginia 24212
Attention:
Treasurer
Office of General Counsel
Telecopy:
410-689-7531
(276) 623-4321
with a copy to:
999 Corporate Boulevard, Suite 300
Linthicum Heights, MD 21090-2227
Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP
One Liberty Plaza
New York, New York 10006
Attention:
General Counsel
Jeffrey Lewis
Telecopy:
410-689-7601
212-225-3999
(ii) if to the Administrative Agent or the Collateral Agent:
Citicorp North America, Inc.
2 Penns Way, Suite 200
New Castle, Delaware 19720
Attention: Carin Seals
Telecopy: 212-994-0961
and
Citicorp North America, Inc
.
.
388 Greenwich Street, 21st Floor
New York, New York 10013
Attention: Daniel Miller
Telecopy: 646-291-1778
with a copy to:
Cahill Gordon & Reindel
LLP
LLP
80 Pine Street
New York, New York 10005
Attention: Michael
A
J
.
Becker
Ohler
, Esq.
Telecopy: 212
269-5420
-378-2549
(iii) if to an Issuing Bank, to it at the address or telecopy number set forth separately in writing.
(b) Notices and other communications to the Lenders hereunder may be delivered or furnished by electronic communications pursuant to procedures approved by the Administrative Agent; that the foregoing shall not apply to
provided
 
notices pursuant to Article II unless otherwise agreed by the Administrative Agent and the applicable Lender. Each of the Administrative Agent, the Collateral Agent and the Borrower may, in its discretion, agree to accept notices and other communications to it hereunder by electronic communications pursuant to procedures approved by it; , , that approval of such procedures may be limited to particular notices or communications.
provided
further
(c) All notices and other communications given to any party hereto in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed to have been given on the date of receipt if delivered by hand or overnight courier service, sent by telecopy or (to the extent permitted by paragraph (b) above) electronic means or on the date five Business Days after dispatch by certified or registered mail if mailed, in each case delivered, sent or mailed (properly addressed) to such party as provided in this Section 9.01 or in accordance with the latest unrevoked direction from such party given in accordance with this Section 9.01.
(d) Any party hereto may change its address or telecopy number for notices and other communications hereunder by notice to the other parties hereto.
SECTION 9.02. . All covenants, agreements, representations and warranties made by the Borrower and the Loan Parties herein, in the other Loan Documents
Survival of Agreement
, in the Execution Date Credit Agreement
and in the certificates or other instruments prepared or delivered in connection with or pursuant to this
Agreement, the Execution Date Credit
Agreement or any other Loan Document shall be considered to have been relied upon by the Lenders and each Issuing Bank and shall survive the making by the Lenders of the Loans, the execution and delivery of the Loan Documents and the issuance of the Letters of Credit, regardless of any investigation made by such persons or on their behalf, and shall continue in full force and effect as long as the principal of or any accrued interest on any Loan or L/C Disbursement or any Fee or any other amount payable under this Agreement or any other Loan Document is outstanding and unpaid or any Letter of Credit is outstanding and so long as the Commitments have not been terminated. Without prejudice to the survival of any other agreements contained herein, indemnification and reimbursement obligations contained herein (including pursuant to Sections 2.15, 2.17 and 9.05) shall survive the payment in full of the principal and interest hereunder, the expiration of the Letters of Credit and the termination of the Commitments or this Agreement.
SECTION 9.03. . This Agreement shall become effective when it shall have been executed by Holdings, the Borrower and the Agents and when the Administrative Agent shall have received copies hereof which, when taken together, bear the signatures of each of the other parties hereto, and thereafter shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of Holdings, the Borrower, each Issuing Bank, the Agents and each Lender and their respective permitted successors and assigns.
Binding Effect
SECTION 9.04. .
Successors and Assigns
(a) The provisions of this Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby (including any Affiliate of any Issuing Bank that issues any Letter of Credit), except that (i) other than pursuant to a merger permitted by Section 6.05(b) or 6.05(i), the Borrower may not assign or otherwise
 
transfer any of its rights or obligations hereunder without the prior written consent of each Lender (and any attempted assignment or transfer by the Borrower without such consent shall be null and void) and (ii) no Lender may assign or otherwise transfer its rights or obligations hereunder except in accordance with this Section. Nothing in this Agreement, expressed or implied, shall be construed to confer upon any person (other than the parties hereto, their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby (including any Affiliate of any Issuing Bank that issues any Letter of Credit), Participants (to the extent provided in paragraph (c) of this Section) and, to the extent expressly contemplated hereby, the Related Parties of each of the Agents, each Issuing Bank, the Lenders, and to the extent expressly contemplated hereby, the other Indemnitees) any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or by reason of this Agreement.
(b)(i) Subject to the conditions set forth in paragraph (b)(ii) below, any Lender may assign to one or more assignees all or a portion of its rights and obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and the Loans at the time owing to it) with the prior written consent (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) of:
(A) the Borrower; that no consent of the Borrower shall be required for an assignment to a Lender, an Affiliate of a Lender, an Approved Fund or, if an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing or during the primary syndication of the Facilities (as reasonably determined by the Administrative Agent), any other assignee ( that any liability of the Borrower to an assignee that is an Approved Fund or Affiliate of the assigning Lender under Section 2.15, 2.17 or 2.20 shall be limited to the amount, if any, that would have been payable hereunder by the Borrower in the absence of such
provided
provided
assignment, except to the extent that the claim for any excess amounts results from a Change in Law after the
assignment); and
(B) the Administrative Agent and, in the case of New Revolving Facility Commitment, the Swingline Lenders; that no consent of the Administrative Agent or the Swingline Lenders, as applicable, shall be required for an assignment of (i) a New Revolving Facility Commitment to an assignee that is a New Revolving Facility Lender immediately prior to giving effect to such assignment
provided
,
or (ii) a Term Loan to a Lender, an Affiliate of a Lender or Approved Fund immediately prior to giving effect to such assignment.
(ii) Assignments shall be subject to the following additional conditions:
(A) except in the case of an assignment to a Lender, an Affiliate of a Lender or an Approved Fund or an assignment of the entire remaining amount of the assigning Lender's Commitment, the amount of the commitment of the assigning Lender subject to each such assignment (determined as of the date the Assignment and Acceptance with respect to such assignment is delivered to the Administrative Agent) shall not be less than $1.0 million, unless each of the Borrower and the Administrative Agent otherwise consent; that no such consent of the Borrower shall be required if an Event of Default under paragraph (b), (c), (h) or (i) of Section 7.01 has occurred and is continuing;
provided
 
(B) each partial assignment shall be made as an assignment of a proportionate part of all the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement;
(C) the parties to each assignment shall execute and deliver to the Administrative Agent an Assignment and Acceptance, together with a processing and recordation fee of $3,500; that no such recordation fee shall be due in connection with an assignment to an existing Lender or Affiliate of a Lender or an Approved Fund of such Lender or an assignment by the Administrative Agent; and
provided
(D) the assignee, if it shall not be a Lender, shall deliver to the Administrative Agent an Administrative Questionnaire.
For purposes of this Section 9.04(b), the term "" shall have the following meaning:
Approved Fund
"" shall mean any person (other than a natural person) that is engaged in making, purchasing, holding or investing in bank loans and similar extensions of credit in the ordinary course and that is administered or managed by a Lender, an Affiliate of a Lender or an entity or an Affiliate of an entity that administers or manages a Lender.
Approved Fund
(iii) Subject to acceptance and recording thereof pursuant to paragraph (b)(iv) of this Section, from and after the effective date specified in each Assignment and Acceptance the assignee thereunder shall be a party hereto and, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Acceptance, have the rights and obligations of a Lender under this Agreement, and the assigning Lender hereunder shall, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Acceptance, be released from its obligations under this Agreement (and, in the case of an Assignment and Acceptance covering all of the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement, such Lender shall cease to be a party hereto but shall continue to be entitled to the benefits of Sections 2.15, 2.16, 2.17 and 9.05). Any assignment or transfer by a Lender of rights or obligations under this Agreement that does not comply with this Section 9.04 shall be treated for purposes of this Agreement as a sale by such Lender of a participation in such rights and obligations in accordance with paragraph (c) of this Section.
(iv) The Administrative Agent, acting for this purpose as an agent of the Borrower, shall maintain at one of its offices a copy of each Assignment and Acceptance delivered to it and a register for the recordation of the names and addresses of the Lenders, and the Commitment of, and principal amount of the Loans and L/C Disbursements owing to, each Lender pursuant to the terms hereof from time to time (the ""). The entries in the Register shall be conclusive, and the Borrower, the Agents, each Issuing Bank and the Lenders
Register
may
shall
treat each person whose name is recorded in the Register pursuant to the terms hereof as a Lender hereunder for all purposes of this Agreement, notwithstanding notice to the contrary. The Register shall be available for inspection by the Borrower, any Issuing Bank and any Lender, at any reasonable time and from time to time upon reasonable prior notice.
 
(v) Upon its receipt of a duly completed Assignment and Acceptance executed by an assigning Lender and an assignee, the assignee's completed Administrative Questionnaire (unless the assignee shall already be a Lender hereunder), the processing and recordation fee referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and any written consent to such assignment required by paragraph (b) of this Section, the Administrative Agent shall accept such Assignment and Acceptance and record the information contained therein in the Register. No assignment shall be effective for purposes of this Agreement unless it has been recorded in the Register as provided in this paragraph.
(c)(i) Any Lender may, without the consent of the Borrower, the Administrative Agent, any Issuing Bank or any Swingline Lender, sell participations to one or more banks or other entities (a "") in all or a portion of such Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and the Loans owing to it); that (A) such Lender's obligations under this Agreement shall remain unchanged, (B) such Lender shall remain solely responsible to the other parties hereto for the performance of such obligations and (C) the
Participant
provided
Borrowers
Borrower
, the Agents, each Issuing Bank and the other Lenders shall continue to deal solely and directly with such Lender in connection with such Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement. Any agreement or instrument (oral or written) pursuant to which a Lender sells such a participation shall provide that such Lender shall retain the sole right to enforce this Agreement and the other Loan Documents and to approve any amendment, modification or waiver of any provision of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents; that (x) such agreement or instrument may provide that such Lender will not, without the consent of the Participant, agree to any amendment, modification or waiver described in Section 9.04(a)(i) or clauses (i), (ii), (iii), (iv), (v) or (vi) of the first proviso to Section 9.08(b) that affects such Participant and (y) no other agreement (oral or written) with respect to such Participant may exist between such Lender and such Participant. Subject to paragraph (c)(ii) of this Section, the Borrower agrees that each Participant shall be entitled to the benefits of Sections 2.15, 2.16 and 2.17 to the same extent as if it were a Lender and had acquired its interest by assignment pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section
provided
(subject to the requirements and limitations of such sections as if it were a Lender)
. To the extent permitted by law, each Participant also shall be entitled to the benefits of Section 9.06 as though it were a Lender, such Participant agrees to be subject to Section 2.18(c) as though it were a Lender.
provided
Each Lender shall, acting for this purpose as an agent of the Borrower, maintain at one of its offices a register for the recordation of the names and addresses of its Participants, and the amount and terms of its participations including specifying any such Participant's entitlement to payments of principal and interest, and any payments made, with respect to each such participation (the "Participant Register"). The entries in the Participant Register shall be conclusive absent manifest error, and such Lender shall treat each person whose name is recorded in the Participant Register as the owner of such participation for all purposes of this Agreement notwithstanding any notice to the contrary.
(ii) A Participant shall not be entitled to receive any greater payment under Section 2.15, 2.16 or 2.17 than the applicable Lender would have been entitled to receive with respect to the participation sold to such Participant, unless the sale of the participation to such Participant is made with the Borrower's prior written consent (which shall not be unreasonably withheld)
. A Participant that would be a Foreign Lender if it were a Lender shall not be entitled to the benefits of Section 2.17 to the extent such Participant fails to comply with Section 2.17(e) as though it were a Lender
.
 
(d) Any Lender may at any time pledge or assign a security interest in all or any portion of its rights under this Agreement to secure obligations of such Lender, including any pledge or assignment to secure obligations to a Federal Reserve Bank, and this Section shall not apply to any such pledge or assignment of a security interest; that no such pledge or assignment of a security interest shall release a Lender from any of its obligations hereunder or substitute any such pledgee or assignee for such Lender as a party hereto.
provided
SECTION 9.05. .
Expenses; Indemnity
(a) The Borrower agrees to pay all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses (including Other Taxes) incurred by the Agents in connection with the preparation of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, or by the Agents in connection with the syndication of the Commitments or the administration of this Agreement (including expenses incurred in connection with due diligence and initial and ongoing Collateral examination to the extent incurred with the reasonable prior approval of the Borrower and the reasonable fees, disbursements and the charges for no more than one counsel in each jurisdiction where Collateral is located) or in connection with any amendments, modifications or waivers of the provisions hereof or thereof (whether or not the Transactions hereby contemplated shall be consummated) or incurred by the Agents or any Lender in connection with the enforcement or protection of their rights in connection with this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, in connection with the Loans made or the Letters of Credit issued hereunder, including the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of Cahill Gordon & Reindel , counsel for the Agents and the Lead Arranger
LLP
and Holland & Hart LLP, special mining counsel for the Agents and Lenders
, and, in connection with any such enforcement or protection, the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of any other counsel) (including the reasonable allocated costs of internal counsel for the Agents, the Lead Arranger, any Issuing Bank or any Lender (but no more than one such counsel for any Lender).
(b) The Borrower agrees to indemnify the Agents, the Lead Arranger, each Issuing Bank, each Lender and each of their respective directors, trustees, officers, employees, investment advisors and agents (each such person being called an "") against, and to hold each Indemnitee harmless from, any and all losses, claims, damages, liabilities and related expenses, including reasonable counsel fees, charges and disbursements, incurred by or asserted against any Indemnitee arising out of, in any way connected with, or as a result of (i) the execution or delivery of this Agreement or any other Loan Document or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby or thereby, the performance by the parties hereto and thereto of their respective obligations thereunder or the consummation of the Transactions and the other transactions contemplated hereby, (ii) the use of the proceeds of the Loans or the use of any Letter of Credit or (iii) any claim, litigation, investigation or proceeding relating to any of the foregoing, whether or not any Indemnitee is a party thereto, that such indemnity shall not, as to any Indemnitee, be available to the extent that such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or related expenses result primarily from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Indemnitee (treating, for this purpose only, any Agent, any Joint Lead Arranger, any Issuing Bank, any Lender and any of their respective Related Parties as a single Indemnitee). Subject to and without limiting the generality of the foregoing sentence, the Borrower agrees to indemnify each Indemnitee against, and hold each Indemnitee harmless from, any and all losses, claims, damages, liabilities and related expenses, including reasonable counsel or consultant fees, charges and disbursements,
Indemnitee
provided
 
incurred by or asserted against any Indemnitee arising out of, in any way connected with, or as a result of (A) any Environmental Claim related in any way to
Holdings, the Borrower
Parent
or any of
their
its
Subsidiaries, or (B) any actual or alleged presence, Release or threatened Release of Hazardous Materials at, under, on or from any
Property or any
property
or facility
owned, leased or operated by
Parent or any of its Subsidiaries, or by
any predecessor of
Holdings, the Borrower
Parent
or any of
their
its
Subsidiaries, that such indemnity shall not, as to any Indemnitee, be available to the extent that such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or related expenses result from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Indemnitee or any of its Related Parties. The provisions of this Section 9.05 shall remain operative and in full force and effect regardless of the expiration of the term of this Agreement, the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, the repayment of any of the Obligations, the invalidity or unenforceability of any term or provision of this Agreement or any other Loan Document, or any investigation made by or on behalf of any Agent, any Issuing Bank or any Lender. All amounts due under this Section 9.05 shall be payable on written demand therefor accompanied by reasonable documentation with respect to any reimbursement, indemnification or other amount requested.
provided
(c) Unless an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, the Borrower shall be entitled to assume the defense of any action for which indemnification is sought hereunder with counsel of its choice at its expense (in which case the Borrower shall not thereafter be responsible for the fees and expenses of any separate counsel retained by an Indemnitee except as set forth below); , , that such counsel shall be reasonably satisfactory to each such Indemnitee. Notwithstanding the Borrower's election to assume the defense of such action, each Indemnitee shall have the right to employ separate counsel and to participate in the defense of such action, and the Borrower shall bear the reasonable fees, costs and expenses of such separate counsel, if (i) the use of counsel chosen by the Borrower to represent such Indemnitee would present such counsel with a conflict of interest; (ii) the actual or potential defendants in, or targets of, any such action include both the Borrower and such Indemnitee and such Indemnitee shall have reasonably concluded that there may be legal defenses available to it that are different from or additional to those available to the Borrower (in which case the Borrower shall not have the right to assume the defense or such action on behalf of such Indemnitee); (iii) the Borrower shall not have employed counsel reasonably satisfactory to such Indemnitee to represent it within a reasonable time after notice of the institution of such action; or (iv) the Borrower shall authorize in writing such Indemnitee to employ separate counsel at the Borrower's expense. The Borrower will not be liable under this Agreement for any amount paid by an Indemnitee to settle any claims or actions if the settlement is entered into without the Borrower's consent, which consent may not be withheld or delayed unless such settlement is unreasonable in light of such claims or actions against, and defenses available to, such Indemnitee.
provided
however
(d) Except as expressly provided in Section 9.05(a) with respect to Other Taxes, which shall not be duplicative with any amounts paid pursuant to Section 2.17, this Section 9.05 shall not apply to Taxes.
SECTION 9.06. . If an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, each Lender and each Issuing Bank is hereby authorized at any time and from time to time, to the fullest extent permitted by law, to set off and
Right of Set-off
 
apply any and all deposits (general or special, time or demand, provisional or final) at any time held and other indebtedness at any time owing by such Lender or such Issuing Bank to or for the credit or the account of
Holdings, the Borrower
Parent
or any Subsidiary against any of and all the obligations of
Parent,
Holdings or the Borrower now or hereafter existing under this Agreement or any other Loan Document held by such Lender or such Issuing Bank, irrespective of whether or not such Lender or such Issuing Bank shall have made any demand under this Agreement or such other Loan Document and although the obligations may be unmatured. The rights of each Lender and each Issuing Bank under this Section 9.06 are in addition to other rights and remedies (including other rights of set-off) that such Lender or such Issuing Bank may have.
SECTION 9.07. . THIS AGREEMENT AND THE OTHER LOAN DOCUMENTS (OTHER THAN LETTERS OF CREDIT AND AS EXPRESSLY SET FORTH IN OTHER LOAN DOCUMENTS) SHALL BE CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH AND GOVERNED BY THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
Applicable Law
SECTION 9.08. .
Waivers; Amendment
(a)
(b)
No failure or delay of the Agents, any Issuing Bank or any Lender in exercising any right or power hereunder or under any Loan Document shall operate as a waiver thereof, nor shall any single or partial exercise of any such right or power, or any abandonment or discontinuance of steps to enforce such a right or power, preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right or power. The rights and remedies of the Agents, each Issuing Bank and the Lenders hereunder and under the other Loan Documents are cumulative and are not exclusive of any rights or remedies that they would otherwise have. No waiver of any provision of this Agreement or any other Loan Document or consent to any departure by
Holdings, any
the
Borrower or any other Loan Party therefrom shall in any event be effective unless the same shall be permitted by paragraph (b) below, and then such waiver or consent shall be effective only in the specific instance and for the purpose for which given. No notice or demand on
Holdings, any
the
Borrower or any other Loan Party in any case shall entitle such person to any other or further notice or demand in similar or other circumstances.
(b)
(c)
Neither this Agreement nor any other Loan Document nor any provision hereof or thereof may be waived, amended or modified except (x) in the case of this Agreement, pursuant to an agreement or agreements in writing entered into by Holdings, the
Borrowers
Borrower
and the Required Lenders and (y) in the case of any other Loan Document, pursuant to an agreement or agreements in writing entered into by each party thereto and the Collateral Agent and consented to by the Required Lenders; , , that no such agreement shall
provided
however
(i) decrease or forgive the principal amount of, or extend the final maturity of, or decrease the rate of interest on, any Loan or any L/C Disbursement, without the prior written consent of each Lender directly affected thereby; , that any amendment to the financial covenant definitions in this Agreement shall not constitute a reduction in the rate of interest for purposes of this clause (i)
provided
,
;
 
(ii) increase or extend the Commitment of any Lender or decrease the Commitment Fees or L/C Participation Fees or other fees of any Lender without the prior written consent of such Lender (it being understood that waivers or modifications of conditions precedent, covenants, Defaults or Events of Default or of a mandatory reduction in the aggregate Commitments shall not constitute an increase of the Commitments of any Lender)
,
;
(iii) extend or waive any New Term Loan Installment Date or reduce the amount due on any New Term Loan Installment Date or extend any date on which payment of interest on any Loan or any L/C Disbursement or any Fees is due, without the prior written consent of each Lender adversely affected thereby
,
;
(iv) amend or modify the provisions of Section 2.18(b) or (c) in a manner that would by its terms alter the sharing of payments required thereby, without the prior written consent of each Lender adversely affected thereby
pro
rata
,
;
(v) amend or modify the provisions of this Section or the definition of the terms "Required Lenders," "Majority Lenders" or any other provision hereof specifying the number or percentage of Lenders required to waive, amend or modify any rights hereunder or make any determination or grant any consent hereunder, without the prior written consent of each Lender adversely affected thereby (it being understood that, with the consent of the Required Lenders, additional extensions of credit pursuant to this Agreement may be included in the determination of the Required Lenders on substantially the same basis as the Loans and Commitments are included on the Amendment Effective Date)
,
;
(vi) release all or substantially all the Collateral or release any of Holdings
, Parent
or any Subsidiary Loan Party from its Guarantee under the Collateral Agreement, unless, in the case of a Subsidiary Loan Party, all or substantially all the Equity Interests of such Subsidiary Loan Party is sold or otherwise disposed of in a transaction permitted by this Agreement, without the prior written consent of each Lender;
or
(vii) effect any waiver, amendment or modification that by its terms adversely affects the rights in respect of payments or collateral of Lenders participating in any Facility differently from those of Lenders participating in other Facilities, without the consent of the Majority Lenders participating in the adversely affected Facility (it being agreed that the Required Lenders may waive, in whole or in part, any prepayment or Commitment reduction required by Section 2.11 so long as the application of any prepayment or Commitment reduction still required to be made is not changed);
, , that no such agreement shall amend, modify or otherwise affect the rights or duties of the Administrative Agent or an Issuing Bank hereunder without the prior written consent of the Administrative Agent or such Issuing Bank acting as such at the effective date of such agreement, as applicable. Each Lender shall be bound by any waiver, amendment or modification authorized by this Section 9.08 and any consent by any Lender pursuant to this Section 9.08 shall bind any assignee of such Lender.
provided
further
 
(c)
(d)
Without the consent of any Lead Arranger, Syndication Agent, Co-Documentation Agent or Lender, the Loan Parties and the Administrative Agent and/or Collateral Agent may (in their respective sole discretion, or shall, to the extent required by any Loan Document) enter into any amendment, modification or waiver of any Loan Document, or enter into any new agreement or instrument, to effect the granting, perfection, protection, expansion or enhancement of any security interest in any Collateral or additional property to become Collateral for the benefit of the Secured Parties, or as required by local law to give effect to, or protect any security interest for the benefit of the Secured Parties, in any property or so that the security interests therein comply with applicable law.
(d)
(e)
Notwithstanding the foregoing, this Agreement may be amended (or amended and restated) with the written consent of the Required Lenders, the Administrative Agent, Holdings and the Borrower (a) to add one or more additional credit facilities to this Agreement and to permit the extensions of credit from time to time outstanding thereunder and the accrued interest and fees in respect thereof to share ratably in the benefits of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents with the New Term Loans and the New Revolving Facility Loans and the accrued interest and fees in respect thereof and (b) to include appropriately the Lenders holding such credit facilities in any determination of the Required Lenders.
(e)
(f)
In addition, notwithstanding the foregoing, this Agreement may be amended with the written consent of the Administrative Agent
, Parent
, Holdings, the Borrower and the Lenders providing the relevant Replacement New Term Loans (as defined below) to permit the refinancing of all outstanding New Term Loans ("") with a replacement term loan tranche hereunder which shall be Loans hereunder (""); that (a) the aggregate principal amount of such Replacement New Term Loans shall not exceed the aggregate principal amount of such Refinanced New Term Loans, (b) the Applicable Margin for such Replacement New Term Loans shall not be higher than the Applicable Margin for such Refinanced New Term Loans, (c) the weighted average life to maturity of such Replacement New Term Loans shall not be shorter than the weighted average life to maturity of such Refinanced New Term Loans at the time of such refinancing and (d) all other terms applicable to such Replacement New Term Loans shall be substantially identical to, or less favorable to the Lenders providing such Replacement New Term Loans than, those applicable to such Refinanced New Term Loans, except to the extent necessary to provide for covenants and other terms applicable to any period after the latest final maturity of the Term Loans in effect immediately prior to such refinancing (for avoidance of doubt any such less favorable terms shall apply only to the Refinanced New Term Loans and not to the New Revolving Facility Loans).
Refinanced New Term Loans
Replacement New Term Loans
provided
(f)
(g)
Notwithstanding the foregoing, technical and conforming modifications to the Loan Documents may be made with the consent of
Parent,
Holdings and the Borrower and the Administrative Agent to the extent necessary to integrate any Additional New Term Loan Commitments or Additional New Revolving Facility Commitments on substantially the same basis as the New Term Loans or New Revolving Facility Loans, as applicable.
 
SECTION 9.09. . Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, if at any time the applicable interest rate, together with all fees and charges that are treated as interest under applicable law (collectively, the ""), as provided for herein or in any other document executed in connection herewith, or otherwise contracted for, charged, received, taken or reserved by any Lender or any Issuing Bank, shall exceed the maximum lawful rate (the "") that may be contracted for, charged, taken, received or reserved by such Lender in accordance with applicable law, the rate of interest payable hereunder, together with all Charges payable to such Lender or such Issuing Bank, shall be limited to the Maximum Rate, that such excess amount shall be paid to such Lender or such Issuing Bank on subsequent payment dates to the extent not exceeding the legal limitation.
Interest Rate Limitation
Charges
Maximum Rate
provided
SECTION 9.10. . This Agreement, the other Loan Documents and the agreements regarding certain Fees referred to herein constitute the entire contract between the parties relative to the subject matter hereof. Any previous agreement among or representations from the parties or their Affiliates with respect to the subject matter hereof is superseded by this Agreement and the other Loan Documents. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Fee Letter shall survive the execution and delivery of this Agreement and remain in full force and effect. Nothing in this Agreement or in the other Loan Documents, expressed or implied, is intended to confer upon any party other than the parties hereto and thereto any rights, remedies, obligations or liabilities under or by reason of this Agreement or the other Loan Documents.
Entire Agreement
SECTION 9.11. .
WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL
EACH PARTY HERETO HEREBY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY RIGHT IT MAY HAVE TO A TRIAL BY JURY IN RESPECT OF ANY LITIGATION DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY ARISING OUT OF, UNDER OR IN CONNECTION WITH THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OF THE OTHER LOAN DOCUMENTS. EACH PARTY HERETO (A) CERTIFIES THAT NO REPRESENTATIVE, AGENT OR ATTORNEY OF ANY OTHER PARTY HAS REPRESENTED, EXPRESSLY OR OTHERWISE, THAT SUCH OTHER PARTY WOULD NOT, IN THE EVENT OF LITIGATION, SEEK TO ENFORCE THE FOREGOING WAIVER AND (B) ACKNOWLEDGES THAT IT AND THE OTHER PARTIES HERETO HAVE BEEN INDUCED TO ENTER INTO THIS AGREEMENT AND THE OTHER LOAN DOCUMENTS, AS APPLICABLE, BY, AMONG OTHER THINGS, THE MUTUAL WAIVERS AND CERTIFICATIONS IN THIS SECTION 9.11.
SECTION 9.12. . In the event any one or more of the provisions contained in this Agreement or in any other Loan Document should be held invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions contained herein and therein shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby. The parties shall endeavor in good-faith negotiations to replace the invalid, illegal or unenforceable provisions with valid provisions the economic effect of which comes as close as possible to that of the invalid, illegal or unenforceable provisions.
Severability
SECTION 9.13. . This Agreement may be executed in two or more counterparts, each of which shall constitute an original but all of which, when taken together, shall constitute but one contract, and shall become effective as provided in Section 9.03. Delivery of an executed counterpart to this Agreement by facsimile transmission shall be as effective as delivery of a manually signed original.
Counterparts
 
SECTION 9.14. . Article and Section headings and the Table of Contents used herein are for convenience of reference only, are not part of this Agreement and are not to affect the construction of, or to be taken into consideration in interpreting, this Agreement.
Headings
SECTION 9.15. .
Jurisdiction; Consent to Service of Process
(a) Each of
Parent,
Holdings and the Borrower hereby irrevocably and unconditionally submits, for itself and its property, to the nonexclusive jurisdiction of any New York State court or federal court of the United States of America sitting in New York City, and any appellate court from any thereof, in any action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the other Loan Documents, or for recognition or enforcement of any judgment, and each of the parties hereto hereby irrevocably and unconditionally agrees that all claims in respect of any such action or proceeding may be heard and determined in such New York State or, to the extent permitted by law, in such federal court. Each of the parties hereto agrees that a final judgment in any such action or proceeding shall be conclusive and may be enforced in other jurisdictions by suit on the judgment or in any other manner provided by law. Nothing in this Agreement shall affect any right that any Lender or any Issuing Bank may otherwise have to bring any action or proceeding relating to this Agreement or the other Loan Documents against
Holdings, any
Parent, the
Borrower or any Loan Party or their properties in the courts of any jurisdiction.
(b) Each of
Parent,
Holdings and the Borrower hereby irrevocably and unconditionally waives, to the fullest extent it may legally and effectively do so, any objection which it may now or hereafter have to the laying of venue of any suit, action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the other Loan Documents in any New York State or federal court. Each of the parties hereto hereby irrevocably waives, to the fullest extent permitted by law, the defense of an inconvenient forum to the maintenance of such action or proceeding in any such court.
SECTION 9.16. . Each of the Lenders, each Issuing Bank and each of the Agents agrees that it shall maintain in confidence any information relating to
Confidentiality
Holdings
Parent
, the Borrower and the other Loan Parties furnished to it by or on behalf of
Holdings,
the Borrower or the other Loan Parties (other than information that (a) has become generally available to the public other than as a result of a disclosure by such party, (b) has been independently developed by such Lender, such Issuing Bank or such Agent without violating this Section 9.16 or (c) was available to such Lender, such Issuing Bank or such Agent from a third party having, to such person's knowledge, no obligations of confidentiality to
Holdings,
the Borrower or any other Loan Party) and shall not reveal the same other than to its directors, trustees, officers, employees and advisors with a need to know or to any person that approves or administers the Loans on behalf of such Lender (so long as each such person shall have been instructed to keep the same confidential in accordance with this Section 9.16), except: (A) to the extent necessary to comply with law or any legal process or the requirements of any Governmental Authority, the National Association of Insurance Commissioners or of any securities
 
exchange on which securities of the disclosing party or any Affiliate of the disclosing party are listed or traded, (B) as part of normal reporting or review procedures to Governmental Authorities or the National Association of Insurance Commissioners, (C) to its parent companies, Affiliates or auditors (so long as each such person shall have been instructed to keep the same confidential in accordance with this Section 9.16), (D) in order to enforce its rights under any Loan Document in a legal proceeding, (E) to any prospective assignee of, or prospective Participant in, any of its rights under this Agreement (so long as such person shall have been instructed to keep the same confidential in accordance with this Section 9.16) and (F) to any direct or indirect contractual counterparty in Swap Agreements or such contractual counterparty's professional advisor (so long as such contractual counterparty or professional advisor to such contractual counterparty agrees to be bound by the provisions of this Section).
SECTION 9.17. .
Citigroup Direct Website Communications
(a) .
Delivery
(1)
(i)
 Each Loan Party hereby agrees that it will use all reasonable efforts to provide to the Administrative Agent all information, documents and other materials that it is obligated to furnish to the Administrative Agent pursuant to this Agreement and any other Loan Document, including, without limitation, all notices, requests, financial statements, financial and other reports, certificates and other information materials, but excluding any such communication that (A) relates to a request for a new, or a conversion of an existing, borrowing or other extension of credit (including any election of an interest rate or interest period relating thereto), (B) relates to the payment of any principal or other amount due under this Agreement prior to the scheduled date therefor, (C) provides notice of any Default or Event of Default under this Agreement or (D) is required to be delivered to satisfy any condition precedent to the effectiveness of this Agreement and/or any borrowing or other extension of credit hereunder (all such non-excluded communications collectively, the ""), by transmitting the Communications in an electronic/soft medium in a format reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent to
Communications
oploanswebadmin@citigroup.com
. Nothing in this Section 
9.18
9.17
shall prejudice the right of the Agents, the Syndication Agent, the Co-Documentation Agents, the Lead Arranger or any Lender or any Loan Party to give any notice or other communication pursuant to this Agreement or any other Loan Document in any other manner specified in this Agreement or any other Loan Document.
(i)
(ii) 
The Administrative Agent agrees that receipt of the Communications by the Administrative Agent at its e-mail address set forth above shall constitute effective delivery of the Communications to the Administrative Agent for purposes of the Loan Documents. Each Lender agrees that notice to it (as provided in the next sentence) specifying that the Communications have been posted to the Platform (as defined below) shall constitute effective delivery of the Communications to such Lender for purposes of the Loan Documents. Each Lender agrees (A) to notify the Administrative Agent in writing (including by electronic communication) from time to time of such Lender's e-mail address to which the foregoing notice may be sent by electronic transmission and (B) that the foregoing notice may be sent to such e-mail address.
 
(b) . Each Loan Party further agrees that the Administrative Agent may make the Communications available to the Lenders by posting the Communications on Intralinks or a substantially similar electronic transmission system (the "").
Posting
Platform
(c) The Platform is provided "as is" and "as available." The Agent Parties (as defined below) do not warrant the accuracy or completeness of the Communications, or the adequacy of the Platform and expressly disclaim liability for errors or omissions in the communications. No warranty of any kind, express, implied or statutory, including, without limitation, any warranty of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose, non-infringement of third party rights or freedom from viruses or other code defects, is made by any Agent Party in connection with the Communications or the Platform. In no event shall the Administrative Agent or any of its affiliates or any of their respective officers, directors, employees, agents advisors or representatives (collectively, "") have any liability to the Loan Parties, any Lender or any other person or entity for damages of any kind, including, without limitation, direct or indirect, special, incidental or consequential damages, losses or expenses (whether in tort, contract or otherwise) arising out of any Loan Party's or the Administrative Agent's transmission of communications through the internet, except to the extent the liability of any Agent Party is found in a final non-appealable judgment by a court of competent jurisdiction to have resulted primarily from such Agent Party's gross negligence or willful misconduct.
Agent Parties
SECTION 9.18. . In the event that any Loan Party conveys, sells, leases, assigns, transfers or otherwise disposes of all or any portion of any of the Equity Interests or assets of any Subsidiary Loan Party (other than the Equity Interests of the Borrower) to a person that is not (and is not required to become) a Loan Party in a transaction not prohibited by Section 6.05, the Administrative Agent and the Collateral Agent shall promptly (and the Lenders hereby authorize the Administrative Agent and the Collateral Agent to) take such action and execute any such documents as may be reasonably requested by
Release of Liens and Guarantees
Holdings
Parent
or the Borrower and at the Borrower's expense to
evidence the
release
of
any Liens created by any Loan Document in respect of such Equity Interests
and/or assets
, and, in the case of a disposition of the Equity Interests of any Subsidiary Loan Party that is not the Borrower in a transaction permitted by Section 6.05 and as a result of which such Subsidiary Loan Party would cease to be a Subsidiary,
terminate
evidence the termination of
such Subsidiary Loan Party's obligations under its Guarantee. In addition, the Administrative Agent and the Collateral Agent agree to take such actions as are reasonably requested by
Holdings
Parent
or the Borrower and at the Borrower's expense to
terminate
evidence the termination of
the Liens and security interests created by the Loan Documents when all the Obligations are paid in full and all Letters of Credit and Commitments are terminated. Any representation, warranty or covenant contained in any Loan Document relating to any such Equity Interests, asset or subsidiary of
Holdings
Parent
shall no longer be deemed to be made once such Equity Interests or asset is so conveyed, sold, leased, assigned, transferred or disposed of
. In addition, the Administrative Agent and the Collateral Agent shall promptly (and the Lenders hereby authorize the Administrative Agent and the Collateral Agent to) take such action and execute any such documents as may be reasonably requested by Parent or the Borrower (at the Borrower's expense) to evidence the release of any Liens created by any Loan Document in respect of Collateral constituting Receivables Assets in connection with any Permitted Receivables Financing
.
 
SECTION 9.19. . Each Lender hereby notifies each Loan Party that pursuant to the requirements of the U.S. Patriot Act, it is required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies Loan Parties, which information includes the name and address of each Loan Party and other information that will allow the Lenders to identify such Loan Party in accordance with the U.S. Patriot Act.
U.S. Patriot Act
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed by their respective authorized officers as of the day and year first written above.
 
SCHEDULE 2.01
 
SCHEDULE 2.05(a)
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
LINTHICUM HEIGHTS, Md. and ABINGDON, Va., May 27, 2009  Foundation Coal Holdings Inc. (NYSE:FCL) and Alpha Natural Resources, Inc. (NYSE:ANR) announced today that, in connection with the proposed merger, 94% of the participating lenders consented to the amendment of the Foundation Credit Agreement (Agreement) on Friday, May 22, 2009.
James F. Roberts, Foundation Coal's Chairman and CEO, commented, "Friday's vote represents a strong show of support for the proposed transaction among banks participating in Foundation's Credit Agreement. Consent was received from lenders representing 94% of the loans and commitments under the Agreement. This nearly unanimous vote is a tremendous outcome and moves us one step closer to completing our announced merger. I believe that our banks clearly understand the value of joining forces with Alpha."
"This highly favorable vote far exceeded the required threshold of greater than 50%," said Michael Quillen, Chairman and CEO of Alpha. "The widespread support of the banks in this credit agreement is a positive indication that we have structured the right transaction with the right partner. When we complete our transaction, Alpha will become one of America's largest coal producers, with an industry-leading balance sheet and liquidity position that will enable us to continue to execute on our growth strategy, while delivering strong financial results."
As part of the Amendment, Alpha and its subsidiaries will be included as guarantors of the amended Agreement. The Amendment will eliminate an existing covenant that limits annual capital expenditures and will provide for an increase in the Agreement's accordion feature from $100 million to $200 million, raising the potential revolver to a total of $700 million. The Amendment will provide participating lenders an increased interest rate of London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) plus 325 basis points on the utilized portion of the facility compared to the current interest rate of LIBOR plus 125 basis points.
The terms of the Amendment will not become operative until the Alpha/Foundation merger closes, Alpha terminates its existing credit facilities, and the amendment fee is paid to consenting lenders. The closing of the merger is not dependent on the Amendment becoming operational or on any other financing condition.
About Foundation
Foundation Coal Holdings, Inc., through its affiliates, is a major U.S. coal producer operating mines and associated processing and loading facilities in Pennsylvania, West Virginia, and Wyoming. Through its subsidiaries Foundation Coal employs approximately 3,000 people and
produces approximately 70 million tons of coal annually, largely for utilities generating electricity. Foundation's corporate offices are in Linthicum Heights, Md.
About Alpha
Alpha is a leading supplier of high-quality Appalachian coal to the steel industry, electric utilities and other industries. Approximately 88 percent of the company's reserve base is high Btu coal and 83 percent is low sulfur, qualities that are valued by electric utilities that use steam coal. Alpha is also the nation's largest supplier and exporter of metallurgical coal, a key ingredient in steel manufacturing. Alpha and its subsidiaries currently operate mining complexes in four states, consisting of 50 mines supplying 10 coal preparation and blending plants. Alpha and its subsidiaries employ more than 3,600 people.
Forward-Looking Statements
Information set forth in this document contains forward-looking statements, which involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Alpha Natural Resources, Inc. ("Alpha") and Foundation Coal Holdings, Inc. ("Foundation") caution readers that any forward-looking information is not a guarantee of future performance and that actual results could differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking information. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements about the benefits of the business combination transaction involving Alpha and Foundation, including future financial and operating results, the new company's plans, objectives, expectations and intentions and other statements that are not historical facts.
The following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements: the ability to obtain regulatory approvals of the transaction on the proposed terms and schedule; the failure of Alpha or Foundation stockholders to approve the transaction; the risk that the businesses will not be integrated successfully; the risk that the cost savings and any other synergies from the transaction may not be fully realized or may take longer to realize than expected; disruption from the transaction making it more difficult to maintain relationships with customers, employees or suppliers; competition and its effect on pricing, spending, third-party relationships and revenues. Additional factors that may affect future results are contained in Alpha's and Foundation's filings with the SEC, which are available at the SEC's website . Alpha and Foundation disclaim any obligation to update and revise statements contained in these materials based on new information or otherwise.
http://www.sec.gov
Additional Information About this Transaction
In connection with the proposed merger, Foundation will file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") a Registration Statement on Form S-4 that will include a joint proxy statement of Alpha and Foundation that also constitutes a prospectus of Foundation. Alpha and Foundation will mail the joint proxy statement/prospectus to their respective stockholders. Investors and security holders are urged to read the joint proxy statement/prospectus regarding the proposed merger when it becomes available because it will contain important information. You may obtain a free copy of the joint proxy statement/prospectus (when available) and other related documents filed by Alpha and Foundation with the SEC at the SEC's website at . The joint proxy statement/prospectus (when it is available) and the other documents may also be obtained for free by accessing Alpha's website at under the heading "Investor Relations" and then under the heading "SEC Filings" or by accessing Foundation's website at under the tab "Investors" and then under the heading "Financial Information and SEC Filings".
www.sec.gov
www.alphanr.com
www.foundationcoal.com
Participants in this Transaction
Alpha, Foundation and their respective directors, executive officers and certain other members of management and employees may be soliciting proxies from stockholders in favor of the merger. Information regarding the persons who may, under the rules of the SEC, be considered participants in the solicitation of the stockholders in connection with the proposed merger will be set forth in the joint proxy statement/prospectus when it is filed with the SEC. You can find information about Alpha's executive officers and directors in Alpha's definitive proxy statement filed with the SEC on April 3, 2009. You can find information about Foundation's executive officers and directors in their definitive proxy statement filed with the SEC on April 3, 2009. You can obtain free copies of these documents from the Alpha or Foundation using the contact information above.
SOURCE Alpha Natural Resources, Inc.; Foundation Coal Holdings, Inc.
Contacts
Foundation Coal Holdings, Inc.
Todd Allen
VP, Investor and Media Relations
410-689-7632
tallen@foundationcoal.com
or
Alpha Natural Resources, Inc.
Ted Pile
VP, Communications and Corporate Affairs
276-623-2920
tpile@alphanr.com


