FILE:ANR/ANR-8K-20090715163301.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01 Other Events
On July 15, 2009, Alpha Natural Resources, Inc. ("Alpha") issued a press release announcing that it is extending the Expiration Time of its previously announced consent solicitation (the "Consent Solicitation") to amend the indenture under which Foundation PA Coal Company, LLC (the "Issuer") issued its 7
 1
/
4
% Senior Notes due August 1, 2014. The Consent Solicitation will now expire at 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on July 16, 2009, unless earlier terminated or extended (such time and date, as they may be extended, the "Expiration Time"). Except for the extension of the Expiration Time, all other terms and conditions of the Consent Solicitation remain unchanged and are described in the Consent Solicitation Statement, dated July 1, 2009, and the related Letter of Consent.
The Consent Solicitation is being conducted in connection with the previously announced proposed merger (the "Merger") between Alpha and Foundation Coal Holdings, Inc., a Delaware corporation and an indirect parent of the Issuer, pursuant to a previously announced Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of May 11, 2009. However, consummation of the Merger is not conditioned on the success of the Consent Solicitation. A copy of the press release issued on July 15, 2009 is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and is incorporated by reference herein.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
99.1 Press Release issued by Alpha Natural Resources, Inc., dated July 15, 2009.
About Alpha
Alpha Natural Resources, Inc. is a leading supplier of high-quality Appalachian coal to the steel industry, electric utilities and other industries. Approximately 88 percent of the company's reserve base is high Btu coal and 83 percent is low sulfur, qualities that are valued by electric utilities that use steam coal. Alpha is also the nation's largest supplier and exporter of metallurgical coal, a key ingredient in steel manufacturing. Alpha and its subsidiaries currently operate mining complexes in four states, consisting of 50 mines supplying 10 coal preparation and blending plants. Alpha and its subsidiaries employ more than 3,600 people.
About Foundation
Foundation Coal Holdings, Inc., through its affiliates, is a major U.S. coal producer operating mines and associated processing and loading facilities in Pennsylvania, West Virginia, and Wyoming. Through its subsidiaries Foundation Coal employs approximately 3,000 people and produces approximately 70 million tons of coal annually, largely for utilities generating electricity. Foundation's corporate offices are in Linthicum Heights, Md.
Forward Looking Statements
Information set forth herein contains forward-looking statements, which involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Alpha and Foundation caution readers that any forward-looking information is not a guarantee of future performance and that actual results could differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking information. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements about the benefits of the business combination transaction involving Alpha and Foundation, including future financial and operating results, the combined company's plans, objectives, expectations and intentions and other statements that are not historical facts.
The following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements: the ability to obtain regulatory approvals of the transaction on the proposed terms and schedule; the failure of Alpha or Foundation stockholders to approve the transaction; the risk that the businesses will not be integrated successfully or such integration may be more difficult, time-consuming or costly than expected; the calculations of, and factors that may impact the calculations of, the acquisition price in connection with the proposed merger and the allocation of such acquisition price to the net assets acquired in accordance with applicable accounting rules and methodologies; general economic conditions that are less favorable than expected; changes in, renewal of and acquiring new long term coal supply arrangements; and competition in coal markets. Additional factors
that may affect future results are contained in Alpha's and Foundation's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"), which are available at the SEC's web site http://www.sec.gov. Alpha and Foundation disclaim any obligation to update and revise statements contained in these materials based on new information or otherwise.
Important Additional Information and Where to Find It
In connection with the proposed merger, Foundation has filed with the SEC a registration statement on Form S-4 (commission file number 333-159801), as amended, that includes a preliminary joint proxy statement/prospectus of Alpha and Foundation regarding the proposed merger. The registration statement was declared effective by the SEC on June 24, 2009, and a definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus has been mailed to Foundation and Alpha stockholders on or about June 26, 2009 in connection with the proposed merger. INVESTORS ARE URGED TO READ THE JOINT PROXY STATEMENT/PROSPECTUS (INCLUDING ALL AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS THERETO) AND OTHER DOCUMENTS RELATING TO THE MERGER FILED WITH THE SEC WHEN THEY BECOME AVAILABLE, BECAUSE THEY WILL CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION ABOUT THE PROPOSED MERGER. You may obtain copies of all documents filed with the SEC regarding the proposed merger, free of charge, at the SEC's website (http://www.sec.gov). Free copies may also be obtained by accessing Foundation's website (http://www.foundationcoal.com) under "Investors/Financial Information & SEC Filings" or Alpha's website (http://www.alphanr.com) under "Investor Relations/SEC Filings", or by directing a request to Foundation at 999 Corporate Boulevard, Suite 300, Linthicum Heights, Maryland 21090, Attn: Investor Relations or to Alpha at One Alpha Place, P.O. Box 2345, Abingdon, Virginia 24212, Attn: Investor Relations.
Participants in Solicitation
Alpha, Foundation and their respective directors, executive officers and certain other members of management and employees may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies in favor of the proposed merger. Information regarding the persons who may, under the rules of the SEC, be considered participants in the solicitation of proxies in favor of the proposed merger may be found in the definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus filed by Alpha and Foundation with the SEC on June 25, 2009. You can find information about Alpha's and Foundation's directors and executive officers in their respective definitive proxy statements filed with the SEC on April 3, 2009. You can obtain free copies of these documents from Alpha or Foundation using the contact information above.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Alpha Natural Resources, Inc.
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Alpha Natural Resources, Inc. (NYSE: ANR) ("Alpha") today announced that it is extending the Expiration Time of its previously announced consent solicitation (the "Consent Solicitation") to amend the indenture (the "Indenture") under which Foundation PA Coal Company, LLC (the "Issuer") issued its 7
ABINGDON, Va., July 15, 2009 
 1
/
4
% Senior Notes due August 1, 2014 (the "Notes").
The Consent Solicitation will now expire at 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on July 16, 2009, unless earlier terminated or extended (such time and date, as they may be extended, the "Expiration Time").
Except for the extension of the Expiration Time, all other terms and conditions of the Consent Solicitation remain unchanged and are described in the Consent Solicitation Statement dated July 1, 2009 (the "Consent Solicitation Statement") and the related Letter of Consent, both of which have been distributed to Holders of the Notes (as defined in the Consent Solicitation Statement). Revocation rights with respect to the Consent Solicitation have terminated.
Citigroup Global Markets Inc. ("Citi") is acting as solicitation agent for the Consent Solicitation. For additional information regarding the terms of the Consent Solicitation, please contact Citi at 800-558-3745 (toll-free) or 212-723-6106 (collect). Requests for documents may be directed to Global Bondholder Services, which is acting as the information agent and tabulation agent for the consent solicitation, at 866-387-1500 (toll-free) or 212-430-3774 (collect).
This press release is for informational purposes only and is not a solicitation of consent with respect to the Notes. The Consent Solicitation is being made solely pursuant to the Consent Solicitation Statement and the related Letter of Consent, which set forth the complete terms of the Consent Solicitation.
About Alpha
Alpha is a leading supplier of high-quality Appalachian coal to the steel industry, electric utilities and other industries. Approximately 88 percent of Alpha's reserve base is high Btu coal and 83 percent is low sulfur, qualities that are valued by electric utilities that use steam coal. Alpha is also the nation's largest supplier and exporter of metallurgical coal, a key ingredient in steel manufacturing. Alpha and its subsidiaries currently operate mining complexes in four states, consisting of 50 mines supplying 10 coal preparation and blending plants. Alpha and its subsidiaries employ more than 3,600 people.
ANRG
About Foundation
Foundation, through its affiliates, is a major U.S. coal producer operating mines and associated processing and loading facilities in Pennsylvania, West Virginia, and Wyoming. Through its subsidiaries Foundation employs approximately 3,000 people and produces approximately 70 million tons of coal annually, largely for utilities generating electricity. Foundation's corporate offices are in Linthicum Heights, Md.
Forward Looking Statements
Information set forth herein contains forward-looking statements, which involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Alpha and Foundation caution readers that any forward-looking information is not a guarantee of future performance and that actual results could differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking information. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements about the benefits of the business combination transaction involving Alpha and Foundation, including future financial and operating results, the combined company's plans, objectives, expectations and intentions and other statements that are not historical facts.
The following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements: the ability to obtain regulatory approvals of the transaction on the proposed terms and schedule; the failure of Alpha or Foundation stockholders to approve the transaction; the risk that the businesses will not be integrated successfully or such integration may be more difficult, time-consuming or costly than expected; the calculations of, and factors that may impact the calculations of, the acquisition price in connection with the proposed merger and the allocation of such acquisition price to the net assets acquired in accordance with applicable accounting rules and methodologies; general economic conditions that are less favorable than expected; changes in, renewal of and acquiring new long term coal supply arrangements; and competition in coal markets. Additional factors that may affect future results are contained in Alpha's and Foundation's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"), which are available at the SEC's web site http://www.sec.gov. Alpha and Foundation disclaim any obligation to update and revise statements contained in these materials based on new information or otherwise.
Important Additional Information and Where to Find It
In connection with the proposed Merger, Foundation has filed with the SEC a registration statement on Form S-4 (commission file number 333-159801), as amended, that includes a preliminary joint proxy statement/prospectus of Alpha and Foundation regarding the proposed Merger. The registration statement was declared effective by the SEC on June 24, 2009, and a definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus has been mailed to Foundation and Alpha stockholders on or about June 26, 2009 in connection with the proposed merger. INVESTORS ARE URGED TO READ THE JOINT PROXY STATEMENT/PROSPECTUS (INCLUDING ALL AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS THERETO) AND OTHER DOCUMENTS RELATING TO THE MERGER FILED WITH THE SEC WHEN THEY BECOME AVAILABLE, BECAUSE THEY WILL CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION ABOUT
THE PROPOSED MERGER. You may obtain copies of all documents filed with the SEC regarding the proposed Merger, free of charge, at the SEC's website (http://www.sec.gov). Free copies may also be obtained by accessing Foundation's website (http://www.foundationcoal.com) under "Investors/Financial Information & SEC Filings" or Alpha's website (http://www.alphanr.com) under "Investor Relations/SEC Filings", or by directing a request to Foundation at 999 Corporate Boulevard, Suite 300, Linthicum Heights, Maryland 21090, Attn: Investor Relations or to Alpha at One Alpha Place, P.O. Box 2345, Abingdon, Virginia 24212, Attn: Investor Relations.
Participants in Solicitation
Alpha, Foundation and their respective directors, executive officers and certain other members of management and employees may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies in favor of the proposed Merger. Information regarding the persons who may, under the rules of the SEC, be considered participants in the solicitation of proxies in favor of the proposed Merger may be found in the definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus filed by Alpha and Foundation with the SEC on June 25, 2009. You can find information about Alpha's and Foundation's directors and executive officers in their respective definitive proxy statements filed with the SEC on April 3, 2009. You can obtain free copies of these documents from Alpha or Foundation using the contact information above.
Contacts
Alpha Natural Resources, Inc.
Ted Pile
VP, Communications and Corporate Affairs
276-623-2920
tpile@alphanr.com


