FILE:ANR/ANR-8K-20110516060457.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[X] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01 Other Events
 
On May 13, 2011, Alpha Natural Resources, Inc. (Alpha) issued a press release announcing that it intends to offer approximately $1.5 billion aggregate principal amount of its senior notes.  The notes will be guaranteed on a senior unsecured basis by certain of Alphas subsidiaries.  Alpha intends to use the net proceeds to partially fund Alphas acquisition of Massey Energy Company and its subsidiaries (Massey) (the Merger) and repay some of Alphas and Masseys outstanding indebtedness.  A copy of Alphas press release is filed as Exhibit 99.1 hereto.
 
In addition, Alpha is releasing the following  revised supplemental pro forma production data, which replaces in its entirety the pro forma production data previously released:
 
The following tables present Alpha historical, Massey pro forma and Alpha pro forma data by state for production of saleable tons for the year ended December 31, 2010.  The table assumes the Merger was completed on January 1, 2010.  The table also includes the pro forma effects of the acquisition of Cumberland Resources Corporation and certain affiliated entities (Cumberland) by Massey on April 19, 2010, and assumes that the acquisition of Cumberland by Massey was completed January 1, 2010.  This supplemental pro forma combined production data has been prepared for illustrative purposes only and is not necessarily indicative of the production data of Alpha had (i) the Merger occurred on January 1, 2010, and (ii) the acquisition by Massey of Cumberland occurred on January 1, 2010.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
Alpha is today filing the following additional financial information related to its proposed merger with Massey Energy Company, as Exhibit 99.2 hereto, as well as certain other exhibits, for purposes of incorporation by reference in its Registration Statement on Form S-3 (No. 333-165473), as amended, and its Registration Statement on Form S-4 (No. 333-172888), as amended:
 
 
(b)  Pro Forma Financial Statements
 
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated balance sheet as of March 31, 2011, unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated statements of operations for the three months ended March 31, 2011 and the year ended December 31, 2010 and related notes thereto.
 
 
(d) Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 12.1
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Alpha Natural Resources, Inc. (NYSE: ANR) (Alpha) today announced that it intends to offer approximately $1.5 billion aggregate principal amount of its senior notes.  The notes will be guaranteed on a senior unsecured basis by certain of Alphas subsidiaries.
ABINGDON, Va., May 13, 2011 
The offering is subject to market and other conditions, including the consummation of the proposed acquisition of Massey Energy Company (Massey) by Alpha.  Alpha intends to use the net proceeds to partially fund Alphas acquisition of Massey and repay some of Alphas and Masseys outstanding indebtedness.
Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated and Citigroup Global Markets Inc. are acting as joint bookrunning managers in connection with the offering.
This press release does not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy, nor shall there be any sale of Alphas notes in any state or jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such state or jurisdiction.  Any offer of Alphas notes will be made only by means of a prospectus, forming a part of the effective registration statement, the applicable preliminary prospectus supplement and other related documents or pursuant to an exemption from registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.  Copies of these documents can be obtained from Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated, 180 Varick Street, New York, NY 10014, Attn: Morgan Stanley Prospectus Department, at (917) 606-8487, or Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Brooklyn Army Terminal, 140 58th Street, 8th Floor, Brooklyn, NY 11220, at (800) 831-9146.
 
 
 
Important Additional Information and Where to Find It
 
This communication does not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy any securities or a solicitation of any vote or approval.  
 
In connection with the proposed merger, Alpha has filed with the SEC a registration statement on Form S-4 (commission file number 333-172888), as amended, that includes a preliminary joint proxy statement/prospectus regarding the proposed merger.  The registration statement was declared effective by the SEC on April 28, 2011, and a definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus has been mailed to Alpha and Massey stockholders on or about April 29, 2011 in connection with the proposed merger.  INVESTORS ARE URGED TO READ THE JOINT PROXY STATEMENT/PROSPECTUS (INCLUDING ALL AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS THERETO) AND OTHER DOCUMENTS RELATING TO THE MERGER FILED WITH THE SEC, BECAUSE THEY CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION ABOUT THE PROPOSED MERGER.  You may obtain a copy of the joint proxy statement/prospectus and other related documents filed by Alpha and Massey with the SEC regarding the proposed merger as well as other filings containing information, free of charge, through the web site maintained by the SEC at www.sec.gov, by directing a request to Alphas Investor Relations department at Alpha Natural Resources, Inc., One Alpha Place, P.O. Box 2345, Abingdon, Virginia 24212, Attn: Investor Relations, to D.F. King & Co., Inc., 48 Wall Street, 22nd Floor, New York, New York  10005 or to Masseys Investor Relations department at, (804) 788 - 1824 or by email to Investor@masseyenergyco.com.  Copies of the joint proxy statement/prospectus and the filings with the SEC that are incorporated by reference in the joint proxy statement/prospectus can also be obtained, without charge, from Alphas website at www.alphanr.com under the heading Investor Relations and then under the heading SEC Filings and Masseys website at www.masseyenergyco.com under the heading Investors and then under the heading SEC Filings.
 
Participants in Solicitation
 
Alpha, Massey and their respective directors, executive officers and certain other members of management and employees may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies in favor of the proposed merger.  Information regarding the persons who may, under the rules of the SEC, be considered participants in the solicitation of proxies in favor of the proposed merger is set forth in the definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus filed with the SEC.  You can find information about Alphas directors and executive officers in Alphas definitive proxy statement filed with the SEC on April 1, 2011.  You can find information about Masseys directors and executive officers in Amendment No. 1 to Masseys annual report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on April 19, 2011. You can obtain free copies of these documents from Alpha or Massey using the contact information above.
Investor Contact
Todd Allen, CFA
Vice President, Investor Relations
276-739-5328
tallen@alphanr.com
Media Contact
Ted Pile
Vice President, Corporate Communications
276-623-2920
tpile@alphanr.com
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
   
The following unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated financial information is based on the historical consolidated financial information of Alpha Natural Resources, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries (Alpha) and Massey Energy Company and its consolidated subsidiaries (Massey) and has been prepared to reflect the proposed merger of Mountain Merger Sub, a subsidiary of Alpha, with and into Massey (the Merger). The data in the unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated balance sheet as of March 31, 2011 assume the Merger and related financing transactions (the Transactions) were completed on that date. The data in the unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2010 assume the Transactions were completed on January 1, 2010. The data in the unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated statement of operations for the three months ended March 31, 2011 assume the Transactions were completed on January 1, 2010. The data in the unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2010 also include the pro forma effects of the acquisition of Cumberland Resources Corporation (Cumberland) by Massey on April 19, 2010, and assume that the acquisition of Cumberland by Massey was completed on January 1, 2010.
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated financial information should be read in conjunction with the historical consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto of Alpha and Massey, included in their respective Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the three months ended March 31, 2011 and their Annual Reports on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010, and the historical combined financial statements and related notes thereto of the Cumberland Resource Group, included in Alphas Current Report on Form 8-K dated March 28, 2011.
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated financial information has been prepared for illustrative purposes only and is not necessarily indicative of the consolidated financial position or results of operations of Alpha had (i) the Merger occurred on March 31, 2011 and/or (ii) the Merger or the acquisition by Massey of Cumberland occurred on January 1, 2010. The pro forma adjustments related to the acquisition by Massey of Cumberland are based on the final purchase price allocation.
 
 The Merger will be accounted for under the acquisition method of accounting under U.S. GAAP whereby the total purchase price is allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their respective fair values determined on the acquisition date. The purchase price will be determined on the basis of the fair value of common shares of Alpha on the date the transaction is consummated plus the fair value of any other consideration transferred. The estimated purchase price for this unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated financial information was based on the closing price of Alpha common stock on May 6, 2011. At this time, Alpha has not completed detailed valuation analyses to determine the fair values of Masseys assets and liabilities. Accordingly, the unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated financial information includes a preliminary allocation of the purchase price based on assumptions and estimates which, while considered reasonable under the circumstances, are subject to changes, which may be material. Additionally, Alpha has not yet completed the due diligence necessary to identify items that could significantly impact the purchase price allocation or the assumptions and adjustments made in preparation of this unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated financial information. Upon completion of detailed valuation analyses, there may be additional increases or decreases to the recorded book values of Masseys assets and liabilities, including, but not limited to mineral reserves, property, plant and equipment, coal supply agreements and other intangible assets that will give rise to future amounts of depletion, depreciation and amortization expenses or credits that are not reflected in the information contained in this unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated financial information. Accordingly, once the necessary due diligence has been completed, the final purchase price has been determined and the purchase price allocation has been completed, actual results may differ materially from the information presented in this unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated financial information. Additionally, the unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated statements of operations for the three months ended March 31, 2011 and for the year ended December 31, 2010 do not reflect the cost of any integration activities or benefits from the Merger and synergies that may be derived from any integration activities, both of which may have a material effect on the consolidated results of operations in periods following the completion of the Merger.
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note 1. Basis of Presentation
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated financial information presented here is based on, and should be read in conjunction with, the historical consolidated financial information of Alpha and Massey from their Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the three months ended March 31, 2011 and their Annual Reports on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010 and the historical financial information of the Cumberland Resource Group set forth in Alphas Current Report on Form 8-K dated March 28, 2011. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated balance sheet as of March 31, 2011 assumes the Transactions were completed on that date. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated statements of operations for the three months ended March 31, 2011 and for the year ended December 31, 2010 assume the Transactions were completed on January 1, 2010. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2010 includes the pro forma effects of the acquisition of Cumberland by Massey on April 19, 2010, and assumes that the acquisition of Cumberland by Massey was completed on January 1, 2010.
 
Pro forma adjustments reflected in the unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated balance sheet are based on items that are directly attributable to the proposed merger and factually supportable. Pro forma adjustments reflected in the unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated statements of operations are based on items directly attributable to the Transactions, factually supportable and expected to have a continuing impact on Alpha.
 
At this time, Alpha has not completed a detailed valuation analyses to determine the fair values of Masseys assets and liabilities and accordingly, the unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated financial information includes a preliminary allocation of the purchase price based on assumptions and estimates which, while considered reasonable under the circumstances, are subject to changes, which may be material. Additionally, Alpha has not completed the due diligence necessary to identify items that could significantly impact the purchase price allocation or the assumptions and adjustments made in preparation of this unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated financial information.
 
Upon completion of a detailed valuation analysis, there may be additional increases or decreases to the recorded book values of Masseys assets and liabilities, including, but not limited to, mineral reserves, property and equipment, coal supply agreements and other intangible assets that will give rise to future amounts of depletion, depreciation and amortization expenses or credits that are not reflected in this unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated financial information. Accordingly, once the necessary due diligence is completed, the final purchase price is determined and the purchase price allocation is completed, actual results may differ materially from the information presented in this unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated financial information. Additionally, the unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated statements of operations for the three months ended March 31, 2011 and for the year ended December 31, 2010 do not reflect the cost of any integration activities or benefits from the Merger and synergies that may be derived from any integration activities, both of which may have a material impact on the consolidated results of operations in periods following the completion of the Merger.
 
Certain amounts in Masseys historical balance sheet have been reclassified to conform to Alphas presentation.
 
 
 
Note 2. Preliminary Purchase Price
 
Alpha is proposing to acquire all of the outstanding shares of Massey for a combination of shares of Alpha common stock at an exchange ratio of 1.025 shares of Alpha common stock plus $10.00 per share, for each outstanding share of Massey common stock. Alpha intends to finance the cash portion of the purchase consideration through a combination of cash on hand (including marketable securities) and issuing additional debt. The estimated preliminary purchase price reflects the closing price of Alphas common stock on May 6, 2011.
 
The preliminary estimated purchase price of the proposed merger is as follows:
 
 
 
 
The fair value of Alpha stock consideration will ultimately depend on the closing price of Alpha common stock on the day of the merger. A 5% increase or decrease in the closing price of Alpha common stock would increase or decrease the Alpha stock consideration by approximately $270,592.
 
 
 
Employee incentive awards consist of outstanding cash incentive unit awards granted on or prior to January 27, 2011 and earned at the maximum level of achievement and restricted unit and director fee unit awards granted on or prior to January 27, 2011 and earned at the target level of achievement. The estimated fair value per unit of the awards was based on the closing price of Alpha common stock of $51.21 per share on May 6, 2011 plus $10.00 per share. The fair value of these awards will ultimately depend on the number of awards outstanding and the closing price of Alpha common stock at the time of the Merger.
 
 
 
 
 
Note 3. Pro forma adjustments
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


