FILE:ANR/ANR-8K-20110328163701.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[  ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[  ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[  ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Background
 
As previously disclosed, on January 28, 2011, Alpha Natural Resources, Inc., a Delaware corporation (Alpha), and one of its wholly owned subsidiaries entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger with Massey Energy Company, a Delaware corporation (Massey), providing for the acquisition of Massey by Alpha (the Massey Merger).
On April 19, 2010, Massey acquired Cumberland Resources Corporation and certain affiliate companies (Cumberland).  On July 31, 2009, Alpha merged with and into Foundation Coal Holdings, Inc., a Delaware corporation (Foundation), with Foundation continuing as the surviving corporation of the Merger under the name Alpha Natural Resources, Inc.
Alpha is today filing additional financial information related to these transactions as Exhibit 99.1, Exhibit 99.2, Exhibit 99.3 and Exhibit 99.4, for purposes of incorporation by reference in its Registration Statement on Form S-3 (No. 333-165473) (the Form S-3), as amended by a post-effective amendment to the Form S-3 concurrently herewith.
 
 
Alpha is filing with this Current Report on Form 8-K the following financial statements:
 
Massey audited consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, audited consolidated statements of income, shareholders equity and cash flows for each of the three years ended December 31, 2010, and related notes thereto.
 
The Cumberland Resource Group audited combined balance sheets as of December 31, 2009 and 2008 and the related statements of income, stockholders equity and members capital and comprehensive income, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2009, and related notes thereto.
 
Alpha (formerly Foundation) unaudited consolidated balance sheets as of June 30, 2009 and December 31, 2008, statements of operations and comprehensive income (loss) for the three and six months ended June 30, 2009 and 2008, and statements of cash flows for the six months ended June 30, 2009 and 2008 and related notes thereto.
 
 
Alpha is filing with this Current Report on Form 8-K the following unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated financial information relating to the Massey Merger:
 
Unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2010, unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2010, and related notes thereto.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 23.1
 
 
 
We consent to the incorporation by reference of our report dated March 1, 2011, with respect to the consolidated financial statements and schedule of Massey Energy Company included in the Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 1-32331) of Alpha Natural Resources, Inc. filed on March 28, 2011.
 
/s/ Ernst & Young LLP

Exhibit 23.2
 
 
We consent to the incorporation by reference in the registration statements (Nos. 333-160937, 333-121670 and 333-166959) on Form S-8, (No. 333-165473) on Form S-3ASR, and (No. 333-159801) on Form S-8 POS of Alpha Natural Resources, Inc. of our report dated February 17, 2010, with respect to the combined balance sheets of the Cumberland Resource Group (formerly known as The Combined Entities of The Cumberland Group) as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, and the related combined statements of income, stockholders equity and members capital and comprehensive income, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2009, which report appears in this Current Report on Form 8-K of Alpha Natural Resources, Inc.
 
 
/s/ KPMG LLP
 
Roanoke, Virginia
March 25, 2011

EXHIBIT 99.1
The Board of Directors and Shareholders of Massey Energy Company
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Massey Energy Company as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, and the related consolidated statements of income, shareholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2010. Our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed in Item 15(a). These financial statements and schedule are the responsibility of the Companys management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and schedule based on our audits.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Massey Energy Company at December 31, 2010 and 2009, and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2010, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.  Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all material respects the information set forth therein.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), Massey Energy Companys internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2010, based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated March 1, 2011 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
/s/ Ernst & Young LLP
Richmond, Virginia
March 1, 2011
 
 
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
 
 
 
 
 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Basis of Presentation
 
The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Massey Energy Company (we, our, or us), our wholly-owned and majority-owned direct and indirect subsidiaries.  Inter-company transactions and accounts are eliminated in consolidation.  We have no independent assets or operations.  We do not have a controlling interest in any separate independent operations.  Investments in business entities in which we do not have control, but have the ability to exercise significant influence over the operating and financial policies, are accounted for under the equity method.
 
All of our direct and substantially all of our indirect operating subsidiaries, each such subsidiary being indirectly 100% owned by us, fully and unconditionally, jointly and severally, guarantee our obligations under the 6.875% senior notes due 2013 (6.875% Notes), the 3.25% convertible senior notes due 2015 (3.25% Notes) and the 2.25% convertible senior notes due 2024 (2.25% Notes).  The subsidiaries not providing a guarantee of the 6.875% Notes, the 3.25% Notes and the 2.25% Notes are minor (as defined under Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Rule 3-10(h)(6) of Regulation S-X).  See Note 10 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a more complete discussion of debt.
 
We have evaluated subsequent events through the date the Consolidated Financial Statements were issued. See Note 24 for more information.
 
Use of Estimates
 
The preparation of the financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect reported amounts.  These estimates are based on information available as of the date of the financial statements.  Therefore, actual results could differ from those estimates. The most significant estimates used in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements are related to impairments of property, plant and equipment, defined benefit pension plans, coal workers pneumoconiosis (black lung), workers compensation and supplemental compensation benefits, other postretirement benefits, reclamation and mine closure obligations, contingencies and related insurance recoveries, income taxes, coal reserve estimates, stock options and derivative instruments.
 
Fair Value Measurements
 
We adopted new accounting guidance on January 1, 2008 and 2009, for financial and non-financial assets and liabilities, respectively, that requires their categorization based upon three levels of judgment associated with the inputs used to measure their fair value.  Neither adoption had a material impact on our financial position or results of operations.  See Note 20 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information.
 
In January 2010, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the FASB) issued an accounting standard update, amending disclosure requirements related to Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures, as follows:
 
 
 
This accounting standard update is effective for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2009, except for the disclosures about purchases, sales, issuances and settlements in the reconciliation of activity in Level 3 fair value measurements, which are effective for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2010. The initial adoption of this accounting standard update did not have a material impact on our financial position or results of operations and the adoption for disclosures effective for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2010 is not expected to have a material impact on our cash flows, financial position or results of operations.  See Note 20 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on our Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Revenue Recognition
 
Produced coal revenue is realized and earned when title passes to the customer.  Coal sales are made to our customers under the terms of coal supply agreements, most of which are long-term (one year or greater).  Under the typical terms of these coal supply agreements, title and risk of loss transfer to the customer at the mine, dock, or port, where coal is loaded to the rail, barge, ocean-going vessel, truck or other transportation source(s) that serves each of our mines.  We incur certain add-on taxes and fees on coal sales.  Coal sales reported in Produced coal revenues include these add-on taxes and fees charged by various federal and state governmental bodies.
 
Freight and handling revenue consists of shipping and handling costs invoiced to coal customers and paid to third-party carriers. These revenues are directly offset by Freight and handling costs.
 
Purchased coal revenue represents revenue recognized from the sale of coal purchased from third-party production sources.  We take title to the purchased coal, which we then resell to our customers.  Typically, title and risk of loss transfer to the customer at the mine, dock or port, where coal is loaded to the rail, barge, ocean-going vessel, truck or other transportation source(s).
 
Other revenue includes refunds on railroad agreements, royalties related to coal lease agreements, gas well revenue, gains on the sale of non-strategic assets and reserve exchanges, joint venture revenue and other miscellaneous revenue.  Royalty income generally results from the lease or sublease of mineral rights to third parties, with payments based upon a percentage of the selling price or an amount per ton of coal produced.  Certain agreements require minimum lease payments regardless of the extent to which minerals are produced from the leasehold.  The terms of these agreements generally range from specified periods of 5 to 10 years, or can be for an unspecified period until all reserves are depleted.
 
Derivative Instruments
 
Our coal sales and coal purchase contracts that do not qualify for the normal purchase normal sale (NPNS) exception as prescribed by current accounting guidance are offset on a counterparty-by-counterparty basis for derivative instruments executed with the same counterparty under a master netting arrangement.
 
Cash and Cash Equivalents
 
Cash and cash equivalents are stated at cost, which approximates fair value.  Cash equivalents are primarily invested in money market funds, which consist of highly liquid investments with maturities of 90 days or less at the date of purchase.
 
Short-Term Investment
 
Short-term investment at December 31, 2009 was comprised of an investment in The Reserve Primary Fund (Primary Fund), a money market fund that suspended redemptions in September 2008 and was subsequently liquidated.  Upon suspension of redemptions, we determined that our investment in the Primary Fund did not meet the definition of a security, within the scope of current accounting guidance, since the equity investment no longer had a readily determinable fair value.  Therefore, the investment was classified as a short-term investment, subject to the cost method of accounting, on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Trade Receivables
 
Trade accounts receivable are recorded at the invoiced amount and are non-interest bearing.  We maintain a bad debt reserve based upon the expected collectability of our accounts receivable.  The reserve includes specific amounts for accounts that are likely to be uncollectible, as determined by such variables as customer creditworthiness, the age of the receivables, bankruptcies and disputed amounts.  Account balances are charged off against the reserve after all means of collection have been exhausted and the potential for recovery is considered remote.
 
Inventories
 
Produced coal and supplies inventories generally are stated at the lower of average cost or net realizable value.  Coal inventory costs include labor, supplies, equipment, operating overhead and other related costs.  Purchased coal inventories are stated at the lower of cost, computed on the first-in, first-out method, or net realizable value.
 
Surface mine stripping costs
 
We account for the costs of removing overburden and waste materials (stripping costs) at surface mines differently, depending upon whether the costs are incurred prior to producing coal (pre-production) versus after a more than de minimis amount of shippable product is produced (post-production).  Production-related stripping costs are only included as a component of inventory if they are associated with extracted or saleable inventories.  Pre-production stripping costs are capitalized in mine development and amortized over the life of the developed pit consistent with coal industry practices.  Post-production stripping costs are expensed as incurred and recorded as Cost of produced coal revenue.
 
Pre-production stripping costs  At existing surface operations, additional pits may be added to increase production capacity in order to meet customer requirements.  These expansions may require significant capital to purchase additional equipment, expand the workforce, build or improve existing haul roads and create the initial pre-production box cut to remove overburden (i.e. advance stripping costs) for new pits at existing operations.  If these pits operate in a separate and distinct area of the mine, the costs associated with initially uncovering coal (i.e. advance stripping costs incurred for the initial box cuts) for production are capitalized in mine development and amortized over the life of the developed pit consistent with coal industry practices.
 
Post-production stripping costs  Where new pits are routinely developed as part of a contiguous mining sequence, we expense such costs as incurred.  The development of a contiguous pit typically reflects the planned progression of an existing pit, thus maintaining production levels from the same mining area utilizing the same employee group and equipment.
 
Income Taxes
 
We account for income taxes under the liability method, which requires that deferred tax assets and liabilities be recognized using enacted tax rates for the effect of temporary differences between the book and tax bases of recorded assets and liabilities.  It also requires that deferred tax assets be reduced by a valuation allowance if it is more likely than not that some portion of the deferred tax asset will not be realized. In evaluating the need for a valuation allowance, we take into account various factors, including carrybacks, the expected level of future taxable income and available tax planning strategies.  If actual results differ from the assumptions made in the evaluation of our valuation allowance, we record a change in valuation allowance through income tax expense in the period such determination is made.
 
A tax position is initially recognized in the financial statements when it is more likely than not the position will be sustained upon examination by applicable taxing authorities. Such tax positions are initially and subsequently measured as the largest amount of tax benefit that is more likely than not to be realized upon ultimate settlement with the taxing authority assuming full knowledge of the position and all relevant facts.  We accrue interest and penalties, if any, related to unrecognized tax benefits in Other noncurrent liabilities and recognize the related expense in Income tax expense.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Property, Plant and Equipment
 
Property, plant and equipment are carried at cost and stated net of accumulated depreciation.  Expenditures that extend the useful lives of existing buildings and equipment are capitalized. Maintenance and repairs are expensed as incurred.  Coal exploration costs are expensed as incurred.  Costs incurred to maintain current production capacity at a mine and exploration expenditures are charged to operating costs as incurred, including costs related to drilling and study costs incurred to convert or upgrade mineral resources to reserves.  Development costs, including pre-production stripping costs, applicable to the opening of new coal mines and certain mine expansion projects are capitalized until production begins.  When properties are retired or otherwise disposed, the related cost and accumulated depreciation are removed from the respective accounts and any profit or loss on disposition is credited or charged to Other revenue.
 
Our coal reserves are controlled either through direct ownership or through leasing arrangements.  Mining properties owned in fee represent owned coal properties carried at cost.  Leased mineral rights represent leased coal properties carried at the cost of acquiring those leases.  The leases are generally long-term in nature (original term five to fifty years or until the mineable and merchantable coal reserves are exhausted), and substantially all of the leases contain provisions that allow for automatic extension of the lease term as long as mining continues.
 
Depreciation of buildings, plants and equipment is calculated on the straight-line method over their estimated useful lives or lease terms as follows:
 
Ownership of assets under capital leases transfers to us at the end of the lease term.  Depreciation of assets under capital leases is included within Depreciation, depletion and amortization.
 
Amortization of development costs is computed using the units-of-production method over the estimated proven and probable reserve tons.
 
Depletion of mining properties owned in fee and leased mineral rights is computed using the units-of-production method over the estimated proven and probable reserve tons (as adjusted for recoverability factors). As of December 31, 2010, approximately $227.7 million of costs associated with mining properties owned in fee and leased mineral rights are not currently subject to depletion as mining has not begun or production has been temporarily idled on the associated coal reserves.
 
We capitalize certain costs incurred in the development of internal-use software, including external direct material and service costs.  All costs capitalized are amortized using the straight-line method over the estimated useful life not to exceed 7 years.
 
Acquired Coal Sales Contracts, Transportation Contracts, and Mining Permits
 
Application of business combination accounting in connection with the acquisition of Cumberland Resources Corporation and certain affiliated entities (Cumberland) resulted in the recognition of a significant asset for above market-priced coal sales contacts, transportation contracts, and mining permits on the date of the acquisition. Our coal sales contracts and transportation contracts are amortized based on the actual amount of tons shipped under each contract.  Mining permits are amortized using the units-of-production method over the estimated proven and probable reserve tons. These assets are recorded under the caption Intangible assets, net in the Consolidated Balance Sheets and the amortization expense is reflected under the caption Depreciation, depletion and amortization in the Consolidated Statements of Income.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Goodwill
 
Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the net identifiable tangible and intangible assets of acquired companies. Goodwill is not amortized; instead, it is tested for impairment annually or more frequently if indicators of impairment exist. As a result of the Cumberland Acquisition, we recorded Goodwill in our Consolidated Balance Sheet. We determined that the goodwill generated from the acquisition was directly attributable to the operating efficiencies at the Cumberland entities. Therefore, the goodwill was allocated entirely to the Cumberland reporting unit.
 
On an ongoing basis, absent any impairment indicators, we perform goodwill impairment testing as of October 1 of each year. We test consolidated goodwill for impairment using a fair value approach at the reporting unit level, and perform the goodwill impairment test in two steps.  Step one compares the fair value of the reporting unit to its carrying amount. If step one indicates that an impairment potentially exists, the second step is performed to measure the amount of impairment, if any. Goodwill impairment exists when the estimated fair value of goodwill is less than its carrying value.
 
For purposes of the step one analysis, an estimate of fair value for the reporting unit is derived from a combination of the income approach and the market approach.  Under the income approach, the fair value of each reporting unit is based on the present value of estimated future cash flows. The income approach is dependent on a number of significant management assumptions including markets, sales volumes and prices, costs to produce, capital spending, working capital changes and the discount rate. The discount rate is commensurate with the risk inherent in the projected cash flows and reflects the rate of return required by an investor in the current economic conditions.  Under the market approach, estimates of prices reasonably expected to be realized from the sale of the reporting unit are used to determine the fair value of the reporting unit.
 
For purposes of the step two analysis, an estimate of the fair value of goodwill is derived using the same methodology for determining goodwill recognized in a business combination (i.e., the fair value of the reporting unit is allocated to all the assets and liabilities, including any unrecognized intangible assets, as if the reporting unit had been acquired in a business combination and the fair value of the reporting unit was the purchase price paid to acquire the reporting unit, with the residual then recorded as goodwill).
 
Our annual goodwill impairment review performed on October 1, 2010 for the $36.7 million of goodwill recorded in our Consolidated Balance Sheet indicated the fair value of the reporting unit exceeded its carrying value.
 
Asset Impairment and Disposal of Long-Lived Assets
 
Long-lived assets, such as property, equipment, mine development costs, owned and leased mineral rights longwall panel costs and purchased intangibles subject to amortization, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Recoverability of assets to be held and used is measured by a comparison of the carrying amount of an asset to its estimated fair value.  The fair value is determined using the estimated undiscounted cash flows expected to be generated by the assets along with, where appropriate, market inputs.  The determination of fair value requires the use of significant judgment and estimates about assumptions that management believes are appropriate in the circumstances although it is reasonably possible that actual performance will differ from these assumptions.  If the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its estimated fair value, an impairment charge is recognized equal to the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds the estimated fair value of the asset.  See Note 6 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Insurance Recoveries
 
Insurance recoveries that are deemed to be probable and reasonably estimable are recognized to the extent of the related loss.  Insurance recoveries that result in gains are recognized only when realized by settlement with the insurers.  The evaluation of insurance recoveries requires estimates and judgments about future results that affect reported amounts and certain disclosures. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
 
Advance Mining Royalties
 
Coal leases that require minimum annual or advance payments and are recoverable from future production are generally deferred and charged to expense as the coal is subsequently produced.  At December 31, 2010 and 2009, advance mining royalties included in Other noncurrent assets totaled $43.5 million and $40.4 million, net of an allowance of $13.2 million and $12.8 million, respectively.
 
Reclamation
 
We record asset retirement obligations (ARO) as a liability based on fair value, which is calculated as the present value of the estimated future cash flows, in the period in which it is incurred. Management and engineers periodically review the estimate of ultimate reclamation liability and the expected period in which reclamation work will be performed. In estimating future cash flows, we consider the estimated current cost of reclamation and apply inflation rates and a third-party profit, as necessary.  The third-party profit is an estimate of the approximate markup that would be charged by contractors for work performed on our behalf.  When the liability is initially recorded, the offset is capitalized by increasing the carrying amount of the related long-lived asset.  Over time, the liability is accreted to its present value each period, and the capitalized cost is depreciated over the useful life of the related asset.  Accretion expense is included in Cost of produced coal revenue.  To settle the liability, the obligation is paid, and to the extent there is a difference between the liability and the amount of cash paid, a gain or loss upon settlement is incurred.  Additionally, we perform a certain amount of required reclamation of disturbed acreage as an integral part of our normal mining process; these costs are expensed as incurred.  See Note 13 for a more complete discussion of our reclamation liability.
 
Pension Plans
 
We sponsor a noncontributory defined benefit pension plan covering substantially all administrative and non-union employees.  Our policy is to annually fund the defined benefit pension plan at or above the minimum amount required by law.  We also sponsor a nonqualified supplemental benefit pension plan for certain salaried employees, which is unfunded.
 
Costs of benefits to be provided under our defined benefit pension plans are accrued over the employees estimated remaining service life.  These costs are determined on an actuarial basis.  We recognize the funded status of our benefit plans in our Consolidated Balance Sheet and recognize as a component of Accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of tax, the gains or losses and prior service costs or credits that arise during the period but are not recognized as components of net periodic benefit cost.  These amounts will be adjusted as they are subsequently recognized as components of net periodic benefit cost. See Note 9 for a more complete discussion of our pension plans.
 
Black Lung Benefits
 
We are responsible under the Federal Coal Mine Health and Safety Act of 1969, as amended, and under various states statutes for the payment of medical and disability benefits to employees and their dependents resulting from occurrences of black lung.  We provide for federal and state black lung claims principally through a self-insurance program.
 
Costs of benefits to be provided under our accumulated black lung obligations are accrued over the employees estimated remaining service life.  These costs are determined on an actuarial basis.  We recognize the funded status of our black lung obligations in our Consolidated Balance Sheet and recognize as a component of Accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of tax, the gains or losses and prior service costs or credits that arise during the period but are not recognized as components of net periodic benefit cost.  We use the service cost method to account for our self-insured black lung obligation.  The liability measured under the service cost method represents the discounted future estimated cost for former employees either receiving or projected to receive benefits, and the portion of the projected liability relative to prior service for active employees projected to receive benefits.  Expense for black lung under the service cost method represents the service cost, which is the portion of the present value of benefits allocated to the current year, interest on the accumulated benefit obligation, and amortization of unrecognized actuarial gains and losses.  We amortize unrecognized actuarial gains and losses over a five-year period.  See Note 15 for a more complete discussion of black lung benefits.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Workers Compensation
 
We are liable for workers compensation benefits for traumatic injuries under state workers compensation laws in states in which we have operations.  Our operations have workers compensation coverage through a combination of either a self-insurance program, or commercial insurance through a deductible or first dollar insurance policy.  We record our self-insured liability on a discounted actuarial basis using various assumptions, including discount rate and future cost trends.  See Note 15 for a more complete discussion of workers compensation benefits.
 
Postretirement Benefits Other than Pensions
 
We sponsor defined benefit health care plans that provide postretirement medical benefits to eligible union and non-union members.  Costs of benefits to be provided under our postretirement benefits other than pensions are accrued over the employees estimated remaining service life.  These costs are determined on an actuarial basis.  We recognize the funded status of our benefit plans in our Consolidated Balance Sheet and recognize as a component of Accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of tax, the gains or losses and prior service costs or credits that arise during the period but are not recognized as components of net periodic benefit cost.  These amounts will be adjusted as they are subsequently recognized as components of net periodic benefit cost.
 
Under the Coal Industry Retiree Health Benefits Act of 1992 (the Coal Act), coal producers are required to fund medical and death benefits of certain retired union coal workers based on premiums assessed by the United Mine Workers of America (UMWA) Benefit Funds.  We treat our obligation under the Coal Act as participation in a multi-employer plan and record the cost of our obligation as expense as payments are assessed.  See Note 14 for a more complete discussion of postretirement benefits other than pensions.
 
Stock-based Compensation
 
We measure the compensation cost of equity instruments based on their grant-date fair value, which is recognized as expense on a straight-line basis over the corresponding vesting period.  We use the Black-Scholes option-pricing model to determine the fair value of stock options as of the date of grant and certain liability awards with option characteristics (i.e., stock appreciation rights, or SARs).  See Note 16 for a more complete discussion of stock-based compensation.
 
Earnings per Share
 
Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing net income by the weighted-average number of outstanding common shares for the period. Diluted earnings per share reflects the potential dilution that could occur if instruments that may require the issuance of common shares in the future were settled and the underlying common shares were issued. Diluted earnings per share is computed by increasing the weighted-average number of outstanding common shares computed in basic earnings per share to include the additional common shares that would be outstanding after issuance and adjusting net income from changes that would result from the issuance. Only those securities that are dilutive are included in the calculation. See Note 2 for a more complete discussion.
 
Recent Accounting Pronouncements
 
In April 2010, the FASB issued an accounting standard update, amending disclosure requirements related to income taxes as a result of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (PPACA).  Beginning in fiscal year 2014, the tax deduction available to us will be reduced to the extent our drug expenses are reimbursed under the Medicare Part D retiree drug subsidy program.  Because retiree health care liabilities and the related tax impacts are already reflected in our Consolidated Financial Statements, we were required to recognize the full accounting impact of this accounting standard update in the period in which the PPACA was signed into law.  The total non-cash charge to Income tax expense related to the reduction in the tax benefit was $2.6 million, and was recorded in 2010.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The number of shares of Common Stock used to calculate basic earnings per share for the year ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, is based on the weighted average of outstanding shares of Common Stock during the respective periods.  The number of shares of Common Stock used to calculate diluted earnings per share is based on the number of shares of Common Stock used to calculate basic earnings per share plus the dilutive effect of stock options and other stock-based instruments held by our employees and directors during each period and debt securities currently convertible into shares of Common Stock during each period.  The effect of dilutive securities issuances in the amount of 2.0 million, 1.2 million and 0.01 million shares of Common Stock for the year ended December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively, were excluded from the calculation of diluted net (loss) income per share of Common Stock, as such inclusion would result in antidilution.
 
The computations for basic and diluted net (loss) income per share are based on the following per share information:
 
The 2.25% Notes are convertible by holders into shares of Common Stock during certain periods under certain circumstances.  The 2.25% Notes were eligible for conversion at December 31, 2010.  If all of the 2.25% Notes outstanding at December 31, 2010 had been converted at that date, we would have issued 287,113 shares of Common Stock.
 
The 3.25% Notes are convertible under certain circumstances and during certain periods into (i) cash, up to the aggregate principal amount of the 3.25% Notes subject to conversion and (ii) cash, Common Stock or a combination thereof, at our election in respect to the remainder (if any) of our conversion obligation.  As of December 31, 2010, the 3.25% Notes had not reached the specified threshold for conversion.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On April 19, 2010, we completed the acquisition of Cumberland for a purchase price of $644.7 million in cash and 6,519,034 shares of Common Stock.  Prior to the acquisition, Cumberland was one of the largest privately held coal producers in the United States.  Cumberlands operations include primarily underground coal mines in Southwestern Virginia and Eastern Kentucky.  As a result of the acquisition, we obtained an estimated 415 million tons of contiguous coal reserves. We also obtained a preparation plant in Kentucky served by the CSX railroad and a preparation plant in Virginia served by the Norfolk Southern railroad.  We did not incur or assume any third-party debt as a result of the acquisition of Cumberland.  The acquisition of Cumberland increases our metallurgical coal reserves, strengthens our ability to globally market steam and metallurgical quality coal, and optimizes both operational best practices and working capital generation.
 
The acquisition of Cumberland was accounted for as a business combination.  The fair value of the total consideration transferred was $934.2 million.  The acquisition date fair value of each class of consideration transferred was as follows:
 
The Fair value of shares of Common Stock transferred was determined by using the Common Stocks closing price of $44.41 on the day of the acquisition.
 
In determining the purchase price, we also considered Cumberlands strong management team and the efficiency of its operations. Because these factors do not arise from contractual or other legal rights, nor are they separable, the value attributable to these factors is included in the amount recognized as goodwill.  The goodwill is deductible for tax purposes.
 
The purchase price was allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on estimated fair values determined by appraisals of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed.  The final purchase price allocation was as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Total revenues and (Loss) income before taxes reported in the Consolidated Statements of Income for the year ended December 31, 2010 included $438.2 million and $26.5 million, respectively, related to the operations acquired in the Cumberland acquisition.
 
The following unaudited pro forma information has been prepared for illustrative purposes only and assumes the acquisition of Cumberland occurred at the beginning of each of the periods being presented.  The unaudited pro forma results have been prepared based on estimates and assumptions that we believe are reasonable; however, they are not necessarily indicative of the consolidated results of operations had the acquisition of Cumberland occurred at the beginning of each of the periods presented or of future results of operations.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Inventories consisted of the following:
 
Saleable coal represents coal ready for sale, including inventories designated for customer facilities under consignment arrangements of $34.8 million and $43.7 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.  Raw coal represents coal that generally requires further processing prior to shipment to the customer.
 
 
Other current assets are comprised of the following:
 
During 2010, we impaired $5.1 million of Longwall panel costs deemed not to be recoverable at UBB due to an accident that occurred in April 2010.  See Note 6 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information.
 
Deposits consist primarily of funds placed in restricted accounts with financial institutions to collateralize letters of credit that support workers compensation requirements, insurance and other obligations.  As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, Deposits includes $59.4 million and $46.0 million, respectively, of funds pledged as collateral to support $58.2 million and $45.1 million, respectively, of outstanding letters of credit.  In addition, Deposits at December 31, 2010 and 2009, includes $11.6 million and $12.1 million, respectively of United States Treasury securities supporting various regulatory obligations.  As of December 31, 2009, Deposits included a $72.0 million appeal bond we had been required to post related to litigation against us, which was released by the West Virginia Supreme Court of Appeals during the first quarter of 2010, as the final appeal of the case at the state level was resolved in our favor.  During 2010, we posted $9.3 million of cash as collateral for an appeal bond related to pending litigation with one of our customers (see Note 22 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information).  Deposits also includes $17.8 million and $1.6 million for future equipment deliveries as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
 
The Other caption in the table above at December 31, 2010 includes $10.0 million associated with the funding of a portion of our deferred compensation plan.
 
We have committed to the divestiture of certain mining equipment assets which are not part of our short-term mining plan.  At December 31, 2010, and 2009, the carrying amount of assets held for sale totaled $24.2 million and $22.3 million, respectively and is included in Other current assets.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Property, plant and equipment is comprised of the following:
 
Land, buildings and equipment includes gross assets under capital leases of $12.3 million and $12.9 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively
 
On April 5, 2010, an explosion occurred at the Upper Big Branch (UBB) mine of our Performance resource group, which damaged assets associated with the operation at UBB.  Therefore during 2010, we recorded impairment charges related to the UBB incident of $63.6 million, which are included in Depreciation, depletion and amortization applicable to Cost of produced coal revenue, in our Consolidated Statements of Income.  In accordance with relevant accounting requirements, Property, plant and equipment (which included mine development) and longwall panel costs located at or near UBB with a carrying amount of $35.4 million and $28.2 million (of which $5.1 million was considered current assets and $23.1 million noncurrent assets), respectively, were deemed to be destroyed or probable of abandonment.  Accordingly, the carrying value of the assets was completely written off.  There was approximately $14.9 million of assets at or near the UBB mine that were not impaired; our determination of recoverability related to these assets was based on our assumptions about future operations at UBB and possible alternatives to accessing the related coal reserves.  Given the ongoing investigations into the cause of the UBB tragedy and the uncertainty around the future operations at the UBB mine, there is a reasonable possibility that additional impairments could be recorded in future periods.
 
During 2010, we recorded $20.5 million of impairment charges for unamortized mine development costs at certain idled mines.  In light of increased regulatory scrutiny and the current production levels at certain of our mining locations,  management determined certain assets were unlikely to be recovered in future periods. The remaining carrying value of the unamortized mine development costs for these idled mines is immaterial. The charges are included in Depreciation, depletion and amortization in the Consolidated Statement of Income.
 
During 2010 and 2009, we received $22.2 million and $15.4 million, respectively, in insurance proceeds for reconstruction of the Bandmill preparation plant and reimbursement of related expense. Of the 2010 proceeds, $15.5 million are included in Cash utilized for investing and $6.7 million are included in Cash from operations in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. The receipts received in 2010 resulted in a pre-tax gain of $18.4 million on insurance recovery related to the Bandmill preparation plant fire property insurance recovery. $11.2 million of the gain was recorded in Other revenue and $7.2 million of the gain was recorded in Cost of produced coal revenue in the Consolidated Statement of Income.
 
During 2010 and 2008 we sold and leased-back certain mining equipment. We received net proceeds of $16.5 million and $41.3 million, for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2008, respectively, resulting in net deferred gains of $0.5 million and $2.4 million, respectively. During 2009, we had no material sale-leaseback transactions.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As part of the acquisition of Cumberland during 2010, we acquired Intangible assets with a fair value of $167.0 million.  Intangible assets are comprised of the following:
 
Our Coal sales contracts and Transportation contracts are amortized based on the actual amount of tons shipped under each contract.  Mining permits are amortized using the units-of-production method over the estimated proven and probable reserve tons.  For the year ended December 31, 2010, we recorded $46.1 million in amortization expense related to the Intangible assets in Depreciation, depletion, and amortization in the Consolidated Statement of Income.
 
Estimated amortization expense for Intangible assets for the next five calendar years is as follows:
 
 
As a result of the acquisition of Cumberland during 2010, we recorded Goodwill in our Consolidated Balance Sheet.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Defined Benefit Pension Plans
 
We sponsor a qualified non-contributory defined benefit pension plan, which covers substantially all administrative and non-union employees.  Based on a participants entrance date to the plan, the participant may accrue benefits based on one of four benefit formulas.  Two of the formulas provide pension benefits based on the employees years of service and average annual compensation during the highest five consecutive years of service.  The third formula credits certain eligible employees with flat dollar contributions based on years of service with the Company and years of service under the UMWA 1974 Pension Plan.  The fourth formula provides benefits under a cash balance formula with contribution credits based on hours worked.  This last formula has a guaranteed rate of return on contributions of 4% for all contributions after December 31, 2003.  Funding for the plan is generally at the minimum contribution level required by applicable regulations. We made contributions of $19.8 million and $15.0 million to the qualified plan during 2010 and 2009, respectively.
 
An independent trustee holds the plan assets for the qualified defined benefit pension plan.  The plan assets include cash and cash equivalents, corporate and government bonds, preferred and common stocks and an investment in a group annuity contract.  We have an internal investment committee (Investment Committee) that sets investment policy, selects and monitors investment managers and monitors asset allocation.  Diversification of assets is employed to reduce risk.  The long-term target asset allocation is 65% for equity securities (including 50% domestic and 15% international) and 35% for cash and interest bearing securities.  The investment policy is based on the assumption that the overall portfolio volatility will be similar to that of the target allocation.  Given the volatility of the capital markets, strategic adjustments in various asset classes may be required to rebalance asset allocation back to its target policy.  Investment fund managers are not permitted to invest in certain securities and transactions as outlined by the investment policy statements specific to each investment category without prior Investment Committee approval.
 
In January 2009, the Investment Committee decided to reduce the targeted asset allocation for an interim period for equity securities to 25% of current plan assets given the recent volatility and uncertainty in the equity securities market.  The Investment Committee decided to invest $65 million of plan assets previously invested in equity securities in a fixed duration, fixed income strategy with an effective duration of approximately four years.  The Investment Committee expects to rebalance the asset portfolio consistent with the long-term target asset allocation at the maturity of the fixed income, fixed duration strategy.
 
To develop the expected long-term rate of return on assets assumption, we considered the historical returns and the future expectations for returns for each asset class, as well as the long-term target asset allocation of the pension portfolio.  This resulted in the selection of the 8.0% long-term rate of return on assets assumption for the year ended December 31, 2010.  As we plan to return to our targeted asset allocation, we believe the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets of 8.0% continues to be appropriate.
 
The asset allocation for our funded qualified defined benefit pension plan at the end of 2010 and 2009, is as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Under the fair value hierarchy, our qualified defined benefit pension plan assets fall under and (see Note 20 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the fair value hierarchy).  The following table provides the fair value by each major category of plan assets:
Level I - quoted prices in active markets
Level II - other observable inputs
 
In addition to the qualified defined benefit pension plan noted above, we sponsor a nonqualified supplemental benefit pension plan for certain salaried employees.  Participants in this nonqualified supplemental benefit pension plan accrue benefits under the same formula as the qualified defined benefit pension plan, however, where the benefit is capped by Internal Revenue Service (IRS) limitations, this nonqualified supplemental benefit pension plan compensates for benefits in excess of the IRS limit.  This supplemental benefit pension plan is unfunded, with benefit payments made by us.
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following table sets forth the change in benefit obligation, plan assets and funded status of both the qualified defined benefit pension plan and nonqualified supplemental benefit pension plan:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The table below details the changes to Accumulated other comprehensive loss related to defined benefit pension plans:
 
We expect the estimated net loss and prior service cost for the defined benefit pension plan that will be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive income into net periodic benefit cost over the next fiscal year to be $16.6 million and $5,000, respectively.
 
The assumptions used in determining pension benefit obligations for both the qualified defined benefit pension plan and nonqualified supplemental benefit pension plan are as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Net periodic pension expense for both the qualified defined benefit pension plan and nonqualified supplemental benefit pension plan includes the following components:
 
The assumptions used in determining pension expense for both the qualified defined benefit pension plan and nonqualified supplemental benefit pension plan are as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
We expect to make contributions of approximately $20 million in 2011. We also expect to contribute approximately $0.9 million for benefit payments to participants in 2011 for the nonqualified supplemental benefit pension plan.
 
The following benefit payments from both the qualified defined benefit pension plan and the nonqualified supplemental benefit pension plan, which reflect expected future service, as appropriate, are expected to be paid from the plans:
 
Multi-Employer Pension
 
Under labor contracts with the UMWA, certain operations make payments into two multi-employer defined benefit pension plan trusts established for the benefit of certain union employees.  The contributions are based on tons of coal produced and hours worked.  Such payments aggregated to less than $600,000 for each of the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008.
 
Defined Contribution Plan
 
We currently sponsor a defined contribution pension plan for certain union employees.  The plan is non-contributory and our contributions are based on hours worked.  Contributions to this plan were approximately $75,000 for each of the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008.
 
Salary Deferral and Profit Sharing (401(K)) Plan
 
We also sponsor three salary deferral and profit sharing plans covering substantially all administrative and non-union employees.  The maximum salary deferral rate is 75% of eligible pay, subject to IRS limitations.  Prior to May 1, 2009, we contributed an amount equal to 30% of the first 10% of each participants compensation contributed.  During 2010, we contributed amounts between 10% to 60% of the first 10% of each participants compensation contributed.  Our contributions aggregated approximately $4.4 million, $2.5 million and $4.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Our debt is comprised of the following:
 
The weighted average effective interest rate of the outstanding borrowings was 7.3% at both December 31, 2010 and 2009.
 
Convertible Debt Securities
 
The discount associated with the 3.25% Notes is being amortized via the effective-interest method, increasing the reported liability until the notes are carried at par value on their maturity date.  We separately account for the liability and equity components in a manner reflective of our nonconvertible debt borrowing rate, which was determined to be 7.75% at the date of issuance. We recognized $19.9 million, $18.4 million, and $6.9 million of pre-tax non-cash interest expense for the amortization of the discount for the twelve months ended December 31, 2010, 2009, 2008, respectively.
 
6.625% Notes
 
During January 2010, we redeemed at par the remaining $21.9 million of our 6.625% senior notes due 2010.
 
Financing Transactions
 
On August 5, 2008, we commenced a consent solicitation and tender offer for any and all of the outstanding $335 million of 6.625% Notes and concurrently we commenced registered underwritten public offerings of convertible senior notes (the 3.25% Notes) and shares of Common Stock and announced our intention to use the proceeds of the offerings to purchase some or all of the 6.625% Notes in the tender offer and for general corporate purposes.
 
On August 19, 2008, we settled with holders of $311.5 million of the 6.625% Notes, representing approximately 93% of the outstanding 6.625% Notes, who tendered their 6.625% Notes pursuant to our consent solicitation and tender offer for the 6.625% Notes.  The total consideration for these 6.625% Notes was $1,026.57 per $1,000 principal amount of the 6.625% Notes.  The total consideration included a consent payment of $25 per $1,000 principal amount of the 6.625% Notes.  In addition to the total consideration, holders also received interest which was accrued and unpaid since the previous interest payment date.
 
As a result of the consents of approximately 93% of the outstanding 6.625% Notes, we received the requisite consents to execute a supplemental indenture relating to the 6.625% Notes, which eliminated substantially all of the restrictive covenants in the 6.625% Notes indenture.
 
On September 3, 2008, we settled with holders of an additional $1.6 million of the 6.625% Notes, who tendered their 6.625% Notes after the consent solicitation deadline.  The total consideration for these 6.625% Notes was $1,001.57 per $1,000 principal amount of the 6.625% Notes.  In addition to the total consideration, holders also received interest which was accrued and unpaid since the previous interest payment date.
 
During 2008, we recognized charges totaling $15.2 million, including $1.9 million for the write-off of unamortized financing fees and $4.2 million for the unamortized interest rate swap termination payment (as discussed below) recorded in Interest expense, and $9.1 million for the debt consent solicitation and tender offer recorded in Loss on financing transactions.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fair Value Hedge Adjustment
 
On December 9, 2005, we exercised our right to terminate our interest rate swap agreement, which was designated as a hedge against a portion of the 6.625% Notes.  We paid a $7.9 million termination payment to the swap counterparty on December 13, 2005 (Fair value hedge adjustment).  The termination payment was being amortized into Interest expense through November 15, 2010, the maturity date of the 6.625% Notes.  As discussed in this Note under Financing Transactions above, on August 19, 2008, we settled with holders of approximately 93% of the outstanding 6.625% Notes that were tendered pursuant to our consent solicitation and tender offer for the 6.625% Notes.  As a result of the acceptance of the consent solicitation and tender offer of the 6.625% Notes, the remaining balance of the Fair value hedge adjustment of $4.2 million was written off to Interest expense.  For the year ended December 31, 2008, $5.1 million of the Fair value hedge adjustment was recorded in Interest expense.
 
6.875% Notes
 
The 6.875% Notes are unsecured obligations ranking equally with all other unsecured senior indebtedness of ours and are guaranteed by substantially all of our current and future subsidiaries, (the Guarantors). Interest on the 6.875% Notes is payable on December 15 and June 15 of each year.  We may redeem the 6.875% Notes, in whole or in part, for cash at any time on or after December 15, 2009 at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount plus a premium declining ratably to par, plus accrued and unpaid interest.  The guarantees are full and unconditional obligations of the Guarantors and are joint and several among the Guarantors.  The subsidiaries not providing a guarantee of the 6.875% Notes are minor (as defined under SEC Rule 3-10(h)(6) of Regulation S-X).
 
The 6.875% Notes contain a number of significant restrictions and covenants that limit our ability and our subsidiaries ability to, among other things:  (i) incur liens and debt or provide guarantees in respect of obligations of any other person; (ii) increase Common Stock dividends above specified levels; (iii) make loans and investments; (iv) prepay, redeem or repurchase debt; (v) engage in mergers, consolidations and asset dispositions; (vi) engage in affiliate transactions; (vii) create any lien or security interest in any real property or equipment; (viii) engage in sale and leaseback transactions; and (ix) restrict distributions from subsidiaries.  We are currently in compliance with all covenants.
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.25% Notes
 
On August 12, 2008, we issued $690 million of 3.25% Notes in a registered underwritten public offering, resulting in net proceeds to us of approximately $674.1 million.  The 3.25% Notes are guaranteed on a senior unsecured basis by the Guarantors.  The subsidiaries not providing a guarantee of the 3.25% Notes are minor (as defined under SEC Rule 3-10(h)(6) of Regulation S-X).  The guarantees are full and unconditional obligations of the Guarantors and are joint and several among the Guarantors.  The 3.25% Notes and the guarantees rank equally with all of our and the Guarantors existing and future senior unsecured indebtedness and rank senior to all of our and the Guarantors indebtedness that is expressly subordinated to the 3.25% Notes and the guarantees, but are effectively subordinated to all of our and the Guarantors existing and future senior secured indebtedness to the extent of the value of the assets securing the indebtedness and to all liabilities of our subsidiaries that are not Guarantors.
 
The 3.25% Notes bear interest at a rate of 3.25% per annum, payable semi-annually in arrears on August 1 and February 1 of each year.  The 3.25% Notes will mature on August 1, 2015, unless earlier repurchased by us or converted.
 
The 3.25% Notes are convertible in certain circumstances during certain periods at an initial conversion rate of 11.4106 shares of Common Stock per $1,000 principal amount of 3.25% Notes (which represented an initial conversion price of approximately $87.64 per share), subject to adjustment in certain circumstances.  The conversion rate as of December 31, 2010 was 11.4542 shares of Common Stock per $1,000 principal amount of 3.25% Notes.
 
The 3.25% Notes are convertible under certain circumstances and during certain periods into (i) cash, up to the aggregate principal amount of the 3.25% Notes subject to conversion and (ii) cash, shares of Common Stock or a combination thereof, at our election in respect to the remainder (if any) of our conversion obligation.  Subject to earlier repurchase, the 3.25% Notes will be convertible only in the following circumstances and to the following extent:
 
 
 
 
 
None of the 3.25% Notes are currently eligible for conversion.
 
The indenture governing the 3.25% Notes contains customary terms and covenants, including that upon certain events of default occurring and continuing, either the trustee for the 3.25% Notes or the holders of not less than 25% in aggregate principal amount of the 3.25% Notes then outstanding may declare the unpaid principal of the 3.25% Notes and any accrued and unpaid interest thereon immediately due and payable.  In the case of certain events of bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization relating to us, the principal amount of the 3.25% Notes together with any accrued and unpaid interest thereon will automatically become and be immediately due and payable.
 
During 2009 and 2008, we concluded open market purchases of our 3.25% Notes, reducing the net liability outstanding by $9.5 million ($11.9 million of principal amount less $2.4 million of debt discount) and $14.5 million ($19.0 million of principal amount less $4.5 million of debt discount) at a cost of $10.0 million and $10.4 million, respectively, plus accrued interest.  After reversal of the equity component of these convertible notes of $0.3 million and $0.04 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively, a loss of $0.2 million was recorded in 2009 and a gain of $4.1 million was recorded in 2008, in Loss on financing transactions.  Depending on market conditions and covenant restrictions, we may continue to make debt repurchases from time to time through open market purchases, private transactions or otherwise.
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.25% Notes
 
The 2.25% Notes are unsecured obligations of ours, rank equally with all other unsecured senior indebtedness and are guaranteed by the Guarantors. The guarantees are full and unconditional obligations of the Guarantors and are joint and several among the Guarantors. The subsidiaries not providing a guarantee of the 2.25% Notes are minor (as defined under SEC Rule 3-10(h)(6) of Regulation S-X). Interest is payable semiannually on April 1 and October 1 of each year. We registered the 2.25% Notes with the SEC for resale.
 
Holders of the 2.25% Notes may require us to purchase all or a portion of their notes for cash on April 1, 2011, 2014, and 2019, at a purchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the notes to be redeemed, plus any accrued and unpaid interest.  In addition, if we experience certain specified types of fundamental changes on or before April 1, 2011, the holders may require us to purchase the notes for cash.  We may redeem all or a portion of the 2.25% Notes for cash at any time on or after April 6, 2011, at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the notes to be redeemed, plus any accrued and unpaid interest.
 
The 2.25% Notes are convertible during certain periods by holders into shares of Common Stock initially at a conversion rate of 29.7619 shares of Common Stock per $1,000 principal amount of 2.25% Notes (subject to adjustment upon certain events) under the following circumstances: (i) if the price of Common Stock issuable upon conversion reaches specified thresholds; (ii) if we redeem the 2.25% Notes; (iii) upon the occurrence of certain specified corporate transactions; or (iv) if the credit ratings assigned to the 2.25% Notes decline below certain specified levels.  Regarding the thresholds in (i) above, holders may convert each of their notes into shares of Common Stock during any calendar quarter (and only during such calendar quarter) if the last reported sale price of Common Stock for at least 20 trading days during the period of 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the previous calendar quarter is greater than or equal to 120% of the conversion price per share of Common Stock.  The conversion price is $33.60 per share. As of December 31, 2010, the price per share of Common Stock had reached the specified threshold for conversion.  Consequently, the 2.25% Notes are convertible until March 31, 2011, the last day of our first quarter.  The 2.25% Notes may be convertible beyond this date if the specified threshold for conversion is met in subsequent quarters.  If all of the 2.25% Notes outstanding at December 31, 2010 had been eligible for conversion and were converted at that date, we would have issued 287,113 shares of Common Stock.  No conversions occurred during the year.
 
Asset-Based Lending Arrangement
 
On November 8, 2010, we entered into an amended and restated asset-based revolving credit agreement, which provides for available borrowings, including letters of credit, of up to $200 million, depending on the level of eligible inventory and accounts receivable.  Subject to certain conditions, at any time prior to maturity, we may elect to increase the size of the facility up to $250 million if lenders willing to support the additional $50 million can be identified.  The previous asset-based revolving credit agreement provided for available borrowings, including letters of credit, of up to $175 million, depending on the level of eligible inventory and accounts receivable.  In addition, we extended the facilitys maturity to May 2015.  As of December 31, 2010, there were $77.2 million of letters of credit issued and there were no outstanding borrowings under this facility.
 
The facility is collateralized by our accounts receivable, eligible coal inventories located at our facilities and on consignment at customers facilities, and other intangibles.  At December 31, 2010, total remaining availability was $122.8 million based on qualifying inventory and accounts receivable.
 
This facility contains a number of significant restrictions and covenants that limit our ability to, among other things:  (i) incur liens and debt or provide guarantees in respect of obligations of any other person; (ii) increase Common Stock dividends above specified levels; (iii) make loans and investments; (iv) prepay, redeem or repurchase debt; (v) engage in mergers, consolidations and asset dispositions; (vi) engage in affiliate transactions; (vii) create any lien or security interest in any real property or equipment; (viii) engage in sale and leaseback transactions; and (ix) make distributions from subsidiaries.  This facility also contains a financial covenant, which become operative only when our Average Excess Availability (as defined in the facility documents) is less than the greater of i) $30 million and ii) 15% of the aggregate amount of Revolving Commitments (as defined in the facility documents).  The financial covenant requires the maintenance of a Minimum Consolidated Fixed Charge Ratio of 1.00 to 1.00. We are currently in compliance with all covenants under the ABL Facility.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Debt Maturity
 
The aggregate amounts of scheduled long-term debt maturities assuming convertible notes are not eligible for conversion, including capital lease obligations, subsequent to December 31, 2010 are as follows:
 
 
Total interest paid for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, was $77.5 million, $75.5 million and $70.3 million, respectively.
 
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements
 
In the normal course of business, we are a party to certain off-balance sheet arrangements including guarantees, operating leases, indemnifications, and financial instruments with off-balance sheet risk, such as bank letters of credit and performance or surety bonds. Liabilities related to these arrangements are not reflected in the consolidated balance sheets, and, except for the operating leases, which are discussed in Note 17 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, we do not expect any material impact on our cash flows, results of operations or financial condition to result from these off-balance sheet arrangements.
 
From time to time we use bank letters of credit to secure our obligations for workers compensation programs, various insurance contracts and other obligations. At December 31, 2010, we had $135.4 million of letters of credit outstanding of which $58.2 million was collateralized by $59.4 million of cash deposited in restricted, interest bearing accounts pledged to issuing banks and $77.2 million was issued under our asset based lending arrangement. No claims were outstanding against those letters of credit as of December 31, 2010.
 
We use surety bonds to secure reclamation, workers compensation, wage payments and other miscellaneous obligations. As of December 31, 2010, we had $373.5 million of outstanding surety bonds. These bonds were in place to secure obligations as follows: post-mining reclamation bonds of $352.4 million, and other miscellaneous obligation bonds of $21.1 million. The bonds are renewed annually.  Outstanding surety bonds of $46.9 million are secured with letters of credit.
 
Generally, the availability and market terms of surety bonds continue to be challenging. If we are unable to meet certain financial tests applicable to some of our surety bonds, or to the extent that surety bonds otherwise become unavailable, we would need to replace the surety bonds or seek to secure them with letters of credit, cash deposits, or other suitable forms of collateral.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Income tax (benefit) expense included in the Consolidated Statements of Income is as follows:
 
A reconciliation of Income tax (benefit) expense calculated at the federal statutory rate of 35% to our Income tax (benefit) expense on Net income (loss) is as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Deferred taxes reflect the tax effects of differences between the amounts recorded as assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts recorded for income tax purposes.  The tax effects of temporary differences giving rise to deferred tax assets and liabilities are as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Deferred tax assets include alternative minimum tax (AMT) credits of $114.0 million at both December 31, 2010 and 2009, federal net operating loss carryforwards of $528.8 million and $341.0 million as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, and net state net operating loss (NOL) carryforwards of $766.3 million and $606.6 million as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.  The AMT credits have no expiration date.  Federal NOL carryforwards expire beginning in 2018 and ending in 2025.  State NOL carryforwards expire beginning in 2016 and ending in 2025.
 
We have recorded a valuation allowance for a portion of deferred tax assets that management believes, more likely than not, will not be realized.  These deferred tax assets include AMT credits, federal NOL and state NOL carryforwards that will likely not be realized at the maximum effective tax rate. The valuation allowance increased for the year ended December 31, 2010, primarily as a result of the federal NOL and state NOL carryforwards discussed above.
 
In June 2006, the FASB issued accounting guidance, effective January 1, 2007, to create a single model to address accounting for uncertainty in income tax positions.  A tax position is initially recognized in the financial statements when it is more likely than not the position will be sustained upon examination by applicable taxing authorities.  To determine if uncertainty exists in these income tax positions, such tax positions are initially and subsequently measured as the largest amount of tax benefit that is more likely than not to be realized upon ultimate settlement with the taxing authority assuming full knowledge of the position and all relevant facts.  During the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 we had no uncertain income tax positions and therefore no unrecognized tax benefits.  We accrue interest and penalties, if any, related to unrecognized tax benefits in Other noncurrent liabilities and recognize the related expense in Income tax expense.
 
We file income tax returns in the United States federal and various state jurisdictions, including West Virginia, Kentucky and Virginia.  The IRS has examined our federal income tax returns, or statutes of limitations have expired for years through 2006.  In the various states where we file state income tax returns, the state tax authorities have examined our state returns, or statutes of limitations have expired through 2005.  Management believes that we have adequately provided for any income taxes that may ultimately be paid with respect to all open tax years.
 
 
 
Other noncurrent liabilities are comprised of the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Our reclamation liabilities primarily consist of spending estimates related to reclaiming surface land and support facilities at both surface and underground mines in accordance with federal and state reclamation laws as defined by each mine permit.  The obligation and corresponding asset are recognized in the period in which the liability is incurred.
 
We estimate our ultimate reclamation liability based upon detailed engineering calculations of the amount and timing of the future cash flows to perform the required work.  We consider the estimated current cost of reclamation and apply inflation rates and a third-party profit, as necessary.  The third-party profit is an estimate of the approximate markup that would be charged by contractors for work performed on our behalf.  The discount rate applied is based on the rates of treasury bonds with maturities similar to the estimated future cash flow, adjusted for our credit standing.
 
The following table describes all changes to our reclamation liability:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
We sponsor defined benefit health care plans that provide postretirement medical benefits to eligible union and non-union employees.  To be eligible, retirees must meet certain age and service requirements.  Depending on year of retirement, benefits may be subject to annual deductibles, coinsurance requirements, lifetime limits and retiree contributions.  Service costs are accrued currently based on an annual study prepared by independent actuaries.  These plans are unfunded.
 
Net periodic postretirement benefit cost includes the following components:
 
The discount rate assumed to determine the net periodic postretirement benefit cost was 6.00%, 6.10% and 6.50% for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.
 
The following table sets forth the change in benefit obligation of our postretirement benefit plans:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
During 2009, changes were made to the plan provisions and communicated to the participants that were to be effective January 1, 2010 and January 1, 2011. Effective January 1, 2010, we consolidated our self-insured Medicare-age non-union retiree plans into one insured plan. We paid 100% of the premium for fiscal year 2010 for each retiree. In subsequent years, retirees will be responsible for inflationary increases in the insurance premium.  Further, members hired after January 1, 2010 were required to pay 100% of the applicable Medicare Supplemental Plan monthly premium. Further, effective January 1, 2011, future non-union retirees will pay 50% of the premium for pre-65 coverage.  These changes decreased the December 31, 2009 postretirement benefit obligation by $27.6 million. During 2010, the change in the plan provision related to non-union retirees contributions that was to be effective January 1, 2011 was revoked increasing the postretirement benefit obligation by $2.1 million.
 
The table below details the changes to Accumulated other comprehensive loss related to our post retirement benefit plans:
 
We expect to recognize $2.9 million of prior service credit and $4.1 million of net actuarial loss in 2011.
 
 
 
 
 
 
The discount rates used to determine the benefit obligations were 5.50% and 6.00% for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
 
The assumed health care cost trend rates used to determine the benefit obligation as of the end of each year are as follows:
 
 
Assumed health care cost trend rates have a significant effect on the amounts reported for the medical plans. A one-percentage point change in assumed health care cost trend rates would have the following aggregate effects:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following benefit payments, which reflect expected future service, as appropriate, are expected to be paid in the periods noted:
 
PPACA
 
The PPACA may potentially impact our costs to provide healthcare benefits to our eligible active and certain retired employees.  The PPACA has both short-term and long-term implications on healthcare benefit plan standards.  Implementation of this legislation is planned to occur in phases, with plan standard changes taking effect beginning in 2010, but to a greater extent with the 2011 benefit plan year and extending through 2018.  Plan standard changes that could affect us in the short term include raising the maximum age for covered dependents to receive benefits, the elimination of lifetime dollar limits per covered individual and restrictions on annual dollar limits per covered individual, among other standard requirements.  Plan standard changes that could affect us in the long term include a tax on high cost plans (excise tax) and the elimination of annual dollar limits per covered individual, among other standard requirements.  We are currently analyzing this legislation to determine the full extent of the impact of the required plan standard changes on our employee healthcare plans and the resulting costs. Beginning in 2018, the PPACA will impose a 40% excise tax on employers to the extent that the value of their healthcare plan coverage exceeds certain dollar thresholds.  We anticipate that certain government agencies will provide additional regulations or interpretations concerning the application of this excise tax.  We have estimated that the excise tax will not impact our postretirement benefit obligation.  Accordingly, as of December 31, 2010, we have not made any changes to our assumptions used to determine our postretirement benefit obligation.  With the exception of the excise tax, we do not believe any other plan standard changes will be significant to our future healthcare costs for eligible active employees and our postretirement benefit obligation for certain retired employees. However, we will need to continue to evaluate the impact of the PPACA in future periods as additional information and guidance becomes available.
 
Multi-Employer Benefits
 
Under the Coal Act, coal producers are required to fund medical and death benefits of certain retired union coal workers based on premiums assessed by the UMWA Benefit Funds. Based on available information at December 31, 2010, our obligation under the Coal Act was estimated at approximately $20.3 million, compared to our estimated obligation at December 31, 2009 of $22.3 million.  The obligation was discounted using a 5.00% rate each year.  We treat our obligation under the Coal Act as participation in a multi-employer plan and record the cost of our obligation as expense as payments are assessed.  The expense related to this obligation for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 totaled $1.7 million, $1.9 million and $2.3 million, respectively
 
The Tax Relief and Retiree Health Care Act of 2006 included important changes to the Coal Act that impacts all companies required to contribute to the CBF. Effective October 1, 2007, the Social Security Administration revoked all beneficiary assignments made to companies that did not sign a 1988 UMWA contract (reachback companies) but their premium relief is phased-in. The reachback companies paid their full premium obligation in the current plan year that ended September 30, 2007. However, they paid only 55%, 40% and 15% of their plan year 2008, 2009 and 2010 assessed premiums, respectively. General United States Treasury money will be transferred to the CBF to make up the difference. After 2010, we will have no further obligations to the CBF, and transfers from the United States Treasury will cover all of the health care costs for retirees and dependents previously assigned to us.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Workers compensation and black lung benefit obligation consisted of the following:
 
The amount of workers compensation (traumatic liability) related to self-insurance was $96.4 million and $61.1 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.  Weighted average actuarial assumptions used in the determination of the self-insured portion of workers compensation (traumatic injury) liability included  discount rates of 4.50% and 4.75% at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, and the accumulated black lung obligation included a discount rate of 5.50% and 6.00% at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
 
During 2010, we recorded a charge of $25.4 million for workers compensation and supplemental compensation benefits related to the UBB tragedy.  The workers compensation benefits are being measured and paid from our existing plan.  Both the workers compensation and supplemental compensation benefits were calculated, in consultation with independent actuaries, who after review and approval by management with regards to actuarial assumptions, including discount rate, prepared an evaluation of the self-insured liabilities.  Actual experience in settling these liabilities could differ from these estimates.
 
A reconciliation of changes in the self-insured black lung obligation is as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The table below details the changes to Accumulated other comprehensive loss related to black lung benefits:
 
We expect to recognize $1.1 million of net actuarial loss in 2011.
 
Expenses for black lung benefits and workers compensation related benefits include the following components:
 
 
 
 
 
 
The PPACA amended previous legislation related to coal workers pneumoconiosis (black lung), providing automatic extensions of awarded lifetime benefits to surviving spouses and providing changes to the legal criteria used to assess and award claims including previously closed claims.  The impact of these changes to our current population of beneficiaries and claimants results in an estimated $11.3 million increase to our obligation and is primarily included in Actuarial loss (gain) for the year ended December 31, 2010. During 2010, we recorded this estimate as an increase to our black lung liability and a decrease to our actuarial gain included in Accumulated other comprehensive loss on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.  We will continue to evaluate the impact of these changes on such claims and record any necessary charges in the period in which the additional liability is estimable.  We do not believe the impact of these changes will significantly impact our financial position or results of operations.
 
Payments for benefits, premiums and other costs related to black lung, workers compensation and supplemental compensation benefit liabilities were $35.3 million, $31.8 million, and $24.0 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.
 
The actuarial assumptions used in the determination of self-insured black lung benefits expense included discount rates of 6.00%, 6.10% and 6.50% for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.
 
Our self-insured black lung obligation is calculated using assumptions regarding future medical cost increases and cost of living increases.  Federal black lung benefits are subject to cost of living increases.  State benefits increase only until disability, and then remain constant.  We assume a 6.50% annual medical cost increase and a 3.0% cost of living increase in determining our black lung obligation and the annual black lung expense.  Assumed medical cost and cost of living increases significantly affect the amounts reported for our black lung expense and obligation.  A one-percentage point change in each of assumed medical cost and cost of living trend rates would have the following effects:
 
The following benefit payments, which reflect expected future service, as appropriate, are expected to be paid related to the self-insured black lung obligation:
 
Certain of our operations are fully insured by a third-party insurance provider for black lung claims.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
We have stock incentive plans to encourage employees and nonemployee directors to remain with the Company and to more closely align their interests with those of our shareholders.
 
Description of Stock Plans
 
The Massey Energy Company 2006 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan (the 2006 Plan), which was approved by our stockholders and became effective on June 28, 2006 replaced the five stock-based compensation plans (the Prior Plans) we had in place prior to the approval of the 2006 Plan, all of which had been approved by our stockholders. On May 19, 2009, the Companys stockholders approved adding 1,550,000 shares to our 2006 Plan.  The stockholders also approved a limit to the maximum number of shares available for awards granted in any form provided under the 2006 Plan (other than stock options or stock appreciation rights (SARS)) to no more than 75% of the total number of issuable shares.  The Prior Plans include the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Stock-based compensation has been granted under the 2006 Plan and the Prior Plans in the manner described below.  Issued and outstanding stock-based compensation has been granted to officers and certain key employees in accordance with the provisions of the 1996 Plan, the SAR Plan, the 1999 Plan and the 2006 Plan.  Issued and outstanding stock-based compensation has been granted to non-employee directors in accordance with the provisions of the 1995 Plan, the 1997 Plan and the 2006 Plan.  The Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors administers the 1996 Plan, the 1999 Plan, the SAR Plan and the 2006 Plan.  A committee comprised of non-participating board members administers the 1995 Plan and the 1997 Plan.
 
The 1996 Plan provided for grants of stock options and restricted stock.  The 1999 Plan provided for grants of stock options, restricted stock, incentive awards and stock units.  The SAR Plan provided for grants of SARs.  The 1995 Plan provided for grants of restricted stock and restricted units.  The 1997 Plan provided for grants of restricted stock. As of June 28, 2006, grants can no longer be made under the Prior Plans, except for the 1996 Plan, under which grants could no longer be made as of March 2, 2006.  All awards previously granted that are outstanding under the Prior Plans will remain effective in accordance with the terms of their grant.
 
The aggregate number of shares of Common Stock that may be issued for future grant under the 2006 Plan as of December 31, 2010 was 2,499,217 shares, which was computed as the 3,500,000 shares specifically authorized in the 2006 Plan, plus the 1,550,000 shares added as part of the 2006 Plan amendments approved on May 19, 2009, less grants made in 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009, and 2010, plus the number of shares that (i) were represented by restricted stock or unexercised vested or unvested stock options that previously have been granted and were outstanding under the Prior Plans as of June 28, 2006 and (ii) expire or otherwise lapse, are terminated or forfeited, are settled in cash, or are withheld or delivered to us for tax purposes at any time after June 28, 2006.  The 2006 Plan provides for grants of stock options, SARs, restricted stock, restricted units, unrestricted stock and incentive awards.
 
Although we have not expressed any intent to do so, we have the right to amend, suspend, or terminate the 2006 Plan at any time by action of our Board of Directors.  However, no termination, amendment or modification of the 2006 Plan shall in any manner adversely affect any award theretofore granted under the 2006 Plan, without the written consent of the participant.  If a change in control were to occur (as defined in the plan documents), certain options may become immediately vested, but only upon termination of the option holders service.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation
 
Total compensation expense recognized for stock-based compensation (equity awards) during the year ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 was $11.1 million, $12.7 million and $13.9 million, respectively.  The total income tax benefit recognized in the consolidated statement of income for share based compensation arrangements during the year ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 was approximately $4.3 million, $5.0 million and $5.4 million, respectively. We recognize compensation expense on a straight-line basis over the vesting period for the entire award for any awards with graded vesting.
 
As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, there was $5.5 million and $5.8 million, respectively, of total unrecognized compensation cost related to stock options expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of approximately 2.2 years.  In the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008, we also reflected $0.0 million, $3.2 million, and ($1.2) million, respectively, of excess tax benefit (expense) as a financing cash flow in the consolidated statement of cash flows resulting from the exercise of stock options.
 
Equity instruments
 
We have granted stock options to employees under the 2006 Plan, the 1999 Plan and the 1996 Plan. These options typically have a requisite service period of three to four years, though there are some awards outstanding with requisite service periods of one year up to four years. Vesting generally occurs ratably over the requisite service period. The maximum contractual term of stock options granted is 10 years.
 
We value stock options using the Black-Scholes valuation model, which employs certain key assumptions.  We estimate volatility using both historical and market data over the term of the options granted.  The dividend yield is calculated on the current annualized dividend payment and the stock price at the date of grant.  The expected option life is based on historical data and exercise behavior.  The risk-free interest rate is based on the zero-coupon Treasury bond rate in effect at the date of grant.  The fair value of options granted during the three years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 was calculated using the following assumptions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
A summary of option activity under the plans for the year ended December 31, 2010 is presented below:
 
We received $18.3 million, $11.3 million and $16.5 million in cash proceeds from the exercise of stock options for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.  The intrinsic value of stock options exercised was $14.0 million, $7.5 million and $18.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.
 
We have granted restricted stock to our employees under the 2006 Plan and 1999 Plan and to non-employee directors under the 1995 Plan and 1997 Plan. Restricted stock awards are valued on the date of grant based on the closing value of our stock.  As of December 31, 2010, there was $11.4 million of unrecognized compensation cost related to restricted stock expected to be recognized over the next three years.  Unearned compensation is recorded on a net basis in Additional capital.
 
 
 
 
 
 
A summary of the status of restricted stock at December 31, 2010, and changes for the year then ended is presented below:
 
The fair value of restricted stock vested during the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008 was $7.3 million, $7.0 million and $6.7 million, respectively.
 
Liability instruments
 
We use the fair value method to recognize compensation cost associated with SARs.  During 2010 all outstanding SARs were exercised. At December 31, 2009 there were 150,000 SARs outstanding and exercisable.  The weighted average exercise price of these SARs was $36.50 per SAR at December 31, 2009; the weighted average contractual term was 5.3 years at December 31, 2009.
 
We also issue stock incentive units, which are classified as liabilities. They are settled with a cash payment for each unit vested, equal to the fair market value of Common Stock on the vesting date.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
We lease certain mining and other equipment under various lease agreements.  Certain of these leases provide options for the purchase of the property at the end of the initial lease term, generally at its then fair market value, or to extend the terms at its then fair rental value.  Certain of these leases contain financial or other non-performance covenants that may require an accelerated buyout of the lease if the covenants are violated.  Rental expense for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 was $96.0 million, $81.8 million and $53.1 million, respectively.
 
During 2010 and 2008 we sold and leased-back certain mining equipment. We received net proceeds of $16.5 million and $41.3 million, for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2008, respectively, resulting in net deferred gains of $0.5 million and $2.4 million, respectively. The gains are being recognized ratably over the term of the leases, which range from 4 to 8 years. At lease termination, the leases contain renewal and purchase options at an amount approximating fair value. The leases are being accounted for as operating leases. We did not engage in any material sale-leaseback transactions in 2009.
 
The following presents future minimum rental payments, by year, required under leases with initial terms greater than one year, in effect at December 31, 2010:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
We are engaged in the production of coal for the utility industry, steel industry and industrial markets.  The following chart lists the percentage of each type of Produced coal revenue generated by market:
 
Our mining operations are conducted in southern West Virginia, eastern Kentucky and western Virginia.  We market our produced and purchased coal to customers in the United States and in international markets, including Canada and various European and Asian countries.  For the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 approximately 21%, 20% and 30%, respectively, of Produced coal revenue was attributable to sales to customers outside of the United States.
 
For the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, approximately 19% and 11%, respectively, of Produced coal revenue was attributable to sales to Constellation Energy Commodities Group, Inc. No single customer accounted for 10% or more of fiscal year 2010 Produced coal revenue or produced tons. At December 31, 2010, approximately 34%, 52% and 14% of Trade receivables represents amounts due from utility customers, metallurgical customers and industrial customers, respectively, compared with 61%, 19% and 20%, respectively, as of December 31, 2009.
 
Our Trade and other accounts receivable are subject to potential default by customers.  In prior years, certain of our customers have filed for bankruptcy resulting in bad debt charges.  In an effort to mitigate credit-related risks in all customer classifications, we maintain a credit policy, which requires scheduled reviews of customer creditworthiness and continuous monitoring of customer news events that might have an impact on their financial condition.  Negative credit performance or events may trigger the application of tighter terms of sale, requirements for collateral or guarantees or, ultimately, a suspension of credit privileges.  We also insure the receivables of certain customers whose financial condition puts them at a greater risk of loss; recoveries under this insurance program are subject to 10% co-insurance and a $4 million deductible. We establish bad debt reserves to specifically consider customers in financial difficulty and other potential receivable losses.  In establishing the reserve, we consider the financial condition of individual customers and probability of recovery in the event of default.  We charge off uncollectible receivables once legal potential for recovery is exhausted.  See Note 22 for a discussion of certain customer disputes.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Upon entering into each coal sales and coal purchase contract, we evaluate each of our contracts to determine if it qualifies for the NPNS exception prescribed by current accounting guidance.  We use coal purchase contracts to supplement our produced and processed coal in order to provide coal to meet customer requirements under sales contracts.  We are exposed to certain risks related to coal price volatility.  The purchases and sales contracts we enter into allow us to mitigate a portion of the underlying risk associated with coal price volatility.  The majority of our contracts qualify for the NPNS exception and therefore are not accounted for at fair value.  For those contracts that do not qualify for the NPNS exception at inception or lose their designation at some point during the duration of the contract, the contracts are required to be accounted for as derivative instruments and must be recognized as assets or liabilities and measured at fair value.  Those contracts that do not qualify for the NPNS exception have not been designated as cash flow or fair value hedges and, accordingly, the net change in fair value is recorded in current period earnings.  Our coal sales and coal purchase contracts that do not qualify for the NPNS exception as prescribed by current accounting guidance are offset on a counterparty-by-counterparty basis for derivative instruments executed with the same counterparty under a master netting arrangement.
 
Tons outstanding under coal purchase and coal sales contracts that do not qualify for the NPNS exception are as follows:
 
The fair values of our purchase and sales derivative contracts have been aggregated in the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, as follows:
 
We have recorded net gains related to coal sales and purchase contracts that did not qualify for the NPNS exception in the Consolidated Statements of Income under the caption Loss (gain) on derivative instruments.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial and non-financial assets and liabilities that are required to be measured at fair value must be categorized based upon the levels of judgment associated with the inputs used to measure their fair value.  Hierarchical levels  directly related to the amount of subjectivity associated with the inputs used to determine the fair value of financial assets and liabilities  are as follows:
 
 
 
 
Each major category of financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis are categorized in the tables below based upon the lowest level of significant input to the valuations.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fixed income securities and money market funds
 
All fixed income securities are deposits, consisting of obligations of the United States Treasury and Certificates of Deposit (all insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation), supporting various regulatory obligations.  All investments in money market funds are cash equivalents or deposits pledged as collateral and are invested in prime money market funds and Treasury-backed funds.  Included in the money market funds are $59.4 million of funds pledged as collateral to support $58.2 million of outstanding letters of credit and $10.0 million associated with funding a portion of our deferred compensation obligation.  See Note 5 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on deposits.
 
Derivative Instruments
 
Certain of our coal sales and coal purchase contracts that do not qualify for the NPNS exception at inception or lose their designation at some point during the life of the contract are accounted for as derivative instruments and are required to be recognized as assets or liabilities and measured at fair value.  To establish fair values for these contracts, we use bid/ask price quotations obtained from independent third-party brokers. We also consider the risk of nonperformance of or nonpayment by the counterparties when determining the fair values for these contracts by evaluating the credit quality and financial condition of each counterparty.  We could experience difficulty in valuing our derivative instruments if the number of third-party brokers should decrease or market liquidity is reduced.  See Note 19 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information.
 
Short-Term Investment
 
Short-term investment at December 31, 2009 was comprised of an investment in the Primary Fund, a money market fund that suspended redemptions and is being liquidated.  We determined that our investment in the Primary Fund as of December 31, 2009, no longer met the definition of a security, within the scope of current accounting guidance, since the equity investment no longer had a readily determinable fair value.  Therefore, the investment was classified as a short-term investment, subject to the cost method of accounting, on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.
 
Assets Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis Using Significant Unobservable Inputs (Level 3):
 
At December 31, 2009, our investment in the Primary Fund was $10.9 million, net of a $6.5 million write-down recorded in 2008, which represented the difference between cost and estimated fair value.  During 2010, we received distributions totaling $15.6 million. We recorded a $4.7 million gain on short-term investments which represents the difference between book value and total redemptions received.  As of December 31, 2010, the estimated fair value of our unrecovered investment of $1.8 million in the Primary Fund was $0.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Asset and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Nonrecurring Basis
 
Certain assets and liabilities are measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis; that is, the assets and liabilities are not measured at fair value on an ongoing basis but are subject to fair value adjustments in certain circumstances, for example, when there is evidence of impairment.
 
In accordance with relevant accounting requirements, Property, plant and equipment (which included mine development) and longwall panel costs located at or near the UBB mine with a carrying amount of $35.4 million and $28.2 million (of which $5.1 million was considered current assets and $23.1 million noncurrent assets), respectively, were deemed to be destroyed or probable of abandonment.  Additionally during 2010, we recorded $20.5 million of impairment charges for unamortized mine development costs at certain idled mines.
 
For the impairment tests, we compared the carrying value of the asset tested to its estimated fair value. The fair value was determined using the estimated undiscounted cash flows expected to be generated by the assets along with, where appropriate, market inputs.  The  remaining fair value of the impaired assets was deemed to be immaterial. The determination of fair value was based on our assumptions about future operations at these mines and possible alternatives to accessing the related coal reserves.  Specifically, given the ongoing investigations into the cause of the UBB tragedy and the uncertainty around the future operations at the UBB mine, there is a reasonable possibility that additional impairments could be recorded in future periods.
 
Other Financial Instruments
 
The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair value of those financial instruments that are not required to be carried at fair value within our Consolidated Balance Sheets:
 
Short-term debt: The carrying amount reported in the Consolidated Balance Sheets for short-term debt approximates its fair value due to the short-term maturity of these instruments.
 
Long-term debt: The fair values of long-term debt are estimated using the most recent market prices quoted on or before December 31, 2010.
 
The carrying amounts and fair values of these financial instruments are presented in the table below. The carrying value of the 3.25% Notes reflected in Long-term debt in the table below reflects the full face amount of $659.1 million rather than the adjusted discounted value reflected in the Consolidated Balance Sheets (see Note 10 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information).
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On October 6, 2010, the Companys stockholders approved an increase in the number of common shares authorized from 150,000,000 shares to 300,000,000 shares.
 
Common Stock Issuance
 
On March 23, 2010, we completed a registered underwritten public offering of 9,775,000 shares of our Common Stock at a public offering price of $49.75 per share, resulting in proceeds to us of $466.7 million, net of fees.  In April 2010, we used the net proceeds of this offering and 6,519,034 shares of Common Stock (fair valued at $289.5 million on the day of the acquisition) to fund a portion of the consideration for the acquisition of Cumberland.  See Note 3 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a more complete discussion of the acquisition of Cumberland.
 
Common Stock Repurchases
 
During 2010, we repurchased 861,439 shares of Common Stock at an average price of $36.92, for a total cost of $31.8 million.  The Common Stock was repurchased under a stock repurchase program (the Repurchase Program) authorized by our Board of Directors on November 14, 2005, authorizing us to repurchase shares of Common Stock from time to time up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $500 million, as market conditions warrant and existing covenants permit.  Prior to this share repurchase, we had $420 million available under the 2005 authorization.  Shares repurchased in 2010 have been recorded as Treasury stock in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
 
 
West Virginia Flooding
 
Since August 2004, five of our subsidiaries have been sued in six civil actions filed in the Circuit Courts of Boone, McDowell, Mingo, Raleigh, Summers and Wyoming Counties, West Virginia, for alleged property damages and personal injuries arising out of flooding on or about May 2, 2002.  These complaints covered approximately 350 plaintiffs seeking unquantified compensatory and punitive damages from approximately 35 defendants.  Of these cases two were dismissed by the court without prejudice for failure to prosecute, two were dismissed by plaintiffs voluntarily and with prejudice, and one was settled for a nominal amount.  Only the Mingo County case comprised of 4 plaintiffs and 34 defendants remains active.
 
Since May 2006, we and 12 of our subsidiaries have been sued in three civil actions filed in the Circuit Courts of Logan and Mingo Counties, West Virginia, for alleged property damages and personal injuries arising out of flooding between May 30 and June 4, 2004.  These complaints cover approximately 400 plaintiffs seeking unquantified compensatory and punitive damages from approximately 52 defendants.  Four of our subsidiaries have been dismissed without prejudice from one of the Logan County cases.
 
We believe the remaining cases will be resolved without a material adverse impact on our cash flows, results of operations or financial condition.
 
 
 
 
 
 
West Virginia Trucking
 
Since January 2003, an advocacy group and residents in Boone, Kanawha, Mingo and Raleigh Counties, West Virginia, filed 17 suits in the Circuit Courts of Kanawha and Mingo Counties, West Virginia, against 12 of our subsidiaries.  Plaintiffs alleged that defendants illegally transported coal in overloaded trucks, causing damage to state roads, thereby interfering with plaintiffs use and enjoyment of their properties and their right to use the public roads. Plaintiffs seek injunctive relief and compensatory and punitive damages.  The Supreme Court of Appeals of West Virginia (WV Supreme Court) referred the consolidated lawsuits, and similar lawsuits against other coal and transportation companies not involving our subsidiaries, to the Circuit Court of Lincoln County, West Virginia (Circuit Court), to be handled by a mass litigation panel judge. Plaintiffs filed motions requesting class certification. On June 7, 2007, plaintiffs voluntarily dismissed their public nuisance claims seeking monetary damages for road and bridge repairs.  Plaintiffs also agreed to an order limiting any damages for nuisance to two years prior to the filing of any suit.  A motion to dismiss any remaining public nuisance claims was resisted by plaintiffs and argued at hearings on December 14, 2007 and June 25, 2008.  No rulings on these matters have been made.  Defendants filed a motion requesting that the mass litigation panel judge recommend to the WV Supreme Court that the cases be sent back to the circuit courts of origin for resolution.  That motion was verbally denied as to those cases in which our subsidiaries are defendants, and a class certification hearing was held on October 21, 2009.  To date, no decision has been rendered by the Circuit Court on the class certification issues.  No date has been set for trial. A mediation is being scheduled in the Mingo County case.  We believe we have insurance coverage applicable to these items and that they will be resolved without a material adverse impact on our cash flows, results of operations or financial condition.
 
Well Water Suits
 
Since September 2004, approximately 738 plaintiffs have filed approximately 400 suits against us and our subsidiary, Rawl Sales & Processing Co., in the Circuit Court of Mingo County, West Virginia (Mingo Court), for alleged property damage and personal injuries arising out of slurry injection and impoundment practices allegedly contaminating plaintiffs water wells. Plaintiffs seek injunctive relief and compensatory damages in excess of $170 million and unquantified punitive damages.  Specifically, plaintiffs are claiming that defendants activities during the period of 1978 through 1987 rendered their property valueless and request monetary damages to pay, inter alia, the value of their property and future water bills.  In addition, many plaintiffs are also claiming that their exposure to the contaminated well water caused neurological injury or physical injury, including cancers, kidney problems and gall stones.  Finally, all plaintiffs claimed entitlement to medical monitoring for the next 30 years and have requested unliquidated compensatory damages for pain and suffering, annoyance and inconvenience and legal fees.  On April 30, 2009, the Mingo Court held a mandatory settlement conference. At that settlement conference, all plaintiffs agreed to settle and dismiss their medical monitoring claims.  Additionally, 180 plaintiffs agreed to settle all of their remaining claims and be dismissed from the case.  All settlements to date will be funded by insurance proceeds.  Plaintiffs challenged the medical monitoring settlement. There are currently 585 plaintiffs with individual claims.  A number of motions that could impact the number of Plaintiffs and scope of the issues of these suits are pending.
 
The West Virginia Supreme Court issued an administrative order transferring the cases to the Mass Litigation Panel.  Mediation of all pending suits was held on February 22-23, 2011 in Charleston, West Virginia.  The mediation resulted in the final settlement of all medical monitoring claims and disposed of Plaintiffs earlier challenge of the prior medical monitoring settlement.  The medical monitoring claims will be paid by insurance proceeds.  No other claims were resolved.  A previous mediation conducted in November 2010 was unsuccessful.  A trial date has been set for August 2011.
 
Beginning in December 2008, we and certain of our subsidiaries along with several other companies were sued in numerous actions in Boone County, West Virginia involving approximately 374 plaintiffs alleging well water contamination resulting from coal mining operations.  The claims mirror those made above in the separate action before the Mass Litigation Panel, as described above. The separate civil actions have been consolidated for discovery purposes with trial for 266 plaintiffs scheduled for October 25, 2011.  No trial date is set for the remaining approximately 108 plaintiffs.
 
We do not believe there was any contamination caused by our activities or that plaintiffs suffered any damage and we believe that we have strong defenses to these matters.  We plan to vigorously contest these claims.  We believe that we have insurance coverage applicable to these matters and have initiated litigation against our insurers to establish that coverage.  At this time, we believe that the litigation by the plaintiffs will be resolved without a material adverse impact on our cash flows, results of operations or financial condition.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Surface Mining Fills
 
Since September 2005, three environmental groups sued the Corps in the United States District Court for the Southern District of West Virginia (the District Court), asserting the Corps unlawfully issued permits to four of our surface mines to construct mining fills. The suit alleges the Corps failed to comply with the requirements of both Section 404 of the Clean Water Act and the National Environmental Policy Act, including preparing environmental impact statements for individual permits. We intervened in the suit to protect our interests. On March 23, 2007, the District Court rescinded four of our subsidiaries permits, resulting in the temporary suspension of mining at these surface mines. We appealed that ruling to the United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit (the Fourth Circuit Court). On April 17, 2007, the District Court partially stayed its ruling, permitting mining to resume in certain fills that were already under construction. On June 14, 2007, the District Court issued an additional ruling, finding the Corps improperly approved placement of sediment ponds in streams below fills on the four permits in question.  The District Court subsequently modified its ruling to allow these ponds to remain in place, as the ponds and fills have already been constructed.  The District Courts ruling could impact the issuance of permits for the placement of sediment ponds for future operations. If the permits for the fills or sediment ponds are ultimately held to be unlawfully issued, production could be affected at these surface mines, and the process of obtaining new Corps permits for all surface mines could become more difficult. We appealed both rulings to the Fourth Circuit Court.  On February 13, 2009, the Fourth Circuit Court reversed the prior rulings of the District Court and remanded the matter for further proceedings. On March 30, 2009, the plaintiffs requested that the Fourth Circuit Court reconsider the case.  The request was denied on May 20, 2009. On August 26, 2009, the plaintiffs filed their request with the United States Supreme Court to review the Fourth Circuit Courts decision.  Our subsidiaries response was due on August 5, 2010. However, on August 3, 2010, the plaintiffs moved to withdraw their petition in the wake of a new policy adopted by the Corps and the Environmental Protection Agency on July 30, 2010 for assessing stream ecosystem structure and function for Appalachian surface coal mining. The motion to withdraw the petition for certiorari was granted, thereby finalizing the Fourth Circuit Courts decision.
 
Customer Disputes
 
We have been sued by one customer who claims they did not receive, or did not timely receive, all of the coal required to be shipped to them during prior years under their sales contract. This customer filed a claim for cover damages, which damages are equal to the difference between the contract price of the coal that was not delivered and the market price of replacement coal or comparable quality coal, and for other compensatory damages, the total of which could exceed $31 million.  The customer is also seeking punitive damages.  We believe that we have strong defenses and have not recorded an accrual for this matter because we do not believe a loss is probable.  It is reasonably possible that our judgment regarding this matter could change in the near term, resulting in the recording of a material loss that would affect our operating results and financial position.
 
Subsequent to December 31, 2010, we received notice of a suit from a plaintiff regarding whether or not a binding contract existed for the sale of coal, which coal the plaintiff had planned to broker to a third party in 2008.  The suit asks that we reimburse plaintiff for an $18 million court judgment against plaintiff awarded to the third party.  We do not believe that a binding sales contract was reached and currently believe that we have strong defenses and, therefore, have not recorded an accrual for this matter because we do not believe a loss is probable. It is reasonably possible that our judgment regarding this matter could change in the near term, resulting in the recording of a material loss that would affect our operating results and financial position.
 
Separately, we are currently in litigation with one customer regarding whether or not binding contracts for the sale of coal were reached.  We maintain that this customer improperly terminated a signed, higher-priced contract; the customer argues that it was only required to purchase coal under a purported agreement reached by email. On February 12, 2010, we received a decision from an arbitration panel awarding this customer $10.5 million on the grounds that the purported agreement by email was valid and that the higher-priced contract was invalid.  We believed that the arbitration panels decision as to the validity of the higher-priced contract was beyond the panels jurisdiction of the award, which amounts to $8.2 million, and challenged that decision in federal court.  On June 2, 2010, the federal court rejected our challenge.  We are appealing this matter to the Fourth Circuit Court.  While we will vigorously pursue this appeal, we have accrued the remainder of the judgment in Other current liabilities at December 31, 2010.  We have paid $2.3 million for the award relating to the panels decision that the agreement by email was valid, but have not yet paid the portion of the award under appeal.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Spartan Unfair Labor Practice Matter & Related Age Discrimination Class Action
 
In 2005, the UMWA filed an unfair labor practice charge with the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) alleging that one of our subsidiaries, Spartan Mining Company (Spartan), discriminated on the basis of anti-union animus in its employment offers.  The NLRB issued a complaint and an NLRB Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) issued a recommended decision making detailed findings that Spartan committed a number of unfair labor practice violations and awarding, among other relief, back pay damages to union discriminatees.  On September 30, 2009, the NLRB upheld the ALJs recommended decision.  Spartan has appealed the NLRBs decision to the Fourth Circuit Court. We have no insurance coverage applicable to this unfair labor practice matter; however, its resolution is not expected to have a material impact on our cash flows, results of operations or financial condition.
 
Upper Big Branch Mine
 
On April 5, 2010, an accident occurred at the UBB mine, tragically resulting in the deaths of 29 miners and seriously injuring two others.  The Federal Mine Safety and Health Administration (MSHA) and the State of West Virginia have undertaken a joint investigation into the cause of the UBB tragedy.  We also have commenced our own investigation.  We believe these investigations will continue for the foreseeable future, and we cannot provide any assurance as to their outcome, including whether we become subject to possible criminal and civil penalties or enforcement actions. Additionally, the U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of West Virginia has commenced a grand jury investigation. In order to accommodate these investigations, the UBB mine will be closed for an extended period of time, the length of which we cannot predict at this time.  It is also possible that we may decide or be required by regulators to permanently close the UBB mine.  We self-insure the underground mining equipment, including the longwalls at the UBB mine.  We do not currently carry business interruption insurance for the UBB mine.  We have third-party general liability insurance coverage that applies to litigation risk, which coverage we believe applies to litigation stemming from the UBB tragedy.
 
While updated analyses will continue in future periods, we have recorded our best estimate of probable losses related to this matter.  The most significant components of these losses related to: the benefits being provided to the families of the fallen miners (see Note 15 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information about the significant benefits provided), costs associated with the rescue and recovery efforts, possible legal and other contingencies, and asset impairment charges (see Note 6 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information).  We have recorded a $78 million liability in Other current liabilities at December 31, 2010, which represents our best estimate of the probable loss related to potential future litigation settlements associated with the UBB tragedy.  Two of the families have filed wrongful death suits against us, while seven families have signed agreements to settle their claims (four of which have been finalized after receiving the required judicial approval).  Insurance recoveries related to our general liability insurance policy that are deemed probable and that are reasonably estimable have been recognized in the Consolidated Statements of Income to the extent of the related losses, less applicable deductibles.  Such recognized recoveries for litigation settlements associated with the UBB tragedy totaled $78 million and are included in Trade and other accounts receivable at December 31, 2010.
 
Given the uncertainty of the outcome of current investigations, including whether we become subject to possible civil penalties or enforcement actions, it is possible that the total costs incurred related to this tragedy could exceed our current estimates.  As of December 31, 2010, we believe that the reasonably possible aggregate loss related to these claims in excess of amounts currently recorded cannot be estimated.  It is possible, however, that the ultimate liabilities in the future with respect to these claims, in the aggregate, may be material.  We will continue to review the amount of any necessary accruals, potential asset impairments, or other related expenses and record the charges in the period in which the determination is made and an adjustment is required.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clean Water Act Citizens Suits
 
The Sierra Club and others have filed two citizens suits against several of our subsidiaries in federal court in the Southern District of West Virginia (Southern District Court) alleging violations of the terms of our water discharge permits. One of the cases is limited to allegations that two of our subsidiaries, Independence Coal Company and Jacks Branch Coal Company, are violating limits on the allowable concentrations of selenium in their discharges of storm water from several surface mines. The other action is limited to claims that several of our subsidiaries are violating discharge limits on substances other than selenium, such as aluminum. The plaintiffs in these cases seek both a civil penalty and injunctive relief.
 
In the non-selenium case, we have argued that the alleged violations are contemplated by an existing consent decree with the United States government and should not be the subject of a new lawsuit, but the Southern District Court has allowed the case to progress.  In the selenium case, we have argued that the limits on selenium concentrations in our discharges have been stayed by an order of the West Virginia Environmental Quality Board and therefore cannot be the subject of a Clean Water Act case until after those limits become effective. The plaintiffs have nonetheless filed a motion for summary judgment in the selenium case, arguing that we are in violation of our permit limits despite the stays. The plaintiffs have also filed reports of experts contending that our subsidiaries should have commenced construction on selenium treatment units in October 2008.  They claim that the failure to do so has saved our subsidiaries over $100 million, and that the Southern District Court should impose a penalty which recoups all of the savings realized by the alleged non-compliance.  We strongly disagrees with plaintiffs position and do not expect the resolution of this matter to have a material impact on our cash flows, results of operations or financial condition.
 
Other Legal Proceedings
 
We are parties to a number of other legal proceedings, incident to our normal business activities.  These include, for example, contract disputes, personal injury claims, property damage claims, environmental issues, and employment and safety matters.While we cannot predict the outcome of any of these proceedings, based on our current estimates we do not believe that any liability arising from these matters individually or in the aggregate should have a material adverse impact upon our consolidated cash flows, results of operations or financial condition.  It is possible, however, that the ultimate liabilities in the future with respect to these lawsuits and claims, in the aggregate, may be materially adverse to our cash flows, results of operations or financial condition.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The table below details our quarterly financial information for the previous two fiscal years.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On January 28, 2011, the Company entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the Merger Agreement) with Alpha Natural Resources, Inc., a Delaware corporation (Alpha), and Mountain Merger Sub, Inc., a Delaware corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of Alpha (Merger Sub), providing for the acquisition of Massey Energy Company (Massey) by Alpha.  Subject to the terms and conditions of the Merger Agreement, Massey will be merged with and into Merger Sub (the Merger), with Massey surviving the Merger as a wholly owned subsidiary of Alpha.
 
At the effective time of the Merger, each share of Common Stock issued and outstanding immediately prior to the effective time (other than shares owned by (i) Alpha, us or Merger Sub or their respective subsidiaries (which will be cancelled) or (ii) stockholders who have properly exercised and perfected appraisal rights under Delaware law) will be converted into the right to receive 1.025 shares of Alpha common stock and $10.00 in cash, without interest (the Massey Merger Consideration).  No fractional shares of Alpha common stock will be issued in the Merger, and Massey stockholders will receive cash in lieu of fractional shares, if any, of Common Stock. Immediately upon completion of the Merger, Massey stockholders will own approximately 46% of the combined company.
 
The consummation of the Merger is subject to certain conditions, including (i) the adoption by Massey stockholders of the Merger Agreement and (ii) the approval by the Alpha stockholders of (x) an amendment to Alphas certificate of incorporation to increase the number of shares of Alpha common stock that Alpha is authorized to issue in order to permit issuance of the Alpha common stock in connection with the Merger and (y) the issuance of Alpha common stock in connection with the Merger.  In addition, the Merger is subject to clearance under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended, as well as other customary closing conditions.
 
The Merger Agreement contains customary covenants, including covenants providing for each of the parties: (i) to conduct its operations in all material respects according to the ordinary and usual course of business consistent with past practice during the period between the execution of the Merger Agreement and the closing of the Merger; (ii) to use reasonable best efforts to cause the transaction to be consummated; (iii) not to initiate, solicit or knowingly encourage inquiries, proposals or offers relating to alternate transactions or, subject to certain exceptions, engage in any discussions or negotiations with respect thereto; and (iv) to call and hold a special stockholders meeting and, subject to certain exceptions, recommend adoption of the Merger Agreement, in our case, and amendment of the Alpha certificate of incorporation and issuance of Alpha common stock in connection with the Merger, in the case of Alpha.
 
The Merger Agreement also contains certain termination rights and provides that, (i) upon termination of the Merger Agreement under specified circumstances, including, but not limited to, a change in the recommendation of the Massey board of directors or termination of the Merger Agreement to enter into a written definitive agreement for a superior proposal, Massey will owe Alpha a cash termination fee of $251 million; (ii) upon the termination of the Merger Agreement under specified circumstances, including, but not limited to, a change in the recommendation of the board of directors of Alpha or termination of the Merger Agreement to enter into a written definitive agreement for a superior proposal, Alpha will owe Massey a cash termination fee of $252 million; and (iii) upon the termination of the Merger Agreement due to Alphas failure to obtain the required stockholder approval at the Alpha stockholders meeting in the absence of a competing proposal, Alpha will owe Massey a cash termination fee of $72 million. In addition, Alpha is obligated to pay a cash termination fee of $360 million to us if all the conditions to closing have been met and the Merger is not consummated because of a breach by Alphas lenders of their obligations to finance the Merger.

1 5 7 8 9 10 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24
Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Board of Directors
Cumberland Resource Group:
 
We have audited the accompanying combined balance sheets of the Cumberland Resource Group (formerly known as The Combined Entities of The Cumberland Group) (the Company) as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, and the related combined statements of income, stockholders equity and members capital and comprehensive income, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2009.  These combined financial statements are the responsibility of the Companys management.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these combined financial statements based on our audits.
 
We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement.  An audit includes consideration of internal control over financial reporting as a basis for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Companys internal control over financial reporting.  Accordingly, we express no such opinion.  An audit also includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.  We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
In our opinion, the combined financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Cumberland Resource Group as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2009, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
 
/s/KPMG LLP
 
Roanoke, Virginia
February 17, 2010
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
See accompanying notes to combined financial statements.
2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
See accompanying notes to combined financial statements.
3
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
See accompanying notes to combined financial statements.
4
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (Continued)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
See accompanying notes to combined financial statements.
6
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Cumberland Resource Group (formerly known as The Combined Entities of The Cumberland Group) includes entities under the common control of Cumberland Resources Corporation and Resource Development LLC.  All related entities included in the combined financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 are collectively referred to as the Company.
 
The Company is engaged in the mining and selling of bituminous coal.  The Companys mines and mining facilities are located primarily in Southwest Virginia and Eastern Kentucky.
 
 
 
The accompanying combined financial statements include the accounts of Cumberland Resources Corporation and Resource Development LLC and their subsidiaries and affiliated limited liability companies and corporations, after elimination of all material inter-company accounts, transactions and profits.  All subsidiaries and affiliated companies are commonly owned and operated for a related purpose.
 
 
 
 
For the purpose of the combined statements of cash flows, the Company considers all highly liquid debt instruments purchased with a maturity of three months or less to be cash equivalents.
 
The Company maintains its cash accounts in one commercial bank located in Virginia.  Cash accounts in the bank are guaranteed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) up to $250,000 per bank.  As of December 31, 2008, the Company has transferred all cash balances to non-interest bearing accounts.  Under the FDIC Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program, 100% of cash balances are fully guaranteed.
 
 (Continued)
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Company classifies its marketable securities in three categories: (1) debt securities that the Company has the positive intent and ability to hold to maturity are classified as held-to-maturity securities and reported at amortized cost; (2) debt and equity securities that are bought and held principally for the purpose of selling them in the near term are classified as trading securities and reported at fair value, with unrealized gains and losses included in net income; and (3) debt and equity securities not classified as either held-to-maturity securities or trading securities are classified as available-for-sale securities and reported at fair value, with unrealized gains and losses excluded from net income and reported in accumulated other comprehensive income, a separate component of stockholders equity.
 
As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, the Companys marketable securities consisted solely of equity securities classified as available-for-sale.  Realized gains and losses from the sale of available-for-sale marketable securities are determined on a specific-identification basis.
 
A decline in the fair value of any available-for-sale marketable security below cost that is deemed other than temporary, is charged to net income, resulting in the establishment of a new cost basis for the security.  In assessing other than temporary impairment losses, management considers a number of factors including, but not limited to: (1) the length of time and the extent to which the fair value has been less than cost, (2) the financial condition and near term prospects for the issuer, (3) the intent and ability of the Company to retain its investment in the issuer for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in fair value, and (4) general market conditions and industry or sector-specific factors.
 
 
 
Trade accounts receivable are recorded at the invoiced amount and do not bear interest.  The Company extends credit to its customers.  In order to minimize credit losses, the Company performs credit evaluations but does not require collateral from its customers.  The Company has not established an allowance for doubtful accounts due to these credit procedures.  Management believes that any uncollectible accounts receivable as of year-end would not be material.
 
 
 
Coal inventories are stated at the lower of average cost or net realized value.  The cost of coal inventories is determined based on an average cost of production, which includes all cost incurred to extract, transport and process the coal.
 
 (Continued)
 
 
 
 
 
Costs for mine development incurred and acquired to expand capacity of operating mines or to develop new mines are capitalized and charged to operations on a straight-line method over the estimated production life of the mine.
 
Property, plant, and equipment is stated at cost.  Depreciation of plant and equipment is calculated using the straight-line method over the following estimated useful life of the assets:
 
 
The cost of maintenance and repairs is charged to earnings as incurred; significant rebuilds and betterments are capitalized.
 
Interest is normally expensed as incurred, except when it is incurred in conjunction with major capital additions, and then it is capitalized as part of the asset cost.  The amount of interest capitalized is determined by applying current interest rates to the average amount of accumulated capital expenditures during the construction period.  Interest capitalized during the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 totaled $0, $0 and $287,248, respectively.
 
 
 
Long-lived assets, such as property, plant, equipment, and purchased intangibles subject to amortization, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable.  Recoverability of assets to be held and used is measured by a comparison of the carrying amount of an asset to estimated undiscounted future cash flows expected to be generated by the asset.  If the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its estimated future cash flows, an impairment charge is recognized by the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds the fair value of the asset.  Assets to be disposed of would be separately presented in the combined balance sheet and reported at the lower of the carrying amount or fair value less costs to sell, and would no longer be depreciated.  The assets and liabilities of a disposal group classified as held for sale would be presented separately in the appropriate asset and liability sections of the combined balance sheet.
 
 (Continued)
 
 
 
 
 
The combined financial statements contain two types of entities for federal and state income tax purposes: corporations and limited liability companies.
 
The entities which are corporations have elected to be taxed under the provision of Subchapter S of the Internal Revenue Code, effective January 1, 2003.  Therefore, effective January 1, 2003, these corporations do not pay federal or state corporate income taxes on their taxable income, excluding Kentucky entities as stated below.  Instead, the stockholders of the Subchapter S corporations are liable for individual federal and state income taxes on their proportionate share of the corporations taxable income.  Accordingly, no provision for income taxes is included in the accompanying combined financial statements for the entities which are Subchapter S corporations.
 
During the seven-year period after conversion to an S corporation, an S corporation may be subject to a corporate-level tax on the net unrealized built-in gain at the date of conversion.  Given the Company has no intention of disposing of any property with an unrealized built-in gain within the seven-year period; no obligation related to built-in gain has been recorded.
 
Certain affiliates are limited liability companies, which are taxed as partnerships for federal and state income tax purposes, with the exception of Kentucky.  Therefore, no provision for federal or state income taxes, with the exception of Kentucky, is made since such taxes, if any, are the responsibility of the members.
 
Effective January 1, 2005, the Commonwealth of Kentucky imposed a corporate income tax on pass-through entities, including the Companys limited liability companies doing business in the Commonwealth of Kentucky.  Although imposed at the corporate level, the tax was passed through to the limited liability company members to be utilized on their respective individual income tax returns.  Accordingly, a provision for state income taxes was included in the combined financial statements subsequent to January 1, 2005 related specifically to the Kentucky corporate income tax.  Effective December 31, 2006, the Commonwealth of Kentucky has repealed the corporate income tax on pass-through entities.  The income tax expense recorded on the combined statement of income for the year ended December 31, 2007 represents the true-up from the prior year estimates to the actual tax expense per the state tax returns.
 
Beginning with the adoption of Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 740, , as amended, as it relates to accounting for uncertainty in income taxes, as of January 1, 2009, the Company recognizes the effect of income tax positions only if those positions are more likely than not of being sustained.  Recognized income tax positions are measured at the largest amount that is greater than 50% likely of being realized.
Income Taxes
 
 (Continued)
 
 
 
 
 
Changes in recognition or measurement are reflected in the period in which the change in judgment occurs.  Prior to January 1, 2009, the Company recognized the effect of income tax positions only if such positions were probable of being sustained.
 
 
 
Minimum standards for mine reclamation have been established by various regulatory agencies and dictate the reclamation requirements at the Companys operations.  The Company records these asset retirement obligations for mine reclamation and closure costs at estimated fair value in the period in which the legal obligation associated with the retirement of the long-lived asset is incurred.  When the liability is initially recorded, the offset is capitalized by increasing the carrying amount of the related long-lived asset.  Over time, the liability is accreted to its present value each period, and the capitalized cost is depreciated over the useful life of the related asset.  To settle the liability, the obligation is paid, and to the extent there is a difference between the liability and the amount of cash paid, a gain or loss upon settlement is recorded.  The Company annually reviews its estimated future cash flows for its asset retirement obligation.
 
 
 
Lease rights to coal lands are often acquired in exchange for royalty payments, which are expensed upon the sale of the coal.
 
 
 
Revenue from domestic coal sales is recorded at the time of shipment or delivery to the customer, the customer takes ownership and assumes risk of loss.  The Company currently has no direct international coal sales.
 
Other revenues generally consist of equipment and part sales, royalties and rental income.  These revenues are recognized in the period earned or when the service is completed.
 
 
 
For tax years 1996 through 2014, Virginia companies with an economic interest in coal earn The Coalfield Employment Enhancement Tax Credit based upon tons sold, seam thickness and employment levels.  The maximum credit earned equals $0.40 per ton for surface mined coal and $1.00 or $2.00 per ton for deep mined coal depending on seam thickness.  Credits allowable are reduced from the maximum amounts if employment levels are not maintained from the previous year, and no credit is allowed for coal sold to Virginia utilities.  Currently, the cash benefit of the credit is realized three years after being earned and either
offsets taxes imposed by Virginia at 100% or is refundable by the state at 85% of the face value to the extent taxes are not owed.  The Company records the present value of the portion of the credit that is refundable as a reduction of operating costs and as a noncash distribution to owners as it is earned.  The Company also had an agreement with one Virginia utility to fully utilize the $3.00 per ton allocation for The Virginia Coal Employment and Production Incentive Tax Credit for 2007, which can be allocated between an electricity generator and companies with an economic interest in the coal.  The Company records the credit that is refundable as a reduction of operating costs and as a noncash distribution to owners as it is earned.
11
 (Continued)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Company has a deductible-premium plan for workers compensation claims.  The liabilities for the first $500,000 for each workers compensation claim are the responsibility of the Company.  The liabilities for workers compensation claims that are below $500,000 are estimates of the undiscounted ultimate losses incurred based on the Companys experience, historical injury data, type of injury and include a provision for incurred but nonreported losses.  Insurance premiums are also paid for claims on possible traumatic injury.
 
 
 
The Company is responsible under the Federal Coal Mine Health and Safety Act of 1969, as amended, and various states statutes for the payment of medical and disability benefits to employees and their dependents resulting from occurrences of coal workers pneumoconiosis disease (black lung).  These claims are covered by a third-party insurance provider in all locations where the Company operates.
 
 
 
The Company is principally self-insured for costs of health and medical claims.  The Company utilizes commercial insurance to cover specific claims in excess of $90,000.
 
 
 
The Company classifies items of Other Comprehensive Income (such as net unrealized gains (losses) on available-for-sale marketable securities) by their nature and presents the accumulated balance of other comprehensive income separately from retained earnings and additional paid-in capital in the equity section of the combined balance sheet.  The Companys other comprehensive income consists of net income and net unrealized gains (losses) on marketable securities available-for-sale, net of income taxes as applicable.
 
 (Continued)
 
 
 
 
 
On January 1, 2008, the Company adopted the provisions of ASC Topic 820, (ASC 820), for fair value measurements of financial assets and financial liabilities and for fair value measurements of nonfinancial items that are recognized or disclosed at fair value in the financial statements on a recurring basis.  Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.  ASC 820 also establishes a framework for measuring fair value and expands disclosures about fair value measurements (Note 19).  ASC paragraph 820-10-65-1, (ASC 820-10-65-1), delayed the effective date of ASC 820 until fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2008 for all nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities that are recognized or disclosed at fair value in the financial statements on a nonrecurring basis.  The Company adopted the provisions of ASC 820-10-65-1 on January 1, 2009 as it relates to the initial measurement of asset retirement obligations incurred during 2009, which had no material impact on the Companys combined financial position or results of operations.
Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures
Transition related to FASB Staff Position FAS157-2, Effective Date of FASB Statement No. 157
 
 
 
In May 2009, the FASB issued ASC 855, (ASC 855).  ASC 855 sets forth the period after the balance sheet date during which management evaluates events or transactions that may occur for potential recognition or disclosure in the financial statements.  ASC 855 also describes the circumstances under which an entity recognizes events or transactions occurring after the balance sheet date in its financial statements and the disclosures that an entity makes about events or transactions that occur after the balance sheet date.  ASC 855 is effective for financial statements issued for interim and annual periods ending after June 15, 2009.  The Company evaluated subsequent events for potential recognition and/or disclosure in the December 31, 2009 combined financial statements through February 17, 2010, the date the financial statements were available to be issued.  The adoption of ASC 855 had no impact on the Companys combined financial statements.
Subsequent Events
 
In December 2007, the FASB issued ASC 805, (ASC 805) and ASC 810-10-65-1, (ASC 810-10-65-1).  ASC 805 and 810-10-65-1 require most identifiable assets, liabilities, noncontrolling interests, and goodwill acquired in a business combination to be recorded at full fair value and require noncontrolling interests (previously referred to as minority interests) to be reported as a component of equity, which changes the accounting for transactions with noncontrolling interest holders.  Both ASCs are effective for
Business Combinations
Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements  an amendment to ARB No. 51
periods beginning on or after December 15, 2008, and earlier adoption is prohibited.  ASC 805 will be applied to business combinations occurring after the effective date.  ASC 810-10-65-1 will be applied prospectively to all noncontrolling interests, including any that arose before the effective date.  The adoption of ASC 810-10-65-1 on January 1, 2009 had no impact on the Companys combined financial position or results of operations.
 
 (Continued)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The preparation of the combined financial statements, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the combined financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.  Significant items subject to such estimates and assumptions include coal inventories; asset retirement obligations; employee benefit liabilities; future cash flows associated with assets; useful lives for depreciation and amortization; workers compensation; and fair value of financial instruments.  Due to the subjective nature of these estimates, actual results could differ from those estimates.
 
 
The costs, gross unrealized gains, gross unrealized losses and fair values for available-for-sale marketable securities at December 31, 2009 and 2008 are as follows:
 
 
 (Continued)
 
 
 
 
The following table shows the gross unrealized losses and fair value of the Companys investments in marketable securities, aggregated by investment category and length of time that individual securities have been in a continuous unrealized loss position at December 31, 2009:
 
 
The Company has determined that the unrealized losses on the Companys investments in marketable securities at December 31, 2009 are temporary in nature.  The Company identifies and evaluates investments that have indications of possible impairment.  Factors considered in determining whether a loss is temporary include the length of time and the extent to which fair value has been below cost and the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery.
 
The proceeds from sale of marketable securities for the year ended December 31, 2009 was $1,558,615, with a realized loss of $41,959.  There were no sales of marketable securities for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007.
 
 
The Company held a secured promissory note receivable dated October 15, 1999 due from an unrelated third party.  The monthly payment, including principal and interest at 9%, was $7,592.  The original loan was for $599,337 and matured on November 1, 2009.  The note was paid in full during 2009.  The balance as of December 31, 2008 was $65,835.
 
 
Prepaid expenses consist of the following:
 
 (Continued)
 
 
 
 
 
Property, plant, and equipment consist of the following:
 
The amount of depreciation and amortization expense for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 was $22,624,176, $23,208,908 and $15,516,453, respectively.
 
 
The Company has two separate lines of credit through Bank of America.  The first line of credit provides working capital for the Company.  On November 4, 2009, the Company and the lender modified the terms of this $20,000,000 line of credit.  The modification extended the maturity date of the line of credit to January 31, 2010.  In January 2010, the lender extended the maturity date of the line of credit to February 28, 2010.  The outstanding principal accrues interest at LIBOR plus the applicable margin, which is based on a quarterly calculation of the Companys Funded Debt to EBITDA ratio (1.73% at December 31, 2009 and 1.97% at December 31, 2008).  Interest is payable monthly.  The Company incurs an unused line commitment fee in the amount of 0.25% per annum on the average daily unused portion of the line.  This fee is due quarterly on the first day of the following calendar quarter.  This line of credit is collateralized by a first-priority security interest in all accounts receivable of the borrower.  There was no outstanding balance at December 31, 2009 and 2008.  As of December 31, 2009, the Company also had $4,790,500 in letters of credit outstanding (see note 11), leaving $15,209,500 of maximum available liquidity.
 
The second line of credit also provides working capital for the Company.  On November 4, 2009, the Company and the lender modified the terms of this $30,000,000 line of credit.  The modification extended the maturity date of the line of credit to January 31, 2010.  In January 2010, the lender extended the maturity date to February 28, 2010.  The outstanding principal accrues interest at LIBOR plus the applicable margin which is
based on a quarterly calculation of the Companys Funded Debt to EBITDA ratio (1.73% at December 31, 2009 and 1.97% at December 31, 2008).  Interest is payable monthly.  The Company incurs an unused line commitment fee in the amount of 0.25% per annum on the average daily unused portion of the line.  This fee is due quarterly on the first day of the following calendar quarter.  This line of credit is collateralized by all accounts receivable of the borrower.  The outstanding balance at both December 31, 2009 and 2008 was $1,500,000.  As of December 31, 2009, the Company also had $8,338,484 in letters of credit outstanding (see note 11), leaving $20,161,516 of maximum available liquidity.
 
 (Continued)
 
 
 
 
The Company had a note payable to a third party dated September 29, 1998 in the amount of $15,000,000 and incurred interest at the rate of 7% per annum.  Payments were due monthly in the amount of $174,163, which consisted of both principal and interest.  The note was paid off in September 2008.
 
The Company has a note payable with Bank of America dated June 14, 2007 in the amount of $8,450,000 and incurs interest in the amount of LIBOR plus 1.25% (1.48% at December 31, 2009, and 1.70% at December 31, 2008).  Interest is due and payable on the 15th day of each month.  Principal installments are due and payable monthly in the amount of $50,000.  All outstanding principal and accrued interest is due and payable on June 15, 2012.  The note was issued to finance the acquisition of a jet aircraft and is collateralized by a first-security interest in the acquired aircraft.  The outstanding balance at December 31, 2009 and 2008 was $6,950,000 and $7,550,000, respectively.
 
Total maturities of long-term debt for years subsequent to December 31, 2009 are as follows:
 
 
 (Continued)
 
 
 
 
Accrued expenses and other current liabilities consist of the following:
 
 
At December 31, 2009 and 2008, the Company has recorded asset retirement obligation accruals for mine reclamation and closure costs totaling $9,540,267 and $7,701,194, respectively.  The portion of the costs expected to be incurred within a year in the amount of $105,080 and $137,200 at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, is included in accrued expenses and other current liabilities.  These regulatory obligations are secured by bonds.
 
 (Continued)
 
 
 
 
 
Changes in the asset retirement obligation were as follows:
 
 
 
 
The Company has a 401(k) Profit Sharing Plan and Trust (the Plan).  The Plan includes all employees of the Company who are eligible to participate in the plan on the date of hire.  Under the Plan, a participant may elect to defer up to the maximum level allowed by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and if the employee is 50 or older as of December 31, the employee may defer an additional amount in annual pretax compensation as allowed by the IRS.  For the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, the Company matched dollar for dollar up to 3% of compensation.  For the year ended December 31, 2009, the Company matches dollar for dollar up to 6% of compensation.  The Companys contributions to the plan were $3,867,781, $1,723,517 and $1,387,365 during the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.  The Company may also make a discretionary contribution to the Plan.  No discretionary contributions were made to the Plan for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007.
 
 
 
The Company also sponsors a self-funded health care plan for all employees.  The Company makes contributions to the plan to be used to pay claims which are processed by a third-party administrator.  To limit its liability, the Company has purchased aggregate and specific stop loss excess risk insurance.  The aggregate stop loss limit is
calculated based on the number of employees participating and a monthly stop loss factor.  The aggregate limit covers total paid claims in excess of 110% of the annual estimated stop loss premiums.  The specific stop loss insurance covers the amount of claims paid with respect to a single individual in excess of $90,000.  At December 31, 2009 and 2008, the Company had provided an accrual of $2,534,642 and $1,578,735, respectively, for claims incurred but not paid based on managements estimate of the self-insured liability.  For the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, the Company incurred claims, premium expenses and administration fees related to this plan totaling $12,651,464, $9,450,880 and $8,436,839, respectively.
 
 (Continued)
 
 
 
 
 
The Companys operations generally are in part self-insured for workers compensation and fully insured for black lung claims.  Beginning November 1, 2003, the Company implemented a high deductible-premium plan for workers compensation.  Prior to that point, the Company was fully insured for workers compensation claims.  Insurance premium expense for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 was approximately $4,660,000, $4,278,000 and $4,152,000, respectively.  The liability for these claims is an estimate of the undiscounted ultimate losses to be incurred on such claims based on the Companys experience and published industry data.  Adjustments to the probable ultimate liability are made annually based on an estimated valuation and are included in operations as they are determined.
 
The liability for self-insured workers compensation benefits as of December 31, 2009 and 2008 was $5,849,343 and $5,327,438, respectively, including a current portion of $3,679,025 and $3,091,005, respectively.  Workers compensation claims expense for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 was approximately $5,364,000, $3,489,000 and $3,074,000, respectively.  For this plan, the Company was required to secure a letter of credit.  The letter of credit totaled $13,128,984 (see note 7) as of December 31, 2009.
 
 
The Company leases coal mining and other equipment under long-term operating leases with varying terms.  In addition, the Company leases mineral interest and surface rights from land owners under various terms and royalty rates.
 
 (Continued)
 
 
 
 
The future minimum lease payments required under operating leases and minimum royalties under coal leases as of December 31, 2009 are as follows:
 
The above table includes amounts due under noncancelable leases with initial or remaining lease terms in excess of one year.
 
Net rent expense amounted to $22,660,498, $22,821,638 and $22,062,060 for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.  Coal royalties expense amounted to $34,056,725, $34,769,834 and $25,101,851 for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.
 
 
For the year ended December 31, 2009, 75%, or approximately $410,560,000, of sales was attributable to two customers.  No other single customer accounted for more than 10% of sales for the year ended December 31, 2009.  As of December 31, 2009, the Company had four customers that accounted for 89%, or approximately $22,853,000 of trade accounts receivable.
 
For the year ended December 31, 2008, 70%, or approximately $358,347,000, of sales was attributable to three customers.  No other single customer accounted for more than 10% of sales for the year ended December 31, 2008.  As of December 31, 2008, the Company had four customers that accounted for 92%, or approximately $40,252,000 of trade accounts receivable.
 
For the year ended December 31, 2007, 81%, or approximately $319,121,000, of sales was attributable to three customers.  No other single customer accounted for more than 10% of sales for the year ended December 31, 2007.
 
 
In the normal course of business, the Company is a party to certain guarantees and financial instruments with off-balance sheet risk, such as bank letters of credit and
performance or surety bonds.  No liabilities related to these arrangements are reflected in the Companys combined balance sheets.  Management does not expect any material losses to result from these guarantees or off-balance sheet financial instruments.
 
 (Continued)
 
 
 
 
The Company is involved in various legal proceedings from time to time in the normal course of business.  In managements opinion, the Company is not currently involved in any legal proceedings, which individually or in the aggregate could have a material effect on the financial condition, results of operations and/or liquidity of the Company.
 
 
Other comprehensive income is reported in the combined statements of stockholders equity and members capital and comprehensive income.  The information that follows discloses the components of other comprehensive income and reclassification adjustments for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007:
 
Accumulated other comprehensive income is made up of unrealized gains on marketable securities, available-for-sale as of December 31, 2009 and 2008.
 
 
On April 30, 2008, the Company acquired substantially all of the assets of an active coal operation.  The operating results of the acquired coal company have been included in the combined financial statements since that date.  The aggregate purchase price for the acquired assets was $15,077,788, of which $12,374,345 was paid from operating cash flow with the remaining $2,703,443 discounted for interest, due in future periods, and allocated based on their respective fair market values.  Imputed interest expense for 2009 and 2008 was $133,296 and $128,767, respectively.
 
On May 17, 2007, the Company acquired substantially all of the assets of an active coal operation.  The operating results of the acquired coal company have been included in the combined financial statements since that date.  The aggregate purchase price for the acquired assets was $3,113,057, paid from operating cash flow and allocated based on their respective fair market values.
 
 (Continued)
 
 
 
 
 
As discussed in note 2(g), the entities which were corporations have elected Subchapter S corporation status effective January 1, 2003.  Though these corporations elected to be taxed as an S corporation, the Company may still be subject to a corporate level tax for federal and state purposes.  The tax would be imposed on the net unrealized built-in gain on the assets the Company owned at the time of its election, to the extent the assets are disposed of during the first seven years of its S corporation status.  Based on the current business plan, the Company does not expect to realize built-in gains that will be subject to income tax at the corporate level.
 
Also as discussed in note 2(g), effective January 1, 2005, the Commonwealth of Kentucky imposed a corporate income tax on pass-through entities, including the Companys limited liability companies doing business in the Commonwealth of Kentucky.  Kentucky repealed the income tax effective December 31, 2006.  A provision for state income taxes is included in the combined financial statements subsequent to January 1, 2005 related specifically to the Kentucky corporate income tax.  The $54,077 income tax expense recorded on the Combined Statement of Income for the year ended December 31, 2007 represents the true-up from the prior year estimates to the actual tax expense per the state tax returns.
 
 
The members of the limited liability companies are not liable for the expenses, liabilities, or obligations of the limited liability companies, and members are not responsible for paying deficits in their capital accounts.  The limited liability companies have indefinite lives unless changed by a vote of the members.
 
Profits and losses are allocated to members in proportion to their percentage interests to the extent each holders capital account is greater than zero.
 
The individual companys ability to pay cash distributions is dependent on, but not limited to, the Companys financial condition and its cash requirements.
 (Continued)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The fair value of a financial instrument is the amount that will be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.  The estimated fair values of financial instruments involve uncertainty and cannot be determined with precision.  The following methods and assumptions are used to estimate the fair value of each class of financial instrument:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (Continued)
 
 
 
 
 
 
Effective January 1, 2008, the Company adopted ASC 820 for fair value measurements of financial assets and financial liabilities that are recognized or disclosed at fair value in the financial statements on a recurring basis.  ASC 820 establishes a fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the inputs to valuation techniques
used to measure fair value.  The hierarchy gives the highest priority to unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (Level 1 measurements) and the lowest priority to measurements involving significant unobservable inputs (Level 3 measurements).  The three levels of the fair value hierarchy are as follows:
 
 
 
 
The level in the fair value hierarchy within which a fair measurement in its entirety falls is based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement in its entirety.
 
The following is a description of the valuation methodologies used for instruments measured at fair value on a recurring basis and recognized in the accompanying combined balance sheet, as well as, the general classification of such instruments pursuant to the valuation hierarchy.
 
Available-for-Sale (AFS) Marketable Securities
 
Available-for-sale marketable securities balances at December 31, 2009 and 2008 were $7,586,801 and $2,561,078, respectively.  The reporting data used for fair value was quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or Level 1 (see note 3).
 
25

Exhibit 99.3
 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
 
 
 
 
Alpha Natural Resources, Inc. and Subsidiaries
(Unaudited, dollars in thousands, except per share data)
 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
 
 
 
 
 
Alpha Natural Resources, Inc. and Subsidiaries
 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Alpha Natural Resources, Inc. and Subsidiaries
 
(1)           Basis of Presentation of Consolidated Financial Statements
 
The accompanying interim consolidated financial statements of Alpha Natural Resources, Inc. and Subsidiaries (formerly Foundation Coal Holdings, Inc. and herein referred to as the Company) are unaudited and prepared in accordance with the rules and regulations of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) for Form 10-Q. Such rules and regulations allow the omission of certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America as long as the statements are not misleading. In the opinion of management, these interim consolidated financial statements reflect all normal and recurring adjustments necessary for a fair presentation of the results for the periods presented. These interim consolidated financial statements reflect the financial position as of June 30, 2009 and results of operations for the three and six months ended June 30, 2009 of Foundation Coal Holdings, Inc. prior to the merger with Alpha Natural Resources, Inc., more fully described in Note 20. These interim consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements of Foundation Coal Holdings, Inc. included in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the twelve months ended December 31, 2008, filed March 2, 2009.
 
The Companys consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of the Companys consolidated financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. The more significant areas requiring the use of management estimates and assumptions relate to coal reserves that are the basis for future cash flow estimates and units-of-production depreciation, depletion and amortization calculations; environmental and reclamation obligations; asset impairments; postemployment, postretirement and other employee benefit liabilities; valuation allowances for deferred income taxes; income tax provision calculations; reserves for contingencies and litigation; and the fair value and accounting treatment of certain financial instruments. Management bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Accordingly, actual results may differ from these estimates. In addition, different assumptions or conditions could reasonably be expected to yield different results.
 
The operating results for the three and six months ended June 30, 2009 may not necessarily be indicative of the results to be expected in any other quarter or for the twelve months ended December 31, 2009.
 
 
 
 
Alpha Natural Resources, Inc. and Subsidiaries
 
(2)           Recent Accounting Pronouncements
 
In July 2009, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 168, The FASB Accounting Standards Codification and the Hierarchy of Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (SFAS No. 168). This Statement replaces SFAS No. 162, The Hierarchy of Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (SFAS No. 162). This Statement establishes the FASB Accounting Standards CodificationTM (Codification) as the source of authoritative accounting principles recognized by the FASB to be applied by nongovernmental entities in the preparation of financial statements in conformity with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP). Rules and interpretive releases of the SEC under authority of federal securities laws are also sources of authoritative GAAP for SEC registrants. This Statement is effective for financial statements issued for interim and annual periods ending after September 15, 2009. The implementation will have no impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. The standard requires new disclosures in the Companys notes to the consolidated financial statements.
 
In May 2009, the FASB issued SFAS No. 165, Subsequent Events (SFAS No. 165). This Statement sets forth the period after the balance sheet date during which management evaluates events or transactions that may occur for potential recognition or disclosure in the financial statements. The Statement also describes the circumstances under which an entity recognizes events or transactions occurring after the balance sheet date in its financial statements and the disclosures that an entity makes about events or transactions that occur after the balance sheet date. This Statement is effective for financial statements issued for interim and annual periods ending after June 15, 2009. The implementation had no material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. The
standard requires disclosure in the Companys notes to the consolidated financial statements. See Note 20 for required disclosures.
 
In April 2009, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position (FSP) Financial Accounting Standard (FAS) No. 107-1 and Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 28-1 Interim Disclosures about Fair Value of Financial Instruments (FSP FAS No. 107-1 and APB No. 28-1). FSP FAS No. 107-1 and APB No. 28-1 require fair value disclosures in both interim and annual financial statements in order to provide more timely information about the effects of current market conditions on financial instruments. FSP FAS No. 107-1 and APB No. 28-1 are effective for interim and annual periods ending after June 15, 2009. The Company adopted these standards on April 1, 2009. The implementation had no impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. The standards require additional disclosure in the Companys notes to the consolidated financial statements. See Note 17 for the required disclosures.
 
In December 2008, the FASB issued FSP No. 132(R)-1 Employers Disclosures about Postretirement Benefit Plan Assets (FSP FAS No. 132(R)-1). This FSP amends SFAS No. 132 (revised 2003), Employers Disclosures about Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits, to provide guidance on an employers disclosures about plan assets of a defined benefit pension or other postretirement plan. The additional disclosure requirements under this FSP include expanded disclosures about an entitys investment policies and strategies, the categories of plan assets, and concentrations of credit risk and fair value measurements of plan assets. FSP No. FAS 132(R)-1 will be effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2009. The implementation of this standard will have no impact on the amounts recorded in the Companys consolidated financial statements. The Company will include the additional disclosures in the notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements for the year ending December 31, 2009.
 
 
 
 
Alpha Natural Resources, Inc. and Subsidiaries
 
In June 2008, the FASB issued FSP Emerging Issues Task Force 03-6-1, Determining Whether Instruments Granted in Share-Based Payment Transactions Are Participating Securities (FSP No. 03-6-1). This FSP provides that unvested share-based payment awards that contain nonforfeitable rights to dividends or dividend equivalents, whether paid or unpaid, are participating securities and shall be included in the computation of both basic and diluted earnings per share. FSP No. 03-6-1 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008 and interim periods within those years. All prior year EPS data presented is required to be adjusted retrospectively. The Company adopted FSP No. 03-6-1 on January 1, 2009 and the implementation of this standard did not have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements.
 
In March 2008, the FASB issued SFAS No. 161, Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities  an amendment of FASB Statement No. 133 (SFAS No. 161). This standard amends and expands the disclosure requirements of SFAS No. 133 and establishes, among other things, the disclosure requirements for derivative instruments and for hedging activities. SFAS No. 161 is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2008. The Company adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 161 on January 1, 2009. The implementation did not have an impact on the amounts recorded in the Companys consolidated financial statements. The standard required additional disclosures in the notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements. See Note 19 for SFAS No. 161 information and disclosures.
 
In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 160, Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements (SFAS No. 160). This standard outlines the accounting and reporting for ownership interest in a subsidiary held by parties other than the parent. SFAS No. 160 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008. The Company adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 160 on January 1, 2009 and the implementation did not have an impact on its consolidated financial statements.
 
In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141(R), Business Combinations (SFAS No. 141(R)). This standard establishes principles and requirements for how an acquirer recognizes and measures in its financial statements the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the goodwill acquired. This statement also establishes disclosure requirements which will enable users to evaluate the nature and financial effects of the business combination. SFAS No. 141(R) is effective for acquisitions for which the acquisition date is on or after the beginning of the first annual reporting period beginning on or after December 15, 2008. SFAS No. 141(R) changes the accounting after the acquisition date for reductions in valuation allowances established in purchase price allocation related to an acquired entitys deferred assets; including those
relating to acquisitions prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 141(R). Effective from the date of adoption of SFAS No. 141(R), the effects of reductions in valuation allowances established in purchase accounting that are outside of the measurement period are reported as adjustments to income tax expense. The Company adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 141(R) on January 1, 2009. The implementation did not have an impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements.
 
In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements (SFAS No. 157). This standard defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in generally accepted accounting principles and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. SFAS No. 157 clarifies how to measure fair value as required or permitted under other accounting pronouncements but does not require any new fair value measurements. SFAS No. 157 was originally effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007, and interim periods within those fiscal years. On February 12, 2008, the FASB issued FSP No. 157-2, Effective Date of FASB Statement No. 157 (FSP No. 157-2). FSP No. 157-2 was effective upon issuance and delayed the effective date of SFAS No. 157 for nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities, except for items that are recognized or disclosed at fair value in the financial statements on a recurring basis or at least once a year, to fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2008. The Company adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 157 on January 1, 2008 and the Company had no required fair value measurements for non-financial assets and liabilities in the second quarter of 2009 and no required additional disclosures upon adoption.
 
 
 
 
Alpha Natural Resources, Inc. and Subsidiaries
 
SFAS No. 157 establishes a fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair value. Inputs are either observable or unobservable and refer broadly to the assumptions that are used in pricing assets or liabilities.
 
Observable inputs are reflective of market data and unobservable inputs reflect the entitys own assumptions about pricing assets or liabilities. As defined below, the fair value hierarchy gives the highest priority to unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (Level 1) and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs (Level 3). The three levels of the fair value hierarchy under SFAS No. 157 are further described as follows:
 
 
 
 
These levels are not necessarily an indication of the risk or liquidity associated with the financial assets or liabilities disclosed.
 
The following table sets forth the Companys financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value by level within the fair value hierarchy at June 30, 2009. As required by SFAS No. 157, assets and liabilities are classified in their entirety based on the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Alpha Natural Resources, Inc. and Subsidiaries
 
The Companys derivative instruments are reported at fair value, which are derived using valuation models commonly used for derivatives. Where possible, the Company verifies the values produced by such models to market prices. Valuation models require a variety of inputs, including contractual terms, market fixed prices, inputs
from forward price yield curves, notional quantities, measures of volatility and correlations of such inputs. The inputs in such valuation models do not involve significant management judgment. Fair value measurement of such instruments is typically classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.
 
In October 2008, the FASB issued FSP FAS No. 157-3(FSP No. 157-3). FSP No. 157-3 clarifies the application of SFAS No. 157 in determining the fair value of a financial asset when the market for that financial asset is not active. FSP No. 157-3 became effective upon issuance, including interim periods for which financial statements have not been issued. The Company adopted FSP No. 157-3 upon issuance.
, Determining the Fair Value of a Financial Asset When the Market for That Asset Is Not Active
 
In April 2009, the FASB issued FSP FAS No. 157-4, Determining Fair Value When the Volume and Level of Activity for the Asset or Liability Have Significantly Decreased and Identifying Transactions That Are Not Orderly (FSP No. 157-4). FSP No. 157-4 provides additional guidance on factors to consider in estimating fair value when there has been a significant decrease in market activity for a financial asset. FSP No. 157-4 is effective for interim and annual periods ending after June 15, 2009. The Company adopted FSP No. 157-4 on April 1, 2009 and the implementation of this standard did not have an impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements.
 
(3)           Inventories
 
Inventories consisted of the following:
 
 
Saleable coal represents coal stockpiles ready for shipment to a customer. Raw coal represents coal that requires further processing prior to shipment.
 
 
 
 
Alpha Natural Resources, Inc. and Subsidiaries
 
(4)           Prepaid Expenses
 
Prepaid expenses consisted of the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Alpha Natural Resources, Inc. and Subsidiaries
 
(5)           Plant, Equipment, Mine Development Costs and Owned and Leased Mineral Rights
 
Plant, equipment, mine development costs and owned and leased mineral rights consisted of the following:
 
 
In the first quarter of 2008 an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, was the successful bidder on a new federal coal lease adjacent to the western boundary of the Eagle Butte mine located north of Gillette, Wyoming. The Companys lease bonus bid was $180,540, payable in five equal annual installments of $36,108. The Company made the first two payments of $36,108 during the first quarter of 2008 and the second quarter of 2009. These payments were both capitalized as a component of in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Subsequent payments will be capitalized when paid. The lease became effective on May 1, 2008, and the three remaining annual installments will be paid on the anniversary dates of the lease. This federal coal lease contains an estimated 224.0 million tons of proven and probable coal reserves.
Owned and leased mineral rights, net
 
 
 
 
Alpha Natural Resources, Inc. and Subsidiaries
 
(6)           Other Noncurrent Assets
 
Other noncurrent assets consisted of the following:
 
_______________
 
      See Note 19.
(1)
 
During the three months ended March 31, 2008, the Company acquired a 49% interest in the common stock of Target Drilling Inc. (Target), a privately-held contract drilling company, for $9,246. The Company has the ability to exercise significant influence over, but not control the operating activities of Target, and accordingly uses the equity method of accounting in accordance with APB Opinion No. 18, . The Company records its proportionate share of earnings or losses of Target in its Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive (Loss) Income under the caption . The Company adjusts the carrying amount of its investment in Target for its share of earnings or losses of Target accordingly.
The Equity Method of Accounting for Investments in Common Stock
Equity in losses of affiliates
 
The Company performed a fair value analysis of the net tangible and intangible assets of Target in order to account for the difference in the cost of its investment and its underlying equity in the net assets that were reflected on the books of Target on the date of acquisition. The Company assigned its proportionate share of the difference between the historical cost of the identifiable tangible and intangible assets recorded on the books of Target and their respective fair values based on the fair value analysis. The differences assigned to the identifiable tangible and intangible assets, other than equity-method goodwill, are being amortized over their respective useful lives as a component of . The differences assigned consisted of tangible assets of $2,315, intangible assets of $1,955 (excluding equity-method goodwill), equity-method goodwill of $3,826 and a deferred tax liability of $1,779.
Equity in losses of affiliates
 
 
 
 
Alpha Natural Resources, Inc. and Subsidiaries
 
(7)           Accrued Expenses and Other Current Liabilities
 
Accrued expenses and other current liabilities consisted of the following:
 
_____________
 
     See Note 12.
(1)
    See Note 19.
(2)  
 
 
 
 
Alpha Natural Resources, Inc. and Subsidiaries
 
(8)           Other Noncurrent Liabilities
 
Other noncurrent liabilities consisted of the following:
 
_____________
 
           See Note 12.
(1)
 
 
 
 
Alpha Natural Resources, Inc. and Subsidiaries
 
(9)           Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss
 
Components of accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of tax, consisted of the following:
 
 
(10)           Pension, Other Postretirement Benefit Plans and Pneumoconiosis
 
Components of Net Periodic Pension Costs
 
The components of net periodic benefit costs are as follows:
 
 
Components of Net Periodic Other Postretirement Benefit Plans Costs
 
The components of net periodic benefit costs are as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
Alpha Natural Resources, Inc. and Subsidiaries
 
The Companys postretirement medical and life insurance plans are unfunded.
 
Components of Pneumoconiosis Costs
 
The components of net periodic benefit costs are as follows:
 
 
(11)           Stock-Based Compensation
 
On July 30, 2004, the Companys Board of Directors adopted the Foundation Coal Holdings, Inc. 2004 Stock Incentive Plan (the Plan), which is designed to assist the Company in recruiting and retaining key employees, directors and consultants. The Plan, which was amended and restated effective on May 22, 2009 upon shareholder approval, permits the Company to grant its key employees, directors and consultants nonqualified stock options (options), stock appreciation rights, restricted stock or other stock-based awards. The awards under the Plan may be granted at a fair value or exercise price of no less than 100% of the fair market value of the Companys common stock on the date of grant. The Plan is currently authorized for the issuance of awards for up to 5,978,483 shares of common stock. On July 31, 2009, the Companys Board of Directors adopted the Alpha Natural Resources, Inc. (formerly Foundation Coal Holdings, Inc.) amended and restated 2004 Stock Incentive Plan.
 
At June 30, 2009, the Company had three types of stock-based awards outstanding: restricted stock units, restricted stock and options. Total compensation expense related to stock-based awards recognized in for the three months ended June 30, 2009 was $936, consisting of $726, $202 and $8 for restricted stock units, restricted stock and options, respectively. Total compensation expense related to stock-based awards recognized in for the three months ended June 30, 2009 was $377 for restricted stock units. Compensation expense related to stock-based awards recognized in for the three months ended June 30, 2008 was $1,479, consisting of $1,270, $143 and $66 for restricted stock units, restricted stock and options, respectively. Compensation expense related to stock-based awards recognized in for the three months ended June 30, 2008 was $449 for restricted stock units. Total compensation expense related to stock-based awards recognized in for the six months ended June 30, 2009 was $3,131, consisting of $2,383, $731 and $17 for restricted stock units, restricted stock and options, respectively. Total compensation expense related to stock-based awards recognized in for the six months ended June 30, 2009 was $931 for restricted stock units.
Selling, general and administrative expenses
Cost of coal sales
Selling, general and administrative expenses
Cost of coal sales
Selling, general and administrative expenses
Cost of coal sales
 
 
 
 
Alpha Natural Resources, Inc. and Subsidiaries
 
Compensation expense related to stock-based awards recognized in for the six months ended June 30, 2008 was $6,370, consisting of $3,402, $287 and $2,681 for restricted stock units, restricted stock and options, respectively. Compensation expense related to stock-based awards recognized in for the six months ended June 30, 2008 was $1,692 for restricted stock units.
Selling, general and administrative expenses
Cost of coal sales
 
During the first quarter of 2008, the Company modified the vesting conditions for certain of its outstanding stock-based awards. As a result, the Company remeasured the affected stock-based awards in accordance with SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004), and recognized additional compensation expense of approximately $2,372 and $172 in and respectively,during the six months ended June 30, 2008.
Share-Based Payment,
Selling, general and administrative expenses
Cost of coal sales,
 
 
(12)           Asset Retirement Obligations
 
The Companys mining activities are subject to various federal and state laws and regulations governing the protection of the environment. These laws and regulations are continually changing and are generally becoming more restrictive. The Company conducts its operations to protect the public health and environment and believes its operations are in material compliance with all applicable laws and regulations. The Company has made, and expects to make in the future, expenditures to comply with such laws and regulations, but cannot predict the exact amount of such future expenditures. Estimated future reclamation costs are based principally on estimated costs to achieve compliance with legal and regulatory requirements.
 
 
The following table describes all changes to the Companys asset retirement obligation liability from December 31, 2008 through June 30, 2009:
 
 
The current portions of the asset retirement obligation liabilities of $4,126 and $5,595 at June 30, 2009 and December 31, 2008, respectively, are included in . See Note 7. The noncurrent portions of the Companys asset retirement obligation liabilities of $172,899 and $165,779 at June 30, 2009 and December 31, 2008, respectively, are included in . See Note 8. There were no assets that were legally restricted for purposes of settling asset retirement obligations at June 30, 2009 or December 31, 2008. At June 30, 2009, regulatory obligations, such as reclamation obligations, for asset retirements are secured by surety bonds in the amount of $289,181. These surety bonds are partially collateralized by letters of credit issued by the Company.
Accrued expenses and other current liabilities
Other noncurrent liabilities
 
 
 
Alpha Natural Resources, Inc. and Subsidiaries
 
(13)           Stockholders Equity, Earnings (Loss) Per Common Share and Common Share Repurchases
 
Stockholders Equity
 
During the six months ended June 30, 2009, the Company declared and paid cash dividends of $4,467.
 
Earnings (Loss) Per Common Share
 
The following table provides a reconciliation of weighted-average shares outstanding used in the basic and diluted earnings (loss) per common share computations for the periods presented:
 
 
In the six months ended June 30, 2009, 11,495 restricted stock units that could have potentially diluted basic earnings per common share were not included in the computation of diluted earnings per common share because to do so would have been anti-dilutive.
 
Common Share Repurchases
 
In July 2006, the Board of Directors authorized a stock repurchase program (the Repurchase Program), authorizing the Company to repurchase shares of its common stock. The Company may repurchase its common stock from time to time, as determined by authorized officers of the Company. In September 2008, the Board of Directors authorized a $100,000 increase to the Repurchase Program, up to an aggregate amount of $200,000. Repurchases of common shares in a cumulative amount over $100,000 are subject to a maximum leverage ratio test of pro-forma net debt to adjusted EBITDA of less than 2.25 to 1.00 under the Senior Secured Credit Facility. During the six months ended June 30, 2009, the Company did not purchase any shares under the Repurchase Program. At June 30, 2009, $113,587 of funds remained under the Repurchase Program. During the six months ended June 30, 2009, the Company issued 227,450 shares of common stock to employees upon vesting of restricted stock units. The Company repurchased 85,480 common shares withheld from employees to satisfy the employees minimum statutory tax withholdings upon vesting.
 
 
 
 
Alpha Natural Resources, Inc. and Subsidiaries
 
(14)           Segment Information
 
The Company produces primarily steam coal from surface and deep mines for sale to utility and industrial customers, which is distributed by rail, barge and/or truck. The Company operates only in the United States with mines in three of the major coal basins. The Company has four reportable business segments: Northern Appalachia, consisting of two underground mines in southwestern Pennsylvania; Central Appalachia, consisting of six underground mines and two surface mines in southern West Virginia; the Powder River Basin, consisting of two surface mines in Wyoming; and the Companys Other segment. On January 30, 2009, three of the six underground mines and an associated preparation plant in Central Appalachia were idled. Other includes an idled underground mine in Illinois; expenses associated with closed mines; Dry Systems Technologies; revenues from royalties and sales of coalbed methane; coal trade activities; selling, general and administrative expenses not charged out to the Powder River Basin, Northern Appalachia or Central Appalachia mines and the elimination of intercompany transactions. The Company evaluates the performance of its segments based on income (loss) from operations.
 
Segment results for the three months ended June 30, 2009 are as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
Alpha Natural Resources, Inc. and Subsidiaries
 
Segment results for the three months ended June 30, 2008 are as follows:
 
 
Segment results for the six months ended June 30, 2009 are as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
Alpha Natural Resources, Inc. and Subsidiaries
 
Segment results for the six months ended June 30, 2008 are as follows:
 
(15)           Other Revenue
 
Other revenue consisted of the following:
 
 
 
 
 
Alpha Natural Resources, Inc. and Subsidiaries
 
(16)           Commitments and Contingencies
 
General
 
The Company follows SFAS No. 5, , in determining its accruals and disclosures with respect to loss contingencies. Accordingly, estimated losses from loss contingencies and legal expenses associated with the contingency are accrued by a charge to income when information available indicates that it is probable that an asset has been impaired or a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. If a loss contingency is not probable or reasonably estimable, disclosure of the loss contingency is made in the consolidated financial statements when it is at least reasonably possible that a loss will be incurred and the loss is material.
Accounting for Contingencies
 
Commitments
 
On February 20, 2008, the Company was determined to be the successful bidder on a federal coal lease by the Bureau of Land Management, a unit of the United States Department of the Interior. The bid was accepted as submitted in the amount of $180,540 for an approximate 1,428 acre tract of federal land. The lease became effective on May 1, 2008. This lease is subject to the deferred bonus payment provisions of the Code of Federal Regulations and, as such, the Company remits the bonus payment in five equal installments, the first of which was submitted with the bid as a deposit on the lease in February 2008 and the second was submitted in May 2009. The remaining three annual installments of $36,108 each are due on the anniversary dates of the lease.
 
See Note 12 regarding our Asset Retirement Obligations.
 
Guarantees
 
Neweagle Industries, Inc., Neweagle Coal Sales Corp., Laurel Creek Co., Inc. and Rockspring Development, Inc. (collectively, Sellers) are indirect wholly owned subsidiaries of the Company. The Sellers sell coal to Birchwood Power Partners, L.P. (Birchwood) under a Coal Supply Agreement dated July 22, 1993 (Birchwood Contract). Laurel Creek Co., Inc. and Rockspring Development, Inc. were parties to the Birchwood Contract since its inception, at which time those entities were not affiliated with Neweagle Industries, Inc., Neweagle Coal Sales Corp. or the Company. Effective January 31, 1994, the Birchwood Contract was assigned to Neweagle Industries, Inc. and Neweagle Coal Sales Corp. by AgipCoal Holding USA, Inc. and AgipCoal Sales USA, Inc., which at the time were affiliates of Arch Coal, Inc. Despite this assignment, Arch Coal, Inc. (Arch) and its affiliates have separate contractual obligations to provide coal to Birchwood if Sellers fail to perform. Pursuant to an Agreement & Release dated September 30, 1997, the Company agreed to defend, indemnify and hold harmless Arch and its subsidiaries from and against any claims arising out of any failure of Sellers to perform under the
Birchwood Contract. By acknowledgement dated February 16, 2005, the Company and Arch acknowledged the continuing validity and effect of said Agreement & Release.
 
 
 
 
Alpha Natural Resources, Inc. and Subsidiaries
 
In the normal course of business, the Company is a party to guarantees and financial instruments with off-balance sheet risk, such as bank letters of credit, performance or surety bonds and other guarantees and indemnities related to the obligations of affiliated entities, which are not reflected in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets. Management does not expect any material losses to result from these guarantees and other off-balance sheet instruments.
 
Contingencies
 
Extensive regulation of the impacts of mining on the environment and of maintaining workplace safety, and related litigation, has had or may have a significant effect on the Companys costs of production and results of operations. Further regulations, legislation or litigation in these areas may also cause the Companys sales or profitability to decline by increasing costs or by hindering the Companys ability to continue mining at existing operations or to permit new operations.
 
Legal Proceedings
 
The Company is involved in various claims and other legal actions arising in the ordinary course of business. In the opinion of management, the ultimate disposition of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on the Companys consolidated financial position, consolidated results of operations or consolidated cash flows.
 
Letters of Credit
 
At June 30, 2009, the Company had $177,033 of letters of credit outstanding under its revolving credit facility. Of this amount, $118,563 is being used to partially collateralize the surety bonds securing the Companys regulatory obligations for asset retirements. See Note 12.
 
 
 
 
Alpha Natural Resources, Inc. and Subsidiaries
 
(17)           Fair Value of Financial Instruments
 
The estimated fair values of financial instruments under SFAS No. 107, are determined based on relevant market information. These estimates involve uncertainty and cannot be determined with precision. The following methods and assumptions are used to estimate the fair value of each class of financial instrument.
Disclosures About Fair Value of Financial Instruments,
 
Trade accounts receivable, trade accounts payable, accrued expenses and other current liabilities: The carrying amounts approximate fair value because of the short maturity of these instruments.
 
The fair value of long-term debt is estimated based on a current market rate of interest offered to the Company for debt of similar maturities.
Long-term debt:
 
The estimated fair values of financial instruments are as follows at:
 
 
 
 
 
Alpha Natural Resources, Inc. and Subsidiaries
 
(18)           Income Taxes
 
For the three months ended June 30, 2009, the income tax expense of $8,841 represents an effective rate of 22% on pre-tax income of $39,696, compared to an income tax expense of $1,115, or an effective rate of 46% on a pre-tax loss of $2,431 for the three months ended June 30, 2008. The effective rate for the three months ended June 30, 2009 is based on forecasted annual results for 2009.
 
For the six months ended June 30, 2009, the income tax expense of $6,738 represents an effective rate of 20% on pre-tax income of $33,389, compared to an income tax expense of $3,382, or an effective rate of 55% on pre-tax income of $6,191 for the six months ended June 30, 2008. The effective rate for the six months ended June 30, 2009 is comprised of two elements: (a) a $7,280 expense or 22% effective rate based on forecasted annual income results for 2009; offset by (b) a discrete tax benefit of $542 or 2% primarily related to state bonus depreciation estimates and adjustments related to prior year tax return amendments. Absent the discrete items, the forecasted annual effective rate of 22% for 2009 increased from the 2008 effective rate of 7% due primarily to the expected impact of permanent differences for the excess depletion deduction and a change in the estimated impact of valuation allowances required between years on AMT credits due to the forecasted earnings increase between 2008 and 2009. Changes to the effective rate during interim periods occur as the Company reconsiders its forecast of full-year pretax income based upon its most recent experience. These changes in estimates are reflected in the effective tax rate in the period in which the information becomes available to the Company.
 
(19)           Derivatives
 
Derivative instruments and hedging activities are accounted for in accordance with SFAS No. 133, (SFAS No. 133) (as amended by SFAS No. 138, and SFAS No. 161). SFAS No. 133 and SFAS No. 161 establish accounting and disclosure standards for derivative instruments and hedging activities and require that entities recognize all derivatives as either assets or liabilities in the statement of financial position and measure those instruments at fair value.
Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activity
Accounting for Certain Derivative Instruments and Certain Hedging Activities
 
On the date a derivative instrument is entered into, the Company generally designates a qualifying derivative instrument as either a hedge of the fair value of a recognized asset or liability or of an unrecognized firm commitment (fair value hedge), or a hedge of the variability of cash flows to be received or paid related to a recognized asset or liability or forecasted transaction (cash flow hedge).
 
 
 
 
Alpha Natural Resources, Inc. and Subsidiaries
 
For derivative instruments that do not meet the qualifications to be designated as cash flow hedges, changes in fair value are recorded in current period earnings or losses. For derivative instruments that meet the qualifications and have been designated as cash flow hedges, the effective portion of the changes in fair value are recorded in and any portion that is ineffective is recorded in current period earnings or losses. Amounts recorded in are reclassified to earnings or losses in the period the underlying hedged transaction affects earnings or when the underlying hedged transaction is no longer probable of occurring. For derivative instruments that have been designated as fair value hedges, changes in the fair value of the derivative instrument and changes in the fair value of the related hedged asset or liability or unrecognized firm commitment are recorded in current period earnings or losses.
Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)
Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)
 
Forward Contracts
 
The Company manages price risk for coal sales through the use of long-term coal supply agreements. The Company evaluates each of its coal sales and coal purchase forward contracts under SFAS No. 133 to determine whether they meet the definition of a derivative and if so, whether they qualify for the normal purchase normal sale (NPNS) exception prescribed by SFAS No. 133. The majority of the Companys forward contracts do qualify for the NPNS exception based on managements intent and ability to physically deliver or take physical delivery of the coal. Contracts that qualify as derivatives and do not qualify for the NPNS exception are accounted for at fair value. Those contracts that qualify as derivatives have not been designated as cash flow hedges and accordingly, the Company includes the unrealized gains and losses in current period earnings or losses.
 
Swap Agreements
 
The Company uses diesel fuel and explosives in its production process and incurs significant expenses for the purchase of these commodities. Diesel fuel and explosive expenses represented approximately 8% of total cash costs for the six months ended June 30, 2009 and 2008. The Company is subject to the risk of price volatility for these commodities and as a part of its risk management strategy, the Company enters into swap agreements with financial institutions to mitigate the risk of price volatility for both diesel fuel and explosives. The terms of our swap agreements allows the Company to pay a fixed price and receive a floating price, which provides a fixed price per unit for the volume of purchases being hedged. As of June 30, 2009, the Company had swap agreements outstanding to hedge the variable cash flows related to 61%, 58% and 6% of anticipated diesel fuel usage for the remainder of 2009 and for calendar years 2010 and 2011, respectively. The average fixed price per swap for diesel fuel hedges is $3.08 per gallon, $1.88 per gallon and $1.97 per gallon for calendar years 2009, 2010 and 2011, respectively. As of June 30, 2009, the Company had swap agreements outstanding to hedge the variable cash flows related to approximately 72% and 45% of anticipated explosive usage for the remainder of 2009 and for calendar year 2010, respectively. All cash flows associated with derivative instruments are classified as operating cash flows in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the six months ended June 30, 2009 and 2008. The following table presents the fair values and location within the Consolidated Balance Sheets of the Companys derivative instruments:
 
 
 
 
 
Alpha Natural Resources, Inc. and Subsidiaries
 
 
 
 
 
 
Alpha Natural Resources, Inc. and Subsidiaries
 
The following table presents the gains and losses from derivative instruments for the six months ended June 30, 2009 and 2008 and their location within the Consolidated Financial Statements:
 
 
 
 
Unrealized losses recorded in are reclassified to income or loss as the financial swaps settle and the Company purchases the underlying diesel fuel and explosives that are being hedged. During the next twelve months, the Company expects to reclassify approximately $5,375, net of tax, for diesel fuel hedges and approximately $1,394, net of tax, for explosive hedges. The following table summarizes the changes to related to hedging activities during the six months ended June 30, 2009:
Accumulated other comprehensive loss
Accumulated other comprehensive income
 
 
 
 
 
Alpha Natural Resources, Inc. and Subsidiaries
 
(20)           Subsequent Events
 
Merger with Alpha Natural Resources, Inc.
 
On July 31, 2009, Alpha Natural Resources, Inc. (Old Alpha) merged (the Merger) with and into Foundation Coal Holdings, Inc. (Foundation), with Foundation continuing as the surviving corporation under the name Alpha Natural Resources, Inc. We refer to the surviving corporation as New Alpha.
 
As of the effective time of the Merger (the Effective Time), each issued and outstanding share of common stock, par value $0.01, of Foundation, and other outstanding equity-based awards other than any shares owned by Old Alpha, were converted into the right to receive 1.0840 shares of common stock, par value $0.01, of New Alpha, and each issued and outstanding share of common stock, par value $0.01, of Old Alpha, other than any shares owned by Foundation, automatically became one share of common stock of New Alpha. Immediately after the Effective Time, Old Alphas stockholders owned approximately 59% of New Alpha common stock and Foundations stockholders owned approximately 41% of New Alpha common stock.
 
The Merger will be accounted for as a business combination under SFAS 141(R). For financial accounting purposes, the Merger is treated as a reverse acquisition and Old Alpha is treated as the accounting acquirer. Accordingly, Old Alphas financial statements will become the financial statements of New Alpha and New Alphas future periodic filings will reflect Old Alphas historical financial condition and results of operations shown for comparative purposes. For the three and six month periods ended June 30, 2009, Foundation incurred merger-related costs of approximately $4,800, which are included in .
Selling, general, and administrative expenses
 
Also at the Effective Time, the Board of Directors of New Alpha was comprised of ten members, six of which were members of Old Alphas board and four were members of the Foundation board. The headquarters of New Alpha is in Abingdon, Virginia.
 
7.25% Senior Notes Due August 1, 2014
 
On July 30, 2004, Foundations subsidiary, Foundation PA Coal Company, LLC (Foundation PA), issued $300,000 aggregate principal amount of 7.25% Notes that mature on August 1, 2014 (the 2014 Notes). As of June 30, 2009 $298,285 remained outstanding. The 2014 Notes were guaranteed on a senior unsecured basis by Foundation Coal Corporation (FCC), an indirect parent of Foundation PA, and certain of its subsidiaries. As a result of the Merger, Foundation PA and FCC became subsidiaries of New Alpha.
 
On August 1, 2009, in connection with the Merger, Foundation PA, New Alpha and certain of its subsidiaries (which were also former subsidiaries of Old Alpha) (the New Subsidiaries) executed a supplemental indenture (the Third Supplemental Indenture), which supplements the indenture dated as of July 30, 2004 as supplemented, governing the 2014 Notes.
 
Pursuant to the Third Supplemental Indenture, New Alpha assumed the obligations of FCC in respect of the 2014 Notes and, along with the New Subsidiaries, became obligated as guarantors on the indenture governing the 2014 Notes. On August 1, 2009, in connection with the Merger, FCC merged with and into New Alpha.
 
 
 
 
Alpha Natural Resources, Inc. and Subsidiaries
 
Credit Agreement
 
On July 31, 2009, following the Merger and upon satisfaction of the requisite conditions, an amendment dated as of May 22, 2009 (Amendment No. 1) to the Senior Secured Credit Facility (Credit Agreement), dated as of July 30, 2004, became effective. Under the Credit Agreement, Foundation had a $500,000 revolving credit line and a $335,000 term loan with $301,500 outstanding as of June 30, 2009. Repayment of outstanding indebtedness owed under the credit facility includes quarterly amortization of the term loan beginning in the third quarter of 2009 with both the term loan and revolving credit line maturing July 7, 2011. Pursuant to Amendment No. 1, New Alpha and certain of its subsidiaries became obligated as guarantors under the Credit Agreement. Amendment No. 1 also
provides for an increase in the interest rate to 3.25 percentage points over the London interbank offered rate (LIBOR) from 1.25 percentage points over LIBOR, subject, in the case of revolving loans, to adjustment based on leverage ratios. Upon Amendment No. 1 becoming effective, limitations on annual capital expenditure amounts were eliminated and the amount of incremental credit facilities that may be incurred under the Credit Agreement were increased from $100,000 to $200,000 of which $150,000 was utilized to increase the revolving credit line to $650,000.
 
Asset Exchange
 
On July 16, 2009, the Company completed an asset exchange with various subsidiaries of Massey Energy Company. In the transaction which was designed to optimize the reserve bases of both companies, the Company created a contiguous reserve in the Harts Creek/Atenville area through the acquisition of approximately 19 million tons of coal, increasing the total coal reserve block to more than 120 million tons. In exchange, the Company conveyed to Massey approximately 23 million tons of coal reserves and the operating assets of the Laurel Creek Mining Complex in Central Appalachia, including a coal processing plant, a permitted impoundment, permitted surface reserves, three idled underground mines, and related mining equipment.
 
The Company has evaluated subsequent events through August 7, 2009, the date the financial statements were issued.
 
 
 
 
Alpha Natural Resources, Inc. and Subsidiaries
 
(21)           Supplemental Guarantor and Non-Guarantor Financial Information
 
On July 30, 2004, the Companys indirect wholly owned subsidiary, Foundation PA Coal Company, LLC (the Issuer or Non-Guarantor Subsidiary), issued $300,000 aggregate principal amount of 7.25% Notes that mature on August 1, 2014. In accordance with the indenture governing the 2014 Notes, the Guarantor Subsidiaries are each of the direct and indirect wholly owned subsidiaries of FCC, other than the Issuer. The Guarantor Subsidiaries have fully and unconditionally guaranteed the 2014 Notes, jointly and severally, on a senior unsecured basis. See Note 20 for developments relating to the Merger.
 
Presented below are condensed consolidating financial statements as of June 30, 2009 and December 31, 2008 and for the three and six month periods ended June 30, 2009 based on the guarantor structure that was in place at that time. Separate consolidated financial statements and other disclosures concerning the Guarantor Subsidiaries are not presented because management believes that such information is not material to holders of the Notes.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Alpha Natural Resources, Inc. and Subsidiaries
 
 
 
 
 
Alpha Natural Resources, Inc. and Subsidiaries
 
 
 
 
 
 
Alpha Natural Resources, Inc. and Subsidiaries
 
 
 
 
 
 
Alpha Natural Resources, Inc. and Subsidiaries
 
 
 
 
 
 
Alpha Natural Resources, Inc. and Subsidiaries
 
 
 
 
 
 
Alpha Natural Resources, Inc. and Subsidiaries
 
 
 
 
 
 
Alpha Natural Resources, Inc. and Subsidiaries
 
 

Exhibit 99.4
 
The following unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated financial information is based on the historical consolidated financial information of Alpha and Massey and has been prepared to reflect the proposed merger of Mountain Merger Sub with and into Massey. The data in the unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2010 assume the proposed merger of Mountain Merger Sub with and into Massey was completed on that date. The data in the unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2010 assume the proposed merger was completed on January 1, 2010. The data in the unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2010 also include the pro forma effects of the acquisition of Cumberland by Massey on April 19, 2010, and assume that the acquisition of Cumberland by Massey was completed on January 1, 2010.
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated financial information has been prepared for illustrative purposes only and is not necessarily indicative of the consolidated financial position or results of operations of Alpha had (i) the proposed merger of Mountain Merger Sub with and into Massey occurred on December 31, 2010 and/or (ii) the proposed merger of Mountain Merger Sub with and into Massey or the acquisition by Massey of Cumberland occurred on January 1, 2010. The pro forma adjustments related to the acquisition by Massey of Cumberland are based on the final purchase price allocation.
 
The proposed merger of Mountain Merger Sub with and into Massey will be accounted for under the acquisition method of accounting under U.S. GAAP whereby the total purchase price is allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their respective fair values determined on the acquisition date. The purchase price will be determined on the basis of the fair value of common shares of Alpha on the date the transaction is consummated plus the fair value of any other consideration transferred. The estimated purchase price for this unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated financial information was based on the closing price of Alpha common stock on March 14, 2011. At this time, Alpha has not performed detailed valuation analyses to determine the fair values of Masseys assets and liabilities; and accordingly, the unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated financial information includes a preliminary allocation of the purchase price based on assumptions and estimates which, while considered reasonable under the circumstances, are subject to changes, which may be material. Additionally, Alpha has not yet performed the due diligence necessary to identify all of the adjustments required to conform Masseys accounting policies to Alphas or to identify other items that could significantly impact the purchase price allocation or the assumptions and adjustments made in preparation of this unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated financial information. Upon completion of detailed valuation analyses, there may be additional increases or decreases to the recorded book values of Masseys assets and liabilities, including, but not limited to mineral reserves, property, plant and equipment and intangible assets that will give rise to future amounts of depletion, depreciation and amortization expenses or credits that are not reflected in the information contained in this unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated financial information. Accordingly, once the necessary due diligence has been performed, the final purchase price has been determined and the purchase price allocation has been completed, actual results may differ materially from the information presented in this unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated financial information. Additionally, this unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated statement of operations does not reflect the cost of any integration activities or benefits from the merger and synergies that may be derived from any integration activities, both of which may have a material effect on the consolidated results of operations in periods following the completion of the merger.
 
 
 
 
 
 
See accompanying Notes to Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Consolidated Financial Information.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
See accompanying Notes to Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Consolidated Financial Information.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
See accompanying Notes to Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Consolidated Financial Information.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note 1. Basis of Presentation
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated financial information presented here is based on the historical consolidated financial information of Alpha and Massey from their Annual Reports on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010 and the historical financial information of the Cumberland Resource Group set forth in Masseys Current Report on Form 8-K dated March 22, 2010. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2010 assumes the proposed merger between Alpha and Massey was completed on that date. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2010 assumes the proposed merger was completed on January 1, 2010. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2010 includes the pro forma effects of the acquisition of Cumberland by Massey on April 19, 2010, and assumes that the acquisition of Cumberland by Massey was completed on January 1, 2010.
 
Pro forma adjustments reflected in the unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated balance sheet are based on items that are directly attributable to the proposed merger and factually supportable. Pro forma adjustments reflected in the unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated statement of operations are based on items directly attributable to the proposed merger, factually supportable and expected to have a continuing impact on Alpha.
 
At this time, Alpha has not performed a detailed valuation analyses to determine the fair values of Masseys assets and liabilities and accordingly, the unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated financial information includes a preliminary allocation of the purchase price based on assumptions and estimates which, while considered reasonable under the circumstances, are subject to changes, which may be material. Additionally, Alpha has not yet performed the due diligence necessary to identify all of the adjustments required to conform Masseys accounting policies to Alphas or to identify other items that could significantly impact the purchase price allocation or the assumptions and adjustments made in preparation of this unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated financial information.
 
Upon completion of a detailed valuation analysis, there may be additional increases or decreases to the recorded book values of Masseys assets and liabilities, including, but not limited to, mineral reserves, property and equipment and intangible assets that will give rise to future amounts of depletion, depreciation and amortization expenses or credits that are not reflected in this unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated financial information. Accordingly, once the necessary due diligence is performed, the final purchase price is determined and the purchase price allocation is completed actual results may differ materially from the information presented in this unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated financial information. Additionally, the unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated statement of operations does not reflect the cost of any integration activities or benefits from the merger and synergies that may be derived from any integration activities, both of which may have a material impact on the consolidated results of operations in periods following the completion of the merger.
 
Certain amounts in Masseys historical balance sheet have been reclassified to conform to Alphas presentation.
 
 
 
 
Note 2. Preliminary Purchase Price
 
Alpha is proposing to acquire all of the outstanding shares of Massey for a combination of shares of Alpha common stock at an exchange ratio of 1.025 shares of Alpha common stock plus $10.00 per share, for each outstanding share of Massey Common Stock. Alpha intends to finance the cash portion of the purchase consideration through a combination of cash on hand (including marketable securities) and issuing additional debt. The estimated preliminary purchase price reflects the closing price of Alphas common stock on March 14, 2011.
 
 
The preliminary estimated purchase price of the proposed merger is as follows:
 
 
 
 
The fair value of Alpha stock consideration will ultimately depend on the closing price of Alpha common stock on the day of the merger. A 5% increase or decrease in the closing price of Alpha common stock would increase or decrease the Alpha stock consideration by approximately $280,638.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Employee incentive awards consist of outstanding cash incentive unit awards granted on or prior to January 27, 2011 and earned at the maximum level of achievement and restricted unit and director fee unit awards granted on or prior to January 27, 2011 and earned at the target level of achievement. The estimated fair value per unit of the awards was based on the closing price of Alpha common stock of $52.93 per share on March 14, 2011 plus $10.00 per share. The fair value of these awards will ultimately depend on the number of awards outstanding and the closing price of Alpha common stock at the time of the merger.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note 3. Pro forma Adjustments
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


