FILE:ANR/ANR-8K-20111103072110.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  FINANCIAL CONDITION
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
SIGNATURES
EXHIBIT INDEX
EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On November 3, 2011, Alpha Natural Resources, Inc. issued a press release announcing earnings and other financial results for its fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2011 and that Management would review these results in an investment community conference call at 10:00 AM Eastern (7:00 AM Pacific) on Thursday, November 3, 2011.
This Current Report on Form 8-K and the earnings press release attached hereto are being furnished by the Registrant pursuant to Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition. In accordance with General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99.1, shall not be deemed filed for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liability of that section or Sections 11 and 12(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. In addition, this information shall not be deemed incorporated by reference into any of the Registrants filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in any such filing.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibit
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Alpha Natural Resources, Inc.
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Alpha Natural Resources, Inc. (NYSE: ANR), a leading U.S. coal producer, reported third quarter net income of $66.4 million or $0.29 per diluted share compared to net income of $31.9 million or $0.27 per diluted share for the third quarter last year. Income from continuing operations for the third quarter was $66.4 million or $0.29 per diluted share compared to income from continuing operations of $32.4 million or $0.27 per diluted share for the third quarter of 2010. Excluding certain merger-related and other unusual items described in our Reconciliation of Adjusted Income from Continuing Operations to Income from Continuing Operations, third quarter 2011 adjusted income from continuing operations was $79.9 million or $0.35 per diluted share.
ABINGDON, Va., November 3, 2011
Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, depletion and amortization (EBITDA) from continuing operations for the third quarter 2011 was $280.1 million, compared to $197.3 million in the year ago period. Excluding certain merger-related and other unusual items described in our Reconciliation of EBITDA from Continuing Operations and Adjusted EBITDA from Continuing Operations to Income from Continuing Operations, Adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations was $373.1 million.
*These are non-GAAP financial measures. A reconciliation of adjusted income from continuing operations to income from continuing operations, and a reconciliation of both EBITDA from continuing operations and adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations to income from continuing operations are included in tables accompanying the financial schedules.
 
 
 
Alpha again demonstrated the success of its Running Right approach to safety during the third quarter, said Kevin Crutchfield, Alphas chief executive officer. Both our Love Branch South and Enterprise operations were recognized with underground mine safety awards in Kentucky, and both operations had no lost-time accidents during 2010. We have completed Running Right training for the entire hourly workforce at all legacy Massey operations, and we have begun a training program directed at supervisory personnel. The benefits are already becoming clear: incident rates at the legacy Massey operations are declining; employee feedback is overwhelmingly positive; and the annualized voluntary turnover rate for legacy Massey declined to single digits in the month of September, down from more than 20 percent earlier in the year. At Alpha, we understand that having an empowered workforce working together within the Running Right culture is inextricably linked to our ability to operate safely, maintain strong employee morale, minimize turnover, and thereby deliver operational excellence.
Alpha generated adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations of $373 million during the third quarter of 2011. Alphas financial results were impacted by the ongoing geological challenges at our Emerald longwall mine, a notice of force majeure from a steelmaking customer in the Middle East, and protracted quarterly price negotiations with some Asian customers that led to delayed shipments of metallurgical coal, as well as lower than expected production at several legacy Massey mines. Taking a longer view, Alpha is now well positioned for success as the third largest supplier of metallurgical coal globally, with the largest export capacity of any U.S. producer. The integration of the legacy Massey operations remains on track, and over time we anticipate continued improvement in safety performance, enhanced productivity and meaningful synergies from fostering a unified Running Right culture throughout our organization, all of which will drive value and accrue to the benefit of Alphas shareholders.
In August, Alpha announced a $600 million share repurchase authorization, in addition to the $125 million authorization announced in 2010. So far this year we have repurchased approximately $200 million of Alphas common stock, including $179 million since the beginning of the third quarter with which we repurchased approximately 6.7 million shares at an average price of $26.74 per share. The repurchases in the third quarter fully exhausted the remaining amount available under the authorization that Alpha announced in 2010 and utilized $100 million of the new $600 million authorization. We believe that shares of ANR currently represent outstanding value, and we will continue to seek opportunities to repurchase shares at attractive valuations.
Financial Performance
During the third quarter of 2011, Alpha shipped 12.6 million tons of Powder River Basin (PRB) coal, 12.7 million tons of Eastern steam coal including 7.0 million tons from the legacy Massey operations, and 5.9 million tons of metallurgical coal including 2.1 million tons from the legacy Massey operations. Average per ton realization for PRB shipments rose to $11.98 in the third quarter of 2011 compared with $11.10 in the year-ago period. The average per ton realization for Eastern steam coal shipments was $67.07 compared with $67.72 last year, and the average per ton realization for metallurgical coal shipments increased to $168.49 in the third quarter of 2011 compared with $122.24 in the third quarter of 2010.
 
 
 
Selling, general and administrative expense in the third quarter of 2011 was $72.7 million and included $7.8 million of pre-tax merger-related expenses attributable to professional fees and various retention, severance and benefit alignment expenses. This compares with selling, general and administrative expense of $43.6 million in the third quarter last year. Depreciation, depletion and amortization (DD&A) during the quarter was $242.7 million, and net amortization of acquired intangibles was a benefit of $73.3 million in the third quarter of 2011. DD&A included $150.7 million for the acquired legacy Massey operations whose owned and leased mineral reserves, property and equipment were written up to fair value in acquisition accounting. In addition to amortization expense arising from acquired coal supply agreements for the legacy Foundation Coal in the amount of $24.2 million, amortization of acquired intangibles includes a $97.5 million net benefit from amortization of coal supply agreements and transportation contracts that were acquired in the Massey transaction and recorded at fair value.
 
 
 
Excluding the after-tax total of these items, adjusted income from continuing operations was $79.9 million or $0.35 per diluted share compared to adjusted income from continuing operations of $69.2 million or $0.57 per diluted share for Alpha stand-alone in the third quarter of 2010.
Year-to-Date Results
During the first three quarters of 2011, Alphas coal shipments totaled 75.2 million tons, including 12.5 million tons from the legacy Massey operations since the acquisition closed on June 1, compared with 62.7 million tons in the first three quarters of 2010 for Alpha stand-alone. Metallurgical coal shipments were 13.9 million tons year-to-date, up 56 percent compared to the 8.9 million tons during the first nine months of 2010. Shipments of PRB coal and Eastern steam coal were 36.1 million tons and 25.3 million tons, respectively, during the first nine months of 2011.
st
 
 
 
Liquidity and Capital Resources
Cash provided by operations for the quarter ended September 30, 2011 was $253.1 million compared with $173.1 million for Alpha stand-alone in the third quarter of 2010.
Capital expenditures for the third quarter of 2011 were $142.3 million, versus $87.1 million in the comparable period last year. Investing activities during the third quarter included $28.9 million for the first of five annual installment payments pertaining to a Caballo West federal coal lease in the PRB.
On August 18, 2011, Alpha completed the previously announced redemption of the 7.25% senior notes due 2014 of Foundation PA Coal Company, a subsidiary of the Company for $302 million. At the end of the third quarter, Alpha had available liquidity of approximately $1.8 billion, consisting of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities of an aggregate $0.8 billion plus approximately $1 billion available under the Companys secured credit and accounts receivable facilities. Total long-term debt, including current portion of long-term debt at September 30, 2011, was approximately $3.0 billion, compared with $0.8 billion at December 31, 2010. Other than scheduled principal amortization of its bank term loan, Alpha does not have any debt maturities until 2015.
Market Overview
Global demand for metallurgical coal remains robust driven primarily by growth in Asia. Chinese raw steel production increased 18 percent year-over-year in September and reached an annualized pace of approximately 750 million metric tonnes, up from an annualized run rate of approximately 720 million metric tonnes earlier this year. Driven by continued demand growth and limited new sources of supply in the near-term, the market for metallurgical coal remains strong, although pricing has declined somewhat from the record highs achieved earlier this year as Australia has largely recovered from severe flooding earlier in the year and the European debt crisis has created some uncertainty in the near-term. As the third largest supplier of metallurgical coal in the world, Alpha is well positioned to benefit from the Asia-driven demand growth for metallurgical coal for the foreseeable future.
The seaborne thermal market continues to demonstrate consistent demand growth, driven primarily by emerging economies in Asia. China set a new record for coal imports in September, increasing 25 percent year-over-year to just over 19 million metric tons, and the country is expected to import nearly 120 million metric tonnes of thermal coal for the full year 2011. Indian imports have more than doubled since 2008 and are expected to reach nearly 80 million metric tons in 2011. Indian imports are projected to exceed 200 million tons per year later this decade. With greater than 25 million tons of export terminal capacity annually, Alpha is the clear leader among coal U.S. producers and plans to leverage this competitive advantage to benefit from a strengthening seaborne thermal coal market.
Unlike the rapidly growing markets in Asia, the United States market for thermal coal remains muted due to slow economic growth, an uncertain regulatory environment and competition from low-priced natural gas. Thermal coals share in the electricity generation mix has gradually lost ground relative to natural gas, and the EIA forecasts a further decrease in thermal coal consumption in 2012. The Cross State Air Pollution Rule (CSAPR), which is scheduled to go into effect in January of 2012 and would mandate substantial decreases in SO and NOx emission from utilities in 27 states, has been the subject of several state-level lawsuits, as well as congressional proposals seeking to alter or delay its implementation. In light of these legal and legislative challenges, the timing and ultimate requirements of CSAPR remain in question. However, if the rule is ultimately implemented, it would likely mean decreased reliance on Central Appalachian thermal coals on the margin, and a shift toward gas-fired generation and increased utilization of lower sulfur coals from other basins, including the PRB. In this uncertain environment, utilities have been slow to enter into thermal coal contracts, and utility inventories have fallen to below 150 million tons nationwide, dipping below the 5-year average, which should be positive for the domestic thermal coal markets once the regulatory environment is clarified.
2
 
 
 
Outlook
Alpha is fine tuning its 2011 guidance ranges for depletion, depreciation and amortization (DD&A) and interest expense to $700-$750 million and $135-$140 million, respectively, compared to the previous guidance ranges of $750-$780 million and $125-$140 million, respectively, and adjusting Western cost of coal sales to a range of $9.80-$10.20 per ton compared to the previous range of $9.60-$10.00 per ton, while leaving all other guidance ranges for 2011 unchanged. Alpha is revising its 2012 guidance ranges, and updating its contracted position for both 2011 and 2012 to reflect sales activity through October 24, 2011. Guidance for 2011 includes the contribution of legacy Massey operations for the seven month period from June to December. Guidance for 2011 and 2012 for East and West cost of coal sales per ton and selling, general and administrative expenses exclude any impacts from merger-related expenses, UBB charges, and closed-mine asset retirement obligation charges.
Based on the midpoint of the shipment guidance ranges, Alpha is essentially sold out in 2011, with 100 percent of Western steam coal committed and priced at average realizations of $11.93 per ton and 100 percent of Eastern steam coal committed and priced at average realizations of $66.75 per ton. Metallurgical coal is 98 percent committed and priced at average realizations of $162.00 per ton.
For the year 2012 Alpha has increased its Eastern metallurgical coal shipment guidance to a range of 23.5-26.5 million tons compared to the previous range of 23.0-26.0 million tons. Based on the midpoint of the current guidance range, approximately 89 percent of Alphas anticipated 2012 met coal shipments remains unpriced, with approximately 11 percent committed and priced at an average per ton realization of $143.59 and 39 percent committed and unpriced. As metallurgical coal shipments increase and the Company continues to optimize its asset portfolio in the East, Alpha has reduced its Eastern steam coal shipment guidance to a range of 46-52 million tons compared to the previous range of 49-54 million tons. Based on the midpoint of current guidance, 62 percent of Alphas anticipated 2012 Eastern steam coal shipment volume is committed and priced at an average per ton realization of $67.92 and 17 percent is committed and unpriced. Alpha has also adjusted its Western steam coal shipment guidance to a range of 49-53 million tons compared to the previous range of 48-52 million tons, and based on the midpoint of the current range, 92 percent of Alphas 2012 Western steam coal shipment volume is committed and priced at an average per ton realization of $12.68. Adjusted cost of coal sales in 2012 are anticipated to range from $70.00 to $75.00 per ton in the East and $10.50 to $11.50 per ton in the West. Ranges for selling, general and administrative expense and depletion, depreciation and amortization expense in 2012 are expected to be $230 million to $270 million, and $1.05 billion to $1.15 billion, respectively. Interest expense is expected to be between $175 million and $185 million, and capital expenditures for the year are anticipated to range from $650 million to $850 million.
 
 
 
NOTES:
 
 
 
About Alpha Natural Resources
Alpha Natural Resources is one of America's premier coal suppliers with coal production capacity of greater than 120 million tons a year. Alpha is the nation's leading supplier and exporter of metallurgical coal used in the steel-making process and is a major supplier of thermal coal to electric utilities and manufacturing industries across the country. The Company, through its affiliates, employs approximately 14,000 people and operates more than 150 mines and 40 coal preparation facilities in Appalachia and the Powder River Basin. More information about Alpha can be found on the Companys Web site at www.alphanr.com.
Forward Looking Statements
This news release includes forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are based on Alphas expectations and beliefs concerning future events and involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from current expectations. These factors are difficult to predict accurately and may be beyond Alphas control. The following factors are among those that may cause actual results to differ materially from our forward-looking statements:
 
 
 
These and other risks and uncertainties are discussed in greater detail in Alphas and Masseys Annual Reports on Form 10-K and other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Forward-looking statements in this news release or elsewhere speak only as of the date made. New uncertainties and risks come up from time to time, and it is impossible for Alpha to predict these events or how they may affect the Company. Alpha has no duty to, and does not intend to, update or revise the forward-looking statements in this news release after the date it is issued. In light of these risks and uncertainties, investors should keep in mind that the results, events or developments disclosed in any forward-looking statement made in this news release may not occur.
Investor Contact
Todd Allen, CFA
Vice President, Investor Relations
276-739-5328
tallen@alphanr.com
Media Contact
Ted Pile
Vice President, Corporate Communications
276-623-2920
tpile@alphanr.com
 
 
 
This information is intended to be reviewed in conjunction with the company's filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 
 
(1) Stated in thousands of short tons.
(2) Coal revenues divided by tons sold. This statistic is stated as free on board (FOB) at the processing plant.
(3) Cost of coal sales divided by tons sold. The cost of coal sales per ton only includes costs in our Eastern and Western Coal Operations.
(4) East includes the Company's operations in Central Appalachia (CAPP) and Northern Appalachia (NAPP).
(5) Weighted average total sales realization per ton less weighted average total cost of coal sales per ton.
(6) Weighted average coal margin per ton divided by weighted average total sales realization per ton.
(7) Classified as a current asset on the balance sheet.
(8) Classified as a non-current asset on the balance sheet.
(9) Amounts per ton calculated based on unrounded revenues, cost of coal sales and tons sold.
(10) For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2011, adjusted cost of coal sales per ton for East includes adjustments to exclude the impact of
certain non-cash charges that resulted from recording Massey's beginning inventory at fair value, stock compensation and severance expenses, changes in
estimated future costs of water treatment at closed mines and costs related to UBB.
(11) Weighted average total sales realization per ton less adjusted weighted average total cost of coal sales per ton.
(12) Adjusted weighted average coal margin per ton divided by weighted average total sales realization per ton.
(13) Adjusted cost of coal sales per ton, adjusted weighted average coal margin per ton and adjusted weighted average coal margin percentage
for our Eastern Operations are reconciled to their unadjusted amounts as follows:
This information is intended to be reviewed in conjunction with the company's filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
MORE
 
 
 
This information is intended to be reviewed in conjunction with the company's filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
MORE
 
 
 
 
This information is intended to be reviewed in conjunction with the company's filings with the U. S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
MORE
 
 
 
 
EBITDA from continuing operations and adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations are non-GAAP measures used by management to gauge operating performance and normalized levels of earnings. Alpha defines EBITDA from continuing operations as income from continuing operations plus interest expense, income tax expense, depreciation, depletion and amortization, and amortization of acquired intangibles less interest income and income tax benefit. Alpha defines adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations as EBITDA from continuing operations plus expenses attributable to mergers, losses on early extinguishment of debt, UBB expenses, mark-to-market losses on derivative instruments, changes in estimated future costs of water treatment at closed mines less mark-to-market gains on derivative instruments and various gains and losses not expected to recur on a quarterly basis. The definition of adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations may be changed periodically by management to adjust for significant items important to an understanding of operating trends. Management presents EBITDA from continuing operations and adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations as supplemental measures of the company's performance and debt service capacity that may be useful to securities analysts, investors and others. EBITDA from continuing operations and adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations are not, however, measures of financial performance under U.S. GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to net income, income from continuing operations or operating income as determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Moreover, EBITDA from continuing operations and adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations are not calculated identically by all companies. A reconciliation of EBITDA from continuing operations and adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations to income from continuing operations, the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP measure is provided in the table below.
This information is intended to be reviewed in conjunction with the company's filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 
Adjusted income from continuing operations and adjusted diluted earnings per common share from continuing operations are non-GAAP measures used by management to gauge performance and normalized earnings levels. Alpha defines adjusted income from continuing operations as income from continuing operations plus expenses attributable to mergers, losses on early extinguishment of debt, mark-to-market losses on derivative instruments, changes in estimated future costs of water treatment at closed mines, amortization of acquired intangibles, UBB expenses, less mark-to-market gains on derivative instruments and various gains and losses that are not expected to recur on a quarterly basis, discrete income tax benefits from reversal of valuation allowances for deferred tax assets and reversal of reserves for uncertain tax positions, adjustments to deferred taxes due to significant law changes and estimated income tax effects of the pre-tax adjustments. Adjusted diluted earnings per common share from continuing operations is adjusted income from continuing operations divided by weighted average diluted shares. The definition of adjusted income from continuing operations may be changed periodically by management to adjust for significant items important to an understanding of operating trends. Management presents adjusted income from continuing operations and adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations as supplemental measures of the company's performance that it believes are useful to securities analysts, investors and others in assessing the company's performance over time. Adjusted income from continuing operations and adjusted diluted earnings per common share from continuing operations are not, however, measures of financial performance under U.S. GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to net income, income from continuing operations, operating income or diluted earnings per share from continuing operations as determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Moreover, adjusted income from continuing operations and adjusted diluted earnings per common share from continuing operations are not calculated identically by all companies. A reconciliation of adjusted income from continuing operations to income from continuing operations, the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP measure, and the weighted average diluted shares used to calculate adjusted diluted earnings per common share from continuing operations are provided in the table below.
This information is intended to be reviewed in conjunction with the company's filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
###


