FILE:ANR/ANR-8K-20110503082916.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[X] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  FINANCIAL CONDITION
 
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
 
SIGNATURES
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
 
On May 3, 2011, Alpha Natural Resources, Inc. issued a press release announcing earnings and other financial results for its fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2011 and that Management would review these results in an investment community conference call at 11:00 AM Eastern (8:00 AM Pacific) on Tuesday, May 3, 2011.
 
This Current Report on Form 8-K and the earnings press release attached hereto are being furnished by the Registrant pursuant to Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition. In accordance with General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99.1, shall not be deemed filed for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liability of that section or Sections 11 and 12(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. In addition, this information shall not be deemed incorporated by reference into any of the Registrants filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in any such filing.
 
 
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d) Exhibit
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 

Alpha Natural Resources, Inc.
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Alpha Natural Resources, Inc. (NYSE: ANR), a leading U.S. coal producer, reported first quarter net income of $49.8 million or $0.41 per diluted share compared to net income of $14.0 million or $0.12 per diluted share last year.  The first quarter 2011 income from continuing operations was $49.8 million or $0.41 per diluted share compared to income from continuing operations of $14.7 million or $0.12 per diluted share in the first quarter of 2010.  Excluding amortization of coal supply agreements, merger-related expenses and related tax impacts, first quarter 2011 adjusted income from continuing operations was $79.7 million or $0.65 per diluted share compared to $84.2 million or $0.69 per diluted share last year.
ABINGDON, Va., May 3, 2011
Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, depletion and amortization (EBITDA) from continuing operations for the first quarter 2011 was $193.0 million, compared to $218.5 million in the year ago period.  Excluding merger-related expenses, first quarter 2011 adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations was $216.3 million.  
 
*These are non-GAAP financial measures.  A reconciliation of adjusted income  from continuing operations to income from continuing operations, and a reconciliation of both EBITDA from continuing operations and adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations to income from continuing operations are included in tables accompanying the financial schedules.
 
 
 
Alphas safety performance in the first quarter demonstrated the effectiveness of our Running Right culture, said Kevin Crutchfield, Alphas chief executive officer.  Our overall incident rate is well below the industry average; four of our operations received the 2010 West Virginia Holmes Safety Award; three of our operations received the 2010 Mountaineer Guardian Award; and two of our operations, the Cucumber mine and our Litwar processing facility, were honored with both the Guardian and the Holmes Award.  I want to recognize and commend the collective efforts of Alphas entire workforce as we strive to set a new standard of safety excellence.
 
 
Based on the foundation laid during the first quarter, Alpha expects to deliver outstanding results in 2011.  Since we last updated Alphas contracted position in our fourth quarter 2010 earnings release, we have priced approximately 2.6 million tons of metallurgical coal for delivery in 2011.  Of these newly contracted volumes, approximately 1.2 million tons commanded prices of approximately $324 per metric tonne.  As the leading U.S. supplier of metallurgical coal, Alpha is positioned to benefit from increasing global demand for metallurgical coal and the resulting robust pricing environment.
Our regional and product diversification, along with todays strong metallurgical coal market, served us well during the first quarter of 2011 as record metallurgical coal shipments and revenues somewhat offset a challenging quarter for our two Pittsburgh #8 longwall mines.  As we progress through the year, quarterly results should reflect the benefit of increasing average realizations on newly contracted metallurgical coal and the roll-off of older metallurgical contracts, as well as improved performance from the longwall mines following the completion of the longwall move at Cumberland in early April and the operation of the second longwall at Emerald which should resume before the end of the second quarter.
Alphas acquisition of Massey Energy Company is nearing completion.  After announcing the transaction on January 29, we have successfully achieved every milestone to date on our anticipated schedule.  We cleared our antitrust review under Hart-Scott-Rodino on April 1; the definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus has been mailed; and we are on track for both companies to conduct their respective special meetings and shareholder votes on June 1.  The integration planning effort is in full swing; the business unit structure and senior management appointments have been announced; and we intend to hit the ground running as a combined entity once the transaction is closed.  The combination of our two companies will make Alpha a true global leader, with over 5 billion tons of reserves, a leading global position in metallurgical coal shipments, a healthy balance sheet, and, importantly, a workforce of approximately 14,000 individuals exemplifying our Running Right culture, which I believe is the standard for excellence in the industry today.  Following the closing of the transaction, Alpha will continue to execute according to our strategic plan, and Alpha will remain singularly focused on the thorough, thoughtful and successful integration of the two companies in order to maximize value for our shareholders.
th
st
st
 
Financial Performance
During the first quarter of 2011, Alpha shipped 12.5 million tons of PRB coal, 4.9 million tons of Eastern steam coal and 3.6 million tons of metallurgical coal.  Average per ton realization for PRB shipments rose to $11.91 compared to $10.94 in the fourth quarter of 2010 and $10.81 in the first quarter of 2010.  The average per ton realization for Eastern steam coal shipments in the first quarter of 2011 was $66.89 compared to $67.04 in the prior quarter and $67.40 in the first quarter last year, and the average per ton realization for metallurgical coal increased to $141.76 in the first quarter compared to $114.87 in the prior quarter and $98.70 in the first quarter of 2010.
 
 
 
Liquidity and Capital Resources
Cash provided by operations (including discontinued operations) for the quarter ended March 31, 2011 was $168.4 million compared to $143.3 million for the first quarter of 2010.
Capital expenditures (including discontinued operations) for the first quarter 2011 were $57.1 million, versus $60.9 million in the comparable period last year.  
At the end of the first quarter, Alpha had available liquidity of approximately $1.9 billion, consisting of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities of an aggregate $916.4 million, plus $960.4 million available under the companys secured credit facilities.  Total long-term debt, including current portion of long-term debt at March 31, 2011, was $760.8 million compared with $754.2 million at December 31, 2010.  
Market Overview
Seaborne demand for metallurgical and thermal coal continues to increase globally, driven primarily by ongoing demand growth in Asia and the worldwide economic recovery.  In response to strong seaborne demand, the U.S. is on pace to export approximately 100 million tons of coal in 2011, an increase of approximately 25 percent from 2010 and the highest level of U.S. exports in nearly 20 years.  The combination of Alpha and Massey will be well-positioned to benefit from this burgeoning seaborne demand with 25 million tons of export capacity and greater than 24 million tons of estimated annual metallurgical coal sales on a pro forma combined basis.
The global supply of metallurgical coal remains tight due to severe flooding events in Australia in the first quarter which reduced Queensland production by as much as 15 million metric tonnes.  Demand shows no sign of abating.  Based on the first few months of data, China is on track to import 45-50 million tons of coking coal in 2011; the need for rebuilding following the tragic earthquake and tsunami in Japan is expected to boost incremental steel demand in the near future; and year-to-date steel production in the United States appears to be tracking ahead of levels previously anticipated by domestic steel mills.  In this environment of tight global supply and increasing demand, the quarterly international benchmark recently reached a record $330 per metric tonne.  As the largest supplier of metallurgical coal among U.S. producers, Alpha is uniquely positioned to benefit from todays strong market conditions for metallurgical coal.  Furthermore, when the acquisition of Massey is complete, the combined entity is anticipated to rank among the top three metallurgical coal suppliers globally.   
During the first quarter of 2011, the market for seaborne thermal coal tightened as supply was constrained by weather-related interruptions in Colombia and Indonesia, as well as Australia.  Worldwide, the future of nuclear electricity generation has been called into question following the disaster in Japan.  Germany has taken several nuclear plants off-line for an extended inspection period, and several plants may remain closed indefinitely.  Plans for new nuclear generation around the world, as well as requests to extend the useful life of nuclear facilities, may face considerable opposition.  All of these factors have resulted in stronger demand and improved pricing for thermal coal thus far in 2011.  Looking ahead, demand growth in developing economies, especially India which is projected to import 75 million tonnes in 2011 and more than 100 million tonnes by the middle of this decade, will continue to stress the available seaborne supply of thermal coal for the foreseeable future.  
In the United States, access to low-cost natural gas continues to weigh on thermal coals share of electricity generation, and domestic stockpiles have remained relatively stable at approximately 160 million tons.  Despite relatively stable domestic demand, improving seaborne market conditions and the likelihood of increasing thermal coal exports should gradually drive improved market conditions in the domestic market.   
 
Outlook
On a stand-alone basis, Alpha is increasing its 2011 and 2012 metallurgical coal shipment guidance to a range of 13.5 to 14.5 million tons in each year, up from a range of 13.0 to 14.5 million tons in each year previously.  All other shipment guidance ranges remain unchanged from Alphas previous guidance. As of April 19, 2011, all of Alphas expected 2011 PRB shipments are committed and priced at an average per ton realization of $11.87.  Expected 2011 Eastern steam coal shipments are 95 percent committed and priced at an average per ton realization of $66.01, and one percent of expected Eastern steam coal shipments is committed and unpriced.  Expected 2011 Eastern metallurgical coal shipments are 87 percent committed and priced at an average per ton realization of $159.08, up from an average per ton realization of $142.23 on committed and priced volumes reported in Alphas fourth quarter 2010 earnings release.  Thirteen percent of Alphas expected 2011 metallurgical coal shipments are committed and unpriced.  Guidance for selling, general and administrative expense; interest expense; depletion, depreciation and amortization expense; and capital expenditures in 2011 all remain unchanged from Alphas previous guidance.
As of April 19, 2011, 75 percent of Alphas 2012 PRB shipments are committed and priced at an average per ton realization of $12.59.  Eastern steam coal shipments are 22 percent committed and priced at an average per ton realization of $70.67, and 35 percent of expected Eastern steam coal shipments are committed and unpriced.  Eastern metallurgical coal shipments in 2012 are 11 percent committed and priced, and 49 percent are committed and unpriced.  Committed and priced metallurgical tons are contracted at an average realization of $151.61 per ton.
 
 
 
NOTES:
 
About Alpha Natural Resources
Alpha Natural Resources is one of America's premier coal suppliers with coal production capacity of greater than 90 million tons a year.  Alpha is the nation's leading supplier and exporter of metallurgical coal used in the steel-making process and is a major supplier of thermal coal to electric utilities and manufacturing industries across the country.  The Company, through its affiliates, employs approximately 6,500 people and operates approximately 68 mines and 13 coal preparation facilities in Appalachia and the Powder River Basin.  More information about Alpha can be found on the Companys Web site at .
www.alphanr.com
 
 
 
Forward Looking Statements
This news release includes forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are based on Alphas expectations and beliefs concerning future events and involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from current expectations. These factors are difficult to predict accurately and may be beyond Alphas control. The following factors are among those that may cause actual results to differ materially from our forward-looking statements:
 
 
 
These and other risks and uncertainties are discussed in greater detail in Alphas Annual Report on Form 10-K and other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Forward-looking statements in this news release or elsewhere speak only as of the date made. New uncertainties and risks come up from time to time, and it is impossible for Alpha to predict these events or how they may affect the Company. Alpha has no duty to, and does not intend to, update or revise the forward-looking statements in this news release after the date it is issued.  In light of these risks and uncertainties, investors should keep in mind that the results, events or developments disclosed in any forward-looking statement made in this news release may not occur. 
Important Additional Information and Where to Find It
This communication does not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy any securities or a solicitation of any vote or approval.
 
In connection with the proposed merger, Alpha has filed with the SEC a registration statement on Form S-4 (commission file number 333-172888), as amended, that includes a preliminary joint proxy statement/prospectus regarding the proposed merger.  The registration statement was declared effective by the SEC on April 28, 2011, and a definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus has been mailed to Alpha and Massey stockholders on or about April 29, 2011 in connection with the proposed merger.  INVESTORS ARE URGED TO READ THE JOINT PROXY STATEMENT/PROSPECTUS (INCLUDING ALL AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS THERETO) AND OTHER DOCUMENTS RELATING TO THE MERGER FILED WITH THE SEC, BECAUSE THEY CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION ABOUT THE PROPOSED MERGER.  You may obtain a copy of the joint proxy statement/prospectus and other related documents filed by Alpha and Massey with the SEC regarding the proposed merger as well as other filings containing information, free of charge, through the web site maintained by the SEC at www.sec.gov, by directing a request to Alphas Investor Relations department at Alpha Natural Resources, Inc., One Alpha Place, P.O. Box 2345, Abingdon, Virginia 24212, Attn: Investor Relations, to D.F. King & Co., Inc., 48 Wall Street, 22nd Floor, New York, New York  10005 or to Masseys Investor Relations department at, (804) 788 - 1824 or by email to Investor@masseyenergyco.com.  Copies of the joint proxy statement/prospectus and the filings with the SEC that are incorporated by reference in the joint proxy statement/prospectus can also be obtained, without charge, from Alphas website at www.alphanr.com under the heading Investor Relations and then under the heading SEC Filings and Masseys website at www.masseyenergyco.com under the heading Investors and then under the heading SEC Filings.
Participants in Solicitation
Alpha, Massey and their respective directors, executive officers and certain other members of management and employees may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies in favor of the proposed merger.  Information regarding the persons who may, under the rules of the SEC, be considered participants in the solicitation of proxies in favor of the proposed merger is set forth in the definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus filed with the SEC.  You can find information about Alphas directors and executive officers in Alphas definitive proxy statement filed with the SEC on April 1, 2011.  You can find information about Masseys directors and executive officers in Amendment No. 1 to Masseys Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on April 19, 2011. You can obtain free copies of these documents from Alpha or Massey using the contact information above.
Investor Contact
Todd Allen, CFA
Vice President, Investor Relations
276-739-5328
tallen@alphanr.com
Media Contact
Ted Pile
Vice President, Corporate Communications
276-623-2920
tpile@alphanr.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


