FILE:ANR/ANR-8K-20111206111043.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
 
UNITED STATES
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[  ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[  ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[  ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
 
Non-Prosecution Agreement
 
On December 6, 2011, Alpha Natural Resources (Alpha or the "Company") and its subsidiary, Alpha Appalachia Holdings, Inc., entered into a Non-Prosecution Agreement (the NPA) with the United States Attorneys Office for the Southern District of West Virginia (the USAO SDWV) and the United States Department of Justice (the DOJ). On the same day, Alpha also reached a comprehensive settlement with the Mine Safety and Health Administration (MSHA) (the Settlement).
 
The NPA and the Settlement resolve a criminal investigation and regulatory civil proceedings against Massey Energy Company (Massey) and its affiliates relating to the tragic explosion at Upper Big Branch Mine (UBB) on April 5, 2010, as well as other health and safety and related issues at Massey. At the time of the explosion, UBB was owned by Performance Coal Company, an affiliate of Massey. Alpha acquired Massey on June 1, 2011, over a year after the UBB explosion. The agreement does not resolve individual responsibilities related to the UBB tragedy.
 
Under the terms of the NPA, Alpha has agreed to invest in additional measures designed to improve miner health and safety, including establishing a trust to fund mine health and safety research; resolving MSHAs pending civil proceedings concerning Massey before it was acquired by Alpha; and provide certain restitution to the families of the fallen miners and two individuals injured in the explosion.  More specifically, the NPA reflects Alphas commitment:
 
 
 
 
 
This description is a summary and does not purport to be a complete description of the NPA and Settlement. It is qualified in its entirety by reference to the NPA (and the Settlement being as Appendix A thereto), which is attached hereto as Exhibit 1.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure
 
In connection with entering into and fulfilling our obligations under the NPA and the Settlement, we expect to accrue a total of approximately $63 million (reflecting amounts for the trust and unaccrued MSHA amounts) as either an adjustment to the opening balance sheet for Massey, which was originally recorded at fair value on a provisional basis pursuant to acquisition accounting, or as a merger-related charge.  Accordingly, these additional accruals are not expected to be reflected as reductions to adjusted EBITDA, adjusted net income or adjusted diluted earnings per share.  The amounts specified in the NPA for restitution to the families of the miners killed or injured in the UBB explosion are largely encompassed by existing accruals with an additional $3 million to be accrued as an adjustment to the opening balance sheet for Massey.  The $80 million of expenditures for future safety initiatives and safety equipment and training facilities is expected to include both capital and expense items that will be incurred in 2012 and 2013.
 
 
 
 
 
With respect to cash flow, we expect to pay approximately $10 million of the restitution to the families in the fourth quarter of 2011, and the MSHA amounts and the remaining portion of the restitution to the families in early 2012.  The trust fund contributions and expenditures for safety initiatives and safety equipment and training facilities are expected to result in cash outflows during 2012 and 2013.  We expect to be able to pay all amounts related to the NPA and Settlement from existing cash balances.  We do not expect the NPA and Settlement to have an impact on the Company's credit ratings.
 
As described above, any accruals recorded are expected to relate to the acquisition of Massey.  Our guidance for 2011 and 2012 is exclusive of acquisition-related charges and expenses.  For 2012, we believe that the NPA and Settlement will not have a material impact on our capital expenditures, adjusted cost of coal sales per tonEast and selling, general and administrative expenses, and our 2012 guidance for these items remains unchanged.
 
Alpha estimates that lost time accident rates at the former Massey mines have been reduced by approximately 24% in the 5 months since we acquired Massey compared to the first 5 months of this year (when we didnt own Massey). Also over the same time period, Alpha estimates that the total reportable safety incident rate has dropped by approximately 15%.
 
This Current Report on Form 8-K includes forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are based on Alphas expectations and beliefs concerning future events and involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from current expectations. These factors are difficult to predict accurately and may be beyond Alphas control. The factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from our forward-looking statements and other risks and uncertainties are discussed in greater detail in Alphas and Masseys Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Forward-looking statements in this Current Report on Form 8-K or elsewhere speak only as of the date made. New uncertainties and risks come up from time to time, and it is impossible for Alpha to predict these events or how they may affect the Company. Alpha has no duty to, and does not intend to, update or revise the forward-looking statements in this Current Report on Form 8-K after the date it is issued.  In light of these risks and uncertainties, investors should keep in mind that the results, events or developments disclosed in any forward-looking statement made in this Current Report on Form 8-K may not occur.
 
 
Item 8.01 Other Events.
 
On December 6, 2011, Alpha issued a press release announcing the NPA and the Settlement, a copy of which is filed as Exhibit 99.1 hereto.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 1.1
1.           This Non-Prosecution Agreement (the Agreement), dated December 6, 2011, is entered into by the United States Attorneys Office for the Southern District of West Virginia (the Office), the United States Department of Justice (DOJ), Alpha Natural Resources, Inc. (Alpha), and Alpha Appalachia Holdings, Inc., formerly known as Massey Energy Company (hereinafter Massey).  This Agreement arises from the ongoing criminal investigation conducted by the Office of the explosion at Performance Coal Companys Upper Big Branch Mine (UBB) on April 5, 2010, and the conduct of employees of Performance Coal Company and its parent, Massey, and its affiliates regarding violations of the Mine Act, misleading statements regarding health and safety issues, conduct that impeded the work of the United States Department of Labor (DOL), including the Mine Safety and Health Administration (MSHA), and related issues.
2.           This Agreement is binding on Alpha and Massey, and is binding on the Office, DOJ, and the United States Attorneys Offices for each of the other ninety-three judicial districts (collectively, the Government).  This Agreement does not provide any protection against criminal prosecution of or the initiation of civil proceedings against any individuals, including any individual that was, prior to June 1, 2011, an officer, employee, director, shareholder, agent or consultant of Massey or its affiliates.
3.           The Government enters into this Agreement based, in part, on the following factors:  (a) Alphas acquisition of Massey on June 1, 2011, over one year after the explosion at UBB; (b) Alphas investigation and extensive cooperation with the Government since June 1, 2011, including  but not limited to  Alphas voluntary and timely reporting of relevant information; (c) Alphas extensive remedial efforts as detailed below; (d) Alphas agreement to make a substantial financial investment in additional remedial measures; (e) Alphas agreement to pay funds into a trust that will be established to fund projects designed to improve mine health and safety in order to redress the harm that is a subject of the Governments investigation as described herein; (f) Alphas resolution of the MSHA civil proceedings described in paragraph 7 of this Agreement and in Appendix A and Appendix B; and (g) Alphas agreement to provide restitution to each of the families of the fallen miners and two individuals affected by the UBB explosion.
4.           Since acquiring Massey on June 1, 2011, Alpha has made extensive remedial efforts to improve health and safety at legacy Massey operations.  Those efforts include:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.           Alpha will, for not less than two years following the date of the execution of this Agreement, implement a number of remedial safety measures, as set forth below, with respect to any entities and operations, including legacy Massey operations, that it continues, directly or indirectly, to own and control.  Alpha will invest at least $80,000,000 in safety remedial measures, including the measures set forth below, during the two years following the date of the execution of this Agreement.
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.           Alpha agrees to establish a trust within 120 days from the date of the execution of this Agreement to fund projects designed to improve mine health and safety.  During the two-year period commencing on the date of this Agreement, Alpha will pay a total of $48,000,000 into the trust, and those monies will be used solely to fund research and development projects by qualified academic institutions, not-for-profit entities, or individuals associated with either of those types of entities designed to improve mine health and safety, in order to redress the harm that is a subject of the Governments investigation as described herein.  The trust will be administered by three highly qualified individuals with academic and/or professional backgrounds in mine health and safety.  Alpha will submit the names of potential trust administrators to the Office for approval.
 
4
 
 
 
 
7.           Alpha agrees to resolve certain MSHA proceedings and investigations as set forth in the agreement between MSHA and Alpha attached as Appendix A as follows:
 
5
 
 
 
 
8.           As restitution for the victims injured in the UBB explosion, Alpha agrees to pay, or to cause Massey or its affiliates to pay, at least $1,500,000 to each of the families of the fallen miners and to two individuals affected by the UBB explosion.  The total restitution payment shall be $46,500,000, of which (a) $16,500,000 was previously or anticipated to be paid as part of settlements with the families of eleven of the fallen miners in the actions in Appendix C; and (b) $30,000,000 will be paid to the families of the fallen miners and two individuals affected by the UBB explosion in the actions in Appendix D who have not resolved their claims, consisting of payment to each of (i) $500,000 to be paid within 15 days of the execution of this Agreement, and (ii) $1,000,000 which will be payable at the time of the resolution of pending civil claims through settlement, judgment, or otherwise, and as part of such civil resolution to the extent the civil resolution results in a monetary recovery.  Alpha will make the payment described in subparagraph (b) above into a fund established to pay those families of the fallen miners and the individuals.
9.           Until the date upon which all investigations and prosecutions conducted by the Government against any individuals that arise out of the conduct described in this Agreement are concluded, Alpha and Masseyshall:  (a) cooperate fully with the Office, DOJ, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, DOL, including MSHA and the DOL Office of Inspector General, and any other law enforcement agency designated by the Office and DOJ; (b) use their best efforts to promptly secure the attendance and truthful statements or testimony of any officer, agent, or employee of Massey or Alpha at any meeting or interview or before the grand jury or at any judicial proceeding related to the conduct described in this Agreement; (c) bring to the attention of the Office and DOJ all criminal conduct by employees of Massey that is related to the conduct described in this Agreement and comes to the attention of Massey, Alpha, or their senior management; and (d) provide the Government, upon request, all non-privileged information, documents, records, or other tangible evidence about which the Government or any designated law enforcement agency inquires in connection with any investigation or matter related to the conduct described in this Agreement.  Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed as a waiver by Alpha or Massey of the attorney-client privilege, the attorney work-product doctrine, or any other applicable privilege or protection with respect to documents or records requested by the Government.
 
10.           For a two-year period commencing on the date of the execution of this Agreement, Alpha will report its compliance with this Agreement to the Office at no less than six-month intervals.  Each report to the Office will detail Alphas compliance with this Agreement, will provide a current list of financial expenditures made in connection with this Agreement, and will provide any other non-privileged information requested by the Office.  Alpha will certify in its reports that it is in compliance with its 30 C.F.R. Part 48 requirements.  Alpha will also provide any other non-privileged information or records with respect to compliance with this Agreement requested by the Office at other times.
11.           In consideration for Alphas and Masseys entering into this Agreement and their commitment to perform the duties and obligations set forth herein, the Government agrees not to criminally prosecute or bring any civil action against Massey, any predecessor or successor of Massey, its current parent, or any of its current or previous direct or indirect affiliates, related to:  (a) any conduct attributable to Massey or its affiliates set forth in the Superseding Indictment filed in United States v. Hughie Elbert Stover, 5:11 Cr. 00038 (S.D. W. Va.), and in United States v. Thomas Harrah, 5:11 Cr. 00082 (S.D. W. Va.); (b) any conduct attributable to Massey or its affiliates that is subject to the settlement of the MSHA civil proceedings described herein and in Appendix A and Appendix B;(c) any conduct undertaken by employees of Massey or its affiliates attributable to Massey or its affiliates on or before the date of the execution of this Agreement to the extent known or disclosed to the Government as of the date of this Agreement, or that was a subject of investigation by the Government that led to this Agreement; and (d) any conduct undertaken by employees of Massey or its affiliates on or before the date of this Agreement that Alpha discovers during its continuing investigation and is promptly disclosed to the Government, provided that such conduct is similar in nature and order of magnitude (as determined by the Government in its reasonable discretion) to the conduct disclosed to the Government as of the date of this Agreement.
 
 
6
 
 
 
 
12.           The parties agree that if, in the two-year period commencing on the date of the execution of this Agreement, the Government determines that Alpha or Massey has:  (a) given false or misleading testimony or information in connection with this Agreement, the disclosures that led to this Agreement, or the performance of this Agreement; or (b) otherwise materially violated any provision of this Agreement, Massey shall thereafter be subject to prosecution for any violation of which the Government has knowledge, including perjury and obstruction of justice.  Any such prosecution that is not time-barred by the applicable statute of limitations on the date of the execution of this Agreement may be commenced against Massey.  In addition, Massey agrees to toll, and to exclude from any calculation of time, the running of the statute of limitations for any conduct that is the subject of this Agreement for a two-year period commencing on the date of the execution of this Agreement.  By this Agreement, Alpha and Massey expressly intend to and hereby do waive any right to make a claim with respect to any such prosecution premised upon the statute of limitations, as well as any other claim with respect to such prosecution premised on pre-indictment delay.
13.           The parties agree that if, in the two-year period commencing on the date of the execution of this Agreement, the Government determines that Alpha or Massey has:  (a) given false or misleading testimony or information in connection with this Agreement, the disclosures that led to this Agreement, or the performance of this Agreement; or (b) otherwise violated any provision of this Agreement, the Government shall provide written notice to Alpha of that determination and provide Alpha with a 30-day period following such notice within which Alpha may make a presentation to the Government to demonstrate that no violation occurred, or, to the extent applicable, that any violation should not result in the exercise of certain remedies.  Thereafter, the Government shall provide written notice to Alpha of its final determination regarding whether Massey has:  (a) given false or misleading testimony or information in connection with this Agreement, the disclosures that led to this Agreement, or the performance of this Agreement; or (b) otherwise violated any provision of this Agreement.  The parties agree that the Governments final determination will not be subject to review in any judicial proceeding.
14.           The parties agree that if, in the two-year period following the date of the execution of this Agreement, the Government determines that Alpha or Massey has:  (a) given false or misleading testimony or information in connection with this Agreement, the disclosures that led to this Agreement, or the performance of this Agreement; or (b) otherwise violated any provision of this Agreement, then:  (i) all statements made by Massey to the Government or other designated law enforcement agents and any testimony given by Massey before a grand jury or other tribunal, whether prior or subsequent to the execution of this Agreement, and any leads from such statements or testimony, shall be admissible in evidence in any criminal proceeding brought against Massey; and (ii) Massey and Alpha shall assert no claim under the United States Constitution, any statute, Rule 410 of the Federal Rules of Evidence, or any other federal rule that such statements or any leads therefrom should be suppressed or otherwise excluded from evidence.  By signing this Agreement, Massey and Alpha knowingly and voluntarily waive all rights in the foregoing respects.
 
7
 
 
 
 
15.           Nothing in this Agreement and no action taken by Alpha, any of its affiliates, or any individual pursuant to this Agreement will be deemed to constitute any admission by Alpha, any of its affiliates, or any individual of civil liability under any local, state or federal statute or any principle of common law.
16.           The parties agree that exclusive jurisdiction and venue for any dispute arising under this Agreement is in the United States District Court for the Southern District of West Virginia.
17.           The parties agree that this Agreement may be disclosed to the public.
18.           From the date of the execution of this Agreement forward, this Agreement supersedes all prior, if any, understandings, agreements, promises, and/or conditions between the parties hereto.  No additional understandings, agreements, promises, or conditions have been entered into other than those set forth in this Agreement and none will be entered into unless in writing and signed by all parties.
19.           The undersigned representative of Alpha and Alpha Appalachia Holdings, Inc. warrants and represents to the Government that he possesses the authority to enter into this Agreement.
ON BEHALF OF THE GOVERNMENT:
 
 
 
 
 
 8
 
 
 
 
ON BEHALF OF ALPHA NATURAL RESOURCES, INC.:
 
 
ON BEHALF OF ALPHA APPALACHIA HOLDINGS, INC.,
formerly known as Massey Energy Co.:
 
 
APPROVED:
 
 
 
9
 
 
 
 
Appendix A
December 6, 2011
R. Booth Goodwin, Esquire
United States Attorney
Southern District of West Virginia
Robert C. Byrd Federal Courthouse
300 Virginia Street, Suite 4000
Charleston, West Virginia 25301
Re:           Investigation into April 5, 2010 accident at the Upper Big Branch Mine and other matters related to legacy Massey companies
Dear Mr. Goodwin:
The Mine Safety and Health Administration (MSHA) and Alpha Natural Resources, Inc. (Alpha) write to memorialize an agreement they have reached with respect to certain issues involving direct and indirect subsidiaries as of May 31, 2011 of Massey Energy Company, Inc. ( legacy Massey companies).  We are aware that you have been investigating the April 5, 2010 accident at Performance Coal Companys Upper Big Branch Mine  South (UBB).  We are also aware that you have been investigating other matters involving other legacy Massey companies.  As you know, the legacy Massey companies were acquired by Alpha on June 1, 2011.  We ask that this letter be made an Appendix to the Non-Prosecution Agreement, dated December 6, 2011, entered into by the United States Attorneys Office for the Southern District of West Virginia, the United States Department of Justice, Alpha and Alpha Appalachia Holdings, Inc. (Agreement), executed today.
1
MSHA recognizes that Alpha has committed in the Agreement that all citations and orders that will be issued on December 6, 2011 as a result of MSHAs investigation into the UBB accident will not be contested and will be paid in full.  Alpha has also agreed to withdraw its contest and pay in full all citations and orders issued to legacy Massey companies on or before June 1, 2011 as well as those issued after June 1, 2011 as a result of conditions which existed or conduct which occurred prior to or on June 1, 2011 up to the amounts set forth in paragraph 7 of the Agreement.  MSHA agrees that it will not oppose the request by Alpha before the Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission to withdraw its contest of the proposed civil penalties and will file the necessary pleadings in support of the request.  MSHA will not consider Alphas payment of these citations and orders referenced, as well as those identified in Appendix B to the Agreement, an admission of a violation by any legacy Massey company, Alpha, any of their affiliates, or any individual of any laws, including local, state or federal statutes or any principle of common law, except for purposes of the Mine Act, and also consistent with the terms set forth herein relating to Section 110(c) cases.
The Secretary further agrees that Alphas payment of the citations and orders as specified in the Agreement was not and may not be considered an adjudication on the merits of any citation or order referred to herein or in Appendix B to the Agreement.  In any proceeding involving Alpha or any legacy Massey company and the Secretary, the parties may reference this letter agreement for the purpose of enforcing the terms and provisions set forth herein.  In any other proceeding, however, it is the parties intent that this correspondence may not be referenced or introduced as evidence.
 
Alpha Appalachia Holdings, Inc. was formerly known as Massey Energy Company, Inc.  Alpha has become the ultimate parent of all legacy Massey companies.
1
 
 
 
 
 
 
MSHA and Alpha recognize that MSHA has conducted or is conducting investigations pursuant to Section 110(c) of the Federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977 (Mine Act) which may ultimately lead to civil actions against individuals.  If any citation and/or order identified in Appendix B to the Agreement forms the basis of a charge against an individual pursuant to Section 110(c) of the Mine Act, Alphas payment of these citations and/or orders will not prejudice the rights that any individual may have had but for the payment of the civil penalty as set forth in the Agreement.  Nor will the payment by Alpha of the underlying dockets be construed in any such Section 110(c) case as an admission by any legacy Massey company, Alpha, its affiliates, or any individual of any aspect of these citations and orders including, without limitation, the fact of any violation, the gravity of any alleged violation and/or that any individual acted with any negligence whatsoever in allowing an alleged condition or practice to exist.  In any such proceeding pursuant to Section 110(c) of the Mine Act, MSHA and Alpha agree that the parties to any such proceeding will bear the same burden of proof on all elements of any charge or defense, if any, which would have existed in the absence of the payment of the underlying dockets.  MSHA agrees that the Department of Justice will have sole authority to initiate any action under Section 110 of the Mine Act against any individual as a result of the investigation into the April 5, 2010 accident at UBB.
MSHA and Alpha recognize that any action pending before a Commission Administrative Law Judge wherein either party has filed a Motion to Approve a Settlement prior to December 6, 2011 will not be affected by this letter agreement.
Alpha will, in conjunction with MSHA, develop and implement a corrective action plan to improve the health and safety conditions at the following mines:  Aracoma Coal Companys Alma Mine No. 1 (Mine ID 46-08801); Spartan Mining Companys Road Fork #51 Mine (Mine ID 46-01544); Independence Coal Companys Allegiance Mine (Mine ID 46-08735);  Marfork Coal Companys Horse Creek Eagle Mine (Mine ID 46-09091); and Mammoth Coal Companys No. 2 Gas Mine (Mine ID 46-09108). MSHA will monitor and evaluate the corrective action plans and progress at these mines in the six months following the implementation of these plans.  In consideration of Alphas implementation of the corrective action plans, MSHA will not conduct audits of accident, injury and illness reporting data for the purposes of determining whether a mine should be placed on a potential pattern of violations for the period prior to June 30, 2011.
 
 
Sincerely,
 
/s/ M. Patricia Smith                                                           
M. Patricia Smith
Solicitor of Labor
/s/ Joseph A. Main                                                              
Joseph A. Main
Assistant Secretary of Labor for
Mine Safety and Health
 
/s/ Vaughn R. Groves                                                         
Vaughn R. Groves
Alpha Natural Resources, Inc.
On Behalf Of Certain Direct and Indirect Subsidiaries
as of May 31, 2011 of Massey Energy Company, Inc.
2
 
2
Alex Energy, Inc., Alliance Coal Corporation, Aracoma Coal Company, Inc., A.T. Massey Coal Company, Inc., Bandmill Coal Corp., Bandytown Coal Company, Big Bear Mining Company, Belfry Coal Corporation, Ben Creek Coal Company, Big Laurel Mining Corporation, Black King Mine Development, Black Mountain Resources, LLC, Bluff Spur Coal Company, Boone Energy Company, Bull Mountain Mining Corporation, Cave Spur Coal, LLC, Clear Fork Coal Company, Cloverlick Coal Company, LLC, Crystal Fuels Company, Cumberland Equipment Corporation, Cumberland Resources Corporation, Delbarton Mining Company, Dehue Coal Company, Dorchester Enterprises, Inc., Duchess Coal Company, Eagle Energy, Inc., Elk Run Coal Company, Inc., Endurance Mining, Exeter Coal Corporation, Foglesong Energy Company, Freedom Energy Mining Company, Goals Coal Company, Green Valley Coal Company, Greyeagle Coal Company, Guest Mountain Mining Corporation, Harlan Reclamation Services, LLC, Hazy Ridge Coal Company, High Splint Coal LLC, Highland Mining Company, Hopkins Creek Coal Company, Independence Coal Company, Inc., Jacks Branch Coal Company, Joboner Coal Company, JST Mining Company, JST Resources, LLC, Kanawha Energy, Knox Creek Coal Corp., Logan County Mine Services, Inc., Logan Mining Company, Long Fork Coal Company, Lynn Branch Coal Company, Maggard Branch Coal, LLC, Majestic Mining, Inc., Mammoth Coal Company, Marfork Coal Company, Martin County Coal Corp., Massey Energy Company, Massey Coal Services, Inc., Meadow Branch Mining Corporation, Mill Branch Coal Corporation, Mountain Management, Inc., New Ridge Mining Company d/b/a Coalgood Energy Co., Nicholas Energy Company, Nine Mine Spur, LLC, North Fork Coal Corporation, Omar Mining Company, Osaka Mining Corporation, Panther Mining, LLC, Peerless Eagle Coal Company, Performance Coal Company, Peter Cave Mining Co., Pigeon Creek Processing Corporation, Pilgrim Mining Company, Inc., Powell River Resources Corporation, Power Mountain Coal Company, Progress Coal Company, Rawl Sales & Processing Company, Inc., Road Fork Development Company, Robinson-Phillips Coal Company, Rockridge Coal Company, Roda Resources, LLC, Rostraver Energy Company, Rum Creek Coal Sales, Russell Fork Coal Company, Shannon-Pocahontas Mining Company, Shannon-Pocahontas Coal Corporation, Sidney Coal Company, Inc. d/b/a Rockhouse Energy Mining, Sidney Coal Company, Inc. d/b/a M3 Energy, Sidney Coal Company, Inc. d/b/a  Process Energy, Sidney Coal Company, Inc. d/b/a Solid Energy Mining, Sidney Coal Company, Inc. d/b/a Clean Energy Mining, Sidney Coal Company, Inc. d/b/a Mount Sterling Energy Mining, Sidney Coal Company, Inc., Spartan Mining Company, Stillhouse Mining, LLC, Stirrat Coal Company, Stone Mining Company, Support Mining Company d/b/a Inman Energy, Sycamore Fuels, Inc., Talon Loadout Company, T.C.H. Coal Company, Tennessee Energy Corporation, Tennessee Consolidated Coal Company, Thunder Mining, Company, Town Creek Coal Company, Trace Creek Coal Company, Vantage Mining Company, West Kentucky Energy Company, White Buck Coal Company, Williams Mountain Coal Company, Winifrede Coal Corporation, Wyomac Coal Company, Mass Transport, Inc., Trace Transport, Inc. Elk Run Line Crew, Green Valley Trucking, New Ridge Mining Reclamation, New River Energy Corporation, Roadfork Development-Maysville & Black River, Sidney Line Boring Crew, and Spartan Mining d/b/a Trace Transport, Inc.
 
 
2
 
 
 
 
Appendix B
 
1. The Secretary and Alpha agree that Appendix B is true and accurate based upon the information available to them at this time. The parties recognize however, that additional citations and/or orders which are intended to be subject to this letter agreement may not be specifically identified in Appendix B. The Secretary and Alpha therefore agree that, in addition to the specific citations, orders, dockets and proceedings referenced in Appendix B, Alpha has also agreed to withdraw its contest and pay in full any other citation and/or order issued to any legacy Massey company on or before June 1, 2011 as well as those issued after June 1, 2011 as a result of conditions which existed or conduct which occurred prior to or on June 1, 2011, up to the amounts set forth in paragraph 7 of the Agreement. MSHA agrees that it will not oppose the request by Alpha before the Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission to withdraw its contest of the proposed civil penalties and will file the necessary pleadings in support of the request.
 
2. Citations and/or orders currently on appeal to the Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission are excluded from the citations and orders identified in paragraph 1.
 
 
 
 
Mountain Coal Company
Power
 
 
 
 
Performance Coal Company
 
 
 
 
Panther Mining, LLC
 
 
 
Osaka Mining Corporation
 
 
 
 
Omar Mining Company
 
 
 
 
North Fork Coal Corporation
 
 
 
North Fork Coal Corporation
 
 
 
Alex Energy, Inc.
 
 
 
Aracoma Coal Company
 
 
 
Aracoma Coal Company
 
 
 
Bandmill Coal Corporation
 
 
 
Big Laurel Mining Corporation
 
 
 
Cave Spur Coal, LLC
 
 
 
Cloverlick Coal Company, LLC
 
 
 
 
Delbarton Mining Co.
 
 
 
 
 
Dorchester Enterprises, Inc.
 
 
 
Elk Run Coal Company, Inc.
 
 
 
Elk Run Coal Company, Inc.
 
 
 
Elk Run Coal Company, Inc.
 
 
 
Elk Run Coal Company, Inc.
 
 
 
Endurance Mining
 
 
 
 
Freedom Energy Mining Company
 
 
 
Highland Mining Company
 
 
 
Independence Coal Company, Inc.
 
 
 
 
Independence Coal Company, Inc.
 
 
 
Knox Creek Coal Corp.
 
 
 
 
Logan County Mine Services, Inc.
 
 
 
 
Long Fork Coal Company
 
 
 
Marfork Coal Company
 
 
 
 
Marfork Coal Company
 
 
 
 
Martin County Coal Corp.
 
 
 
Martin County Coal Corp.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Rawl Sales Processing Company, Inc.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Stillhouse Mining, LLC
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Support Mining dba Inman Energy
 
 
 
Talon Loadout Company
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Alpha Natural Resources, Inc.
 
 
 
 
 
 
BRISTOL, Va., Dec. 6, 2011Alpha Natural Resources (NYSE:  ANR)  has entered into a Non-Prosecution Agreement with the United States Attorneys Office for the Southern District of West Virginia (USAO SDWV) and the United States Department of Justice (DOJ). Alpha has also reached a comprehensive settlement with the Mine Safety and Health Administration (MSHA).
 
The Non-Prosecution Agreement and the settlement resolve a criminal investigation and regulatory civil proceedings against Massey Energy Company (Massey) and its affiliates relating to the tragic explosion at Upper Big Branch Mine (UBB) on April 5, 2010, as well as other health and safety and related issues at Massey. At the time of the explosion UBB was owned by Performance Coal Company, an affiliate of Massey Energy Company. The agreement does not resolve any individual responsibilities related to the UBB tragedy.
 
Alpha acquired Massey on June 1, 2011, over a year after the UBB explosion.  Since acquiring Massey, Alpha has cooperated fully with the USAO SDWV, the DOJ and MSHA, and has implemented extensive measures to improve health and safety at legacy Massey operations.
 
Under the terms of the Non-Prosecution Agreement, Alpha has agreed to invest in additional measures designed to improve miner health and safety, including funding a trust that will be established to fund mine health and safety research; resolving MSHAs pending civil proceedings involving Massey before it was acquired by Alpha; and providing restitution to the families of the fallen miners and two individuals injured in the explosion.  More specifically, the Non-Prosecution Agreement reflects Alphas commitment:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Kevin Crutchfield, CEO of Alpha Natural Resources, said: From the outset, Alpha has cooperated fully with all regulatory and enforcement agencies and we believe the agreements weve reached represent the best path forward for everyone. Were particularly pleased that a substantial portion of the settlement is going towards furthering miner safety, which has always been Alphas guiding principle. Were mindful that the Justice Department investigation arose from a terrible tragedy which took the lives of 29 miners. Our thoughts will always be with the fallen miners and our sympathies with their families.
 
 
 
Alpha Natural Resources acknowledges todays release of the Mine Safety and Health Administrations final report on the Upper Big Branch mine tragedy. Alpha is conducting its own independent review of the mine explosion and will consider MSHAs findings and the findings of other reports in its review.
 
Since acquiring Massey Energy and its properties this past June, Alpha has undertaken numerous activities that reinforce a commitment to safety and doing what is right.
 
 
Alpha has begun a second phase of training specifically targeting those with supervisory responsibilities, focused on two fronts: leadership and safety compliance.   Since June 1, 450 supervisors have completed leadership training and more than 1,000 certified mine examiners have completed safety skills training and extensive safety compliance training.  
Running Right
Alpha has also conducted emergency response training for mine foremen, superintendents, safety staff and management in all its business units.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Alpha is dedicated to being a safe and responsible operator. Through our process we give every employee a voice in safety and the ability to drive significant improvements.  We believe empowering employees closest to the work and giving them the opportunity and resources to make safety improvements is the most effective way to develop a sustainably safe work site.
Running Right
About Alpha Natural Resources
Alpha Natural Resources (NYSE: ANR) is a leading supplier and exporter of metallurgical coal used in the steel-making process and is a major supplier of thermal coal to electric utilities and manufacturing industries across the country.  The company, through its affiliates, employs approximately 14,000 people and operates approximately 150 mines and 35 coal preparation facilities in the regions of Northern and Central Appalachia and the Powder River Basin.  More information about Alpha can be found on the companys website at .
www.alphanr.com
Forward-Looking Statements
Statements in this press release which are not statements of historical fact are forward-looking statements within the Safe Harbor provision of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are not guarantees of future performance. Many factors could cause our actual results, performance or achievements, or industry results, to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward looking-statements. These factors are discussed in detail in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and in our other filings with the SEC. We make forward-looking statements based on currently available information, and we assume no obligation to update the statements made today or contained in our Annual Report or other filings due to changes in underlying factors, new information, future developments, or otherwise, except as required by law.
Media Contact
Ted Pile
Tel. 276-623-2920
Email:
tpile@alphanr.com
 
 


