FILE:ANR/ANR-8K-20121011171816.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
 
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): October 11, 2012
 
ALPHA NATURAL RESOURCES, INC.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
 
One Alpha Place, P.O. Box 16429,
Bristol, VA 24209
(Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code)
 
Registrants telephone number, including area code:
(276) 619-4410
 
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
1
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
Supplemental Indenture and the New Senior Notes
On October 11, 2012, Alpha Natural Resources, Inc. (Alpha), certain of Alphas wholly owned domestic subsidiaries, as guarantors (collectively, the Guarantors), and Union Bank, N.A., as trustee, entered into a third supplemental indenture (the Third Supplemental Indenture) to the indenture dated June 1, 2011 (the Base Indenture and, together with the Third Supplemental Indenture, the New Notes Indenture) governing Alphas newly issued 9.75% Senior Notes due 2018 (the New Senior Notes).
The New Senior Notes bear interest at a rate of 9.75% per annum, payable semi-annually on April 15 and October 15 of each year, beginning on April 15, 2013, and will mature on April 15, 2018.
The New Senior Notes are Alphas senior unsecured obligations, ranking senior in right of payment to all of Alphas future debt that is subordinated in right of payment to the New Senior Notes and ranking equally in right of payment with all of Alphas existing and future debt that is not subordinated in right of payment to the New Senior Notes. Each Guarantors guarantee of the New Senior Notes is an unsecured obligation of that Guarantor, ranking senior in right of payment to all of that Guarantors future debt that is subordinated in right of payment to that Guarantors guarantee and ranking equally in right of payment with all of that Guarantors existing and future debt that is not subordinated in right of payment to that Guarantors guarantee. The New Senior Notes are effectively junior to all of Alphas and the Guarantors secured debt to the extent of the value of the collateral securing that debt. The New Senior Notes are also subordinated to all existing and future liabilities of Alphas non-guarantor subsidiaries, including trade payables and lease obligations.
Alpha may redeem the New Senior Notes, in whole or in part, at any time prior to maturity, at a price equal to 100% of the aggregate principal amount of the New Senior Notes plus a make-whole premium, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to, but not including, the applicable redemption date. In addition, Alpha may redeem up to 35% of the aggregate principal amount of the New Senior Notes with the net cash proceeds from certain equity offerings, at any time prior to October 15, 2015, at a redemption price equal to 109.75% of the aggregate principal amount of the New Senior Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to, but not including the applicable redemption date, if at least 65% of the aggregate principal amount of the New Senior Notes originally issued under the New Notes Indenture remains outstanding immediately after the redemption and the redemption occurs within 180 days of the date of the closing of such equity offering.
Upon the occurrence of a change of control repurchase event with respect to the New Senior Notes, unless Alpha has exercised its right to redeem the New Senior Notes, Alpha will be required to offer to repurchase each holders New Senior Notes at a price equal to 101% of the principal amount thereof, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to, but not including, the date of repurchase.
The New Notes Indenture contains covenants that limit, among other things, Alphas ability to:
2
These covenants are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions. These covenants may not apply at any time after the New Senior Notes are assigned a credit grade rating of at least BB+ (stable) from Standard & Poor's Ratings Services and of at least Ba1 (stable) from Moody's Investor Service, Inc.
This description of the New Notes Indenture and the New Senior Notes does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Base Indenture and the Third Supplemental Indenture, which are attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibits 4.1 and 4.2, respectively, and are incorporated herein by reference.
Item 3.03 Material Modification to Rights of Security Holders.
The New Notes Indenture contains covenants that limit, among other things, Alphas ability to pay dividends on Alphas or its subsidiaries capital stock or repurchase its capital stock, subject to certain exceptions. For more information, see the Third Supplemental Indenture, which is attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 4.2 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 Pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission, Alpha has filed certain agreements as exhibits to this Current Report on Form 8-K. These agreements may contain representations and warranties by the parties. These representations and warranties have been made solely for the benefit of the other party or parties to such agreements and (i) may have been qualified by disclosure made to such other party or parties, (ii) were made only as of the date of such agreements or such other date(s) as may be specified in such agreements and are subject to more recent developments, which may not be fully reflected in Alphas public disclosure, (iii) may reflect the allocation of risk among the parties to such agreements and (iv) may apply materiality standards different from what may be viewed as material to investors. Accordingly, these representations and warranties may not describe Alphas actual state of affairs at the date hereof and should not be relied upon.
*Filed herewith.
3
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
4
Exhibit Index
*Filed herewith.
5

Exhibit 4.2
ALPHA NATURAL RESOURCES, INC.
and
UNION BANK, N.A.
as Trustee
SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE NO. 3
Dated as of October 11, 2012
to
INDENTURE
Dated as of June 1, 2011
$500,000,000 Principal Amount 9.75% Senior Notes due 2018
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
ARTICLE 1
DEFINITIONS AND INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE
Section 1.01
Definitions.
    1
Section 1.02
Other Definitions.
    33
Section 1.03
Incorporation by Reference of Trust Indenture Act.
    33
Section 1.04
Rules of Construction.
    34
Section 1.05
Base Indenture to be Superseded.
    34
ARTICLE 2
THE NOTES
Section 2.01
Form and Dating.
    35
Section 2.02
Execution and Authentication.
    35
Section 2.03
Registrar and Paying Agent.
    36
Section 2.04
Paying Agent to Hold Money in Trust.
    36
Section 2.05
[Reserved.]
    36
Section 2.06
Transfer and Exchange.
    36
Section 2.07
[Reserved.]
    37
Section 2.08
Deposit of Moneys.
    37
Section 2.09
Global Notes.
    37
Section 2.10
Defaulted Interest.
    37
Section 2.11
Additional Notes.
    38
ARTICLE 3
REDEMPTION AND PREPAYMENT
Section 3.01
Notices to Trustee.
    38
Section 3.02
Selection of Notes to Be Redeemed.
    38
Section 3.03
Notice of Redemption.
    39
Section 3.04
Effect of Notice of Redemption.
    40
Section 3.05
Deposit of Redemption Price.
    40
Section 3.06
Notes Redeemed in Part.
    40
Section 3.07
Optional Redemption.
    41
Section 3.08
Mandatory Redemption.
    42
-
i
-
                                            
Page
ARTICLE 4
COVENANTS
Section 4.01
Payment of Notes.
    42
Section 4.02
Maintenance of Office or Agency.
    42
Section 4.03
Reports.
    42
Section 4.04
Compliance Certificate.
    43
Section 4.05
Restricted Payments.
    44
Section 4.06
Dividend and Other Payment Restrictions Affecting Restricted Subsidiaries.
    48
Section 4.07
Incurrence of Indebtedness and Issuance of Preferred Equity.
    49
Section 4.08
Asset Sales.
    54
Section 4.09
Transactions with Affiliates.
    57
Section 4.10
Liens.
    59
Section 4.11
Offer to Repurchase Upon Change of Control.
    59
Section 4.12
Payments for Consent.
    61
Section 4.13
Additional Note Guarantees.
    61
Section 4.14
Designation of Restricted and Unrestricted Subsidiaries.
    62
Section 4.15
Changes in Covenants upon a Ratings Event.
    62
ARTICLE 5
SUCCESSORS
Section 5.01
Merger, Consolidation, or Sale of Assets.
    63
Section 5.02
Successor Substituted.
    64
ARTICLE 6
DEFAULTS AND REMEDIES
Section 6.01
Events of Default.
    64
Section 6.02
Acceleration.
    66
Section 6.03
Other Remedies.
    67
Section 6.04
Waiver of Past Defaults.
    67
Section 6.05
Control by Majority.
    67
Section 6.06
Limitation on Suits.
    67
Section 6.07
Rights of Holders of Notes to Receive Payment.
    68
Section 6.08
Collection Suit by Trustee.
    68
Section 6.09
Trustee May File Proofs of Claim.
    68
Section 6.10
Priorities.
    69
Section 6.11
Undertaking for Costs.
    69
-#PageNum#-
                                            
Page
ARTICLE 7
LEGAL DEFEASANCE AND COVENANT DEFEASANCE
Section 7.01
Option to Effect Legal Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance.
    69
Section 7.02
Legal Defeasance and Discharge.
    70
Section 7.03
Covenant Defeasance.
    70
Section 7.04
Conditions to Legal or Covenant Defeasance.
    71
Section 7.05
Deposited Money and Government Securities to be Held in Trust; Other Miscellaneous Provisions.
    72
Section 7.06
Repayment to Issuer.
    73
Section 7.07
Reinstatement.
    73
ARTICLE 8
AMENDMENT, SUPPLEMENT AND WAIVER
Section 8.01
Without Consent of Holders of Notes.
    73
Section 8.02
With Consent of Holders of Notes.
    74
Section 8.03
Compliance with Trust Indenture Act.
    76
Section 8.04
Revocation and Effect of Consents.
    76
Section 8.05
Effect of Supplemental Indenture.
    76
Section 8.06
Notation on Notes in Respect of Supplemental Indentures.
    76
Section 8.07
Trustee to Sign Amendments, etc.
    77
ARTICLE 9
NOTE GUARANTEES
Section 9.01
Guarantee.
    77
Section 9.02
Limitation on Guarantor Liability.
    78
Section 9.03
Guarantors May Consolidate, etc., on Certain Terms.
    79
Section 9.04
Releases.
    79
ARTICLE 10
SATISFACTION AND DISCHARGE
Section 10.01
Satisfaction and Discharge.
    80
Section 10.02
Application of Trust Money.
    81
ARTICLE 11
MISCELLANEOUS
Section 11.01
Conflict of Any Provision of Indenture with Trust Indenture Act.
    81
-#PageNum#-
                                            
Page
Section 11.02
Duplicate Originals.
    82
Section 11.03
New York Law to Govern.
    82
Section 11.04
No Adverse Interpretation of Other Agreements.
    82
Section 11.05
Successors and Assigns of Issuer Bound by Supplemental Indenture.
    82
Section 11.06
Severability.
    82
Section 11.07
Effect of Headings.
    82
Section 11.08
Calculations in Respect of the Notes.
    82
Section 11.09
Notices.
    83
EXHIBITS
Exhibit B        GLOBAL NOTE LEGEND
-#PageNum#-
SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE NO. 3 (the 
Supplemental Indenture
), dated as of October 11, 2012, among Alpha Natural Resources, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the 
Issuer
), the Guarantors (as defined below) and Union Bank, N.A., a national banking association, as trustee (the 
Trustee
).
WITNESSETH THAT:
WHEREAS, the Issuer and the Trustee have executed and delivered a base indenture, dated as of June 1, 2011 (as amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, the 
Base Indenture
, and as supplemented by this Supplemental Indenture, as amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, the 
Indenture
) to provide for the future issuance of the Issuers senior debt securities to be issued from time to time in one or more series; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to the terms of the Base Indenture, the Issuer desires to provide for the establishment of (a) a series of $500,000,000 9.75% Senior Notes due 2018 (the 
Initial Notes
) and (b) any Additional Notes (as defined herein) that may be issued after the date hereof (all such securities in clauses (a) and (b) being referred to collectively as the 
Notes
), the form and substance of each of the Notes and terms, provisions and conditions thereof to be set forth as provided in the Supplemental Indenture:
NOW, THEREFORE:
Each party agrees as follows for the benefit of the other party and for the equal and ratable benefit of the Holders of the Notes.
ARTICLE 1
DEFINITIONS AND INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE
As used in this Supplemental Indenture, the following terms shall have the meanings specified below. Capitalized terms used herein without definition shall have the respective meanings ascribed to them in the Base Indenture.
2019 Notes
 means the series of $800,000,000 6% Senior Notes due 2019 issued by the Issuer under that certain Supplemental Indenture No. 1, dated as of June 1, 2011.
2021 Notes
 means the series of $700,000,000 6.25% Senior Notes due 2021 issued by the Issuer under that certain Supplemental Indenture No. 1, dated as of June 1, 2011.
Acquired Debt
 means, with respect to any specified Person:
(1)    Indebtedness of any other Person existing at the time such other Person is merged with or into or became a Restricted Subsidiary of such specified Person, whether or not such Indebtedness is incurred in connection with, or in contemplation of, such
other Person merging with or into, or becoming a Restricted Subsidiary of, such specified Person; and
(2)    Indebtedness secured by a Lien encumbering any asset acquired by such specified Person.
Additional Notes
 means additional Notes(other than the Initial Notes) issued under this Indenture in accordance with Sections 2.02 and 4.07 hereof, as part of the same series as the Notes, issued as Initial Notes.
Affiliate
 of any specified Person means any other Person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with such specified Person. For purposes of this definition, 
control
, as used with respect to any Person, means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of such Person, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by agreement or otherwise. For purposes of this definition, the terms 
controlling
, 
controlled by
 and 
under
common control with
 have correlative meanings.
Agent
 means any Registrar, co-Registrar, Paying Agent or additional paying agent.
Asset Acquisition
 means:
(1)    an Investment by the Issuer or any Restricted Subsidiary of the Issuer in any other Person pursuant to which such Person shall become a Restricted Subsidiary of the Issuer or any Restricted Subsidiary of the Issuer, or shall be merged with or into or consolidated with the Issuer or any Restricted Subsidiary of the Issuer; or
(2)    the acquisition by the Issuer or any Restricted Subsidiary of the Issuer of the assets of any Person (other than a Restricted Subsidiary of the Issuer) which constitute all or substantially all of the assets of such Person or comprise any division or line of business of such Person or any other properties or assets of such Person other than in the ordinary course of business.
Asset Sale
 means any sale, transfer or other disposition by the Issuer or any of the Restricted Subsidiaries to any person other than the Issuer or any other Restricted Subsidiary of any asset or group of related assets, including Equity Interests of any Subsidiary, in one or a series of related transactions, the gross proceeds from which exceed $100 million.
Notwithstanding the preceding, none of the following items will be deemed to be an Asset Sale:
(1)    any sale, transfer or other disposition of inventory, surplus, obsolete or worn-out equipment, assets determined by management of the Issuer to be no longer useful or necessary in the operation of the business of the Issuer and its Restricted
Subsidiaries, Permitted Investments or any other asset, all in the ordinary course of business;
(2)    any sale, transfer or other disposition of any assets of a Restricted Subsidiary that is not a Guarantor to the Issuer or any other Subsidiary;
(3)    any sale, transfer or other disposition of unrestricted cash, cash equivalents or Permitted Investments of the Issuer or any of the Restricted Subsidiaries;
(4)    a sale leaseback transaction so long as at the time the lease in connection therewith is entered into, and after giving effect to the entering into of such lease (a) no Event of Default is continuing or would result therefrom and (b) any such sale leaseback transaction shall be consummated for Fair Market Value as determined at the time of consummation in good faith as determined by the Issuer;
(5)    the sale or other transfer (including by capital contribution) of assets pursuant to Qualified Receivables Financings;
(6)    the sale of defaulted receivables in the ordinary course of business and not as part of an accounts receivables financing transaction;
(7)    dispositions of Rebuild Equipment by either of the Rebuild Companies;
(8)    licensing, sublicensing and cross-licensing arrangements involving any technology or other intellectual property of the Issuer or any Restricted Subsidiary in the ordinary course of business;
(9)    transactions pursuant to any Permitted Gas Properties Transactions;
(10)    any exchange of assets related to a Permitted Business of comparable market value, as determined in good faith by the Issuer;
(11)    the sale, transfer or other dispositions of any Freeport Assets;
(12)    Liens permitted under Section 4.10; transactions permitted under Section 5.01; Restricted Payments permitted under Section 4.05; and Permitted Investments permitted under this Indenture;
(13)    any sale of Equity Interests in, or Indebtedness or other securities of, an Unrestricted Subsidiary;
(14)    the surrender or waiver of contract rights or the settlement, release or surrender of contract, tort or other claims of any kind;
(15)    the sale or discounting of accounts receivable in the ordinary course of business; and
-
3
-
(16)    any sale of assets received by the Issuer or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries upon the foreclosure of a Lien.
Bankruptcy Law
 means Title 11, U.S. Code or any similar federal or state law for the relief of debtors.
Beneficial Owner
 has the meaning assigned to such term in Rule 13d-3 and Rule 13d-5 under the Exchange Act, except that in calculating the beneficial ownership of any particular person (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act), such person will be deemed to have beneficial ownership of all securities that such person has the right to acquire by conversion or exercise of other securities, whether such right is currently exercisable or is exercisable only after the passage of time. The terms Beneficially Owns and Beneficially Owned have a corresponding meaning.
Board of Directors
 means:
(1)    with respect to a corporation, the board of directors of the corporation or any committee thereof duly authorized to act on behalf of such board;
(2)    with respect to a partnership, the Board of Directors or other governing body of the general partner of the partnership;
(3)    with respect to a limited liability company, the Board of Directors or other governing body, and in the absence of same, the manager or board of managers or the managing member or members or any controlling committee thereof; and
(4)    with respect to any other Person, the board or committee of such Person serving a similar function.
Business Day
 means a day other than a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which banking institutions are authorized or required by law to close in New York State.
Capital Lease Obligation
 means, at the time any determination is to be made, the amount of the liability in respect of a capital lease that would at that time be required to be capitalized on a balance sheet (excluding the footnotes thereto) prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Capital Stock
 means:
(1)    in the case of a corporation, corporate stock;
(2)    in the case of an association or business entity that is not a corporation, any and all shares, interests, participations, rights or other equivalents (however designated) of corporate stock;
(3)    in the case of a partnership or limited liability company, partnership interests (whether general or limited) or membership interests; and
-
4
-
(4)    any other interest or participation that confers on a Person the right to receive a share of the profits and losses of, or distributions of assets of, the issuing Person, but excluding from all of the foregoing any debt securities convertible into Capital Stock, whether or not such debt securities include any right of participation with Capital Stock.
Capture
 means to collect, treat (if necessary), process (if necessary), transport, store (if necessary), market and sell Gas that is available from any well or any bore or vent hole.
Cash Equivalents
 means:
(1)    United States dollars or any other currencies held from time to time in the ordinary course of business;
(2)    securities issued by the United States government or any agency or instrumentality of the United States government having maturities of not more than two years from the date of acquisition;
(3)    certificates of deposit, time deposits, money market deposits and eurodollar time deposits with maturities of two years or less from the date of acquisition, bankers acceptances with maturities of two years or less and overnight bank deposits, in each case with any lender party to the Credit Agreement or with any domestic commercial bank having capital and surplus in excess of $500 million;
(4)    repurchase obligations for underlying securities of the types described in clauses (2), (3) and (6) entered into with any financial institution meeting the qualifications specified in clause (3) above;
(5)    commercial paper rated at least P-2 by Moodys or at least A-2 by S&P and, in each case, maturing within two years after the date of acquisition;
(6)    securities issued or fully guaranteed by any state or commonwealth of the United States, or by any political subdivision or taxing authority thereof, and rated at least Baa3 by Moodys or BBB- by S&P and, in each case, maturing within two years after the date of acquisition;
(7)    mutual funds whose investment guidelines restrict 90% of such funds investments to those satisfying the provisions of clauses (1) through (6) above;
(8)    money market funds that (i) comply with the criteria set forth in Rule 2a-7 under the Investment Company Act of 1940, (ii) are rated AAA by S&P and Aaa by Moodys and (iii) have portfolio assets of at least $500 million;
(9)    time deposit accounts, certificates of deposit and money market deposits in an aggregate face amount not in excess of  of 1% of the total assets of the Issuer and the Subsidiaries, on a consolidated basis, as of the end of the Issuers most recently completed fiscal year; and
-
5
-
(10)    Indebtedness or preferred stock issued by Persons rated at least A-2 by Moodys or A by S&P.
Change of Control
 means the occurrence of any of the following:
(1)    the direct or indirect sale, lease, transfer, conveyance or other disposition (other than by way of merger or consolidation), in one or a series of related transactions, of all or substantially all of the properties or assets of the Issuer and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole to any person (as that term is used in Section 13(d) of the Exchange Act);
(2)    the adoption of a plan relating to the liquidation or dissolution of the Issuer; or
(3)    the consummation of any transaction (including, without limitation, any merger or consolidation), the result of which is that any person (as defined above), becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the Voting Stock of the Issuer, measured by voting power rather than number of shares.
Coal
 means all types of solid naturally occurring hydrocarbons (other than oil shale or Gilsonite), including without limitation, bituminous and sub-bituminous coal, and lignite.
Coal Gas
 means occluded methane gas and all associated natural gas and other hydrocarbons of whatever quality or quantity, whether known or unknown, that are, can be, or historically have been produced or emitted from coalbeds, coal formations, coal seams, mined out areas, gob areas, or any related, associated, or adjacent rock material or strata, together with all substances produced with each of the foregoing or refined therefrom. For the avoidance of doubt, the term Coal Gas shall expressly include all substances commonly known as coalbed methane, coal mine methane, and gob gas.
Code
 means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Comparable Treasury Issue
 means the U.S. Treasury security selected by an Independent Investment Banker as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term (Remaining Life) of the Notes to be redeemed that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of the Notes.
Comparable Treasury Price
 means, with respect to any redemption date, (1) the average of five Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such redemption date, after excluding the highest and lowest Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, or (2) if the Independent Investment Banker obtains fewer than five such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all such quotations.
-
6
-
Consolidated Cash Flow
 means, with respect to any specified Person for any period, the Consolidated Net Income of such Person for such period (A) plus, without duplication to the extent the same was deducted in calculating Consolidated Net Income:
(1)    provision for taxes based on income, profits or capital, including without limitation, state, franchise and similar taxes (such as the Pennsylvania and West Virginia franchise tax), of such Person and its Restricted Subsidiaries or the Tax Amount for such period, to the extent that such provision for taxes or Tax Amount was deducted in computing such Consolidated Net Income;
plus
(2)    the Fixed Charges of such Person and its Restricted Subsidiaries for such period, to the extent that such Fixed Charges were deducted in computing such Consolidated Net Income;
plus
(3)    depreciation, depletion, amortization (including amortization of intangibles, deferred financing fees and any amortization included in pension, OPEB or other employee benefit expenses, but excluding amortization of prepaid cash expenses that were paid in a prior period) and other non-cash expenses (including without limitation write-downs and impairment of property, plant, equipment and intangibles and other long-lived assets and the impact of purchase accounting, but excluding any such non-cash expense to the extent that it represents an accrual of or reserve for cash expenses in any future period or amortization of a prepaid cash expense that was paid in a prior period) of such Person and its Restricted Subsidiaries for such period to the extent that such depreciation, depletion, amortization and other non-cash expenses were deducted in computing such Consolidated Net Income;
plus
(4)    the amount of any business optimization expenses and other restructuring charges (which, for the avoidance of doubt, shall include retention, severance, systems establishment cost or excess pension, OPEB, black lung settlement, curtailment or other excess charges);
plus
(5)    the non-cash portion of straight-line rent expense;
plus
(6)
    
the income attributable to the minority equity interests of third parties in any non-Wholly Owned Subsidiary in such period or any prior period, except to the extent of dividends declared or paid on Equity Interests held by third parties;
plus
(7)    any other non-cash charges (but excluding any such charge which requires an accrual of, or a cash reserve for, anticipated cash charges for any future period);
provided
that, for purposes of this clause (7), any non-cash charges or losses shall be treated as cash charges or losses in any subsequent period during which cash disbursements attributable thereto are made;
plus
(8)    accretion of asset retirement obligations in accordance with Accounting Standards Codifications (
ASC
) 410 Asset Retirement and Environmental Obligations, and any similar accounting in prior periods;
minus
-
7
-
(B)    (1) non-cash items increasing such Consolidated Net Income for such period, other than any items which represent the reversal of any accrual of, or cash reserve for, anticipated charges in any prior period where such accrual or reserve is no longer required, (2) the losses attributable to the minority equity interests of third parties in any non-Wholly Owned Subsidiary, in each case, on a consolidated basis and determined in accordance with GAAP and (3) the cash portion of straight line rent expense which exceeds the amount expensed in respect of such rent expense.
Consolidated Net Income
 means, with respect to any specified Person for any period, the aggregate of the Net Income of such Person and its Restricted Subsidiaries for such period, on a consolidated basis, determined in accordance with GAAP;
provided
that:
(1)    any net after-tax extraordinary, unusual or nonrecurring gains or losses or income or expense or charges (including, without limitation, income, expenses and charges from litigation and arbitration settlements, severance, retention, relocation and other restructuring costs), less all fees and expenses relating thereto, shall be excluded;
(2)    fees, expenses or charges related to the Massey Transactions, the Transactions, any Asset Sale, any Asset Acquisition (or any similar transaction or transactions), any incurrence or repayment of Indebtedness, including any refinancing transaction or any amendment or modification of any Indebtedness, or the issuance of any Equity Interests and including any such transaction occurring on, prior to or after the date of this Indenture (in each case, whether or not successful) shall be excluded;
(3)    any net after-tax income or loss from discontinued operations and any net after-tax gain or loss on disposal of discontinued operations shall be excluded;
(4)    any net after-tax gains or losses (less all fees and expenses or charges relating thereto) attributable to business dispositions or asset dispositions other than in the ordinary course of business (as determined in good faith by the Board of Directors of the Issuer) shall be excluded;
(5)    any net after-tax income or loss (less all fees and expenses or charges relating thereto) attributable to the early extinguishment of indebtedness, Hedging Obligations or other derivative instruments shall be excluded;
(6)    (A) the Net Income for such period of any Person that is not a Subsidiary, or that is an Unrestricted Subsidiary, or that is accounted for by the equity method of accounting, shall be included only to the extent of the amount of dividends or distributions or other payments in respect of equity that are actually paid in cash (or to the extent converted into cash) by the referent Person to the Issuer or a Restricted Subsidiary thereof in respect of such period and (B) the Net Income for such period shall include any dividend, distribution or other payments in respect of equity paid in cash by such Person to the Issuer or a Restricted Subsidiary thereof in excess of the amount included in clause (A);
-
8
-
(7)    any increase in depreciation, depletion or amortization or any one-time non-cash charges (such as purchased in-process research and development or capitalized manufacturing profit in inventory) resulting from purchase accounting in connection with the Massey Transactions or any acquisition that is consummated prior to or after the Issue Date shall be excluded;
(8)    accruals and reserves that are established within twelve months after June 1, 2011 and that are so required to be established as a result of the Massey Transactions in accordance with GAAP shall be excluded;
(9)    any non-cash impairment charges resulting from the application of ASC 350 IntangiblesGoodwill and Other and ASC 360 Property, Plant and Equipment and the amortization of intangibles pursuant to ASC 805 Business Combinations shall be excluded;
(10)    any long-term incentive plan accruals and any non-cash compensation expense realized from grants of stock appreciation or similar rights, stock options or other rights to officers, directors and employees of such Person or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries shall be excluded;
(11)    (A) any net unrealized gain or loss (after any offset) resulting in such period from obligations under any Hedge Obligations and the application of ASC 815 Derivatives and Hedging and (B) any net unrealized gain or loss (after any offset) resulting in such period from currency translation gains or losses shall be excluded;
(12)    solely for the purpose of determining the amount available for Restricted Payments under Section 4.05(a)(C)(i), the Net Income of any Restricted Subsidiary that is not a Subsidiary Guarantor will be excluded to the extent that the declaration or payment of dividends or similar distributions by that Restricted Subsidiary of that Net Income is not at the date of determination permitted without any prior governmental approval (that has not been obtained) or, directly or indirectly, by operation of the terms of its charter or any agreement, instrument, judgment, decree, order, statute, rule or governmental regulation applicable to that Restricted Subsidiary or its stockholders or members, unless such restriction with respect to the payment of dividends or similar distributions has been legally waived;
provided
that Consolidated Net Income of such Person shall be increased by the amount of dividends or distributions or other payments that are actually paid in cash (or to the extent converted into cash) by such Person to the Issuer or another Restricted Subsidiary thereof in respect of such period, to the extent not already included therein; and
(13)    the cumulative effect of a change in accounting principles will be excluded.
Conventional O & G
 means all liquid or gaseous hydrocarbons, other than Coal Gas, including, without limitation, condensate, distillate, and other substances produced with each of the foregoing or refined therefrom, in each case, whether known or unknown. For the
-
9
-
avoidance of doubt, the term Conventional O & G shall expressly include, without limitation, all substances commonly known as conventional oil and gas.
Corporate Trust Office
 will be at the address of the Trustee specified in Section 11.09 hereof or such other address as to which the Trustee may give notice to the Issuer.
Credit Agreement
 means the Third Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, dated as of May 19, 2011, by and among the Issuer, Citicorp North America, Inc., as administrative agent and as collateral agent, the guarantors party thereto and the other parties thereto, providing for up to $3,600 million of loans and letters of credit, including any notes, mortgages, guarantees, collateral documents, instruments and agreements executed in connection therewith, and any amendments, supplements, modifications, extensions, renewals, restatements, refundings, replacements (whether upon or after termination or otherwise) or refinancing thereof and any indentures or credit facilities or commercial paper facilities or debt securities with or issued to banks or other institutional lenders or investors that replace, refund or refinance any part of the Indebtedness or commitments thereunder, including any such replacement, refunding or refinancing that increases the amount borrowable thereunder or alters the maturity thereof (provided that such increase in borrowings is permitted under Section 4.07) or adds Restricted Subsidiaries as additional borrowers or guarantors thereunder and whether by the same or any other agent, lender or group of lenders.
Credit Facilities
 means, with respect to the Issuer or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries, one or more debt facilities, including the Credit Agreement, or other financing arrangements (including, without limitation, commercial paper facilities or indentures) providing for revolving credit loans, term loans, receivables financing (including through the sale of receivables to such lenders or to special purpose entities formed to borrow from such lenders against such receivables), letters of credit or other long term Indebtedness, including any notes, mortgages, guarantees, collateral documents, instruments and agreements executed in connection therewith, and any amendments, supplements, modifications, extensions, renewals, restatements, refundings, replacements (whether upon or after termination or otherwise) or refinancing thereof and any indentures or credit facilities or commercial paper facilities or debt securities that replace, refund or refinance any part of the Indebtedness or commitments thereunder, including any such replacement, refunding or refinancing that increases the amount permitted to be borrowed thereunder or alters the maturity thereof (
provided
that such increase in borrowings is permitted under Section 4.07) or adds Restricted Subsidiaries as additional borrowers or guarantors thereunder and whether by the same or any other agent, lender or group of lenders.
Custodian
 means the Trustee, as custodian with respect to the Notes in global form, or any successor entity thereto.
Default
 means any event that is, or with the passage of time or the giving of notice or both would be, an Event of Default.
Designated Non-cash Consideration
 means the Fair Market Value of non-cash consideration received by the Issuer or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries in connection with an Asset Sale that is so designated as Designated Non-cash Consideration pursuant to an Officers
-
10
-
Certificate, setting forth the basis of such valuation, less the amount of cash or Cash Equivalents received in connection with a subsequent sale of such Designated Non-cash Consideration.
Designated Preferred Stock
 means preferred stock of the Issuer (other than Disqualified Stock) that is issued for cash (other than to the Issuer or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries or an employee stock ownership plan or trust established by the Issuer or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries) and is so designated as Designated Preferred Stock, pursuant to an Officers Certificate, on the issuance date thereof, the cash proceeds of which are excluded from the calculation set forth in Section 4.05(a)(C)(ii) hereof.
Disqualified Stock
 means any Capital Stock that, by its terms (or by the terms of any security into which it is convertible, or for which it is exchangeable, in each case, at the option of the holder of the Capital Stock), or upon the happening of any event, matures or is mandatorily redeemable, pursuant to a sinking fund obligation or otherwise, or redeemable at the option of the holder of the Capital Stock, in whole or in part, on or prior to the date that is 91 days after the date on which the Notes mature. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, (x) any Capital Stock that would constitute Disqualified Stock solely because the holders of the Capital Stock have the right to require the Issuer or the Subsidiary that issued such Capital Stock to repurchase such Capital Stock upon the occurrence of a change of control or an asset sale will not constitute Disqualified Stock, (y) any Capital Stock that would constitute Disqualified Stock solely as a result of any redemption feature that is conditioned upon, and subject to, compliance with the Section 4.05 will not constitute Disqualified Stock and (z) any Capital Stock issued to any plan for the benefit of employees will not constitute Disqualified Stock solely because it may be required to be repurchased by the Issuer or the Subsidiary that issued such Capital Stock in order to satisfy applicable statutory or regulatory obligations. The amount of Disqualified Stock deemed to be outstanding at any time for purposes of this Indenture will be the maximum amount that the Issuer and its Restricted Subsidiaries may become obligated to pay upon the maturity of, or pursuant to any mandatory redemption provisions of, such Disqualified Stock, exclusive of accrued dividends.
Domestic Subsidiary
 means any Subsidiary of the Issuer that was formed under the laws of the United States or any state of the United States or the District of Columbia.
Equity Interests
 means Capital Stock and all warrants, options or other rights to acquire Capital Stock (but excluding any debt security that is convertible into, or exchangeable for, Capital Stock).
Equity Offering
 means a public or private offering of Capital Stock (other than Disqualified Stock) of the Issuer (other than a registration statement on Form S-8 or otherwise relating to equity securities issuable under any employee benefit plan of the Issuer).
Excluded Contributions
 means the net cash proceeds received by the Issuer after the date of this Indenture from:
(1)    contributions to its common equity capital, and
-
11
-
(2)    the sale (other than to a Subsidiary of the Issuer) of Capital Stock (other than Disqualified Stock and Designated Preferred Stock) of the Issuer,
in each case designated as Excluded Contributions pursuant to an Officers Certificate executed by an Officer of the Issuer, the net cash proceeds of which are excluded from the calculation set forth in Section 4.05(a)(C)(ii) hereof.
Fair Market Value
 means the value that would be paid by a willing buyer to an unaffiliated willing seller in a transaction not involving distress or necessity of either party, determined in good faith by (i) the principal financial officer of the Issuer for transactions less than $100.0 million and (ii) the Board of Directors of the Issuer (unless otherwise provided in this Indenture) for transactions valued at, or in excess of, $100.0 million.
Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio
 means with respect to any specified Person for any period, the ratio of the Consolidated Cash Flow of such Person for such period to the Fixed Charges of such Person for such period. In the event that the specified Person or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries incurs, assumes, guarantees, repays, repurchases, redeems, defeases or otherwise discharges any Indebtedness (other than (i) ordinary working capital borrowings and (ii) in the case of revolving credit borrowings or revolving advances under any Qualified Receivables Financing, in which case interest expense will be computed based upon the average daily balance of such Indebtedness during the applicable period) or issues, repurchases or redeems preferred equity or Disqualified Stock subsequent to the commencement of the period for which the Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio is being calculated and on or prior to the date on which the event for which the calculation of the Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio is made (the 
Calculation Date
), then the Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio will be calculated giving pro forma effect to such incurrence, assumption, Guarantee, repayment, repurchase, redemption, defeasance or other discharge of Indebtedness, or such issuance, repurchase or redemption of preferred equity or Disqualified Stock, and the use of the proceeds therefrom, as if the same had occurred at the beginning of the applicable four-quarter reference period.
In addition, for purposes of calculating the Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio, Asset Acquisitions, dispositions, mergers, consolidations and discontinued operations (as determined in accordance with GAAP), and any related financing transactions, that the specified Person or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries has both determined to make and made after the date of this Indenture and during the four-quarter reference period or subsequent to such reference period and on or prior to or simultaneously with the Calculation Date shall be calculated on a pro forma basis assuming that all such Asset Acquisitions, dispositions, mergers, consolidations and discontinued operations (and the change of any associated Fixed Charges and the change in Consolidated Cash Flow resulting therefrom) had occurred on the first day of the four-quarter reference period, including any pro forma expense and cost reductions and other operating improvements that have occurred or are reasonably expected to occur, in the reasonable judgment of the chief financial officer of the Issuer (regardless of whether these cost savings or operating improvements could then be reflected in pro forma financial statements in accordance with Regulation S-X promulgated under the Securities Act or any other regulation or policy of the SEC related thereto). Any Person that is a Restricted Subsidiary on the Calculation Date will
-
12
-
be deemed to have been a Restricted Subsidiary at all times during such four-quarter period, and if, since the beginning of the four-quarter reference period, any Person that subsequently became a Restricted Subsidiary or was merged with or into the Issuer or any of its other Restricted Subsidiaries since the beginning of such period shall have made any acquisition, Investment, disposition, merger, consolidation or discontinued operation, in each case with respect to an operating unit of a business, that would have required adjustment pursuant to this definition, then the Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio shall be adjusted giving pro forma effect thereto for such period as if such Asset Acquisition, disposition, discontinued operation, merger or consolidation had occurred at the beginning of the applicable four-quarter reference period. Any Person that is not a Restricted Subsidiary on the Calculation Date will be deemed not to have been a Restricted Subsidiary at any time during such four-quarter period.
For purposes of this definition, whenever pro forma effect is to be given to any transaction, the pro forma calculations shall be made in good faith by a responsible financial or accounting officer of the Issuer. If any Indebtedness bears a floating rate of interest and is being given pro forma effect, the interest on such Indebtedness shall be calculated as if the rate in effect on the Calculation Date had been the applicable rate for the entire period (taking into account any Hedging Obligations applicable to such Indebtedness if such Hedging Obligation has a remaining term in excess of 12 months). Interest on a Capital Lease Obligation shall be deemed to accrue at an interest rate reasonably determined by a responsible financial or accounting officer of the Issuer to be the rate of interest implicit in such Capital Lease Obligation in accordance with GAAP. For purposes of making the computation referred to above, interest on any Indebtedness under a revolving credit facility computed on a pro forma basis shall be computed based upon the average daily balance of such Indebtedness during the applicable period. Interest on Indebtedness that may optionally be determined at an interest rate based upon a factor of a prime or similar rate, a eurocurrency interbank offered rate, or other rate, shall be deemed to have been based upon the rate actually chosen, or, if none, then based upon such optional rate chosen as the Issuer may designate. Any such pro forma calculation may include adjustments appropriate, in the reasonable determination of the Issuer as set forth in an Officers Certificate, to reflect operating expense reductions reasonably expected to result from any acquisition or merger.
Fixed Charges
 means, with respect to any specified Person for any period, the sum, without duplication, of:
(1)    the consolidated interest expense of such Person and its Restricted Subsidiaries for such period, whether paid or accrued, excluding amortization of debt issuance costs and the expensing of any bridge or other financing fees, but including original issue discount, non-cash interest payments, the interest component of any deferred payment obligations (classified as Indebtedness under this Indenture), the interest component of all payments associated with Capital Lease Obligations and net of the effect of all payments made or received pursuant to Hedging Obligations in respect of interest rates;
plus
-
13
-
(2)    the consolidated interest expense of such Person and its Restricted Subsidiaries that was capitalized during such period;
plus
(3)    all cash dividend payments or other cash distributions on any series of preferred equity of such Person and all other dividend payments or other distributions on the Disqualified Stock of such Person;
less
(4)    interest income.
Foreign Subsidiary
 means any Subsidiary that is incorporated or organized under the laws of any jurisdiction other than the United States of America, any State thereof or the District of Columbia.
Freeport Assets
 means all Equity Interests in, and assets of, Freeport Mining, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, Freeport Resources, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, and River Processing Corporation, a Delaware corporation.
GAAP
 means generally accepted accounting principles set forth in the opinions and pronouncements of the Accounting Principles Board of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and statements and pronouncements of the Financial Accounting Standards Board or in such other statements by such other entity as have been approved by a significant segment of the accounting profession, which are in effect on the date of this Indenture.
Gas
 means Conventional O & G and Coal Gas.
Gas Co.
 means any Person that is created for the purpose of holding or that otherwise holds, directly or indirectly, Hydrocarbon Property, so long as such Persons only assets, held directly or indirectly, consist of Hydrocarbon Property;
provided
that Alpha Shale Holdings, LLC and Alpha Shale Resources, LP shall each be deemed to be a Gas Co.
Gas Properties
 means (a) any Hydrocarbon Property, and (b) any capital stock, partnership interests, membership interests, or other ownership interests of any Gas Co.
Gas Rights
 has the meaning assigned to such term in the definition of Hydrocarbon Property.
Global Note Legend
 means the legend substantially in the form of Exhibit B hereof, which is required to be placed on all Global Notes issued under this Indenture.
Global Notes
 means a global note deposited with or on behalf of and registered in the name of the Depository or its nominee, substantially in the form of Exhibit A hereto and that bears the Global Note Legend and that has the Schedule of Exchanges of Interests in the Global Note attached thereto, issued in accordance with Article 2 hereof.
Government Securities
 means direct obligations of, or obligations guaranteed by, the United States of America (including any agency or instrumentality thereof) and the payment for which the United States pledges its full faith and credit.
-
14
-
Guarantee
 means a guarantee, other than by endorsement of negotiable instruments for collection in the ordinary course of business, direct or indirect, in any manner, including, without limitation, by way of a pledge of assets or through letters of credit or reimbursement agreements in respect thereof, of all or any part of any Indebtedness (whether arising by virtue of partnership arrangements, or by agreements to keep-well, to purchase assets, goods, securities or services, to take or pay or to maintain financial statement conditions or otherwise).
Guarantors
 means each of:
(1)    the Restricted Subsidiaries of the Issuer that execute a Note Guarantee on the Issue Date; and
(2)    any other Restricted Subsidiary of the Issuer that executes a Note Guarantee in accordance with the provisions of this Indenture,
and their respective successors and assigns, in each case, until the Note Guarantee of such Person has been released in accordance with the provisions of this Indenture.
Hedging Obligations
 means, with respect to any specified Person, the obligations of such Person under:
(1)    interest rate swap agreements (whether from fixed to floating or from floating to fixed), interest rate cap agreements and interest rate collar agreements;
(2)    other agreements or arrangements designed to manage interest rates or interest rate risk; and
(3)    other agreements or arrangements designed to protect such Person against fluctuations in currency exchange rates or commodity prices.
Holder
 means a Person in whose name a Note is registered.
Hydrocarbon Property
 means all of the following:
(1)    all right, title, interest and estate of any Guarantor, whether now owned or hereafter acquired (
Gas Rights
) in and to:
(a)    any drilling unit, as that term is commonly used in the Gas business, including but not limited to those that are established or prescribed by field rules or other regulatory orders,
(b)    any well or any vent or bore hole drilled and permitted for the commercial production of Gas and/or degasification of a coalbed, coal formation, coal seam or mine area and any site on which it is located,
-
15
-
(c)    equipment that is used or useful solely in connection with the Capture or monitoring of Gas produced from any well or any vent or bore hole described in clause (1)(b) above, including, without limitation, any wellhead equipment, compressor, treating facility, storage facility, processing plant and gathering or transportation line, and in no event including any equipment which if sold would disrupt or negatively affect the Coal operations of the Guarantors in any material respect,
(d)    all assets associated solely with any item described in clauses (1)(a), (b) and (c) above, including, without limitation, Gas reserves, surface rights of way and all geological, geophysical, engineering, accounting, title, legal and other technical or business data concerning Gas,
(e)    any Gas and any right to Capture Gas,
(f)    any lease, agreement, instrument, order, declaration, understanding or other arrangement, as the same may be amended, modified, supplemented, replaced, or amended and restated, relating to (A) the Capture of Gas, or (B) the pooling, utilization or communization of Gas, and
(g)    other assets solely used in the ordinary course of business in connection with the operation, administration or management of Gas operations;
(2)    all tenements, hereditaments, appurtenances and properties now owned or hereafter acquired by any Guarantor to which the Gas Rights described above in paragraph (1) of this definition are, in any way, appertaining, belonging, fixed or incidental, including, without limitation, any and all property, real or personal, now owned or hereafter acquired and situated upon, used, held for use, or useful solely in connection with the operating, working or development of any of such Gas Rights or the lands pooled or unitized therewith including any and all surface leases, rights-of-way, easements, servitudes, licenses and other surface and subsurface rights together with all additions, substitutions, replacements, accessions and attachments to any and all of the foregoing properties;
(3)    all of the rights, titles, and interests of every nature whatsoever now owned or hereafter acquired by any Guarantor in and to (i) the items described above in paragraphs (1) and (2) above of this definition, as the same may be enlarged by the discharge of any payment out of production or by the removal of any charge or Permitted Encumbrance to which any such item described above in paragraphs (1) and (2) above of this definition is subject, and (ii) any and all additional interests of any kind hereafter acquired by any Loan Party in and to Gas Rights; and
(4)    all accounts, contract rights, inventory, general intangibles, insurance contracts and insurance proceeds constituting a part of, relating to, or arising out of those items that are described in paragraphs (1) through (3) above of this definition and all proceeds and products and payments in lieu of production (such as take or pay
-
16
-
payments), whether such proceeds or payments are goods, money, documents, instruments, chattel paper, securities, accounts, general intangibles, fixtures, real property or other assets.
Immaterial Subsidiary
 means any Subsidiary that is not a Material Subsidiary.
Indebtedness
 means, with respect to any specified Person, any indebtedness of such Person, whether or not contingent:
(1)    in respect of borrowed money;
(2)    evidenced by promissory notes, debentures or similar instruments evidencing obligations for borrowed money;
(3)    representing Capital Lease Obligations;
(4)    representing the balance deferred and unpaid of the purchase price of any property or services due more than one year after such property is acquired or such services are completed;
(5)    representing the net obligations under any Hedging Obligations in the event of an early termination; or
(6)    to the extent not otherwise included, with respect to the Issuer and its Restricted Subsidiaries, the amount then outstanding (i.e., advanced, and received by, and available for use by, the Issuer or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries) under any Receivables Financing (as set forth in the books and records of the Issuer or any Restricted Subsidiary and confirmed by the agent, trustee or other representative of the institution or group providing such Receivables Financing),
if and to the extent any of the preceding items (other than Hedging Obligations) would appear as a liability upon a balance sheet of the specified Person prepared in accordance with GAAP. In addition, the term Indebtedness includes (i) all Indebtedness of others secured by a Lien on any asset of the specified Person (whether or not such Indebtedness is assumed by the specified Person);
provided
,
however
, that the amount of such Indebtedness shall be the lesser of (x) the Fair Market Value of such asset as such date of determination and (y) the amount of such Indebtedness of such other Person; and (ii) to the extent not otherwise included, the Guarantee by the specified Person of any Indebtedness of any other Person. Indebtedness shall not include (a) with respect to any equity-linked security, the equity credit reflected on the most recent balance sheet of the Issuer, (b) obligations not incurred in connection with borrowed money, except to the extent expressly provided above, and without limitation shall not include (i) bid bonds, performance bonds, completion bonds, surety bonds, appeal bonds and other similar bonds, guarantees or obligations, (ii) purchase price adjustments, earn outs or similar obligations incurred in connection with the disposition of any assets, (iii) reimbursement obligations, (iv) indemnification obligations, (v) letters of credit, bank guarantees or similar instruments to secure any of the foregoing, to the extent such letters of credit, bank guarantees or similar instruments
-
17
-
have not been drawn upon or, if drawn upon, not reimbursed thereafter within sixty (60) days or (vi) obligations resulting from cash management services and (c) any liabilities of the Issuer or any Restricted Subsidiary to the Issuer or any Restricted Subsidiary
Independent Investment Banker
 means Citigroup Global Markets Inc. or if such firm is unwilling or unable to select the Comparable Treasury Issue, an independent investment banking institution of national standing appointed by the Issuer.
Initial Notes
 has the meaning assigned to it in the preamble to this Indenture.
Investment Grade Securities
 means:
(1)    securities with a rating equal to or higher than Baa3 (or the equivalent) by Moodys or BBB- (or the equivalent) by S&P, or, if either such entity ceases to rate the Notes for reasons outside of the control of the Issuer, the equivalent investment grade credit rating from any other Rating Agency;
(2)    securities issued or directly and fully guaranteed or insured by the U.S. government or any agency or instrumentality thereof (other than Cash Equivalents) and in each case with maturities not exceeding two years from the date of acquisition;
(3)    investments in any fund that invests exclusively in investments of the type described in clause (2) which fund may also hold immaterial amounts of cash pending investment and/or distribution; and
(4)    corresponding instruments in countries other than the United States customarily utilized for high quality investments and in each case with maturities not exceeding two years from the date of acquisition.
Investments
 means, with respect to any Person, all direct or indirect investments by such Person in other Persons (including Affiliates) in the forms of loans (including Guarantees or other obligations), advances or capital contributions (excluding accounts receivable, trade credit and advances to customers and commission, travel and similar advances to officers, employees and consultants made in the ordinary course of business), purchases or other acquisitions for consideration of Indebtedness, Equity Interests or other securities, together with all items that are or would be classified as investments on a balance sheet prepared in accordance with GAAP. If the Issuer or any Restricted Subsidiary of the Issuer sells or otherwise disposes of any Equity Interests of any Restricted Subsidiary of the Issuer such that, after giving effect to any such sale or disposition, such Person is no longer a Subsidiary of the Issuer, the Issuer will be deemed to have made an Investment on the date of any such sale or disposition equal to the Fair Market Value of the Issuers Investments in such Subsidiary that were not sold or disposed of in an amount determined as provided in Section 4.05(c) hereof. The outstanding amount of any Investment shall be the original cost thereof, reduced by all returns on such Investment (including dividends, interest, distributions and returns of principal).
Issue Date
 means October 11, 2012.
-
18
-
Lien
 means, with respect to any asset, any mortgage, lien, pledge, charge, security interest or encumbrance of any kind in respect of such asset, whether or not filed, recorded or otherwise perfected under applicable law, including any conditional sale or other title retention agreement, any lease in the nature thereof, any option or other agreement to sell or give a security interest in and any filing of or agreement to give any financing statement under the Uniform Commercial Code (or equivalent statutes) of any jurisdiction, except in connection with any Qualified Receivables Financing.
Marketable Securities
 means, with respect to any Asset Sale, any readily marketable equity securities that are (i) traded on the New York Stock Exchange, the American Stock Exchange or the Nasdaq National Market; and (ii) issued by a corporation having a total equity market capitalization of not less than $250 million;
provided
that the excess of (A) the aggregate amount of securities of any one such corporation held by the Issuer and any Restricted Subsidiary
over
(B) ten times the average daily trading volume of such securities during the 20 immediately preceding trading days shall be deemed not to be Marketable Securities, as determined on the date of the contract relating to such Asset Sale.
Massey Transactions
 means, collectively, the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement, the Credit Agreement, the indenture pursuant to which the 2019 Notes and the 2021 Notes were issued, including the offering of the 2019 Notes and the 2021 Notes, the repayment of certain Indebtedness of Massey Energy Company and of Foundation PA Coal Company, LLC in connection therewith and the payment of fees and expenses related to all of the foregoing.
Material Subsidiary
 means any Subsidiary that would be a significant subsidiary as defined in Article 1, Rule 1.02 of Regulation S-X, promulgated pursuant to the Securities Act, as such Regulation is in effect on the date of this Indenture;
provided
,
however
, that all references to 10 percent in such definition shall be replaced with 5.0 percent.
Merger
 means the merger of Mountain Merger Sub, Inc., a Wholly Owned Subsidiary of the Issuer, with and into Massey Energy Company, consummated on June 1, 2011.
Merger Agreement
 means the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated January 28, 2011, between the Issuer, Mountain Merger Sub, Inc. and Massey Energy Company.
Moodys
 means Moodys Investors Service, Inc. and its successors and assigns.
Net Income
 means, with respect to any Person for any period, (i) the net income (loss) attributable to such Person for such period, determined in accordance with GAAP and before any reduction in respect of dividends on preferred interests, excluding, however, (a) any gain or loss, together with any related provision for taxes on such gain or loss, realized in connection with (1) any Asset Sale (including, without limitation, dispositions pursuant to sale and leaseback transactions) or (2) the disposition of any securities by such Person or any of its Subsidiaries or the extinguishment of any Indebtedness of such Person or any of its Subsidiaries and (b) any extraordinary or nonrecurring gain or loss, together with any related provision for
-
19
-
taxes on such extraordinary or nonrecurring gain or loss, less (ii) in the case of any Person that is a partnership or a limited liability company, the Tax Amount of such Person for such period.
Net Proceeds
 means the aggregate cash proceeds received by the Issuer or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries in respect of any Asset Sale (including, without limitation, any cash received upon the sale or other disposition of any Designated Non-cash Consideration received in any Asset Sale and any cash payments received by way of deferred payment of principal pursuant to a note or installment receivable or otherwise, but only as and when received, but excluding the assumption by the acquiring Person of Indebtedness relating to the disposed assets or other consideration received in any non-cash form), net of the direct costs relating to such Asset Sale and the sale of such Designated Non-cash Consideration, including, without limitation, legal, accounting and investment banking fees, and sales commissions, and any relocation expenses incurred as a result of the Asset Sale or taxes paid or payable as a result of the Asset Sale, in each case, after taking into account any available tax credits or deductions and any tax sharing arrangements, and amounts required to be applied to the repayment of Indebtedness, other than Indebtedness under a Credit Facility, secured by a Lien on the asset or assets that were the subject of such Asset Sale and any reserve for adjustment in respect of the sale price of such asset or assets established in accordance with GAAP, including without limitation, pension and post-employment benefit liabilities and liabilities related to environmental matters or against any indemnification obligations associated with such transaction.
Non-Recourse Debt
 means Indebtedness:
(1)    as to which neither the Issuer nor any of its Restricted Subsidiaries (a) provides credit support of any kind (including any undertaking, agreement or instrument that would constitute Indebtedness) other than a pledge of the Equity Interests of any Unrestricted Subsidiaries, (b) is directly or indirectly liable (as a guarantor or otherwise) other than by virtue of a pledge of the Equity Interests of any Unrestricted Subsidiaries, or (c) constitutes the lender; and
(2)    no default with respect to which (including any rights that the holders of such Indebtedness may have to take enforcement action against an Unrestricted Subsidiary) would permit, upon notice, lapse of time or both, any holder of any other Indebtedness (other than the Notes offered hereby) of the Issuer or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to declare a default on such other Indebtedness or cause the payment of such other Indebtedness to be accelerated or payable prior to its Stated Maturity.
Note Guarantee
 means the Guarantee by each Guarantor of the Issuers obligations under this Indenture and the Notes, executed pursuant to the provisions of this Indenture.
Notes
 has the meaning assigned to it in the preamble to this Indenture. Any Initial Notes and any Additional Notes shall be treated as a single class for all purposes under this Indenture. Unless the context otherwise requires, all references to the Notes shall include the Initial Notes and any Additional Notes.
-
20
-
Obligations
 means any principal, interest, penalties, fees, indemnifications, reimbursements, damages and other liabilities payable under the documentation governing any Indebtedness.
Officer
 means, with respect to any Person, the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, the Chief Operating Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the Treasurer, any Assistant Treasurer, the Controller, the Secretary, any Assistant Secretary or any Vice-President (whether or not designated by a number or numbers or a word or words added before or after the title Vice President) of such Person.
Officers Certificate
 means a certificate signed on behalf of the Issuer by two Officers of the Company (or on behalf of a Guarantor by two Officers of such Guarantor, as the case may be).
Opinion of Counsel
means an opinion in writing signed by legal counsel who may be an employee of or counsel to the Issuer or a Guarantor or who may be other counsel satisfactory to the Trustee.
Payment Office
 means the place or places where the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on the Notes are payable as contemplated by Section 4.01.
Permitted Business
 means any business or business activity conducted by the Issuer or its Subsidiaries on the date of this Indenture and any business or business activities incidental or related thereto, or any business or activity that is reasonably similar thereto (including extraction, processing and marketing of any types of minerals), or a reasonable extension, development or expansion thereof or ancillary or complementary thereto.
Permitted Encumbrances
 shall mean those Liens and other encumbrances permitted under this Indenture.
Permitted Gas Properties Transactions
 shall mean a disposition, lease, merger or distribution of Gas Properties to any party that is not a Guarantor.
Permitted Investments
 means:
(1)    any Investment in the Issuer or in any Restricted Subsidiary of the Issuer;
(2)    any Investment in cash, Cash Equivalents, Marketable Securities or Investment Grade Securities;
(3)    any Investment by the Issuer or any Restricted Subsidiary of the Issuer in a Person, if as a result of such Investment:
(a)    such Person becomes a Restricted Subsidiary of the Issuer; or
(b)    such Person, in one transaction or a series of related transactions, is merged, consolidated or amalgamated with or into, or transfers or conveys
-
21
-
substantially all of its assets to, or is liquidated into, the Issuer or a Restricted Subsidiary of the Issuer;
(4)    any Investment made as a result of the receipt of non-cash consideration from an Asset Sale that was made pursuant to and in compliance with Section 4.08 hereof;
(5)    any acquisition of assets or Capital Stock solely in exchange for the issuance of Equity Interests (other than Disqualified Stock) of the Issuer;
(6)    any Investments received (a) in compromise, settlement or resolution of (i) obligations of trade creditors or customers that were incurred in the ordinary course of business of the Issuer or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries, including pursuant to any plan of reorganization or similar arrangement upon the bankruptcy or insolvency of any trade creditor or customer; or (ii) litigation, arbitration or other disputes; or (b) as a result of a foreclosure by the Issuer or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries with respect to any secured Investment or other transfer of title with respect to any secured Investment in default;
(7)    Investments represented by Hedging Obligations;
(8)    loans or advances to officers, directors and employees made in the ordinary course of business of the Issuer or any Restricted Subsidiary of the Issuer;
(9)    repurchases of the Notes;
(10)    Investments in Permitted Businesses having an aggregate Fair Market Value, taken together with all other Investments made pursuant to this clause (10) that are at that time outstanding, not to exceed the greater of (x) $750 million and (y) 7.5% of Total Tangible Assets at the time of such Investment (with the Fair Market Value of each Investment being measured at the time made and without giving effect to subsequent changes in value);
provided
,
however
, that if any Investment pursuant to this clause (10) is made in a Person that is not a Restricted Subsidiary of the Issuer at the date of the making of such Investment and such Person becomes a Restricted Subsidiary of the Issuer after such date, such Investment shall thereafter be deemed to have been made pursuant to clause (1) above and shall cease to have been made pursuant to this clause (10) for so long as such Person continues to be a Restricted Subsidiary;
(11)    any Investment in a Receivables Subsidiary or any Investment by a Receivables Subsidiary in any other Person in connection with a Qualified Receivables Financing, including Investments of funds held in accounts permitted or required by the arrangements governing such Qualified Receivables Financing or any related Indebtedness;
provided
,
however
, that any Investment in a Receivables Subsidiary is in the form of a Purchase Money Note, contribution of additional receivables or an equity interest;
-
22
-
(12)    Investments in joint ventures or Unrestricted Subsidiaries, or entities that become joint ventures or Unrestricted Subsidiaries as a result of such Investments, having an aggregate Fair Market Value, taken together with all other Investments made pursuant to this clause (12) that are at that time outstanding, not to exceed the greater of (x) $1,000 million and (y) 10% of Total Tangible Assets at the time of such Investment (with the Fair Market Value of each Investment being measured at the time made and without giving effect to subsequent changes in value);
provided
,
however
, that if any Investment pursuant to this clause (12) is made in a Person that is not a Restricted Subsidiary of the Issuer at the date of the making of such Investment and such Person becomes a Restricted Subsidiary of the Issuer after such date, such Investment shall thereafter be deemed to have been made pursuant to clause (1) above and shall cease to have been made pursuant to this clause (12) for so long as such Person continues to be a Restricted Subsidiary;
(13)    any transaction to the extent it constitutes an Investment that is permitted by and made in accordance with Section 4.09(b) (except for transactions described in Sections 4.09(b)(7), (10) and (17));
(14)    Guarantees issued in accordance with Section 4.07 and Section 4.13 hereof;
(15)    any Investment existing on the Issue Date or made pursuant to a binding commitment existing on the Issue Date and any Investment that extends, modifies, renews, replaces, refinances or refunds an existing Investment;
provided
that the new Investment is in an amount that does not exceed the amount extended, modified, renewed, replaced, refinanced or refunded, and is made in the same Person as the Investment so extended, modified, renewed, replaced, refinanced or refunded;
(16)    Investments consisting of purchases and acquisitions of inventory, supplies, materials and equipment or purchases of contract rights or licenses or leases of intellectual property, in each case in the ordinary course of business;
(17)    additional Investments by the Issuer or any Restricted Subsidiary, taken together with all other Investments made pursuant to this clause (17) that are at the time outstanding, not to exceed the greater of (x) $1,000 million and (y) 10% of Total Tangible Assets as of the end of the Issuers most recently ended fiscal quarter for which financial statements are available;
provided
,
however
, that if any Investment pursuant to this clause (17) is made in a Person that is not a Restricted Subsidiary of the Issuer at the date of the making of such Investment and such Person becomes a Restricted Subsidiary of the Issuer after such date, such Investment shall thereafter be deemed to have been made pursuant to clause (1) above and shall cease to have been made pursuant to this clause (17) for so long as such Person continues to be a Restricted Subsidiary;
(18)    Investments of any Restricted Subsidiary acquired after the date of this Indenture or of a corporation merged into or consolidated with the Issuer or any Restricted Subsidiary in accordance with Section 5.01, to the extent such Investments were not made in contemplation of or in connection with such acquisition, merger or
-
23
-
consolidation and were in existence on the date of such acquisition, merger or consolidation;
(19)    accounts receivable, advances and prepayments and other trade credits made in the ordinary course of business;
(20)    Investments resulting from pledges and deposits made in the ordinary course of business;
(21)    Investments in the Equity Interests of the Issuer in connection with the purchase or redemption of Equity Interests held by then present or former directors, consultants, officers or employees of the Issuer or any of the Subsidiaries or by any employee pension benefit plan; and
(22)    Investments in joint ventures and other entities (whether or not a Subsidiary) engaged in a Permitted Business that are not domiciled or incorporated in the United States, taken together with all other Investments made pursuant to this clause (22) that are at the time outstanding, not to exceed the greater of (x) $750 million and (y) 7.5% of Total Tangible Assets.
provided
,
however
, that with respect to any Investment, the Issuer may, in its sole discretion, allocate all or any portion of any Investment to one or more of the above clauses (1) through (22) so that the entire Investment would be a Permitted Investment.
Permitted Liens
 means:
(1)    Liens securing Indebtedness and other Obligations under Credit Facilities incurred pursuant to Section 4.07(b)(1) hereof and/or securing Hedging Obligations related thereto;
(2)    Liens in favor of the Issuer or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries;
(3)    Liens on property or assets of a Person, plus renewals and extensions of such Liens, existing at the time such Person is merged with or into, or consolidated with or acquired by the Issuer or any Subsidiary of the Issuer and Liens securing Indebtedness permitted under Section 4.07(b)(11),
plus
renewals and extensions of such Liens;
provided
that such Liens do not apply to any assets of the Issuer or its Restricted Subsidiaries other than (a) assets securing such Indebtedness at the date of the acquisition of such assets, (b) assets whose acquisition is financed or refinanced by such Indebtedness or (c) after-acquired assets subjected to such Liens;
(4)    Liens on property (including Capital Stock) existing at the time of acquisition of the property by the Issuer or any Restricted Subsidiary of the Issuer;
provided
that such Liens were in existence prior to such acquisition and not incurred in contemplation of, such acquisition;
-
24
-
(5)    Liens securing reimbursement obligations with respect to commercial letters of credit which encumber documents and other assets relating to such letters of credit and products and proceeds thereof;
(6)    Liens to secure Indebtedness (including Capital Lease Obligations) permitted to be incurred pursuant to Section 4.07(b)(4) covering only the assets acquired, constructed or improved with or financed by such Indebtedness, and additions, accessions, improvements and replacements and customary deposits in connection therewith;
provided
that individual financings of equipment provided by one lender may be cross collateralized to other financings of equipment provided by such lender;
(7)    Liens existing on the Issue Date, plus renewals and extensions of such Liens;
(8)    Liens created for the benefit of (or to secure) the Notes (or the Note Guarantees);
(9)    Liens to secure any Permitted Refinancing Indebtedness permitted to be incurred under this Indenture;
provided
,
however
, that:
(a)    the new Lien shall be limited to all or part of the same property and assets that secured or, under the written agreements pursuant to which the original Lien arose, could secure the original Indebtedness (plus improvements and accessions to, such property or proceeds or distributions thereof); and
(b)    the Indebtedness secured by the new Lien is not increased to any amount greater than the sum of (x) the outstanding principal amount, or, if greater, committed amount, of the Permitted Refinancing Indebtedness and (y) an amount necessary to pay any fees and expenses, including premiums, related to such renewal, refunding, refinancing, replacement, defeasance or discharge;
(10)    Liens securing Indebtedness in an aggregate principal amount outstanding not to exceed, at the time of the incurrence of such Indebtedness or if later, at the time of the incurrence of the Lien, the greater of (x) $500 million and (y) 5% of Total Tangible Assets as of the end of the Issuers most recently ended fiscal quarter for which financial statements are available;
(11)    Liens on accounts receivable and related assets of the type specified in the definition of Receivables Financing incurred in connection with a Qualified Receivables Financing;
(12)    Liens on Capital Stock of an Unrestricted Subsidiary that secure Indebtedness or other obligations of such Unrestricted Subsidiary;
(13)    Liens to secure a defeasance trust;
-
25
-
(14)    Liens on equipment of the Issuer or any Restricted Subsidiary granted in the ordinary course of business to clients of which such equipment is located;
(15)    Liens securing Indebtedness supported by a letter of credit issued under a Credit Facility or a letter of credit or bank guarantee incurred under Section4.07(b)(15);
(16)    Liens securing insurance premium financing arrangements otherwise permitted to be incurred under this Indenture;
(17)    Liens securing Capital Lease Obligations incurred by the Issuer or any Restricted Subsidiary in respect of any sale leaseback transaction otherwise permitted under this Indenture;
(18)    Liens on the assets of any Foreign Subsidiary securing Indebtedness of Foreign Subsidiaries;
(19)    Liens securing Guarantees incurred under Section 4.07(b)(10) to the extent the Indebtedness subject to such Guarantee is secured;
(20)     Liens securing the aggregate amount of Indebtedness (including Acquired Debt) incurred in connection with (or at any time following the consummation of) an Asset Acquisition made in accordance with this Indenture equal to, at the time of incurrence, the net increase in inventory, accounts receivable and net property, reserves, plant and equipment attributable to such Asset Acquisition from the amounts reflected on the Issuers historical consolidated balance sheet as of the end of the full fiscal quarter ending on or prior to the date of such Asset Acquisition, calculated after giving effect on a pro forma basis to such Asset Acquisition (which amount may, but need not, be incurred in whole or in part under the Credit Agreement) less the amount of Indebtedness incurred in connection with such Asset Acquisition secured by Liens pursuant to clauses (4) or (6) above;
(21)    Liens on Gas Properties; and
(22)    Liens on the Freeport Assets.
Permitted Refinancing Indebtedness
 means any Indebtedness of the Issuer or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries issued in exchange for, or the net proceeds of which are used to extend, renew, refund, refinance, replace, defease or discharge other Indebtedness (or previous refinancing thereof constituting Permitted Refinancing Indebtedness) of the Issuer or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries (other than intercompany Indebtedness);
provided
that:
(1)    the principal amount (or accreted value, if applicable) of such Permitted Refinancing Indebtedness does not exceed the principal amount (or accreted value, if applicable) of the Indebtedness extended, renewed, refunded, refinanced, replaced, defeased or discharged (
plus
any unpaid accrued interest and premium required to be paid
-
26
-
on the Indebtedness being so extended, renewed, refunded, replaced, defeased or discharged, plus the amount of all fees and expenses incurred in connection therewith);
(2)    such Permitted Refinancing Indebtedness has a final maturity date equal to or later than the final maturity date of, and has a Weighted Average Life to Maturity equal to or greater than the remaining Weighted Average Life to Maturity of, the Indebtedness being extended, renewed, refunded, refinanced, replaced, defeased or discharged; provided that this clause (2) shall not apply to debt under the Credit Facilities;
(3)    if the Indebtedness being extended, renewed, refunded, refinanced, replaced, defeased or discharged is subordinated in right of payment to the Notes, such Permitted Refinancing Indebtedness has a final maturity date later than the final maturity date of, and is subordinated in right of payment to, the Notes on terms at least as favorable to the Holders of Notes as those contained in the documentation governing the Indebtedness being extended, renewed, refunded, refinanced, replaced, defeased or discharged; and
(4)    such Refinancing Indebtedness shall not include Indebtedness of the Issuer or a Restricted Subsidiary that refinances Indebtedness of an Unrestricted Subsidiary.
Person
 means any individual, corporation, partnership, joint venture, association, joint-stock company, trust, unincorporated organization, limited liability company or government or other entity.
Prospectus Supplement
 means that certain prospectus supplement, dated September 28, 2012, relating to the offering of the Notes.
Purchase Money Note
 means a promissory note of a Receivables Subsidiary evidencing a line of credit, which may be irrevocable, from the Issuer or any Subsidiary of the Issuer to a Receivables Subsidiary in connection with a Qualified Receivables Financing, which note is intended to finance that portion of the purchase price that is not paid by cash or a contribution of equity.
Qualified Receivables Financing
 means any Receivables Financing of a Receivables Subsidiary that meets the following conditions:
(1)    the Board of Directors of the Issuer will have determined in good faith that such Qualified Receivables Financing (including financing terms, covenants, termination events and other provisions) is in the aggregate economically fair and reasonable to the Issuer and the Receivables Subsidiary,
(2)    all sales of accounts receivable and related assets to the Receivables Subsidiary are made at Fair Market Value (as determined in good faith by the Issuer), and
-
27
-
(3)    the financing terms, covenants, termination events and other provisions thereof will be market terms (as determined in good faith by the Issuer) and may include Standard Securitization Undertakings.
The grant of a security interest in any accounts receivable of the Issuer or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries (other than a Receivables Subsidiary) to secure a Credit Facility will not be deemed a Qualified Receivables Financing. For purposes of this Indenture, a receivables facility whether now in existence or arising in the future (and any replacement thereof with substantially similar terms in the aggregate) will be deemed to be a Qualified Receivables Financing that is not recourse to the Issuer (except for Standard Securitization Undertakings).
Ratings Event
 means the Notes are assigned a credit rating of at least BB+ (stable) from S&P and of at least Ba1 (stable) from Moodys.
Rebuild Companies
 shall mean Maxxim Rebuild Co., LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and a wholly owned subsidiary of the Issuer, and Powers Shop LLC, a Virginia limited liability company and a Wholly Owned Subsidiary of the Issuer.
Rebuild Equipment
 shall mean mining and related equipment acquired from persons who are not Affiliates of the Issuer that is sold by either of the Rebuild Companies in the ordinary course of its business.
Receivables Financing
 means any transaction or series of transactions that may be entered into by the Issuer or any of its Subsidiaries pursuant to which the Issuer or any of its Subsidiaries may sell, convey or otherwise transfer to (a) a Receivables Subsidiary (in the case of a transfer by the Issuer or any of its Subsidiaries), and (b) any other Person (in the case of a transfer by a Receivables Subsidiary), or may grant a security interest in, any accounts receivable (whether now existing or arising in the future) of the Issuer or any of its Subsidiaries, or any interest therein, and any assets related thereto, including, without limitation, all collateral securing such accounts receivable, all contracts and all guarantees or other obligations in respect of such accounts receivable, proceeds of such accounts receivable and other assets which are customarily transferred or in respect of which security interests are customarily granted in connection with asset securitization transactions involving accounts receivable and any Hedging Obligations entered into by the Issuer or any such Subsidiary in connection with such accounts receivable.
Receivables Repurchase Obligation
 means any obligation of a seller of receivables in a Qualified Receivables Financing to repurchase receivables arising as a result of a breach of a representation, warranty or covenant or otherwise, including as a result of a receivable or portion thereof becoming subject to any asserted defense, dispute, off-set or counterclaim of any kind as a result of any action taken by, any failure to take action by or any other event relating to the seller.
Receivables Subsidiary
 means a Subsidiary of the Issuer (or another Person formed for the purposes of engaging in a Qualified Receivables Financing with the Issuer in which the Issuer or any Subsidiary of the Issuer makes an Investment and to which the Issuer or
-
28
-
any Subsidiary of the Issuer transfers accounts receivable and related assets) which engages in no activities other than in connection with the financing of accounts receivable, and in business related or ancillary thereto, of the Issuer and its Subsidiaries, all proceeds thereof and all rights (contractual or other), collateral and other assets relating thereto, and any business or activities incidental or related to such business, and which is designated by the Board of Directors of the Issuer (as provided below) as a Receivables Subsidiary and:
(1)    no portion of the Indebtedness or any other obligations (contingent or otherwise) of which (i) is guaranteed by the Issuer or any other Subsidiary of the Issuer (excluding guarantees of obligations (other than the principal of, and interest on, Indebtedness) pursuant to Standard Securitization Undertakings), (ii) is recourse to or obligates the Issuer or any other Subsidiary of the Issuer in any way other than pursuant to Standard Securitization Undertakings, or (iii) subjects any property or asset of the Issuer or any other Subsidiary of the Issuer, directly or indirectly, contingently or otherwise, to the satisfaction thereof, other than pursuant to Standard Securitization Undertakings;
(2)    with which neither the Issuer nor any other Subsidiary of the Issuer has any material contract, agreement, arrangement or understanding other than on terms which the Issuer reasonably believes to be no less favorable to the Issuer or such Subsidiary than those that might be obtained at the time from Persons that are not Affiliates of the Issuer; and
(3)    to which neither the Issuer nor any other Subsidiary of the Issuer has any obligation to maintain or preserve such entitys financial condition or cause such entity to achieve certain levels of operating results. Any such designation by the Board of Directors of the Issuer shall be evidenced to the trustee by filing with the trustee a certified copy of the resolution of the Board of Directors of the Issuer giving effect to such designation and an Officers Certificate certifying that such designation complied with the foregoing conditions.
Reference Treasury Dealer
 means Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and its respective successors and, at the Issuers option, three other nationally recognized investment banking firms that are primary dealers of U.S. government securities in New York City. If any of the foregoing ceases to be a primary dealer of U.S. government securities in New York City, the Issuer must substitute another primary dealer of U.S. government securities.
Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations
 means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any redemption date, the average, as determined by the Independent Investment Banker, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Independent Investment Banker at 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the third Business Day preceding such redemption date.
Restricted Investment
 means an Investment other than a Permitted Investment.
-
29
-
Restricted Subsidiary
 of a Person means any Subsidiary of the referent Person that is not an Unrestricted Subsidiary.
S&P
 means Standard & Poors Ratings Services and its successors and assigns.
SEC
 means the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Significant Subsidiary
 means any Subsidiary that would be a significant subsidiary as defined in Article 1, Rule 1.02 of Regulation S-X, promulgated pursuant to the Securities Act, as such Regulation is in effect on the date of this Indenture.
Standard Securitization Undertakings
 means representations, warranties, covenants, indemnities and guarantees of performance entered into by the Issuer or any Subsidiary of the Issuer which the Issuer has determined in good faith to be customary in a Receivables Financing including, without limitation, those relating to the servicing of the assets of a Receivables Subsidiary, it being understood that any Receivables Repurchase Obligation shall be deemed to be a Standard Securitization Undertaking.
Stated Maturity
 means, with respect to any installment of interest or principal on any series of Indebtedness, the date on which the payment of interest or principal was scheduled to be paid in the documentation governing such Indebtedness as of the date of this Indenture, and will not include any contingent obligations to repay, redeem or repurchase any such interest or principal prior to the date originally scheduled for the payment thereof.
Subsidiary
 means, with respect to any specified Person (herein referred to as the parent), any corporation, partnership, association or other business entity (a) of which securities or other ownership interests representing more than 50% of the equity or more than 50% of the ordinary voting power or more than 50% of the general partnership interests are, at the time any determination is being made, directly or indirectly, owned, controlled or held by the parent, or (b) whose accounts are consolidated with the accounts of the parent or one or more subsidiaries of the parent in such parents or subsidiaries SEC filings. Unless the context otherwise requires, Subsidiary shall mean a Subsidiary of the Issuer.
Taxable Income
 means, with respect to any Person for any period, the taxable income or loss of such Person for such period for federal income tax purposes;
provided
, that (i) all items of income, gain, loss or deduction required to be stated separately pursuant to Section 703(a)(1) of the Code shall be included in taxable income or loss, (ii) any basis adjustment made in connection with an election under Section 754 of the Code shall be disregarded and (iii) such taxable income shall be increased or such taxable loss shall be decreased by the amount of any interest expense incurred by such Person that is not treated as deductible for federal income tax purposes by a partner or member of such Person.
TIA
 means the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended (15 U.S.C.  77aaa-77bbbb).
-
30
-
Total Tangible Assets
 means the total consolidated tangible assets of the Issuer and its Restricted Subsidiaries for the most recently ended fiscal quarter of the Issuer for which internal financial statements are available.
Transactions
 means, collectively, the offering of the Notes, the redemption, defeasance or other retirement (whether through tender offer or otherwise) of the 3.25% Convertible Senior Notes due 2015 issued by Alpha Appalachia Holdings, Inc. (formerly Massey Energy Company) and the payment of fees and expenses related to all of the foregoing.
Treasury Rate
 means, with respect to any redemption date: (a) the yield, under the heading which represents the average for the immediately preceding week, appearing in the most recently published statistical release designated H.15(519) or any successor publication which is published weekly by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and which establishes yields on actively traded U.S. Treasury securities adjusted to constant maturity under the caption Treasury Constant Maturities, for the maturity corresponding to the Comparable Treasury Issue (if no maturity is within three months before or after the Remaining Life, yields for the two published maturities most closely corresponding to the Comparable Treasury Issue will be determined and the Treasury Rate will be interpolated or extrapolated from such yields on a straight line basis, rounding to the nearest month); or (b) if such release (or any successor release) is not published during the week preceding the calculation date or does not contain such yields, the rate per annum equal to the semiannual equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, calculated using a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such redemption date.
The Treasury Rate will be calculated on the third Business Day preceding the date fixed for redemption.
Trustee
 means Union Bank, N.A. until a successor replaces it in accordance with the applicable provisions of this Indenture and thereafter means the successor serving hereunder.
Unrestricted Subsidiary
 means:
(1)    any Subsidiary of the Issuer that at the time of determination shall be designated an Unrestricted Subsidiary by the Board of Directors of the Issuer in the manner provided below;
(2)    any Subsidiary of an Unrestricted Subsidiary;
(3)    any Receivables Subsidiary;
provided
that any such Receivables Subsidiary of the Issuer that is an Unrestricted Subsidiary shall, upon the termination of any such Qualified Receivables Financing (other than as a result of an event of default thereunder unless and until the obligations thereunder are repaid in full), cease to be an Unrestricted Subsidiary and may not be re-designated as an Unrestricted Subsidiary; and
-
31
-
(4)    as of the date of this Indenture, ANR Receivables Funding, LLC, Gray Hawk Insurance Company and Rockridge Coal Company.
The Board of Directors of the Issuer may designate any Subsidiary of the Issuer (including any newly acquired or newly formed Subsidiary of the Issuer) to be an Unrestricted Subsidiary unless such Subsidiary or any of its Subsidiaries owns any Equity Interests or Indebtedness of, or owns or holds any Lien on any property of, the Issuer or any other Subsidiary of the Issuer that is not a Subsidiary of the Subsidiary to be so designated;
provided
,
however
, that the Subsidiary to be so designated and its Subsidiaries do not at the time of designation have and do not thereafter incur Indebtedness other than Non-Recourse Debt (other than guarantees of performance of the Unrestricted Subsidiary in the ordinary course of business, excluding guarantees of Indebtedness for borrowed money);
provided
,
further
,
however
, that either:
(a)    the Subsidiary to be so designated has total consolidated assets of $1,000 or less; or
(b)    if such Subsidiary has consolidated assets greater than $1,000, then such designation would be permitted under Section 4.05 hereof.
The Board of Directors of the Issuer may designate any Unrestricted Subsidiary to be a Restricted Subsidiary;
provided
,
however
, that immediately after giving effect to such designation:
(x)    (1) the Issuer could incur $1.00 of additional Indebtedness pursuant to the Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio test described in Section 4.07 hereof or (2) the Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio for the Issuer and its Restricted Subsidiaries would be greater than such ratio for the Issuer and its Restricted Subsidiaries immediately prior to such designation, in each case on a pro forma basis taking into account such designation, and
(y)    no Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing.
Any such designation by the Board of Directors of the Issuer shall be evidenced to the trustee by promptly filing with the trustee a copy of the resolution of the Board of Directors of the Issuer giving effect to such designation and an Officers Certificate certifying that such designation complied with the foregoing provisions.
Voting Stock
 of any specified Person as of any date means the Capital Stock of such Person that is at the time entitled to vote in the election of the Board of Directors of such Person.
Weighted Average Life to Maturity
 means, when applied to any Indebtedness at any date, the number of years obtained by dividing:
(1)    the sum of the products obtained by multiplying (a) the amount of each then remaining installment, sinking fund, serial maturity or other required payments of principal, including payment at final maturity, in respect of the Indebtedness, by (b) the
-
32
-
number of years (calculated to the nearest one-twelfth) that will elapse between such date and the making of such payment;
by
(2)    the then outstanding principal amount of such Indebtedness.
Wholly Owned Domestic Subsidiary
 of any specified Person means a Domestic Subsidiary that is a Wholly Owned Subsidiary and whose shares are not held, directly or indirectly, by any Foreign Subsidiary.
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 of any specified Person means a Subsidiary of such person, all of the Capital Stock or other ownership interests of which (other than directors qualifying shares or nominee or other similar shares required pursuant to applicable law) are owned by such Person or by one or more Wholly Owned Subsidiaries of such Person.
Whenever this Indenture refers to a provision of the TIA, the provision is incorporated by reference in and made a part of this Indenture.
The following TIA terms used in this Indenture have the following meanings:
Commission
 means the SEC;
indenture securities
 means the Notes;
-
33
-
indenture security Holder
 means a Holder of a Note;
indenture to be qualified
 means this Indenture;
indenture trustee
 or 
institutional trustee
 means the Trustee; and
obligor
 on the Notes and the Note Guarantees means the Issuer and the Guarantors, respectively, and any successor obligor upon the Notes and the Note Guarantees, respectively.
All other terms used in this Indenture that are defined by the TIA, defined by TIA reference to another statute or defined by SEC rule under the TIA have the meanings so assigned to them.
Unless the context otherwise requires:
(i)
    
a term has the meaning assigned to it;
(ii)
    
an accounting term not otherwise defined has the meaning assigned to it in accordance with GAAP;
(iii)
    
or is not exclusive;
(iv)
    
words in the singular include the plural, and in the plural include the singular;
(v)
    
will shall be interpreted to express a command;
(vi)
    
provisions apply to successive events and transactions; and
(vii)
    
references to sections of or rules under the Securities Act will be deemed to include substitute, replacement of successor sections or rules adopted by the SEC from time to time.
To the extent that the terms of this Supplemental Indenture are inconsistent or conflict with the terms of the Base Indenture, then, for purposes of the Notes, the terms of this Supplemental Indenture shall apply to the extent of such inconsistency or conflict. For the avoidance of doubt, any references to the date of the Indenture will be deemed to be references to the date of the Supplemental Indenture and any references to any Section or Article of the Indenture will be deemed to be references to such Section or Article of the Supplemental Indenture.
Without limitation of the foregoing, for purposes of the Notes, (i) the capitalized terms which are defined herein and are also defined in the Base Indenture shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this Supplemental Indenture and not in the Base Indenture and (ii) the terms of this Supplemental Indenture shall be deemed to supersede in their entirety Article 2 (other than 2.02(c)), Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04, 3.05(b), 4.01, 4.02, 4.04, 4.05, 4.06, 5.01, 5.02, 5.03, 5.04, 5.05, 5.06, 5.07, 5.08, 5.09, 5.10, 5.11, 5.13, Article 9, Article 10, Article 11, Article 12, Article 13, Section 14.04 and Section 15.04 of the Base Indenture.
ARTICLE 2
THE NOTES
(a)
    
General
. The Notes and the Trustees certificate of authentication will be substantially in the form of Exhibit A hereto. The Notes may have notations, legends or endorsements required by law, stock exchange rule or usage. Each Note will be dated the date of its authentication. The Notes shall be denominated in Dollars, and all cash payments due thereon shall be made in Dollars. The Notes shall be in denominations of $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess of $2,000.
The terms and provisions contained in the Notes will constitute, and are hereby expressly made, a part of this Indenture, and the Issuer, the Guarantors and the Trustee, by their execution and delivery of this Indenture, expressly agree to such terms and provisions and agree to be bound thereby. However, to the extent any provision of any Note conflicts with the express provisions of this Indenture, the provisions of this Indenture shall govern and be controlling.
(b)
    
Global Notes
. Notes issued in global form will be substantially in the form of Exhibit A hereto (including the Global Note Legend thereon and the Schedule of Exchanges of Interests in the Global Note attached thereto). Each Global Note will represent such of the outstanding Notes as will be specified therein and each shall provide that it represents the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Notes from time to time endorsed thereon and that the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Notes represented thereby may from time to time be reduced or increased, as appropriate, to reflect exchanges and redemptions. Any endorsement of a Global Note to reflect the amount of any such increase or decrease in the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Notes represented thereby will be made by the Trustee or the Custodian, at the direction of the Trustee, in accordance with instructions given by the Holder thereof as required by Section 2.05 hereof.
(c)
    
Notes in the form of Physical Securities issued in exchange for Notes represented by interests in a Global Note pursuant to Section 3.08 of the Base Indenture may be issued in the form of permanent certificated Notes in registered form in substantially the form set forth in Exhibit A and, if applicable, bearing any legends required hereby.
At least one Officer must sign the Notes for the Company by manual or facsimile signature.
If an Officer whose signature is on a Note no longer holds that office at the time a Note is authenticated, the Note will nevertheless be valid.
A Note will not be valid until authenticated by the manual signature of the Trustee. The signature will be conclusive evidence that the Note has been authenticated under this Indenture.
The Trustee will, upon receipt of a written order of the Company signed by an Officer of the Company (an 
Authentication Order
), authenticate Notes for original issue that may be validly issued under this Indenture, including any Additional Notes and any Exchange Notes.
The Trustee may appoint an authenticating agent acceptable to the Company to authenticate Notes. An authenticating agent may authenticate Notes whenever the Trustee may do so. Each reference in this Indenture to authentication by the Trustee includes authentication by such agent. An authenticating agent has the same rights as an Agent to deal with Holders or an Affiliate of the Company.
The Issuer initially appoints The Depository Trust Company (
DTC
) to act as Depositary with respect to the Global Notes.
The Issuer initially appoints the Trustee to act as the Registrar and Paying Agent and to act as Custodian with respect to the Global Notes.
The Issuer will require each Paying Agent other than the Trustee to agree in writing that the Paying Agent will hold in trust for the benefit of Holders or the Trustee all money held by the Paying Agent for the payment of principal, premium or interest on the Notes, and will notify the Trustee of any default by the Issuer in making any such payment. While any such default continues, the Trustee may require a Paying Agent to pay all money held by it to the Trustee. The Issuer at any time may require a Paying Agent to pay all money held by it to the Trustee. Upon payment over to the Trustee, the Paying Agent (if other than the Issuer or a Subsidiary) will have no further liability for the money. If the Issuer or a Subsidiary acts as Paying Agent, it will segregate and hold in a separate trust fund for the benefit of the Holders all money held by it as Paying Agent. Upon any bankruptcy or reorganization proceedings relating to the Issuer, the Trustee will serve as Paying Agent for the Notes.
Certificated notes may not be exchanged for beneficial interests in any Global Note unless the transferor first delivers to the Trustee a written certificate (as provided in form
attached to Exhibit A hereto) and in accordance with Section 3.07 and 3.08 of the Base Indenture.
No service charge shall be made for any transfer or exchange of Notes, but the Issuer may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any transfer tax or similar governmental charge that may be imposed in connection with any transfer or exchange of Notes, other than exchanges pursuant to Section 3.11 of the Base Indenture or Section 9.06 or Article 3 hereof, not involving any transfer.
Prior to 11:00 A.M., New York City time, on each Interest Payment Date and the Stated Maturity for the payment of principal on the Notes, the Issuer shall have deposited with a Paying Agent (or, if the Issuer is acting as its own Paying Agent, segregate and hold in trust in accordance with Section 4.03 of the Base Indenture) money, in funds immediately available on such date, sufficient to make cash payments, if any, due on such Interest Payment Date and the Stated Maturity for the payment of principal on the Notes in a timely manner which permits the Paying Agent to remit payment to the Holders on such Interest Payment Date and the Stated Maturity for the payment of principal on the Notes.
For purposes of the Notes, the terms at or prior to 11:00 A.M., New York City time, on shall be deemed to replace the words on or before in Section 4.03(a) of the Base Indenture and prior to in Section 4.03(b) of the Base Indenture.
The Notes shall initially be issued in the form of one of more Global Notes, and deposited with the Trustee as custodian for the Depositary and registered in the name of Cede & Co., as nominee for the Depositary. The Global Security shall be deposited on behalf of the purchasers of the Securities represented thereby with the Trustee, as custodian for the Depositary (or with such other custodian as the Depositary may direct), and registered in the name of the Depositary or a nominee of the Depositary, duly executed by the Company and authenticated by the Trustee as herein provided. The aggregate principal amount of the Global Securities may from time to time be increased or decreased by adjustments made on the records of the Trustee and the Depositary or its nominee as herein provided. The provisions of the Base Indenture other than Section 3.05(b) (including, but not limited to, Section 3.06 and Section 3.08) relating to Global Securities (as defined in the Base Indenture) shall apply to the Notes.
If the Issuer defaults in a payment of interest on the Notes, it will pay the defaulted interest in any lawful manner plus, to the extent lawful, interest payable on the defaulted interest, to the Persons who are Holders on a subsequent special record date, in each case at the rate provided in the Notes and in Section 4.01 hereof. The Issuer will notify the Trustee in writing of the amount of defaulted interest proposed to be paid on each Note and the
date of the proposed payment. The Issuer will fix or cause to be fixed each such special record date and payment date;
provided
that no such special record date may be less than 10 days prior to the related payment date for such defaulted interest. At least 15 days before the special record date, the Issuer (or, upon the written request of the Issuer, the Trustee in the name and at the expense of the Issuer) will mail or cause to be mailed to Holders a notice that states the special record date, the related payment date and the amount of such interest to be paid.
The Issuer may from time to time, without the consent of, or notice to, the Holders of the Notes of a series, reopen the series of debt securities of which the Notes are a part and issue Additional Notes having the same ranking and the same interest rate, maturity and other terms as the Notes of such series, except for the public offering price and the issue date and, if applicable, the initial interest accrual date and the initial interest payment date, if it is satisfied that the Additional Notes will have the same characteristics for U.S. tax purposes as Notes of the same series that are already outstanding. Any Additional Notes of a series having similar terms, together with the previously issued Notes of such series, will constitute a single series of debt securities under this Indenture, including, without limitation, for purposes of waivers, amendments, redemptions and offers to purchase. Unless the context otherwise requires, for all purposes of this Indenture, references to a series of Notes include any Additional Notes of the same series actually issued.
In addition, the Issuer may issue from time to time other series of Notes under the Base Indenture consisting of debentures, other series of notes or other evidences of indebtedness, but such other securities will be separate from and independent of the Notes. Any issuance of Additional Notes is subject to all of the covenants in this Indenture, including those contained in Section 4.07.
ARTICLE 3
REDEMPTION AND PREPAYMENT
If the Issuer elects to redeem Notes pursuant to the optional redemption provisions of Section 3.07 hereof or redemption provisions applicable only to Additional Notes in accordance with Section 2.11, it must furnish to the Trustee, at least 30 days but not more than 60 days before a redemption date, an Officers Certificate setting forth:
(1)
    
the clause of this Indenture, and, if applicable, the Additional Notes, pursuant to which the redemption shall occur;
(2)
    
the redemption date;
(3)
    
the principal amount of Notes to be redeemed;
(4)
    
the redemption price for the Notes; and
(5)
    
the CUSIP Numbers.
If less than all of the Notes are to be redeemed at any time, the Trustee will select Notes for redemption or purchase as follows:
(2)
    
if the Notes are listed on any national securities exchange, in compliance with the requirements of the principal national securities exchange on which the Notes are listed; or
(3)
    
if the Notes are not listed on any national securities exchange, on a
pro
rata
basis.
In the event of partial redemption or purchase by lot, the particular Notes to be redeemed or purchased will be selected, unless otherwise provided herein, not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the redemption date by the Trustee from the outstanding Notes not previously called for redemption.
The Trustee will promptly notify the Issuer in writing of the Notes selected for redemption and, in the case of any Note selected for partial redemption or purchase, the principal amount thereof to be redeemed. Notes and portions of Notes selected will be in amounts of $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess of $2,000;
provided
that no Notes of $2,000 or less shall be redeemed in part. Except as provided in the preceding sentence, provisions of this Indenture that apply to Notes called for redemption also apply to portions of Notes called for redemption.
At least 30 days but not more than 60 days before a redemption date, the Issuer will mail or cause to be mailed, by first class mail, a notice of redemption to each Holder whose Notes are to be redeemed at its registered address, except that redemption notices may be mailed more than 60 days prior to a redemption date if the notice is issued in connection with a defeasance of the Notes or a satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture pursuant to Articles 7 or 10 hereof.
The notice will identify the Notes (including CUSIP Numbers) to be redeemed and will state:
(1)
    
the redemption date;
(2)
    
the redemption price for the Notes;
(3)
    
if any Note is being redeemed in part, the portion of the principal amount of such Note to be redeemed and that, after the redemption date upon surrender of such Note, a new Note or Notes in principal amount equal to the unredeemed portion will be issued upon cancellation of the original Note;
(4)
    
the name and address of the Paying Agent;
(5)
    
that Notes called for redemption must be surrendered to the Paying Agent to collect the redemption price;
(6)
    
that, unless the Issuer defaults in making such redemption payment, interest on Notes called for redemption ceases to accrue on and after the redemption date;
(7)
    
the paragraph of the Notes and/or Section of this Indenture pursuant to which the Notes called for redemption are being redeemed; and
(8)
    
that no representation is made as to the correctness or accuracy of the CUSIP numbers, if any, listed in such notice or printed on the Notes.
At the Issuers request, the Trustee will give the notice of redemption in the Issuers name and at their expense;
provided
,
however
, that the Issuer has delivered to the Trustee, at least 45 days prior to the redemption date, an Officers Certificate requesting that the Trustee give such notice and setting forth the information to be stated in such notice as provided in the preceding paragraph.
Once notice of redemption is mailed in accordance with Section 3.03 hereof, Notes called for redemption become irrevocably due and payable on the redemption date at the redemption price. A notice of redemption may not be conditional.
One Business Day prior to the redemption date, the Issuer will deposit with the Trustee or with the Paying Agent money sufficient to pay the redemption price of and accrued interest on all Notes to be redeemed on that date. The Trustee or the Paying Agent will promptly return to the Issuer any money deposited with the Trustee or the Paying Agent by the Issuer in excess of the amounts necessary to pay the redemption price of, and accrued interest, if any, on, all Notes to be redeemed.
If the Issuer complies with the provisions of the preceding paragraph, on and after the redemption date, interest will cease to accrue on the Notes or the portions of Notes called for redemption. If a Note is redeemed on or after an interest record date but on or prior to the related interest payment date, then any accrued and unpaid interest shall be paid to the Person in whose name such Note was registered at the close of business on such record date. If any Note called for redemption is not so paid upon surrender for redemption because of the failure of the Issuer to comply with the preceding paragraph, interest shall be paid on the unpaid principal, from the redemption date until such principal is paid, and to the extent lawful on any interest not paid on such unpaid principal, in each case at the rate provided in the Notes and in Section 4.01 hereof.
Upon surrender of a Note that is redeemed in part, the Issuer will issue and, upon receipt of an Authentication Order, the Trustee will authenticate for the Holder at the expense of the Issuer a new Note equal in principal amount to the unredeemed or unpurchased portion of the Note surrendered.
At any time, prior to October 15, 2015, the Issuer may on any one or more occasions redeem up to 35% of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes issued under this Indenture (including any Additional Notes issued after the issue date) at a redemption price of 109.75% of the principal amount,
plus
accrued and unpaid interest to, but not including, the redemption date, with the net cash proceeds of one or more Equity Offerings;
provided
that:
(A)
    
at least 65% of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes issued under this Indenture (excluding Notes held by the Issuer and its Subsidiaries) remains outstanding immediately after the occurrence of such redemption; and
(B)
    
the redemption occurs within 180 days of the date of the closing of such Equity Offering.
In addition, the Notes will be redeemable in whole at any time or in part from time to time, at the Issuers option, at a redemption price equal to the greater of:
(1)
    
100% of the principal amount of the Notes then outstanding to be redeemed; or
(2)
    
the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest on the Notes to be redeemed (not including any portion of such payments of interest accrued to the date of redemption) discounted to the date of redemption on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the applicable Treasury Rate, plus 50 basis points.
In each case, accrued and unpaid interest on the principal amount of Notes being redeemed will be payable to the redemption date.
Unless the Issuer defaults in the payment of the redemption price, interest will cease to accrue on the Notes or portions thereof called for redemption on the applicable redemption date.
Any redemption pursuant to this Section 3.07 shall be made pursuant to the provisions of Sections 3.01 through 3.06 hereof.
Except pursuant to the preceding paragraphs, the Notes will not be redeemable at the Issuers option;
provided, however
, the Issuer may acquire the Notes by means other than a redemption, whether pursuant to a tender offer, open market purchase or otherwise, so long as the acquisition does not violate the terms of this Indenture.
The Issuer is not required to make mandatory redemption or sinking fund payments with respect to the Notes.
ARTICLE 4
COVENANTS
The Issuer will pay or cause to be paid the principal of, premium, if any, and interest, if any, on, the Notes on the dates and in the manner provided in the Notes. Principal, premium, if any, and interest will be considered paid on the date due if the Paying Agent, if other than the Issuer or a Subsidiary thereof, holds as of 10:00 a.m. Eastern Time on the due date money deposited by the Issuer in immediately available funds and designated for and sufficient to pay all principal of, premium, if any, and interest then due.
The Issuer will pay interest on overdue principal at the rate specified therefor in the Notes, and it shall pay interest on overdue installments of interest at the same rate borne by the Notes to the extent lawful.
The Issuer will maintain in the Borough of Manhattan, the City of New York, an office or agency (which may be an office of the Trustee or an affiliate of the Trustee, Registrar or co-registrar) where Notes may be surrendered for registration of transfer or for exchange and where notices and demands to or upon the Issuer in respect of the Notes and this Indenture may be served. The Issuer will give prompt written notice to the Trustee of the location, and any change in the location, of such office or agency. If at any time the Issuer fails to maintain any such required office or agency or fails to furnish the Trustee with the address thereof, such presentations, surrenders, notices and demands may be made or served at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee.
The Issuer may also from time to time designate one or more other offices or agencies where the Notes may be presented or surrendered for any or all such purposes and may from time to time rescind such designations;
provided
,
however
, that no such designation or rescission will in any manner relieve the Issuer of its obligation to maintain an office or agency in the Borough of Manhattan, the City of New York for such purposes. The Issuer will give prompt written notice to the Trustee of any such designation or rescission and of any change in the location of any such other office or agency.
The Issuer hereby designates the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee as one such office or agency of the Issuer in accordance with Section 2.03 hereof.
(a)
    
So long as any Notes are outstanding, the Issuer shall file with the SEC, to the extent such submissions are accepted for filing by the SEC, and shall provide to the Trustee (within 15 days after it files (or would have been required to file) with the SEC):
(1)
    
all quarterly financial information that would be required to be contained in a filing with the SEC on Form 10-Q; and
(2)
    
all annual reports that would be required to be filed with the SEC on Form 10-K;
in each case, as if the Issuer were required to file such forms.
Delivery of such reports, information and documents to the Trustee is for informational purposes only and the Trustees receipt of such shall not constitute constructive notice of any information contained therein or determinable from information contained therein, including the Issuers compliance with any of its covenants hereunder (as to which the Trustee is entitled to rely exclusively on Officers Certificates).
All such reports shall be prepared in all material respects in accordance with all of the rules and regulations of the SEC applicable to such reports. Each Annual Report on Form 10-K shall include a report on the Issuers consolidated financial statements by the Issuers independent accountants.
If, at any time, the Issuer is no longer subject to the periodic reporting requirements of the Exchange Act for any reason, the Issuer shall nevertheless continue filing such reports with the SEC within the time periods specified above unless the SEC will not accept such a filing.
(b)
    
For so long as any Notes remain outstanding, if at any time the Issuer is not required to file with the SEC the reports required by paragraph (a) of this Section 4.03, the Issuer shall furnish to the Holders and prospective investors, upon their request, the information required to be delivered pursuant to Rule 144A(d)(4) under the Securities Act.
(a)
    
The Issuer shall deliver to the Trustee within 120 days after the end of each fiscal year of the Issuer an Officers Certificate stating that in the course of the performance by the signers of their duties as Officers of the Issuer they would normally have knowledge of any Default and whether or not the signers know of any Default that occurred during such period. If they do, the certificate shall describe the Default, its status and what action the Issuer is taking or proposes to take with respect thereto. The Issuer also shall comply with Section 314(a)(4) of the TIA.
(b)
    
So long as any of the Notes are outstanding, the Issuer will deliver to the Trustee, forthwith upon any Officer becoming aware of any Default or Event of Default, an Officers Certificate specifying such Default or Event of Default and what action the Issuer is taking or proposes to take with respect thereto.
(a)
    
The Issuer will not, and will not permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to, directly or indirectly:
(1)
    
declare or pay any dividend or make any other payment or distribution on account of the Issuers or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries Equity Interests (including, without limitation, any payment in connection with any merger or consolidation involving the Issuer or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries) or to the direct or indirect holders of the Issuers or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries Equity Interests in their capacity as such (other than dividends or distributions payable in Equity Interests, other than Disqualified Stock, of the Issuer and other than dividends or distributions payable to the Issuer or a Restricted Subsidiary of the Issuer);
(2)
    
purchase, redeem or otherwise acquire or retire for value (including, without limitation, in connection with any merger or consolidation involving the Issuer) any Equity Interests of the Issuer;
(3)
    
make any payment on or with respect to, or purchase, redeem, defease or otherwise acquire or retire for value, any Indebtedness of the Issuer or any Guarantor that is contractually subordinated to the Notes or to any Note Guarantee (excluding (x) any intercompany Indebtedness between or among the Issuer and any of its Restricted Subsidiaries or (y) the purchase, repurchase, or other acquisition of Indebtedness that is contractually subordinated to the Notes or to any Note Guarantee, as the case may be, purchased in anticipation of satisfying a sinking fund obligation, principal installment or final maturity, in each case due within one year of the date of purchase, repurchase or acquisition), except a payment of interest or principal at the Stated Maturity thereof; or
(4)
    
make any Restricted Investment
(all such payments and other actions set forth in these clauses (1) through (4) above being collectively referred to as 
Restricted Payments
), unless, at the time of and after giving effect to such Restricted Payment:
(A)
    
no Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing or would occur as a consequence of such Restricted Payment;
(B)
    
the Issuer would, after giving
pro forma
effect thereto as if such Restricted Payment had been made at the beginning of the applicable four-quarter period, have been permitted to incur at least $1.00 of additional Indebtedness pursuant to the Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio test set forth in Section 4.07(a); and
(C)
    
such Restricted Payment, together with the aggregate amount of all other Restricted Payments made by the Issuer and its Restricted Subsidiaries since
the date of this Indenture (excluding Restricted Payments permitted by clauses (2) through (20) of Section 4.05(b)), is less than the sum, without duplication, of:
(i)
    
50% of the Consolidated Net Income of the Issuer for the period (taken as one accounting period) from the beginning of April 1, 2011 to the end of the Issuers most recently ended fiscal quarter for which internal financial statements are available at the time of such Restricted Payment (or, if such Consolidated Net Income for such period is a deficit, less 100% of such deficit);
plus
(ii)
    
100% of the aggregate net proceeds, including cash and the Fair Market Value of property other than cash, received by the Issuer since the date of this Indenture from the issue or sale of Equity Interests of the Issuer (other than Disqualified Stock, Designated Preferred Stock or Excluded Contributions) or from the issue or sale of convertible or exchangeable Disqualified Stock or convertible or exchangeable debt securities that have been converted into or exchanged for such Equity Interests (other than Equity Interests (or Disqualified Stock or debt securities) sold to a Subsidiary of the Issuer);
plus
(iii)
    
to the extent that any Restricted Investment that was made after the date of this Indenture is sold for cash or otherwise liquidated or repaid for cash, 100% of the aggregate amount received in cash and the Fair Market Value of property other than cash received;
plus
(iv)
    
to the extent that any Unrestricted Subsidiary of the Issuer designated as such after the date of this Indenture is redesignated as a Restricted Subsidiary after the date of this Indenture or has been merged into, consolidated or amalgamated with or into, or transfers or conveys its assets to, the Issuer or a Restricted Subsidiary of the Issuer, 100% of the Fair Market Value of the Issuers Investment in such Subsidiary as of the date of such redesignation, combination or transfer (or of the assets transferred or conveyed, as applicable) after deducting any Indebtedness associated with the Unrestricted Subsidiary so designated or combined or any Indebtedness associated with the assets so transferred or conveyed;
plus
(v)
    
100% of any dividends or distributions received by the Issuer or a Restricted Subsidiary of the Issuer after the date of this Indenture from an Unrestricted Subsidiary of the Issuer, to the extent that such dividends or distributions were not otherwise included in the Consolidated Net Income of the Issuer for such period.
(b)
    
The provisions of Section 4.05(a) hereof will not prohibit:
(3)
    
the payment of any dividend or distribution or the consummation of any redemption within 60 days after the date of declaration of the dividend or distribution or giving of the redemption notice, as the case may be, if, at the date of declaration or
-
45
-
notice, the dividend, distribution or redemption payment would have complied with the provisions of this Indenture;
(4)
    
the making of any Restricted Payment in exchange for, or out of the net cash proceeds of the substantially concurrent sale (other than to a Restricted Subsidiary of the Issuer) of, Equity Interests of the Issuer (other than Disqualified Stock) or from the substantially concurrent contribution of common equity capital to the Issuer;
provided
that the amount of any such net cash proceeds that are utilized for any such Restricted Payment will be excluded from clause (C)(ii) of Section 4.05(a) hereof;
(5)
    
the repurchase, redemption, defeasance or other acquisition or retirement for value of Indebtedness of the Issuer or any Restricted Subsidiary that is contractually subordinated to the Notes or to any Note Guarantee with the net cash proceeds from a substantially concurrent incurrence of Permitted Refinancing Indebtedness;
(6)
    
any Restricted Payment made by a Restricted Subsidiary of the Issuer to the holders of its Equity Interests on a
pro rata
basis;
(7)
    
the repurchase, redemption or other acquisition or retirement for value of any Equity Interests of the Issuer or any Restricted Subsidiary of the Issuer held by any current or former officer, director, consultant or employee of the Issuer or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries pursuant to the requirements of any equity subscription agreement, stock option agreement, shareholders or members agreement or similar agreement, plan or arrangement or otherwise in the ordinary course of business;
(8)
    
the repurchase of Equity Interests deemed to occur upon the exercise of stock options to the extent such Equity Interests represent a portion of the exercise price of those stock options;
(9)
    
the declaration and payment of regularly scheduled or accrued dividends or distributions to holders of any class or series of Disqualified Stock of the Issuer or any Restricted Subsidiary of the Issuer issued on or after the date of this Indenture in accordance with the Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio test described in Section 4.07 hereof;
(10)
    
Restricted Payments arising as a result of Qualified Receivables Financing;
(11)
    
the declaration and payment of dividends or other distributions to holders of any class or series of Designated Preferred Stock (other than Disqualified Stock) issued after the date of this Indenture;
provided
,
however
, that (A) for the most recently ended four full fiscal quarters for which internal financial statements are available immediately preceding the date of issuance of such Designated Preferred Stock, after giving effect to such issuance (and the payment of dividends or
-
46
-
distributions) on a pro forma basis, the Issuer could incur an additional $1.00 of Indebtedness pursuant to the Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio, and (B) the aggregate amount of dividends declared and paid pursuant to this clause (9) does not exceed the net cash proceeds actually received by the Issuer from any such sale of Designated Preferred Stock (other than Disqualified Stock) issued after the date of this Indenture;
(12)
    
any payments made or to be made in connection with the consummation of the Massey Transactions;
(13)
    
Investments that are made with Excluded Contributions;
(14)
    
other Restricted Payments in an aggregate amount not to exceed $650 million since the date of this Indenture;
(15)
    
the satisfaction of change of control obligations once the Issuer has fulfilled its obligations under this Indenture with respect to a Change of Control;
(16)
    
the repayment of intercompany debt that was permitted to be incurred under this Indenture;
(17)
    
cash dividends or other distributions on the Issuers Capital Stock used to fund the payment of fees and expenses owed by the Issuer or its Restricted Subsidiaries to Affiliates, to the extent permitted by Section 4.09 hereof;
(18)
    
the payment of dividends, distributions on or the repurchase of, the Issuers common equity of up to $200 million per calendar year (with unused amounts in any calendar year being permitted to be carried over for the next succeeding calendar year up to a maximum of $400 million in any calendar year);
(19)
    
the repurchase, redemption, defeasance or other acquisition or retirement for value of Indebtedness of the Issuer or any Restricted Subsidiary that is contractually subordinated to the Notes or to any Note Guarantee with any Excess Proceeds that remain after consummation of an Asset Sale Offer;
(20)
    
cash payments in lieu of fractional shares issuable as dividends on preferred stock or upon the conversion of any convertible debt securities of the Issuer or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries;
(21)
    
the repurchase, redemption or other acquisition or retirement for value of Disqualified Stock of the Issuer or any Restricted Subsidiary of the Issuer made by exchange for, or out of the proceeds of, the substantially concurrent sale of Disqualified Stock that is permitted to be incurred pursuant to Section 4.07; and
(22)
    
the distribution, as a dividend or otherwise, of shares of Capital Stock of, or Indebtedness owed to the Issuer or a Restricted Subsidiary of the Issuer by, Unrestricted Subsidiaries;
provided
,
however
, that at the time of, and after giving effect to, any Restricted Payment permitted under clauses (6) and (9), no Default or
-
47
-
Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing or would occur as a consequence thereof.
(c)
    
The amount of all Restricted Payments (other than cash) will be the Fair Market Value on the date of the Restricted Payment of the asset(s) or securities proposed to be transferred or issued by the Issuer or such Restricted Subsidiary, as the case may be, pursuant to the Restricted Payment.
(d)
    
For purposes of determining compliance with the provisions set forth above, in the event that a Restricted Payment meets the criteria of more than one of the types of Restricted Payments described in the above clauses, the Issuer, in its sole discretion, may order and classify, and from time to time may reorder and reclassify, such Restricted Payment if it would have been permitted at the time such Restricted Payment was made and at the time of any such reclassification.
(b)
    
The Issuer will not, and will not permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to, directly or indirectly, create or permit to exist or become effective any consensual encumbrance or restriction on the ability of any Restricted Subsidiary to:
(1)
    
pay dividends or make any other distributions on its Capital Stock to the Issuer or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries, or with respect to any other interest or participation in, or measured by, its profits, or pay any Indebtedness owed to the Issuer or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries; or
(2)
    
make loans or advances to the Issuer or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries.
(c)
    
The restrictions in Section 4.06(a) hereof will not apply to encumbrances or restrictions existing under or by reason of:
(1)
    
applicable law, rule, regulation, order, approval, license, permit or similar restriction;
(2)
    
restrictions contained in any documents or agreements evidencing, relating to or otherwise governing a Receivables Financing with respect to any Receivables Subsidiary;
(3)
    
contractual encumbrances or restrictions in effect under any Indebtedness outstanding on the date of this Indenture and under any Indebtedness otherwise permitted pursuant to this Indenture;
(4)
    
any restrictions imposed by any agreement relating to secured Indebtedness permitted by this Indenture to the extent that such restrictions apply only to the assets securing such Indebtedness;
-
48
-
(5)
    
any agreement in effect at the time such Restricted Subsidiary becomes a Restricted Subsidiary, so long as such agreement was not entered into in contemplation of such person becoming a Restricted Subsidiary;
(6)
    
customary restrictions contained in any agreement relating to the sale of any asset permitted under Section 4.08 pending the consummation of such sale;
(7)
    
customary provisions in joint venture agreements and other similar agreements applicable to joint ventures entered into in the ordinary course of business;
(8)
    
customary provisions contained in leases or licenses and other similar agreements entered into in the ordinary course of business;
(9)
    
customary restrictions in connection with deposits in the ordinary course of business;
(10)
    
customary provisions restricting assignment of any agreement entered into in the ordinary course of business;
(11)
    
encumbrances on property that exist at the time the property was acquired by the Issuer or a Restricted Subsidiary; and
(12)
    
restrictions described in clauses (1) and (2) of Section 4.06(a), but only to the extent that such restrictions do not materially adversely affect the consolidated cash position of the Issuer and its Restricted Subsidiaries.
(a)
    
The Issuer will not, and will not permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to, directly or indirectly, create, incur, issue, assume, guarantee or otherwise become directly or indirectly liable, contingently or otherwise, with respect to (collectively, 
incur
) any Indebtedness (including Acquired Debt), and the Issuer will not issue any Disqualified Stock and will not permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to issue any shares of preferred equity;
provided
,
however
, that the Issuer may incur Indebtedness (including Acquired Debt) or issue Disqualified Stock, and the Issuer or any other Restricted Subsidiary may incur Indebtedness (including Acquired Debt) or issue preferred equity, if the Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio for the Issuers most recently ended four full fiscal quarters for which internal financial statements are available immediately preceding the date on which such additional Indebtedness is incurred or such Disqualified Stock or such preferred equity is issued, as the case may be, would have been at least 2.0 to 1.0, determined on a pro forma basis (including a pro forma application of the net proceeds therefrom), as if the additional Indebtedness had been incurred or the Disqualified Stock or the preferred equity had been issued, as the case may be, at the beginning of such four-quarter period.
(b)
    
The provisions of Section 4.07(a) will not prohibit the incurrence of any of the following items of Indebtedness (collectively, 
Permitted Debt
):
(13)
    
the incurrence by the Issuer or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries of additional Indebtedness and letters of credit and bankers acceptances thereunder under Credit Facilities in an aggregate principal amount at any time outstanding under this clause (1) (with letters of credit being deemed to have a principal amount equal to the maximum potential liability of the Issuer and its Restricted Subsidiaries thereunder) not to exceed the greater of (x) $3,600 million or (y) an amount equal to 3.5 times Consolidated Cash Flow of the Issuer for the most recently ended four full fiscal quarters of the Issuer for which internal financial statements are available;
(14)
    
the incurrence by the Issuer and its Restricted Subsidiaries of Indebtedness, other than the Credit Agreement, to the extent outstanding on the date of this Indenture;
(15)
    
the incurrence by the Issuer and the Guarantors (including any future Guarantor) of Indebtedness represented by the Notes and the related Note Guarantees to be issued on the date of this Indenture;
(16)
    
the incurrence by the Issuer or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries of Indebtedness represented by Capital Lease Obligations, mortgage financings, industrial revenue bonds, purchase money obligations or other Indebtedness or preferred stock, or synthetic lease obligations, in each case, incurred for the purpose of financing all or any part of the purchase price or cost of design, development, construction, lease, installation or improvement of property (real or personal and including Capital Stock), plant or equipment used or useful in the business of the Issuer or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries (in each case, whether through the direct purchase of such assets or the Equity Interests of any Person owning such assets), in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed at any time outstanding the greater of (x) $750 million or (y) 7.5% of Total Tangible Assets;
(17)
    
Capital Lease Obligations incurred by the Issuer or any Restricted Subsidiary in respect of any sale leaseback transaction;
(18)
    
the incurrence by the Issuer or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries of Permitted Refinancing Indebtedness in exchange for, or the net proceeds of which are used to renew, refund, refinance, replace, defease or discharge any Indebtedness (other than intercompany Indebtedness) or any Disqualified Stock or preferred stock that was permitted by this Indenture to be incurred under Section 4.07(a) hereof or clauses (2), (3), (5), (6), (11) or (12) of this Section 4.07(b);
(19)
    
the incurrence by the Issuer or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries of intercompany Indebtedness between or among the Issuer and any of its Restricted Subsidiaries;
provided
,
however
, that:
(A)
    
if the Issuer or any Guarantor is the obligor on such Indebtedness and the payee is not the Issuer or a Guarantor, such Indebtedness must be expressly subordinated to the prior payment in full in cash of all Obligations then
due with respect to the Notes, in the case of the Issuer, or the Note Guarantee, in the case of a Guarantor; and
(B)
    
(i) any subsequent issuance or transfer of Equity Interests that results in any such Indebtedness being held by a Person other than the Issuer or a Restricted Subsidiary of the Issuer, and (ii) any sale or other transfer of any such Indebtedness to a Person that is not either the Issuer or a Restricted Subsidiary of the Issuer, will be deemed, in each case, to constitute an incurrence of such Indebtedness by the Issuer or such Restricted Subsidiary, as the case may be, that was not permitted by this clause (7);
(20)
    
the issuance by any of the Issuers Restricted Subsidiaries to the Issuer or to any of its Restricted Subsidiaries of shares of preferred equity;
provided
,
however
, that:
(A)
    
any subsequent issuance or transfer of Equity Interests that results in any such preferred equity being held by a Person other than the Issuer or a Restricted Subsidiary of the Issuer, and
(B)
    
any sale or other transfer of any such preferred equity to a Person that is not either the Issuer or a Restricted Subsidiary of the Issuer,
will be deemed, in each case, to constitute an issuance of such preferred equity by such Restricted Subsidiary that was not permitted by this clause (8);
(21)
    
the incurrence by the Issuer or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries of Hedging Obligations other than for speculative purposes;
(22)
    
the guarantee by the Issuer or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries of Indebtedness of the Issuer or a Restricted Subsidiary of the Issuer that was permitted to be incurred by another provision of this Section 4.07 (including Section 4.07(a));
provided
that if the Indebtedness being guaranteed is subordinated to or
pari passu
with the Notes, then the Guarantee shall be subordinated or
pari passu
, as applicable, to the same extent as the Indebtedness guaranteed;
(23)
    
(x) Indebtedness, Disqualified Stock or preferred equity of Persons that are acquired by the Issuer or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries or merged into a Restricted Subsidiary in accordance with the terms of this Indenture, (y) Indebtedness incurred to finance the acquisition of a Restricted Subsidiary after the date of this Indenture or a corporation merged into or consolidated with the Issuer or any Restricted Subsidiary after the date of this Indenture and (z) Indebtedness assumed or incurred in connection with the acquisition of assets, where such acquisition, merger or consolidation is permitted under the terms of this Indenture;
provided
that for any such Indebtedness outstanding under this clause (11) in excess of the greater of (x) $750 million and (y) 7.5% of Total Tangible Assets (as of the end of the Issuers most recently ended fiscal quarter for which financial statements are available) on the
-
51
-
date such Person is acquired by the Issuer or a Restricted Subsidiary, after giving effect to such acquisition and the incurrence of such Indebtedness either:
(A)
    
the Issuer would be permitted to incur at least $1.00 of additional Indebtedness pursuant to the Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio test set forth in the first sentence of this Section 4.07; or
(B)
    
the Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio would not be less than immediately prior to such acquisition;
(24)
    
Indebtedness incurred by a Receivables Subsidiary in a Qualified Receivables Financing that is not recourse to the Issuer or any Restricted Subsidiary of the Issuer other than a Receivables Subsidiary (except for Standard Securitization Undertakings);
(25)
    
the incurrence by the Issuer or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries of additional Indebtedness or the issuance of Disqualified Stock or preferred equity in an aggregate principal amount (or accreted value, as applicable) or having an aggregate liquidation preference at any time outstanding not to exceed the greater of (x) $500 million and (y) 5% Total Tangible Assets (it being understood that any Indebtedness, Disqualified Stock or preferred equity incurred pursuant to this clause (13) shall cease to be deemed incurred or outstanding for purposes of this Section 4.07 from and after the date on which the Issuer could have incurred such Indebtedness or Disqualified Stock or preferred equity under Section 4.07(a) without reliance upon this clause (13));
(26)
    
standby letters of credit or bank guarantees (other than letters of credit issued under Credit Facilities permitted by clause (1) of this paragraph) securing Indebtedness having an aggregate face amount not in excess of $100 million at any time outstanding;
(27)
    
Indebtedness supported by a letter of credit in a principal amount outstanding not in excess of the stated amount of such letter of credit otherwise permitted to be incurred under this Indenture;
(28)
    
Guarantees of Indebtedness of contractors and suppliers of the Issuer or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries or of persons who are not Affiliates of the Issuer and with whom the Issuer or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries has an existing business relationship in support of financing or bonding arrangements for such contractors or suppliers or such other person in connection with such business relationship;
provided
that the obligations of the Issuer or any of the Subsidiaries pursuant to this clause (16) shall not exceed $50 million at any time outstanding;
(29)
    
Indebtedness relating to the financing of insurance policy premiums;
provided
that (x) such insurance is for the benefit of the Issuer or any of its Wholly Owned Domestic Subsidiaries and (y) the aggregate principal amount outstanding of
-
52
-
Indebtedness permitted by this clause (17) shall not exceed $100 million at any time outstanding; and
(30)
    
all premium (if any), interest (including post-petition interest), fees, expenses, charges and additional or contingent interest on Indebtedness permitted to be incurred under this Indenture.
The Issuer will not incur, and will not permit any Guarantor to incur, any Indebtedness (including Permitted Debt) that is contractually subordinated in right of payment to any other Indebtedness of the Issuer or such Guarantor unless such Indebtedness is also contractually subordinated in right of payment to the Notes and the applicable Note Guarantee on substantially identical terms;
provided
,
however
, that no Indebtedness shall be deemed to be contractually subordinated in right of payment to any other Indebtedness of the Issuer solely by virtue of being unsecured or by virtue of being secured on a first or junior Lien basis.
For purposes of determining compliance with this Section 4.07, in the event that an item of proposed Indebtedness, Disqualified Stock or preferred equity meets the criteria of more than one of the categories of Permitted Debt described in clauses (1) through (18) above, or is entitled to be incurred pursuant to Section 4.07(a), the Issuer will be permitted to classify such item of Indebtedness, Disqualified Stock or preferred equity on the date of its incurrence and will only be required to include the amount and type of such Indebtedness, Disqualified Stock or preferred equity in one of the above clauses, although the Issuer may divide and classify an item of Indebtedness, Disqualified Stock or preferred equity in one or more of the types of Indebtedness, Disqualified Stock or preferred equity and may later reclassify all or a portion of such item of Indebtedness, Disqualified Stock or preferred equity, in any manner that complies with this Section 4.07. The accrual of interest or dividends, the accretion or amortization of original issue discount, the payment of interest on any Indebtedness in the form of additional Indebtedness with the same terms, the reclassification of preferred equity as Indebtedness due to a change in accounting principles, and the payment of dividends on Disqualified Stock or preferred equity in the form of additional shares of the same class of Disqualified Stock or preferred equity will not be deemed to be an incurrence of Indebtedness or an issuance of Disqualified Stock or preferred equity for purposes of this Section 4.07;
provided
, in each such case (other than preferred stock that is not Disqualified Stock), that the amount of any such accrual, accretion or payment is included in Fixed Charges of the Issuer as accrued (other than the reclassification of preferred equity as Indebtedness due to a change in accounting principles). Notwithstanding any other provision of this Section 4.07, the maximum amount of Indebtedness that the Issuer or any Restricted Subsidiary may incur pursuant to this Section 4.07 shall not be deemed to be exceeded solely as a result of fluctuations in exchange rates or currency values.
The amount of any Indebtedness outstanding as of any date will be:
(1)    the accreted value of the Indebtedness, in the case of any Indebtedness issued with original issue discount;
(2)    the principal amount of the Indebtedness, in the case of any other Indebtedness; and
-
53
-
(3)    in respect of Indebtedness of another Person secured by a Lien on the assets of the specified Person, the lesser of:
(A)    the Fair Market Value of such assets at the date of determination; and
(B)    the amount of the Indebtedness of the other Person.
The Issuer will not, and will not permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to, consummate an Asset Sale unless:
(31)
    
the Issuer (or the Restricted Subsidiary, as the case may be) receives consideration at the time of the Asset Sale at least equal to the Fair Market Value of the assets or Equity Interests issued or sold or otherwise disposed of; and
(32)
    
at least 75% of the consideration received in the Asset Sale by the Issuer or such Restricted Subsidiary is in the form of cash, Cash Equivalents or Marketable Securities. For purposes of this provision, each of the following shall be deemed to be cash:
(A)
    
any liabilities of the Issuer or any Restricted Subsidiary (other than contingent liabilities and liabilities that are by their terms subordinated to the Notes or any Note Guarantee) that are assumed by the transferee of any such assets and, as a result of which, the Issuer or such Restricted Subsidiary is released from further liability;
(B)
    
any securities, notes, other obligations or assets received by the Issuer or any such Restricted Subsidiary from such transferee that are converted by the Issuer or such Restricted Subsidiary into cash or Cash Equivalents within 180 days of the receipt thereof, to the extent of the cash or Cash Equivalents received in that conversion;
(C)
    
any Designated Non-cash Consideration received by the Issuer or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries in such Asset Sale;
provided
that the aggregate Fair Market Value of such Designated Non-cash Consideration, taken together with the Fair Market Value at the time of receipt of all other Designated Non-cash Consideration received pursuant to this clause (C) less the amount of Net Proceeds previously realized in cash from prior Designated Non-cash Consideration is less than the greater of (x) 7.5% of Total Tangible Assets at the time of the receipt of such Designated Non-cash Consideration (with the Fair Market Value of each item of Designated Non-cash Consideration being measured at the time received and without giving effect to subsequent changes in value) and (y) $750 million; and
-
54
-
(D)
    
any Capital Stock or assets of the kind referred to in clause (2) or (4) of the next paragraph of this Section 4.08.
Within 450 days after the receipt of any Net Proceeds from an Asset Sale, the Issuer (or the applicable Restricted Subsidiary, as the case may be) may:
(a)    apply such Net Proceeds, at its option:
(1)    to repay (w) Indebtedness and other Obligations under a Credit Facility, (x) any Indebtedness that was secured by the assets sold in such Asset Sale, (y) other
pari passu
Indebtedness (
provided
that the Issuer shall also equally and ratably reduce Indebtedness under the Notes by making an offer, in accordance with the procedures set forth below for an Asset Sale, to all Holders to purchase at a purchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount thereof,
plus
accrued and unpaid interest on the
pro rata
principal amount of Notes), or (z) Indebtedness of a Restricted Subsidiary that is not a Guarantor, in each case other than Indebtedness owed to the Issuer or an Affiliate of the Issuer;
(2)    to acquire all or substantially all of the assets of, or any Capital Stock of, another Permitted Business;
(3)    to make a capital expenditure; or
(4)    to acquire other assets that are not classified as current assets under GAAP and that are used or useful in a Permitted Business; or
(b)    enter into a binding commitment to apply the Net Proceeds pursuant to clauses (a) (2), (3) or (4) above,
provided
that such binding commitment shall be treated as a permitted application of the Net Proceeds from the date of such commitment until the earlier of (x) the date on which such acquisition or expenditure is consummated, and (y) the 180th day following the expiration of the aforementioned 450-day period.
Pending the final application of any Net Proceeds, the Issuer may temporarily reduce revolving credit borrowings or otherwise invest the Net Proceeds in any manner that is not prohibited by this Indenture.
Any Net Proceeds from Asset Sales that are not applied or invested as provided in the second paragraph of this Section 4.08 will constitute 
Excess Proceeds
. When the aggregate amount of Excess Proceeds exceeds $750 million, within ten (10) Business Days thereof, the Issuer will make an offer to all holders of Notes (an 
Asset Sale Offer
) and all holders of other Indebtedness that is
pari passu
with the Notes containing provisions similar to those set forth in this Indenture with respect to offers to purchase or redeem with the proceeds of sales of assets to purchase the maximum principal amount of Notes and such other
pari passu
Indebtedness that may be purchased out of the Excess Proceeds. The offer price in any Asset Sale Offer will be equal to 100% of the principal amount
plus
accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the date of purchase and will be payable in cash. If any Excess Proceeds remain after consummation
of an Asset Sale Offer, the Issuer may use those Excess Proceeds for any purpose not otherwise prohibited by this Indenture. If the aggregate principal amount of Notes and other
pari passu
Indebtedness tendered into such Asset Sale Offer exceeds the amount of Excess Proceeds, the Trustee will select the Notes and such other
pari passu
Indebtedness to be purchased on a
pro rata
basis. Upon completion of each Asset Sale Offer, the amount of Excess Proceeds will be reset at zero.
The Issuer will comply with the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the Exchange Act and any other securities laws and regulations thereunder to the extent those laws and regulations are applicable in connection with each repurchase of Notes pursuant to an Asset Sale Offer. To the extent that the provisions of any securities laws or regulations conflict with the Asset Sale provisions of this Indenture, the Issuer will comply with the applicable securities laws and regulations and will not be deemed to have breached its obligations under the Asset Sale provisions of this Indenture by virtue of such compliance.
Not later than the date upon which written notice of an Asset Sale Offer is delivered to the Trustee as provided above, the Issuer shall deliver to the Trustee an Officers Certificate as to (i) the amount of the Excess Proceeds, (ii) the allocation of the Net Proceeds from the Asset Sales pursuant to which such Asset Sale Offer is being made and (iii) the compliance of such allocation with the provisions of Section 4.08. Upon the expiration of the period for which the Asset Sale Offer remains open (the 
Offer Period
), the Issuer shall deliver to the Trustee for cancellation the Notes or portions thereof that have been properly tendered to and are to be accepted by the Issuer. The Trustee (or a Paying Agent, if not the Trustee) shall, on the date of purchase, mail or deliver payment to each tendering Holder in the amount of the purchase price. In the event that the Excess Proceeds delivered by the Issuer to the Trustee is greater than the purchase price of the Notes tendered, the Trustee shall deliver the excess to the Issuer immediately after the expiration of the Offer Period for application in accordance with this Section 4.08.
Holders electing to have a Note purchased shall be required to surrender the Note, with the form entitled Option of Holder to Elect Purchase attached to the Note duly completed, to the Issuer at the address specified in the notice at least three Business Days prior to the purchase date. Holders shall be entitled to withdraw their election if the Trustee or the Issuer receives not later than one Business Day prior to the purchase date, a telegram, telex, facsimile transmission or letter setting forth the name of the Holder, the principal amount of the Note which was delivered by the Holder for purchase and a statement that such Holder is withdrawing his election to have such Note purchased. If at the end of the Offer Period more Notes are tendered pursuant to an Asset Sale Offer than the Issuer is required to purchase, selection of such Notes for purchase shall be made by the Trustee in compliance with the requirements of the principal national securities exchange, if any, on which such Notes are listed, or if such Notes are not so listed, on a
pro
rata
basis, by lot or by such other method as the Trustee shall deem fair and appropriate (and in such manner as complies with applicable legal requirements);
provided
that no Notes of $1,000 or less shall be purchased in part.
-
56
-
Notices of an Asset Sale Offer shall be mailed by first class mail, postage prepaid, at least 30 but not more than 60 days before the purchase date to each Holder of Notes at such Holders registered address. If any Note is to be purchased in part only, any notice of purchase that relates to such Note shall state the portion of the principal amount thereof that is to be purchased.
A new Note in principal amount equal to the unpurchased portion of any Note purchased in part shall be issued in the name of the Holder thereof upon cancellation of the original Note. On and after the purchase date, unless the Issuer defaults in payment of the purchase price, interest shall cease to accrue on Notes or portions thereof purchased.
(a)
    
The Issuer will not, and will not permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to, make any payment to, or sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of its properties or assets to, or purchase any property or assets from, or enter into or make or amend any transaction, contract, agreement, understanding, loan, advance or guarantee with, or for the benefit of, any Affiliate of the Issuer (each, an 
Affiliate Transaction
), involving aggregate consideration in excess of $20.0 million, unless:
(1)
    
the Affiliate Transaction is on terms that are not materially less favorable to the Issuer or the relevant Restricted Subsidiary than those that would have been obtained in a comparable transaction by the Issuer or such Restricted Subsidiary with an unrelated Person; and
(2)
    
the Issuer delivers to the Trustee with respect to any Affiliate Transaction or series of related Affiliate Transactions involving aggregate consideration in excess of $100 million, (x) a resolution of the Board of Directors of the Issuer certifying that such Affiliate Transaction complies with this covenant and that such Affiliate Transaction has been approved by a majority of the disinterested members, if any, of the Board of Directors of the Issuer or (y) an opinion as to the fairness to the Issuer or such Restricted Subsidiary of such Affiliate Transaction from a financial point of view issued by an accounting, appraisal or investment banking firm of national standing.
(b)
    
The following items will not be deemed to be Affiliate Transactions and, therefore, will not be subject to the provisions of Section 4.09(a) hereof:
(1)
    
any employment agreement, employee benefit plan, officer or director indemnification agreement or any similar arrangement entered into by the Issuer or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries in the ordinary course of business or consistent with past practice and payments pursuant thereto;
(2)
    
transactions (including a merger) between or among the Issuer and/or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries or any entity that becomes a Restricted Subsidiary as a result of such transaction;
-
57
-
(3)
    
transactions with a Person (other than an Unrestricted Subsidiary of the Issuer) that is an Affiliate of the Issuer solely because the Issuer owns, directly or through a Restricted Subsidiary, an Equity Interest in, or controls, such Person;
(4)
    
payment of fees to, and indemnity provided on behalf of, officers, directors, employees or consultants of the Issuer or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries;
(5)
    
any issuance of securities, or other payments, awards or grants in cash, securities or otherwise pursuant to, or the funding of, employment arrangements, equity incentive awards, equity incentive plans and the granting and performance of registration rights, approved by or pursuant to authority delegated by the Board of Directors of the Issuer or its Restricted Subsidiaries;
(6)
    
Restricted Payments and Investments permitted under this Indenture;
(7)
    
loans or advances (or cancellation of loans or advances) to employees or consultants in the ordinary course of business or consistent with past practice;
(8)
    
any transaction effected as part of a Qualified Receivables Financing;
(9)
    
the existence of, or the performance by the Issuer or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries of its obligations under the terms of, any acquisition agreements or members or stockholders agreement or partnership agreement or limited liability company agreement or related documents (including any registration rights agreement or purchase agreement related thereto) to which it is a party as of the date of this Indenture and any amendment thereto or similar agreements which it may enter into thereafter;
provided
,
however
, that the existence of, or the performance by the Issuer or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries of its obligations under, any future amendment to any such existing agreement or under any similar agreement entered into after the date of this Indenture shall only be permitted by this clause (9) to the extent that the terms of any such existing agreement, together with all amendments thereto, taken as a whole, or such new agreement are not otherwise more disadvantageous to the Holders of the Notes taken as a whole than the original agreement as in effect on the date of this Indenture, as determined in good faith by the Issuer;
(10)
    
transactions with Unrestricted Subsidiaries, customers, clients, suppliers, contractors, joint venture partners or purchasers or sellers of goods or services, or lessors or lessees of property, in each case in the ordinary course of business (including, without limitation, pursuant to joint venture agreements) and otherwise in compliance with the terms of this Indenture which are, in the aggregate (taking into account all the costs and benefits associated with such transactions), materially no less favorable to the Issuer or its Restricted Subsidiaries than those that would have been obtained in a comparable transaction by the Issuer or such Restricted Subsidiary with an unrelated Person as determined in good faith by the Issuer;
(11)
    
(x) guarantees of performance by the Issuer and its Restricted Subsidiaries of Unrestricted Subsidiaries in the ordinary course of business, except for guarantees of Indebtedness in respect of borrowed money, and (y) pledges of Equity Interests of Unrestricted Subsidiaries for the benefit of lenders of Unrestricted Subsidiaries;
(12)
    
if such Affiliate Transaction is with a Person in its capacity as a holder of Indebtedness or Capital Stock of the Issuer or any Restricted Subsidiary where such Person is treated no more favorably than the holders of Indebtedness or Capital Stock of the Issuer or any Restricted Subsidiary;
(13)
    
existing Indebtedness and any other obligations or transactions effected pursuant to agreements in effect on the Issue Date and any amendment, modification or replacement of such agreement (so long as such amendment or replacement is not materially more disadvantageous to the Holders of the Notes, taken as a whole);
(14)
    
payments to the Equity Investors made for any financial advisory, financing or other investment banking activities, including without limitation, in connection with acquisitions or divestitures, which payments are approved by a majority of the Board of Directors;
(15)    transactions pursuant to any Permitted Gas Properties Transactions;
(16)    transactions otherwise permitted under this Indenture; and
(17)    any transaction in which the Issuer or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries, as the case may be, delivers to the trustee an opinion as to the fairness to the Issuer or such Restricted Subsidiary of such Affiliate Transaction from a financial point of view issued by an accounting, appraisal or investment banking firm of national standing.
The Issuer will not, and will not permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to, create, incur, assume or otherwise cause or suffer to exist or become effective any Lien of any kind (other than Permitted Liens) upon any of their property or assets, now owned or hereafter acquired, securing Indebtedness of the Issuer or the Guarantors unless all payments due under this Indenture and the Notes (or a Guarantee in the case of Liens of a Guarantor) are secured on an equal and ratable basis with the obligations so secured until such time as such obligations are no longer secured by a Lien.
(a)
    
Upon the occurrence of a Change of Control, the Issuer will make an offer (a 
Change of Control Offer
) to each Holder of the Notes to repurchase all or any part (equal to $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess of $2,000) of that Holders Notes at a purchase price in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of Notes repurchased
plus
accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on the Notes repurchased to, but not including, the date of purchase, subject to the rights of Holders on the relevant record date to receive interest due on the relevant
-
59
-
interest payment date (the 
Change of Control Payment
). Within 30 days following any Change of Control, except to the extent that the Issuer has exercised its right to redeem the Notes in accordance with Article 3 of this Indenture the Issuer will mail a notice to each Holder describing the transaction or transactions that constitute the Change of Control and stating:
(1)
    
that the Change of Control Offer is being made pursuant to this Section 4.11 and that all Notes properly tendered pursuant to such Change of Control Offer will be accepted for payment;
(2)
    
the purchase price and the purchase date, which shall be no earlier than 30 days and no later than 60 days from the date such notice is mailed (the 
Change of Control
Payment Date
);
(3)
    
that any Note not tendered will continue to accrue interest;
(4)
    
that, unless the Issuer defaults in the payment of the Change of Control Payment, all Notes accepted for payment pursuant to the Change of Control Offer will cease to accrue interest after the Change of Control Payment Date;
(5)
    
that Holders electing to have any Notes purchased pursuant to a Change of Control Offer will be required to surrender the Notes, with the form entitled Option of Holder to Elect Purchase attached to the Notes completed, or transfer by book-entry transfer, to the Paying Agent at the address specified in the notice prior to the close of business on the third Business Day preceding the Change of Control Payment Date;
(6)
    
that Holders will be entitled to withdraw their election if the Paying Agent receives, not later than the close of business on the second Business Day preceding the Change of Control Payment Date, a telegram, telex, facsimile transmission or letter setting forth the name of the Holder, the principal amount of Notes delivered for purchase, and a statement that such Holder is withdrawing his election to have the Notes purchased; and
(7)
    
that Holders whose Notes are being purchased only in part will be issued new Notes equal in principal amount to the unpurchased portion of the Notes surrendered, which unpurchased portion must be equal to $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess of $2,000.
The Issuer will comply with the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the Exchange Act and any other securities laws and regulations thereunder to the extent those laws and regulations are applicable in connection with the repurchase of the Notes as a result of a Change in Control. To the extent that the provisions of any securities laws or regulations conflict with the provisions of this Section 4.11 hereof, the Issuer will comply with the applicable securities laws and regulations and will not be deemed to have breached their obligations under this Section 4.11 by virtue of such compliance.
(b)
    
On the Change of Control Payment Date, the Issuer will, to the extent lawful:
(1)
    
accept for payment all Notes or portions of Notes properly tendered pursuant to the Change of Control Offer;
(2)
    
deposit with the Paying Agent an amount equal to the Change of Control Payment in respect of all Notes or portions of Notes properly tendered; and
(3)
    
deliver or cause to be delivered to the Trustee the Notes properly accepted together with an Officers Certificate stating the aggregate principal amount of Notes or portions of Notes being purchased by the Issuer.
The Paying Agent will promptly mail to each Holder of Notes properly tendered the Change of Control Payment for such Notes, and the Trustee will promptly authenticate and mail (or cause to be transferred by book entry) to each Holder a new Note equal in principal amount to any unpurchased portion of the Notes surrendered, if any;
provided
that each new Note will be in a principal amount of $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess of $2,000. The Issuer will publicly announce the results of the Change of Control Offer on or as soon as reasonably practicable after the Change of Control Payment Date.
(c)
    
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Section 4.11, the Issuer will not be required to make a Change of Control Offer upon a Change of Control if (1) a third party makes the Change of Control Offer in the manner, at the times and otherwise in compliance with the requirements set forth in this Section 4.11 and purchases all Notes properly tendered and not withdrawn under the Change of Control Offer, or (2) notice of redemption has been given pursuant to Section 3.07 hereof, unless and until there is a default in payment of the applicable redemption price.
The Issuer will not, and will not permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to, directly or indirectly, pay or cause to be paid any consideration to or for the benefit of any Holder of Notes for or as an inducement to any consent, waiver or amendment of any of the terms or provisions of this Indenture or the Notes unless such consideration is offered to be paid and is paid to all Holders of the Notes that consent, waive or agree to amend in the time frame set forth in the solicitation documents relating to such consent, waiver or agreement.
If the Issuer or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries acquires or creates another Wholly Owned Domestic Subsidiary after the date of this Indenture, then that newly acquired or created Wholly Owned Domestic Subsidiary, if such Subsidiary guarantees any Indebtedness of the Issuer (unless such Subsidiary is a Receivables Subsidiary or an Unrestricted Subsidiary) will become a Guarantor and execute a supplemental indenture and deliver an opinion of counsel satisfactory to the Trustee within 30 days of the date on which it was acquired or created;
provided
that any Domestic Subsidiary that constitutes an Immaterial Subsidiary need not
-
61
-
become a Guarantor until such time as it (i) ceases to be an Immaterial Subsidiary or (ii) guarantees a Credit Facility.
The Board of Directors of the Issuer may designate any Restricted Subsidiary to be an Unrestricted Subsidiary if that designation would not cause a Default. If a Restricted Subsidiary is designated as an Unrestricted Subsidiary (other than a Subsidiary specified in clause (4) of the definition of Unrestricted Subsidiary), the aggregate net book value of all outstanding Investments owned by the Issuer and its Restricted Subsidiaries in the Subsidiary designated as Unrestricted will be deemed to be an Investment made as of the time of the designation and will reduce the amount available for Restricted Payments under Section 4.05 hereof or under one or more clauses of the definition of Permitted Investments, as determined by the Issuer. That designation will only be permitted if the Investment would be permitted at that time and if the Restricted Subsidiary otherwise meets the definition of an Unrestricted Subsidiary. The Board of Directors of the Issuer may redesignate any Unrestricted Subsidiary to be a Restricted Subsidiary if that redesignation would not cause a Default.
Any designation of a Subsidiary of the Issuer as an Unrestricted Subsidiary (other than a Subsidiary specified in clause (4) of the definition of Unrestricted Subsidiary) will be evidenced to the Trustee by filing with the Trustee a certified copy of a resolution of the Board of Directors giving effect to such designation and an Officers Certificate certifying that such designation complied with the preceding conditions and was permitted by Section 4.05 hereof. If, at any time, any Unrestricted Subsidiary would fail to meet the preceding requirements as an Unrestricted Subsidiary, it will thereafter cease to be an Unrestricted Subsidiary for purposes of this Indenture and any Indebtedness of such Subsidiary will be deemed to be incurred by a Restricted Subsidiary of the Issuer as of such date and, if such Indebtedness is not permitted to be incurred as of such date under Section 4.07, the Issuer will be in default of such covenant. The Board of Directors of the Issuer may at any time designate any Unrestricted Subsidiary to be a Restricted Subsidiary of the Issuer;
provided
that such designation will be deemed to be an incurrence of Indebtedness by a Restricted Subsidiary of the Issuer of any outstanding Indebtedness of such Unrestricted Subsidiary, and such designation will only be permitted if (1) (x) the Issuer could incur such Indebtedness pursuant to the Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio test described in Section 4.07(a), or (y) the Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio for the Issuer and its Restricted Subsidiaries would be greater than such ratio for the Issuer and its Restricted Subsidiaries immediately prior to such designation, in each case on a pro forma basis taking into account such designation; and (2) no Default or Event of Default would be in existence following such designation.
If on any date following the date of this Indenture, the Issuer certifies in a notice to the Trustee that: (i) a Ratings Event has occurred and (ii) at the time of the giving of such notice, no Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, then, beginning on the day such notice is given, the covenants contained in Sections 4.05, 4.06, 4.07, 4.08, 4.09, 4.14 and 5.01(4) hereof shall terminate.
ARTICLE 5
SUCCESSORS
The Issuer will not, directly or indirectly: (i) consolidate or merge with or into another Person; or (ii) sell, assign, transfer, convey or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of the Issuers properties or assets (determined on a consolidated basis for the Issuer and its Restricted Subsidiaries) in one or more related transactions to another Person, unless:
(1)
    
either:
(A)
    
the Issuer is the surviving entity; or
(B)
    
the Person formed by or surviving any such consolidation or merger (if other than the Issuer) or to which such sale, assignment, transfer, conveyance or other disposition has been made is a corporation, partnership or limited liability company organized or existing under the laws of the United States, any state of the United States or the District of Columbia;
(2)
    
the Person formed by or surviving any such consolidation or merger (if other than the Issuer) or the Person to which such sale, assignment, transfer, conveyance or other disposition has been made assumes all the obligations of the Issuer, as the case may be, under the Notes and this Indenture pursuant to agreements reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee;
(3)
    
immediately after such transaction, no Default or Event of Default exists; and
(4)
    
(a) the Issuer or the Person formed by or surviving any such consolidation or merger (if other than the Issuer), or to which such sale, assignment, transfer, conveyance or other disposition has been made would, on the date of such transaction after giving pro forma effect thereto and any related financing transactions as if the same had occurred at the beginning of the applicable four-quarter period be permitted to incur at least $1.00 of additional Indebtedness pursuant to the Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio test set forth in Section 4.07(a) hereof; or
(b)    the Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio for the successor entity and its Restricted Subsidiaries would not be less than such ratio for the Issuer and its Restricted Subsidiaries immediately prior to such transaction.
In addition, the Issuer will not, directly or indirectly, lease all or substantially all of the properties and assets of it and its Restricted Subsidiaries taken as a whole, in one or more related transactions, to any other Person.
This Section 5.01 will not apply to:
(1)    a merger of the Issuer with an Affiliate solely for the purpose of reincorporating the Issuer in another jurisdiction; or
(2)    any consolidation or merger, or any sale, assignment, transfer, conveyance, lease or other disposition of assets between or among the Issuer and its Restricted Subsidiaries.
Upon any consolidation or merger, or any sale, assignment, transfer, lease, conveyance or other disposition of all or substantially all of the properties or assets of the Issuer in a transaction that is subject to, and that complies with the provisions of, Section 5.01 hereof, the successor Person formed by such consolidation or into or with which the Issuer is merged or to which such sale, assignment, transfer, lease, conveyance or other disposition is made shall succeed to, and be substituted for (so that from and after the date of such consolidation, merger, sale, assignment, transfer, lease, conveyance or other disposition, the provisions of this Indenture referring to the Issuer shall refer instead to the successor Person and not to the Issuer), and may exercise every right and power of the Issuer, under this Indenture with the same effect as if such successor Person had been named as the Issuer herein;
provided
,
however
, that the predecessor shall not be relieved from the obligation to pay the principal of and interest on the Notes except in the case of a sale of all or substantially all of the Issuers properties or assets in a transaction that is subject to, and that complies with the provisions of, Section 5.01 hereof.
ARTICLE 6
DEFAULTS AND REMEDIES
Each of the following is an 
Event of Default
:
(1)
    
default for 30 days in the payment when due of interest on the Notes;
(2)
    
default in the payment when due (at maturity, upon redemption or otherwise) of the principal of, or premium, if any, on, the Notes;
(3)
    
failure by the Issuer or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to comply with the provisions of Section 5.01 hereof;
(4)
    
failure by the Issuer or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries for 60 days (90 days with respect to Section 4.03) after notice to the Issuer by the Trustee or the holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Notes then outstanding voting as a single class to comply with any of the other agreements in this Indenture;
(5)
    
default under any mortgage, indenture or instrument under which there may be issued or by which there may be secured or evidenced any Indebtedness for money borrowed by the Issuer or any of its Significant Subsidiaries or group of
Restricted Subsidiaries that taken as a whole would constitute a Significant Subsidiary (or the payment of which is guaranteed by the Issuer or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries), whether such Indebtedness or Guarantee now exists, or is created after the date of this Indenture (but excluding Indebtedness owing to the Issuer or a Restricted Subsidiary), if that default:
(D)
    
is caused by a failure to pay principal on such Indebtedness prior to the expiration of the grace period provided in such Indebtedness following the Stated Maturity of such Indebtedness (a 
Payment Default
); or
(E)
    
results in the acceleration of such Indebtedness prior to its Stated Maturity,
and, in each case, the principal amount of any such Indebtedness, together with the principal amount of any other such Indebtedness under which there has been a Payment Default or the maturity of which has been so accelerated, aggregates $200 million or more;
(6)
    
failure by the Issuer or any of its Significant Subsidiaries, or group of Restricted Subsidiaries that taken as a whole would constitute a Significant Subsidiary, to pay final and non-appealable judgments entered by a court or courts of competent jurisdiction aggregating in excess of $200 million (net of any amounts which are covered by insurance or bonded), which judgments are not paid, waived, satisfied, discharged or stayed for a period of 60 days;
(7)
    
the Issuer or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries that is a Significant Subsidiary or any group of Restricted Subsidiaries that, taken together, would constitute a Significant Subsidiary pursuant to or within the meaning of Bankruptcy Law:
(A)
    
commences a voluntary case,
(B)
    
consents to the entry of an order for relief against it in an involuntary case,
(C)
    
consents to the appointment of a custodian of it or for all or substantially all of its property, or
(D)
    
makes a general assignment for the benefit of its creditors.
(8)
    
a court of competent jurisdiction enters an order or decree under any Bankruptcy Law that:
(A)
    
is for relief against the Issuer or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries that is a Significant Subsidiary or any group of Restricted Subsidiaries that, taken together, would constitute a Significant Subsidiary in an involuntary case;
(B)
    
appoints a custodian of the Issuer or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries that is a Significant Subsidiary or any group of Restricted Subsidiaries that, taken together, would constitute a Significant Subsidiary or for all or substantially all of the property of the Issuer or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries that is a Significant Subsidiary or any group of Restricted Subsidiaries that, taken together, would constitute a Significant Subsidiary; or
(C)
    
orders the liquidation of the Issuer or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries that is a Significant Subsidiary or any group of Restricted Subsidiaries that, taken together, would constitute a Significant Subsidiary;
and the order or decree remains unstayed and in effect for 60 consecutive days; and
(9)
    
except as permitted by this Indenture, any Note Guarantee of any Significant Subsidiary or group of Restricted Subsidiaries that taken as a whole would constitute a Significant Subsidiary is held in any final and nonappealable judgment or decree to be unenforceable or invalid or ceases for any reason to be in full force and effect (other than in accordance with the terms of such Note Guarantee and this Indenture), or any Guarantor, or any Person acting on behalf of any Guarantor, denies or disaffirms its obligations under its Note Guarantee and such Default continues for 10 days after receipt of the notice pursuant to Section 6.02.
In the case of an Event of Default specified in clause (7) or (8) of Section 6.01 hereof, with respect to the Issuer, any Restricted Subsidiary of the Issuer that is a Significant Subsidiary or any group of Restricted Subsidiaries of the Issuer that, taken as a whole, would constitute a Significant Subsidiary, all outstanding Notes will become due and payable immediately without further action or notice. If any other Event of Default occurs and is continuing, the Trustee or the Holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of the then outstanding Notes may declare all the Notes to be due and payable immediately.
Upon any such declaration, the Notes shall become due and payable immediately.
The Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the then outstanding Notes by written notice to the Trustee may, on behalf of all of the Holders, rescind an acceleration and its consequences, if the rescission would not conflict with any judgment or decree and if all existing Events of Default (except nonpayment of principal, interest or premium or that has become due solely because of the acceleration) have been cured or waived.
In the event of any Event of Default specified in clause (5) of Section 6.01, such Event of Default and all consequences thereof (excluding, however, any resulting payment default) will be annulled, waived and rescinded, automatically and without any action by the Trustee or the Holders of the Notes, if within 20 days after such Event of Default arose the Issuer delivers an Officers Certificate to the Trustee stating that (x) the Indebtedness or Guarantee that is the basis for such Event of Default has been discharged or (y) the Holders thereof have
-
66
-
rescinded or waived the acceleration, notice or action (as the case may be) giving rise to such Event of Default or (z) the default that is the basis for such Event of Default has been cured, it being understood that in no event shall an acceleration of the principal amount of the Notes as described above be annulled, waived or rescinded upon the happening of any such events.
If an Event of Default occurs and is continuing, the Trustee may pursue any available remedy to collect the payment of principal, premium and interest on the Notes or to enforce the performance of any provision of the Notes or this Indenture.
The Trustee may maintain a proceeding even if it does not possess any of the Notes or does not produce any of them in the proceeding. A delay or omission by the Trustee or any Holder of a Note in exercising any right or remedy accruing upon an Event of Default shall not impair the right or remedy or constitute a waiver of or acquiescence in the Event of Default. All remedies are cumulative to the extent permitted by law.
Holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the then outstanding Notes by notice to the Trustee may on behalf of the Holders of all of the Notes rescind an acceleration or waive an existing Default or Event of Default and its consequences hereunder, except a continuing Default or Event of Default in the payment of the principal of, premium or interest on, the Notes (including in connection with an offer to purchase). Upon any such rescission or waiver, such Default shall cease to exist, and any Event of Default arising therefrom shall be deemed to have been cured for every purpose of this Indenture; but no such waiver shall extend to any subsequent or other Default or impair any right consequent thereon.
Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the then outstanding Notes may direct the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for exercising any remedy available to the Trustee or exercising any trust or power conferred on it. However, the Trustee may refuse to follow any direction that conflicts with law or this Indenture that the Trustee determines may be unduly prejudicial to the rights of other Holders of Notes or that may involve the Trustee in personal liability.
A Holder may pursue a remedy with respect to this Indenture or the Notes only if:
(33)
    
such Holder has previously given the Trustee written notice that an Event of Default is continuing;
(34)
    
Holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of the then outstanding Notes make a written request to the Trustee to pursue the remedy;
(35)
    
such Holder or Holders offer and, if requested, provide to the Trustee security or indemnity reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee against any loss, liability or expense;
(36)
    
the Trustee does not comply with the request within 60 days after receipt of the request and the offer of security or indemnity; and
(37)
    
during such 60-day period, Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the then outstanding Notes do not give the Trustee a direction inconsistent with such request.
A Holder of a Note may not use this Indenture to prejudice the rights of another Holder of a Note or to obtain a preference or priority over another Holder of a Note.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Indenture, the right of any Holder of a Note to receive payment of principal, premium and interest on the Note, on or after the respective due dates expressed in the Note (including in connection with an offer to purchase), or to bring suit for the enforcement of any such payment on or after such respective dates, shall not be impaired or affected without the consent of such Holder.
If an Event of Default specified in Section 6.01(1) or (2) hereof occurs and is continuing, the Trustee is authorized to recover judgment in its own name and as trustee of an express trust against the Issuer for the whole amount of principal of, premium and interest remaining unpaid on, the Notes and interest on overdue principal and, to the extent lawful, interest and such further amount as shall be sufficient to cover the costs and expenses of collection, including the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel.
The Trustee is authorized to file such proofs of claim and other papers or documents as may be necessary or advisable in order to have the claims of the Trustee (including any claim for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel) and the Holders of the Notes allowed in any judicial proceedings relative to the Issuer (or any other obligor upon the Notes), its creditors or its property and shall be entitled and empowered to collect, receive and distribute any money or other property payable or deliverable on any such claims and any custodian in any such judicial proceeding is hereby authorized by each Holder to make such payments to the Trustee, and in the event that the Trustee shall consent to the making of such payments directly to the Holders, to pay to the Trustee any amount due to it for the reasonable and documented compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel, and any other amounts due the Trustee under Section 6.07 of the Base Indenture. To the extent that the payment of any such compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel, and
any other amounts due the Trustee under Section 6.07 of the Base Indenture out of the estate in any such proceeding, shall be denied for any reason, payment of the same shall be secured by a Lien on, and shall be paid out of, any and all distributions, dividends, money, securities and other properties that the Holders may be entitled to receive in such proceeding whether in liquidation or under any plan of reorganization or arrangement or otherwise. Nothing herein contained shall be deemed to authorize the Trustee to authorize or consent to or accept or adopt on behalf of any Holder any plan of reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition affecting the Notes or the rights of any Holder, or to authorize the Trustee to vote in respect of the claim of any Holder in any such proceeding.
If the Trustee collects any money pursuant to this Article 6, it shall pay out the money in the following order:
First
: to the Trustee, its agents and attorneys for amounts due under Section 6.07 of the Base Indenture, including payment of all compensation, expenses and liabilities incurred, and all advances made, by the Trustee and the costs and expenses of collection;
Second
: to Holders of Notes for amounts due and unpaid on the Notes for principal, premium and interest, ratably, without preference or priority of any kind, according to the amounts due and payable on the Notes for principal, premium and interest, respectively; and
Third
: to the Issuer or to such party as a court of competent jurisdiction shall direct in writing.
The Trustee may fix a record date and payment date for any payment to Holders of Notes pursuant to this Section 6.10.
In any suit for the enforcement of any right or remedy under this Indenture or in any suit against the Trustee for any action taken or omitted by it as a Trustee, a court in its discretion may require the filing by any party litigant in the suit of an undertaking to pay the costs of the suit, and the court in its discretion may assess reasonable costs, including reasonable and documented attorneys fees and expenses against any party litigant in the suit, having due regard to the merits and good faith of the claims or defenses made by the party litigant. This Section 6.11 does not apply to a suit by the Trustee, a suit by a Holder of a Note pursuant to Section 6.07 hereof, or a suit by Holders of more than 10% in aggregate principal amount of the then outstanding Notes.
ARTICLE 7
LEGAL DEFEASANCE AND COVENANT DEFEASANCE
The Issuer may at any time elect to have either Section 7.02 or 7.03 hereof be applied to all outstanding Notes and Note Guarantees upon compliance with the conditions set forth below in this Article 7.
Upon the Issuers exercise under Section 7.01 hereof of the option applicable to this Section 7.02, the Issuer and each of the Guarantors will, subject to the satisfaction of the conditions set forth in Section 7.04 hereof, be deemed to have been discharged from their obligations with respect to all outstanding Notes (including the Note Guarantees) on the date the conditions set forth below are satisfied (hereinafter, 
Legal Defeasance
). For this purpose, Legal Defeasance means that the Issuer and the Guarantors will be deemed to have paid and discharged the entire Indebtedness represented by the outstanding Notes (including the Note Guarantees), which will thereafter be deemed to be outstanding only for the purposes of Section 7.05 hereof and the other Sections of this Indenture referred to in clauses (1) and (2) below, and to have satisfied all their other obligations under such Notes, the Note Guarantees and this Indenture (and the Trustee, on demand of and at the expense of the Issuer, shall execute proper instruments acknowledging the same), except for the following provisions which will survive until otherwise terminated or discharged hereunder:
(38)
    
the rights of Holders of outstanding Notes to receive payments in respect of the principal of, or interest or premium on, such Notes when such payments are due from the trust referred to in Section 7.04 hereof;
(39)
    
the Issuers obligations with respect to such Notes under Article 2 hereof and Section 4.02 hereof;
(40)
    
the rights, powers, trusts, duties and immunities of the Trustee hereunder and the Issuers and the Guarantors obligations in connection therewith; and
(41)
    
this Article 7.
Subject to compliance with this Article 7, the Issuer may exercise its option under this Section 7.02 notwithstanding the prior exercise of its option under Section 7.03 hereof.
Upon the Issuers exercise under Section 7.01 hereof of the option applicable to this Section 7.03, the Issuer and each of the Guarantors will, subject to the satisfaction of the conditions set forth in Section 7.04 hereof, be released from each of their obligations under the covenants contained in Sections 4.03, 4.05, 4.06, 4.07, 4.08, 4.09, 4.10, 4.11, 4.12, 4.13, 4.14 and 4.15 and clauses (3) and (4) of Section 5.01 hereof with respect to the outstanding Notes on and after the date the conditions set forth in Section 7.04 hereof are satisfied (hereinafter, 
Covenant Defeasance
), and the Notes will thereafter be deemed not outstanding for the purposes of any direction, waiver, consent or declaration or act of Holders (and the consequences of any thereof) in connection with such covenants, but will continue to be deemed outstanding for all other purposes hereunder (it being understood that such Notes will not be deemed outstanding for
accounting purposes). For this purpose, Covenant Defeasance means that, with respect to the outstanding Notes and Note Guarantees, the Issuer and the Guarantors may omit to comply with and will have no liability in respect of any term, condition or limitation set forth in any such covenant, whether directly or indirectly, by reason of any reference elsewhere herein to any such covenant or by reason of any reference in any such covenant to any other provision herein or in any other document and such omission to comply will not constitute a Default or an Event of Default under Section 6.01 hereof, but, except as specified above, the remainder of this Indenture and such Notes and Note Guarantees will be unaffected thereby. In addition, upon the Issuers exercise under Section 7.01 hereof of the option applicable to this Section 7.03, subject to the satisfaction of the conditions set forth in Section 7.04 hereof, Sections 6.01(3) through 6.01(6) hereof will not constitute Events of Default.
In order to exercise either Legal Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance under either Section 7.02 or 7.03 hereof:
(42)
    
the Issuer must irrevocably deposit with the Trustee, in trust, for the benefit of the Holders, cash in U.S. dollars, non-callable Government Securities, or a combination thereof, in such amounts as will be sufficient, in the opinion of a nationally recognized investment bank, appraisal firm, or firm of independent public accountants, to pay the principal of, premium and interest on, the outstanding Notes on the stated date for payment thereof or on the applicable redemption date, as the case may be, and the Issuer must specify whether the Notes are being defeased to such stated date for payment or to a particular redemption date;
(43)
    
in the case of an election under Section 7.02 hereof, the Issuer must deliver to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel confirming that:
(A)
    
the Issuer has received from, or there has been published by, the Internal Revenue Service a ruling; or
(B)
    
since the date of this Indenture, there has been a change in the applicable federal income tax law,
in either case to the effect that, and based thereon such Opinion of Counsel shall confirm that, the Holders of the outstanding Notes will not recognize income, gain or loss for federal income tax purposes as a result of such Legal Defeasance and will be subject to federal income tax on the same amounts, in the same manner and at the same times as would have been the case if such Legal Defeasance had not occurred;
(44)
    
in the case of an election under Section 7.03 hereof, the Issuer must deliver to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel confirming that the Holders of the outstanding Notes will not recognize income, gain or loss for federal income tax purposes as a result of such Covenant Defeasance and will be subject to federal
income tax on the same amounts, in the same manner and at the same times as would have been the case if such Covenant Defeasance had not occurred;
(45)
    
no Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing on the date of such deposit (other than a Default or Event of Default resulting from the borrowing of funds to be applied to such deposit and the grant of any Lien securing such borrowing);
(46)
    
such Legal Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance will not result in a breach or violation of, or constitute a default under, any material agreement or instrument (other than this Indenture) to which the Issuer or any of its Subsidiaries is a party or by which the Issuer or any of its Subsidiaries is bound;
(47)
    
the Issuer must deliver to the Trustee an Officers Certificate stating that the deposit was not made by the Issuer with the intent of preferring the Holders of Notes over the other creditors of the Issuer with the intent of defeating, hindering, delaying or defrauding any creditors of the Issuer or others; and
(48)
    
the Issuer must deliver to the Trustee an Officers Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each stating that all conditions precedent relating to the Legal Defeasance or the Covenant Defeasance have been complied with.
Subject to Section 7.06 hereof, all money and non-callable Government Securities (including the proceeds thereof) deposited with the Trustee (or other qualifying trustee, collectively for purposes of this Section 7.05, the 
Trustee
) pursuant to Section 7.04 hereof in respect of the outstanding Notes will be held in trust and applied by the Trustee, in accordance with the provisions of such Notes and this Indenture, to the payment, either directly or through any Paying Agent (including the Issuer acting as Paying Agent) as the Trustee may determine, to the Holders of such Notes of all sums due and to become due thereon in respect of principal, premium and interest, but such money need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law.
The Issuer will pay and indemnify the Trustee against any tax, fee or other charge imposed on or assessed against the cash or non-callable Government Securities deposited pursuant to Section 7.04 hereof or the principal and interest received in respect thereof other than any such tax, fee or other charge which by law is for the account of the Holders of the outstanding Notes.
Notwithstanding anything in this Article 7 to the contrary, the Trustee will deliver or pay to the Issuer from time to time upon the request of the Issuer any money or non-callable Government Securities held by it as provided in Section 7.04 hereof which, in the opinion of a nationally recognized firm of independent public accountants expressed in a written certification thereof delivered to the Trustee (which may be the opinion delivered under Section 7.04(1)
hereof), are in excess of the amount thereof that would then be required to be deposited to effect an equivalent Legal Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance.
Any money deposited with the Trustee or any Paying Agent, or then held by the Issuer, in trust for the payment of the principal of, premium or interest on, any Note and remaining unclaimed for two years after such principal, premium or interest has become due and payable shall be paid to the Issuer on its request or (if then held by the Issuer) will be discharged from such trust; and the Holder of such Note will thereafter be permitted to look only to the Issuer for payment thereof, and all liability of the Trustee or such Paying Agent with respect to such trust money, and all liability of the Issuer as trustee thereof, will thereupon cease;
provided
,
however
, that the Trustee or such Paying Agent, before being required to make any such repayment, may at the expense of the Issuer causes to be published once, in
The New York Times
and
The Wall Street Journal
(national edition), notice that such money remains unclaimed and that, after a date specified therein, which will not be less than 30 days from the date of such notification or publication, any unclaimed balance of such money then remaining will be repaid to the Issuer.
If the Trustee or Paying Agent is unable to apply any U.S. dollars or non-callable Government Securities in accordance with Section 7.02 or 7.03 hereof, as the case may be, by reason of any order or judgment of any court or governmental authority enjoining, restraining or otherwise prohibiting such application, then the Issuers and the Guarantors obligations under this Indenture and the Notes and the Note Guarantees will be revived and reinstated as though no deposit had occurred pursuant to Section 7.02 or 7.03 hereof until such time as the Trustee or Paying Agent is permitted to apply all such money in accordance with Section 7.02 or 7.03 hereof, as the case may be;
provided
,
however
, that, if the Issuer makes any payment of principal of, premium or interest on, any Note following the reinstatement of its obligations, the Issuer will be subrogated to the rights of the Holders of such Notes to receive such payment from the money held by the Trustee or Paying Agent.
ARTICLE 8
AMENDMENT, SUPPLEMENT AND WAIVER
Notwithstanding Section 8.02 of this Indenture, the Issuer, the Guarantors and the Trustee may amend or supplement this Indenture, the Notes and the Note Guarantees without the consent of any Holder of Note:
(49)
    
to cure any ambiguity, defect or inconsistency;
(50)
    
to provide for uncertificated Notes in addition to or in place of certificated Notes;
(51)
    
to provide for the assumption of the Issuers or a Guarantors obligations to the Holders of the Notes and Note Guarantees by a successor to the Issuer or such Guarantor pursuant to Article 5 or Article 9 hereof, and the corresponding release of the Issuers or such Guarantors obligations under this Indenture;
(52)
    
to make any change that would provide any additional rights or benefits to the Holders of the Notes or that does not adversely affect the legal rights hereunder of any Holder;
(53)
    
to comply with requirements of the SEC in order to effect or maintain the qualification of this Indenture under the TIA;
(54)
    
to conform the text of this Indenture or the Notes or the Note Guarantees to any provision of the Description of Notes section of the Prospectus Supplement, to the extent that such provision in that Description of Notes was intended to be a verbatim recitation of a provision of this Indenture, the Note Guarantees or the Notes;
(55)
    
to provide for the issuance of Additional Notes in accordance with the limitations set forth in this Indenture as of the date hereof; or
(56)
    
to allow any Guarantor to execute a supplemental indenture and/or a Note Guarantee with respect to the Notes and to release Guarantors from the Note Guarantee in accordance with the terms of this Indenture.
Upon the request of the Issuer accompanied by a resolution of its Board of Directors authorizing the execution of any such amended or supplemental indenture, and upon receipt by the Trustee of the documents described in Section 6.02 of the Base Indenture, the Trustee will join with the Issuer and the Guarantors in the execution of any amended or supplemental indenture authorized or permitted by the terms of this Indenture and to make any further appropriate agreements and stipulations that may be therein contained, but the Trustee will not be obligated to enter into such amended or supplemental indenture that affects its own rights, duties or immunities under this Indenture or otherwise.
Except as provided below in this Section 8.02, the Issuer, the Guarantors and the Trustee may amend or supplement this Indenture (including, without limitation, Sections 4.08 and 4.11 hereof), the Notes or the Note Guarantees with the consent of the Holders of at least a majority in aggregate principal amount of the then outstanding Notes voting as a single class (including, without limitation, consents obtained in connection with a tender offer or exchange offer for, or purchase of, the Notes), and, subject to Sections 6.04 and 6.07 hereof, any existing Default or Event of Default (other than a Default or Event of Default in the payment of the principal of, premium or interest on, the Notes, except a payment default resulting from an acceleration that has been rescinded) or compliance with any provision of this Indenture, the Notes or the Note Guarantees may be waived with the consent of the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the then outstanding Notes voting as a single class (including,
without limitation, consents obtained in connection with a tender offer or exchange offer for, or purchase of, the Notes).
Upon the request of the Issuer accompanied by a resolution of its Board of Directors authorizing the execution of any such amended or supplemental indenture, and upon the filing with the Trustee of evidence satisfactory to the Trustee of the consent of the Holders of Notes as aforesaid, and upon receipt by the Trustee of the documents described in Section 6.02 of the Base Indenture, the Trustee will join with the Issuer and the Guarantors in the execution of such amended or supplemental indenture unless such amended or supplemental indenture directly affects the Trustees own rights, duties or immunities under this Indenture or otherwise, in which case the Trustee may in its discretion, but will not be obligated to, enter into such amended or supplemental Indenture.
It is not be necessary for the consent of the Holders of Notes under this Section 8.02 to approve the particular form of any proposed amendment, supplement or waiver, but it is sufficient if such consent approves the substance thereof.
After an amendment, supplement or waiver under this Section 8.02 becomes effective, the Issuer will mail to the Holders of Notes affected thereby a notice briefly describing the amendment, supplement or waiver. Any failure of the Issuer to mail such notice, or any defect therein, will not, however, in any way impair or affect the validity of any such amendment, supplement or waiver. Subject to Sections 6.04 and 6.07 hereof, the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Notes then outstanding voting as a single class may waive compliance in a particular instance by the Issuer with any provision of this Indenture or the Notes or the Note Guarantees. However, without the consent of each Holder affected, an amendment, supplement or waiver under this Section 8.02 may not (with respect to any Notes held by a non-consenting Holder):
(57)
    
reduce the principal amount of Notes whose Holders must consent to an amendment, supplement or waiver;
(58)
    
reduce the principal of or extend the fixed maturity of any Note or alter the provisions with respect to the redemption of the Notes (except as provided above with respect to Sections 4.08 and 4.11 hereof);
(59)
    
reduce the rate of or extend the time for payment of interest, including default interest, on any Note;
(60)
    
waive a Default or Event of Default in the payment of principal of, or premium or interest on, the Notes (except a rescission of acceleration of the Notes by the Holders of at least a majority in aggregate principal amount of the then outstanding Notes and a waiver of the payment default that resulted from such acceleration);
(61)
    
make any Note payable in money other than that stated in the Notes;
(62)
    
make any change in the provisions of this Indenture relating to waivers of past Defaults or impair the rights of Holders of Notes to receive payments of principal of, or interest or premium on, the Notes;
(63)
    
waive a redemption payment with respect to any Note (other than a payment required by Sections 4.08 or 4.11 hereof);
(64)
    
release any Guarantor that is a Significant Subsidiary from any of its obligations under its Note Guarantee or this Indenture, except in accordance with the terms of this Indenture; or
(65)
    
make any change in the preceding amendment and waiver provisions.
The Trustee, subject to the provisions of Section 6.01 and Section 6.02 of the Base Indenture, shall be entitled to receive and conclusively rely upon an Officers Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel as conclusive evidence that any amendment or supplement to this Indenture described in this Article 8 is permitted or authorized under and otherwise complies with the applicable provisions of this Indenture. Every amendment or supplement to this Indenture or the Notes will be set forth in an amended or supplemental indenture that complies with the TIA as then in effect.
Until an amendment, supplement or waiver becomes effective, a consent to it by a Holder of a Note is a continuing consent by the Holder of a Note and every subsequent Holder of a Note or portion of a Note that evidences the same debt as the consenting Holders Note, even if notation of the consent is not made on any Note. However, any such Holder of a Note or subsequent Holder of a Note may revoke the consent as to its Note if the Trustee receives written notice of revocation before the date the amendment, supplement or waiver becomes effective. After an amendment, supplement or waiver becomes effective in accordance with its terms, it thereafter binds every Holder.
Upon the execution of any supplemental indenture pursuant to the provisions of this Article 8, this Indenture shall be and be deemed to be modified and amended in accordance therewith and the respective rights, limitations of rights, obligations, duties and immunities under this Indenture of the Trustee, the Issuer and the Holders shall thereafter be determined, exercised and enforced hereunder subject in all respects to such modifications and amendments, and all the terms and conditions of any such supplemental indenture shall be and be deemed to be part of the terms and conditions of this Indenture for any and all purposes.
-
76
-
Notes may bear a notation approved by the Trustee as to form (but not as to substance) as to any matter provided for by any amendment, supplement or waiver to this Indenture entered into pursuant to this Article 8. If the Issuer or the Trustee shall so determine, new Notes of any series so modified as to conform, in the opinion of the Trustee and the Board of Directors of the Issuer, to any modification of this Indenture contained in any such amendment, supplement or waiver to this Indenture may be prepared by the Issuer, authenticated by the Trustee and delivered in exchange for the Notes of such series then outstanding.
Failure to make the appropriate notation or issue a new Note will not affect the validity and effect of such amendment, supplement or waiver.
The Trustee will sign any amended or supplemental indenture authorized pursuant to this Article 8 if the amendment or supplement does not adversely affect the rights, duties, liabilities or immunities of the Trustee. The Issuer may not sign an amended or supplemental indenture until the Board of Directors of the Issuer approves it. In executing any amended or supplemental indenture, the Trustee will be provided with and (subject to Section 8.01 hereof) will be fully protected in relying upon, in addition to the documents required by Section 15.06 of the Base Indenture, an Officers Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel stating that the execution of such amended or supplemental indenture is authorized or permitted by this Indenture.
ARTICLE 9
NOTE GUARANTEES
(d)
    
Subject to this Article 9, each of the Guarantors hereby, jointly and severally, unconditionally guarantees to each Holder of a Note authenticated and delivered by the Trustee and to the Trustee and its successors and assigns, irrespective of the validity and enforceability of this Indenture, the Notes or the obligations of the Issuer hereunder or thereunder, that:
(3)
    
the principal of, premium and interest on, the Notes will be promptly paid in full when due, whether at maturity, by acceleration, redemption or otherwise, and interest on the overdue principal of and interest on the Notes, if any, if lawful, and all other obligations of the Issuer to the Holders or the Trustee hereunder or thereunder will be promptly paid in full, all in accordance with the terms hereof and thereof; and
(4)
    
in case of any extension of time of payment or renewal of any Notes or any of such other obligations, that same will be promptly paid in full when due in accordance with the terms of the extension or renewal, whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise.
Failing payment when due of any amount so guaranteed or any performance so guaranteed for whatever reason, the Guarantors will be jointly and severally obligated to pay the
same immediately. Each Guarantor agrees that this is a guarantee of payment and not a guarantee of collection.
(e)
    
The Guarantors hereby agree that their obligations hereunder are unconditional, irrespective of the validity, regularity or enforceability of the Notes or this Indenture, the absence of any action to enforce the same, any waiver or consent by any Holder of the Notes with respect to any provisions hereof or thereof, the recovery of any judgment against the Issuer, any action to enforce the same or any other circumstance which might otherwise constitute a legal or equitable discharge or defense of a guarantor. Each Guarantor hereby waives diligence, presentment, demand of payment, filing of claims with a court in the event of insolvency or bankruptcy of the Issuer, any right to require a proceeding first against the Issuer, protest, notice and all demands whatsoever and covenant that this Note Guarantee will not be discharged except by complete performance of the obligations contained in the Notes and this Indenture to the extent permitted by law.
(f)
    
If any Holder or the Trustee is required by any court or otherwise to return to the Issuer, the Guarantors or any custodian, trustee, liquidator or other similar official acting in relation to either the Issuer or the Guarantors, any amount paid by either to the Trustee or such Holder, this Note Guarantee, to the extent theretofore discharged, will be reinstated in full force and effect.
(g)
    
Each Guarantor agrees that it will not be entitled to any right of subrogation in relation to the Holders in respect of any obligations guaranteed hereby until payment in full of all obligations guaranteed hereby. Each Guarantor further agrees that, as between the Guarantors, on the one hand, and the Holders and the Trustee, on the other hand, (1) the maturity of the obligations guaranteed hereby may be accelerated as provided in Article 6 hereof for the purposes of this Note Guarantee, notwithstanding any stay, injunction or other prohibition preventing such acceleration in respect of the obligations guaranteed hereby, and (2) in the event of any declaration of acceleration of such obligations as provided in Article 6 hereof, such obligations (whether or not due and payable) will forthwith become due and payable by the Guarantors for the purpose of this Note Guarantee. The Guarantors will have the right to seek contribution from any non-paying Guarantor so long as the exercise of such right does not impair the rights of the Holders under the Note Guarantee.
Each Guarantor, and by its acceptance of Notes, each Holder, hereby confirms that it is the intention of all such parties that the Note Guarantee of such Guarantor not constitute a fraudulent transfer or conveyance for purposes of Bankruptcy Law, the Uniform Fraudulent Conveyance Act, the Uniform Fraudulent Transfer Act or any similar federal or state law to the extent applicable to any Note Guarantee. To effectuate the foregoing intention, the Trustee, the Holders and the Guarantors hereby irrevocably agree that the obligations of such Guarantor will be limited to the maximum amount that will, after giving effect to such maximum amount and all other contingent and fixed liabilities of such Guarantor that are relevant under such laws, and after giving effect to any collections from, rights to receive contribution from or payments made by or on behalf of any other Guarantor in respect of the obligations of such other Guarantor
under this Article 9, result in the obligations of such Guarantor under its Note Guarantee not constituting a fraudulent transfer or conveyance.
Except as otherwise provided in this Section 9.03, no Guarantor may sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of its assets to, or consolidate with or merge with or into (whether or not such Guarantor is the surviving Person) another Person, other than the Issuer or another Guarantor, unless:
(66)
    
immediately after giving effect to such transaction, no Default or Event of Default exists; and
(67)
    
either:
(a)    the Person acquiring the property in any such sale or disposition or the Person formed by or surviving any such consolidation or merger assumes all the obligations of that Guarantor under this Indenture and its Note Guarantee on the terms set forth herein or therein, pursuant to a supplemental indenture in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee; or
(b)    the Net Proceeds of such sale or other disposition are applied in accordance with the applicable provisions of this Indenture.
In case of any such consolidation, merger, sale or conveyance and upon the assumption by the successor Person, by supplemental indenture, executed and delivered to the Trustee and satisfactory in form to the Trustee, of the Note Guarantee and the due and punctual performance of all of the covenants and conditions of this Indenture to be performed by the Guarantor, such successor Person will succeed to and be substituted for the Guarantor with the same effect as if it had been named herein as a Guarantor. Such successor Person thereupon may cause to be signed any or all of the Note Guarantees to be endorsed upon all of the Notes issuable hereunder which theretofore shall not have been signed by the Issuer and delivered to the Trustee. All the Note Guarantees so issued will in all respects have the same legal rank and benefit under this Indenture as the Note Guarantees theretofore and thereafter issued in accordance with the terms of this Indenture as though all of such Note Guarantees had been issued at the date of the execution hereof.
Except as set forth in Articles 4 and 5 hereof, and notwithstanding clauses 2(a) and (b) above, nothing contained in this Indenture or in any of the Notes will prevent any consolidation or merger of a Guarantor with or into the Issuer or another Guarantor, or will prevent any sale or conveyance of the property of a Guarantor as an entirety or substantially as an entirety to the Issuer or another Guarantor.
The Note Guarantee of a Guarantor will be released:
(15)
    
in connection with any sale, disposition or transfer of all or substantially all of the assets of that Guarantor (including by way of merger or consolidation) to a Person that is not (either before or after giving effect to such transaction) the Issuer or a Restricted Subsidiary of the Issuer, if the sale, disposition or transfer does not violate Section 4.08 hereof;
(16)
    
in connection with any sale, disposition or transfer of all of the Capital Stock of that Guarantor to a Person that is not (either before or after giving effect to such transaction) the Issuer or a Restricted Subsidiary of the Issuer, if the sale, disposition or transfer does not violate Section 4.08 hereof;
(17)
    
if the Issuer designates any Restricted Subsidiary that is a Guarantor to be an Unrestricted Subsidiary in accordance with the applicable provisions of this Indenture;
(18)
    
upon Legal Defeasance in accordance with Article 7 hereof or satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture in accordance with Article 10 hereof; or
(19)
    
upon the release of such Guarantors Guarantee under the Credit Agreement or such other Indebtedness that triggered such Guarantors Note Guarantee.
Any Guarantor not released from its obligations under its Note Guarantee as provided in this Section 9.04 will remain liable for the full amount of principal of and interest and premium on the Notes and for the other obligations of any Guarantor under this Indenture as provided in this Article 9.
ARTICLE 10
SATISFACTION AND DISCHARGE
This Indenture will be discharged and will cease to be of further effect as to all Notes issued hereunder, when:
(68)
    
either:
(a)    all Notes that have been authenticated, except lost, stolen or destroyed Notes that have been replaced or paid and Notes for whose payment money has theretofore been deposited in trust or segregated and held in trust by the Issuer and thereafter repaid to the Issuer, have been delivered to the Trustee for cancellation; or
(b)    all Notes that have not been delivered to the Trustee for cancellation have become due and payable by reason of the mailing of a notice of redemption or otherwise or will become due and payable within one year and the
Issuer or any Guarantor has irrevocably deposited or caused to be deposited with the Trustee as trust funds in trust solely for the benefit of the Holders, cash in U.S. dollars, non-callable Government Securities, or a combination thereof, in such amounts as will be sufficient, without consideration of any reinvestment of interest, to pay and discharge the entire Indebtedness on the Notes not delivered to the Trustee for cancellation for principal, premium and accrued interest to the date of maturity or redemption;
(69)
    
the Issuer or any Guarantor has paid or caused to be paid all sums payable by it under this Indenture; and
(70)
    
the Issuer has delivered irrevocable instructions to the Trustee under this Indenture to apply the deposited money toward the payment of the Notes at maturity or on the redemption date, as the case may be.
In addition, the Issuer must deliver an Officers Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel to the Trustee stating that all conditions precedent to satisfaction and discharge have been satisfied.
Notwithstanding the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture, if money has been deposited with the Trustee pursuant to subclause (b) of clause (1) of this Section 10.01, the provisions of Sections 10.02 and 7.06 hereof will survive such satisfaction and discharge. In addition, nothing in this Section 10.01 will be deemed to discharge those provisions of Section 7.07 hereof, that, by their terms, survive the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture.
Subject to the provisions of Section 7.06 hereof, all money deposited with the Trustee pursuant to Section 10.01 hereof shall be held in trust and applied by it, in accordance with the provisions of the Notes and this Indenture, to the payment, either directly or through any Paying Agent (including the Issuer acting as its own Paying Agent) as the Trustee may determine, to the Persons entitled thereto, of the principal (and premium) and interest for whose payment such money has been deposited with the Trustee; but such money need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law.
If the Trustee or Paying Agent is unable to apply any money or Government Securities in accordance with Section 10.01 hereof by reason of any legal proceeding or by reason of any order or judgment of any court or governmental authority enjoining, restraining or otherwise prohibiting such application, the Issuers and any Guarantors obligations under this Indenture and the Notes shall be revived and reinstated as though no deposit had occurred pursuant to Section 10.01 hereof;
provided
that if the Issuer has made any payment of principal of, premium or interest on, any Notes because of the reinstatement of its obligations, the Issuer shall be subrogated to the rights of the Holders of such Notes to receive such payment from the money or Government Securities held by the Trustee or Paying Agent.
ARTICLE 11
MISCELLANEOUS
If and to the extent that any provision of this Indenture limits, qualifies or conflicts with another provision included in this Indenture by operation of Sections 310 to 317, inclusive, of the Trust Indenture Act (an 
incorporated provision
), such incorporated provision shall control.
The parties may sign any number of copies of this Indenture. Each signed copy shall be an original, but all of them together represent the same agreement. Delivery of an executed counterpart by facsimile shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart thereof.
This Supplemental Indenture and the Notes shall each be deemed to be a contract under the laws of the State of New York, and for all purposes shall be construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York, but without giving effect to applicable principles of conflicts of law to the extent that the application of the law of another jurisdiction would be required thereby.
This Supplemental Indenture and the Base Indenture may not be used to interpret another indenture, loan or debt agreement of the Issuer or any of its Subsidiaries. Any such indenture, loan or debt agreement may not be used to interpret this Supplemental Indenture or the Base Indenture.
All the covenants, stipulations, promises and agreements in this Supplemental Indenture contained by or in behalf of the Issuer shall bind their successors and assigns, whether so expressed or not. All the covenants, stipulations, promises and agreements in this Supplemental Indenture contained by or in behalf of the Trustee shall bind their successors and assigns, whether so expressed or not.
If any provision of this Supplemental Indenture shall be held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable under applicable law, then the remaining provisions hereof shall be construed as though such invalid, illegal or unenforceable provision were not contained herein.
The Article and Section headings in this Supplemental Indenture and the Table of Contents are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof.
The Issuer and its agents (other than the Trustee in any capacity it is appointed with regard to the Notes) shall make all calculations under this Indenture and the Notes in good faith. In the absence of manifest error, such calculations shall be final and binding on all Holders. The Issuer shall provide a copy of such calculations to the Trustee as required hereunder or as requested by the Trustee, and, absent such manifest error, the Trustee (in all its capacities with regard to the Notes) shall be entitled to rely on the accuracy of any such calculation without independent verification. The Trustee shall not be responsible for making any calculations required by this Indenture.
Any notice or communication by the Issuer, any Guarantor or the Trustee to the others is duly given if in writing and delivered in Person or by first class mail (registered or certified, return receipt requested), facsimile transmission or overnight air courier guaranteeing next day delivery, to the others address:
If to the Issuer and/or any Guarantor:
Alpha Natural Resources, Inc.
One Alpha Place
P.O. Box 16429
Bristol, Virginia 24209 Facsimile No.: (276) 628-3116 Attention: Office of General Counsel
With a copy to:
Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP
One Liberty Plaza New York, New York 10006 Facsimile No.: (212) 225-3999 Attention: Sandra L. Flow, Esq.
If to the Trustee:
Union Bank, N.A.
350 California Street, 11th Floor
San Francisco, California 94104 Facsimile No.: (415) 273-2492 Attention: James Myers
The Issuer, any Guarantor or the Trustee, by notice to the others, may designate additional or different addresses for subsequent notices or communications.
All notices and communications (other than those sent to Holders) will be deemed to have been duly given: at the time delivered by hand, if personally delivered; five Business
Days after being deposited in the mail, postage prepaid, if mailed; when receipt acknowledged, if transmitted by facsimile; and the next Business Day after timely delivery to the courier, if sent by overnight air courier guaranteeing next day delivery.
Any notice or communication to a Holder will be mailed by first class mail, certified or registered, return receipt requested, or by overnight air courier guaranteeing next day delivery to its address shown on the register kept by the Registrar. Any notice or communication will also be so mailed to any Person described in TIA  313(c), to the extent required by the TIA. Failure to mail a notice or communication to a Holder or any defect in it will not affect its sufficiency with respect to other Holders.
If a notice or communication is mailed in the manner provided above within the time prescribed, it is duly given, whether or not the addressee receives it.
If the Issuer mails a notice or communication to Holders, it will mail a copy to the Trustee and each Agent at the same time.
[Signatures on following pages]
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Indenture to be duly executed, all as of October 11, 2012.
ALPHA NATURAL RESOURCES, INC.
By:    
/s/ Vaughn R. Groves    
Title: Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary
[Signature Page to Indenture]
        
S-#PageNum#
S-#PageNum#
S-#PageNum#
S-#PageNum#
S-#PageNum#
By:    
/s/ Vaughn R. Groves    
Name:    Vaughn R. Groves Title:    Vice President and Secretary
By:    
/s/ Vaughn R. Groves    
Name:    Vaughn R. Groves Title:    Executive Vice President, General
    Counsel and Assistant Secretary
By:    
/s/ Vaughn R. Groves    
Name:    Vaughn R. Groves Title:    Executive Vice President, General
    Counsel and Secretary
S-#PageNum#
By:    
/s/ Vaughn R. Groves    
Name:    Vaughn R. Groves Title:    Vice President
By:    
/s/ Vaughn R. Groves    
Name:    Vaughn R. Groves Title:    Vice President
By:    
/s/ Vaughn R. Groves    
Name:    Vaughn R. Groves Title:    Vice President and Secretary
By:    
/s/ Vaughn R. Groves    
S-#PageNum#
Name:    Vaughn R. Groves Title:    Vice President and Secretary
By:    
/s/ Vaughn R. Groves    
Name:    Vaughn R. Groves
    Title:    President, Manager and Secretary
    
S-#PageNum#
UNION BANK, N.A.
By:    
/s/ James Myers    
Name: James Myers Title: Vice President
S-#PageNum#
EXHIBIT A
[Insert the Global Note Legend, if applicable pursuant to the provisions of the Indenture]
[Form of Face of Note]
CUSIP/ISIN 02076X AD4/US02076XAD49
ALPHA NATURAL RESOURCES, INC.
9.75% Senior Notes due 2018
ALPHA NATURAL RESOURCES, INC., a Delaware corporation, for value received, promises to pay to Cede & Co., or registered assigns, the principal sum of ________ DOLLARS ($______) on April 15, 2018.
Interest Payment Dates: April 15 and October 15
Record Dates: April 1 and October 1
Additional provisions of this Note are set forth on the other side of this Note.
Dated: October 11, 2012
A-1-#PageNum#
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Issuer has caused this instrument to be duly executed.
ALPHA NATURAL RESOURCES, INC.
By:    
        
    Name:
    Title:
A-1-#PageNum#
TRUSTEES CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION
This is one of the Notes referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture:
Union Bank, N.A., as Trustee
By:    ________________________________
    Authorized Signatory
A-1-#PageNum#
[Form of Back of Note]
9.75% Senior Notes due 2018
Capitalized terms used herein have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture referred to below unless otherwise indicated.
(1)    
INTEREST
. Alpha Natural Resources, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the 
Issuer
), promises to pay interest on the principal amount of this Note at 9.75% per annum from October 11, 2012 until maturity. The Issuer will pay interest semi-annually in arrears on April 15 and October 15 of each year, or if any such day is not a Business Day, on the next succeeding Business Day (each, an 
Interest Payment Date
). Interest on the Notes will accrue from the most recent date to which interest has been paid or, if no interest has been paid, from October 11, 2012 until the principal hereof is due. The first Interest Payment Date shall be April 15, 2013. The Issuer will pay interest on overdue principal at the rate borne by the Notes, and it shall pay interest on overdue installments of interest at the same rate to the extent lawful. Interest will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.
(2)    
METHOD OF PAYMENT
. The Issuer will pay interest on the Notes (except defaulted interest) to the Persons who are registered Holders of Notes at the close of business on the April 1 or October 1 next preceding the Interest Payment Date, even if such Notes are canceled after such record date and on or before such Interest Payment Date, except as provided in Section 2.10 of the Supplemental Indenture with respect to defaulted interest. Payments in respect of Notes represented by Global Notes (including principal, premium, if any, and interest) shall be made by wire transfer of immediately available funds to the accounts specified by The Depository Trust Company or any successor depositary. The Issuer will make all payments in respect of a Physical Security (including principal, premium, if any, and interest), at the office of each Paying Agent, except that, at the option of the Issuer, payment of interest may be made by mailing a check to the registered address of each Holder thereof;
provided
,
however
, that payments on the Notes may also be made in the case of a Holder of at least $1,000,000 aggregate principal amount of Notes, by wire transfer to a U.S. dollar account maintained by the payee with a bank in the United States if such Holder elects payment by wire transfer by giving written notice to the Trustee or a Paying Agent to such effect designating such account no later than 30 days immediately preceding the relevant due date for payment (or such other date as the Trustee may accept in its discretion). Such payment will be in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts.
(3)    
PAYING AGENT AND REGISTRAR
. Initially, Union Bank, N.A., the Trustee under the Indenture, will act as Paying Agent and Registrar. The Issuer may change any Paying Agent or Registrar without notice to any Holder. The Issuer or any of its Subsidiaries may act in any such capacity.
(4)    
INDENTURE
. The Issuer issued the Notes under an indenture dated as of June 1, 2011 (the 
Base Indenture
) between the Issuer and the Trustee, as supplemented by supplemental indenture No. 3 (the 
Supplemental Indenture
), dated as of October 11, 2012,
A-1-#PageNum#
between the Issuer, the guarantors party thereto and the Trustee (the Base Indenture, as supplemented by the Supplemental Indenture, the 
Indenture
). The terms of the Notes include those stated in the Indenture and those made part of the Indenture by reference to the TIA as amended and in effect from time to time. Terms defined in the Indenture and not defined herein have the meanings ascribed thereto in the Indenture. The Notes are subject to all the terms and provisions of the Indenture, and Holders are referred to the Indenture and the TIA for a statement of such terms. To the extent any provision of this Note conflicts with the express provisions of the Indenture, the provisions of the Indenture shall govern and be controlling.
(5)    
OPTIONAL REDEMPTION
. At any time prior to October 15, 2015, the Issuer may on any one or more occasions redeem up to 35% of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes issued under the Indenture (including any Additional Notes issued after the Issue Date) at a redemption price of 109.75% of the principal amount thereof,
plus
accrued and unpaid interest to, but not including, the redemption date, with the net cash proceeds of one or more Equity Offerings;
provided
that:
(A)
    
at least 65% of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes issued under the Indenture (excluding Notes held by the Issuer and its Subsidiaries) remains outstanding immediately after the occurrence of such redemption; and
(B)
    
the redemption occurs within 180 days of the date of the closing of such Equity Offering.
In addition, the Notes will be redeemable in whole at any time or in part from time to time, at the Issuers option, at a redemption price equal to the greater of
(1)
    
100% of the principal amount of the Notes then outstanding to be redeemed; or
(2)
    
the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest on the Notes to be redeemed (not including any portion of such payments of interest accrued to the date of redemption) discounted to the date of redemption on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the applicable Treasury Rate, plus 50 basis points.
In each case, accrued and unpaid interest on the principal amount of Notes being redeemed will be payable to the redemption date.
Unless the Issuer defaults in the payment of the redemption price, interest will cease to accrue on the Notes or portions thereof called for redemption on the applicable redemption date.
Any redemption pursuant to Section 3.07 of the Supplemental Indenture shall be made pursuant to the provisions of Sections 3.01 through 3.06 of the Supplemental Indenture.
(6)
MANDATORY REDEMPTION.
A-1-#PageNum#
The Issuer is not required to make mandatory redemption or sinking fund payments with respect to the Notes.
(7)
NOTICE OF REDEMPTION
. Notice of redemption will be mailed at least 30 days but not more than 60 days before the redemption date to each Holder whose Notes are to be redeemed at its registered address, except that redemption notices may be mailed more than 60 days prior to a redemption date if the notice is issued in connection with a defeasance of the Notes or a satisfaction or discharge of the Indenture. Notes in denominations larger than $2,000 may be redeemed in part but only in whole multiples of $1,000.
(8)
    REPURCHASE AT THE OPTION OF HOLDER
.
(a)    If there is a Change of Control, the Issuer will make an offer (a 
Change of Control Offer
) to each Holder of the Notes to repurchase all or any part (equal to $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess of $2,000) of that Holders Notes at a purchase price in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of Notes repurchased plus accrued and unpaid interest on the Notes repurchased to, but not including, the date of purchase, subject to the rights of Holders on the relevant record date to receive interest due on the relevant interest payment date. Within 30 days following any Change of Control, the Issuer will mail a notice to each Holder setting forth the procedures governing the Change of Control Offer as required by the Indenture.
(b)    If the Issuer or a Restricted Subsidiary of the Issuer consummates any Asset Sales, within ten Business Days of each date on which the aggregate amount of Excess Proceeds exceeds $750 million, the Issuer will commence an offer to all Holders of Notes and all holders of other Indebtedness that is
pari passu
with the Notes containing provisions similar to those set forth in the Indenture with respect to offers to purchase or redeem with the proceeds of sales of assets (an 
Asset Sale Offer
) pursuant to Section 4.08 of the Supplemental Indenture to purchase the maximum principal amount of Notes and such other
pari passu
Indebtedness that may be purchased out of the Excess Proceeds at an offer price in cash in an amount equal to 100% of the principal amount thereof plus accrued and unpaid interest thereon to, but excluding, the date of purchase, in accordance with the procedures set forth in the Indenture. To the extent that, any Excess Proceeds remain after the consummation of an Asset Sale Offer, the Issuer may use those Excess Proceeds for any purpose not otherwise prohibited by the Indenture. If the aggregate principal amount of Notes and other
pari passu
Indebtedness tendered into such Asset Sale Offer exceeds the amount of Excess Proceeds, the Trustee shall select the Notes and such other
pari passu
Indebtedness to be purchased on a
pro rata
basis. Holders of Notes that are the subject of an offer to purchase will receive an Asset Sale Offer from the Issuer prior to any related purchase date and may elect to have such Notes purchased by completing the form entitled 
Option of Holder to Elect Purchase
 attached to the Notes.
(9)    
DENOMINATIONS, TRANSFER, EXCHANGE
. The Notes are in registered form without coupons in denominations of $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess of $2,000. The transfer of Notes may be registered and Notes may be exchanged as provided in the Indenture. The Registrar and the Trustee may require a Holder, among other things, to furnish appropriate endorsements and transfer documents and the Issuer may require a
A-1-#PageNum#
Holder to pay any taxes and fees required by law or permitted by the Indenture. The Issuer need not exchange or register the transfer of any Note or portion of a Note selected for redemption, except for the unredeemed portion of any Note being redeemed in part. Also, the Issuer need not exchange or register the transfer of any Notes for a period of 15 days before a selection of Notes to be redeemed or during the period between a record date and the corresponding Interest Payment Date.
(10)    
PERSONS DEEMED OWNERS
. The registered Holder of a Note may be treated as its owner for all purposes.
(11)    
AMENDMENT, SUPPLEMENT AND WAIVER
. Subject to certain exceptions, the Indenture or the Notes or the Note Guarantees may be amended or supplemented with the consent of the Holders of at least a majority in aggregate principal amount of the then outstanding Notes including Additional Notes, if any, voting as a single class, and any existing Default or Event or Default or compliance with any provision of the Indenture or the Notes or the Note Guarantees may be waived with the consent of the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the then outstanding Notes including Additional Notes, if any, voting as a single class. Without the consent of any Holder of a Note, the Indenture or the Notes or the Note Guarantees may be amended or supplemented (i) to cure any ambiguity, defect or inconsistency, (ii) to provide for uncertificated Notes in addition to or in place of certificated Notes, (iii) to provide for the assumption of the Issuers or a Guarantors obligations to Holders of the Notes and Note Guarantees in case of a merger or consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of the Issuers or such Guarantors assets, as applicable, and the corresponding release of the Issuers or the Guarantors obligations under the Indenture, (iv) to make any change that would provide any additional rights or benefits to the Holders of the Notes or that does not adversely affect the legal rights under the Indenture of any such Holder, (v) to comply with the requirements of the SEC in order to effect or maintain the qualification of the Indenture under the TIA, (vi) to conform the text of the Indenture, the Note Guarantees or the Notes to any provision of the Description of Notes section of the Prospectus Supplement, to the extent that such provision in that Description of Notes was intended to be a verbatim recitation of a provision of the Indenture, the Note Guarantees or the Notes, (vii) to provide for the issuance of Additional Notes in accordance with the limitations set forth in the Indenture or (viii) to allow any Guarantor to execute a supplemental indenture to the Indenture and/or a Note Guarantee with respect to the Notes and to release Guarantors from the Note Guarantee in accordance with the terms of the Indenture.
(12)    
DEFAULTS AND REMEDIES
. If any Event of Default occurs and is continuing, the Trustee or the Holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of the then outstanding Notes may declare all the Notes to be due and payable immediately. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the case of an Event of Default arising from certain events of bankruptcy or insolvency with respect to the Issuer, any Restricted Subsidiary of the Issuer that is a Significant Subsidiary or any group of Restricted Subsidiaries of Issuer that, taken together, would constitute a Significant Subsidiary, all outstanding Notes will become due and payable immediately without further action or notice. Holders may not enforce the Indenture or the Notes except as provided in the Indenture. Subject to certain limitations, Holders of a majority
A-1-#PageNum#
in aggregate principal amount of the then outstanding Notes may direct the Trustee in its exercise of any trust or power. The Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the then outstanding Notes by notice to the Trustee may, on behalf of the Holders of all of the Notes, rescind an acceleration or waive any existing Default or Event of Default and its consequences under the Indenture except a continuing Default or Event of Default in the payment of interest or premium or Additional Interest, if any, on, or the principal of, the Notes. The Issuer is required to deliver to the Trustee annually a statement regarding compliance with the Indenture, and the Issuer is required, upon becoming aware of any Default or Event of Default, to deliver to the Trustee a statement specifying such Default or Event of Default.
(13)    
DISCHARGE AND DEFEASANCE
. Subject to certain conditions, the Issuer at any time may terminate some or all of its obligations under the Notes, the Note Guarantees and the Indenture if the Issuer deposits with the Trustee money or Government Securities for the payment of principal of and interest on the Notes to redemption or maturity, as the case may be.
(14)    
TRUSTEE DEALINGS WITH ISSUER
. The Trustee, in its individual or any other capacity, may make loans to, accept deposits from, and perform services for the Issuer or its Affiliates, and may otherwise deal with the Issuer or its Affiliates, as if it were not the Trustee.
(15)    
NO RECOURSE AGAINST OTHERS
. A director, manager, officer, employee, incorporator, member or stockholder of the Issuer or any of the Guarantors, as such, will not have any liability for any obligations of the Issuer or the Guarantors under the Notes, the Note Guarantees or the Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of, or by reason of, such obligations or their creation. Each Holder by accepting a Note waives and releases all such liability. The waiver and release are part of the consideration for the issuance of the Notes.
(16)    
AUTHENTICATION
. This Note shall be valid if authenticated by the manual or facsimile signature of the Trustee.
(17)    
ABBREVIATIONS
. Customary abbreviations may be used in the name of a Holder or an assignee, such as: TEN COM (= tenants in common), TEN ENT (= tenants by the entireties), JT TEN (= joint tenants with right of survivorship and not as tenants in common), CUST (= Custodian), and U/G/M/A (= Uniform Gifts to Minors Act).
(18)    
CUSIP NUMBERS
. Pursuant to a recommendation promulgated by the Committee on Uniform Security Identification Procedures, the Issuer has caused CUSIP numbers to be printed on the Notes, and the Trustee may use CUSIP numbers in notices of redemption as a convenience to Holders. No representation is made as to the accuracy of such numbers either as printed on the Notes or as contained in any notice of redemption, and reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers placed thereon.
(19)    
GOVERNING LAW.
THE LAW OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK WILL GOVERN AND BE USED TO CONSTRUE THE SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE, THIS NOTE AND THE NOTE GUARANTEES.
A-1-#PageNum#
The Issuer will furnish to any Holder upon written request and without charge a copy of the Indenture. Requests may be made to:
Alpha Natural Resources, Inc.
One Alpha Place
P.O. Box 16429
Bristol, Virginia 24209
Attention: Vaughn R. Groves, Esq.
A-1-#PageNum#
ASSIGNMENT FORM
To assign this Note, fill in the form below:
(I) or (we) assign and transfer this Note to:
        
    (Insert assignees legal name)
______________________________________________________________________________ (Insert assignees soc. sec. or tax I.D. no.)
    
    
    
(Print or type assignees name, address and zip code)
and irrevocably appoint
    
to transfer this Note on the books of the Issuer. The agent may substitute another to act for him.
Date: _______________
Your Signature:    
    
    (Sign exactly as your name
    appears on the face of this Note)
Signature Guarantee*: _________________________
A-1-#PageNum#
OPTION OF HOLDER TO ELECT PURCHASE
If you want to elect to have this Note purchased by the Issuer pursuant to Section 4.08 or 4.11 of the Supplemental Indenture, check the appropriate box below:
If you want to elect to have only part of the Note purchased by the Issuer pursuant to Section 4.08 or Section 4.11 of the Supplemental Indenture, state the amount you elect to have purchased:
$_______________
Date: _______________
Your Signature:    
    
    (Sign exactly as your name
    appears on the face of this Note)
Tax Identification No.:
    
Signature Guarantee*: _________________________
A-1-#PageNum#
SCHEDULE OF EXCHANGES OF INTERESTS IN THE GLOBAL NOTE*
The following exchanges of a part of this Global Note for an interest in another Global Note or for a Physical Security, or exchanges of a part of another Global Note or Physical Security for an interest in this Global Note, have been made:
*    
This schedule should be included only if the Note is issued in global form
.
A-1-#PageNum#
EXHIBIT B
Any Global Note authenticated and delivered hereunder shall bear a legend in substantially the following form:
THIS NOTE IS A GLOBAL NOTE WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF THE DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY, WHICH MAY BE TREATED BY THE ISSUER, THE TRUSTEE AND ANY AGENT THEREOF AS OWNER AND HOLDER OF THIS NOTE FOR ALL PURPOSES.
UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, TO THE ISSUER OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY (AND ANY PAYMENT HEREON IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL SINCE THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.
TRANSFERS OF THIS GLOBAL NOTE SHALL BE LIMITED TO TRANSFERS IN WHOLE, BUT NOT IN PART, TO NOMINEES OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY OR TO A SUCCESSOR THEREOF OR SUCH SUCCESSORS NOMINEE.
B-#PageNum#

Exhibit 5.1
Writers Direct Dial: +1212-225-2494
E-Mail: sflow@cgsh.com
October 11, 2012
Alpha Natural Resources, Inc. Guarantors (as defined below) c/o Alpha Natural Resources, Inc. One Alpha Place P.O. Box 16429 Bristol, Virginia 24209
Ladies and Gentlemen:
We have acted as special counsel to Alpha Natural Resources, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the 
Company
), in connection with its offering pursuant to a registration statement on Form S-3 (No. 333-165473) (the 
Registration Statement
) and the prospectus dated March 15, 2010, as supplemented by the prospectus supplement dated September 28, 2012 (together, the 
Prospectus
), of $500,000,000 aggregate principal amount of its 9.75% Senior Notes due 2018 (the 
Securities
). The Securities were issued under an indenture dated as of June 1, 2011 (the 
Base Indenture
) among the Company, the Companys subsidiaries named therein, as guarantors (the 
Guarantors
), and Union Bank, N.A., as trustee (the 
Trustee
), as amended by the third supplemental indenture, dated as of October 11, 2012 (the 
Third Supplemental Indenture
 and, together with the Base Indenture, the 
Indenture
), among the Company, the Guarantors and the Trustee. The Indenture includes the guarantees of the Securities by the Guarantors (the 
Guarantees
).
In arriving at the opinions expressed below, we have reviewed the following documents:
Alpha Natural Resources, Inc. et al., p #PageNum#
In addition, we have reviewed the originals or copies certified or otherwise identified to our satisfaction of all such corporate records of the Company and such other documents, and we have made such investigations of law, as we have deemed appropriate as a basis for the opinions expressed below.
In rendering the opinions expressed below, we have assumed the authenticity of all documents submitted to us as originals and the conformity to the originals of all documents submitted to us as copies. In addition, we have assumed and have not verified the accuracy as to factual matters of each document we have reviewed.
Based on the foregoing, and subject to the further assumptions and qualifications set forth below, it is our opinion that:
1. The Securities have been validly issued by the Company and are the valid, binding and enforceable obligations of the Company, entitled to the benefits of the Indenture.
2. The Guarantees are the valid, binding and enforceable obligations of the applicable Guarantor, entitled to the benefits of the Indenture.
Insofar as the foregoing opinions relate to the validity, binding effect or enforceability of any agreement or obligation of the Company or any Guarantor, (a) we have assumed that the Company or such Guarantor and each other party to such agreement or obligation has satisfied those legal requirements that are applicable to it to the extent necessary to make such agreement or obligation enforceable against it (except that no such assumption is made as to the Company regarding matters of the federal law of the United States of America, the law of the State of New York or the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware that in our experience normally would be applicable to general business entities with respect to such agreement or obligation) and (b) such opinions are subject to applicable bankruptcy, insolvency and similar laws affecting creditors rights generally and to general principles of equity.
Alpha Natural Resources, Inc. et al., p #PageNum#
The foregoing opinions are limited to the federal law of the United States of America, the law of the State of New York and the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware.
We hereby consent to the use of our name in the Prospectus under the heading Legal Matters, as counsel for the Company that has passed on the validity of the Securities and to the filing of this opinion as Exhibit 5.1 to the Companys Current Report on Form 8-K dated October 11, 2012. In giving such consent, we do not thereby admit that we are within the category of persons whose consent is required under Section 7 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission thereunder. The opinions expressed herein are rendered on and as of the date hereof, and we assume no obligation to advise you or any other person, or to make any investigations, as to any legal developments or factual matters arising subsequent to the date hereof that might affect the opinions expressed herein.


