FILE:ANR/ANR-8K-20120517163627.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[  ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[  ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[  ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02  Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
 
Alpha Natural Resources, Inc. 2012 Long-Term Incentive Plan
   
At the Annual Meeting of Stockholders held on May 17, 2012 (the "Annual Meeting"), stockholders of Alpha Natural Resources, Inc. (the "Company") approved the 2012 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "2012 LTIP"). The 2012 LTIP is generally administered by the Compensation Committee (the "Committee") of the Companys Board of Directors (the "Board"). The 2012 LTIP provides for the grant of the following types of awards: (i) stock options, (ii) stock appreciation rights, (iii) restricted stock, (iv) restricted stock units, (v) performance grants and (vi) other share-based awards deemed by the Committee, in its discretion, to be consistent with the purposes of the 2012 LTIP. The Committee has the exclusive power to select the persons who may participate in this plan and may grant awards under the plan to full- or part-time employees or other individuals who perform services for the Company or its affiliates.
 
The maximum aggregate number of shares of common stock that are available for issuance under the 2012 LTIP, including for awards of incentive stock options, is 6,400,000 plus the number of shares of the Companys common stock (the Common Stock) that are represented by restricted stock unit and performance awards which previously have been granted and are outstanding under the Companys 2010 Long-Term Incentive Plan as of the effective date of the 2012 LTIP that result from the expiration or lapse of such awards, are forfeited or cancelled, or result from such awards being settled without the delivery of the full number of shares of Common Stock underlying such awards or are settled for cash, at any time after the effective date of the 2012 LTIP. Pursuant to the terms of the 2012 LTIP and subject to possible adjustments provided for in the plan, no eligible person may receive in any one fiscal year under the 2012 LTIP: (i) stock options or stock appreciation rights for more than 750,000 shares of the Common Stock; (ii) performance grants (denominated in shares of Common Stock) for more than 1,000,000 shares of Common Stock; and (iii) performance grants (denominated in cash) for more than $10,000,000.
 
The 2012 LTIP will terminate upon the earlier of the adoption of a resolution of the Board terminating the 2012 LTIP or May 17, 2022.
 
The foregoing description of the 2012 LTIP does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the 2012 LTIP (Exhibit 10.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K) and incorporated herein by reference.
 
Awards
 
On May 17, 2012, the Board, in accordance with the non-employee director compensation policy, approved the grant of restricted stock unit awards under the 2012 LTIP to each non-employee director in the amount of 6,233 units.  The awards generally vest six months after a directors termination of service with the Board.
 
On the same date, the Committee approved the grant to each of Messrs. Kevin S. Crutchfield, the Company's Chief Executive Officer, and Paul H. Vining, the Company's President, of a performance share unit award under the 2012 LTIP of 81,878 and 41,146 units (at target), respectively.  The awards will be earned based on the performance of the Companys stock relative to its compensation peer group of companies (TSR) over a performance period of April 1, 2012 through December 31, 2014 such that the Companys TSR must be (i) at the 35th percentile or greater among its peers for the awards to be earned at a threshold level of 50%, (ii) at the 55th percentile or greater among its peers for the awards to be earned at a target level of 100%, and (iii) at the 80th percentile or greater among its peers for the awards to be earned at a maximum of 200%, with interpolation used to determine pay-out amounts when performance exceeds threshold and falls between specified performance levels. The cash performance awards previously granted to Messrs. Crutchfield and Vining under the 2010 Long-Term Incentive Plan were simultaneously canceled.
 
 The foregoing description of the restricted stock unit and performance share unit awards does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the forms of restricted stock unit award agreement (Exhibit 10.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K) and performance share unit award agreement (Exhibit 10.3 to this Current Report on Form 8-K) under the 2012 LTIP, which are incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
 
Item 5.07  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.
On May 17, 2012, Alpha held its Annual Meeting in Abingdon, Virginia.  The results of the matters voted on at the Annual Meeting are provided below.
:  The election of nine directors to hold office for a one-year term expiring at the annual meeting in 2013 and until their respective successors are elected and qualified:
Proposal No. 1
 
 
:  The approval of the Companys 2012 LTIP:
Proposal No. 2
:  The advisory approval of the Company's executive compensation.
Proposal No. 3
 
:  The ratification of KPMG LLP as Alpha's independent registered public accounting firm for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2012.
Proposal No. 4
There were no broker non-votes on this proposal.
 
 
 
 
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)           Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
This Performance Share Unit Award Agreement set forth below (this ) is dated as of the grant date (the ) set forth on and is between Alpha Natural Resources, Inc., a Delaware corporation (), and the Eligible Person to whom the Committee has made this Performance Grant (the ).
Agreement
Grant Date
Exhibit A
Alpha
Award Recipient
 
Alpha has established its 2012 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the ) to advance the interests of Alpha and its stockholders by providing incentives to certain Eligible Persons who contribute significantly to the strategic and long-term performance objectives and growth of Alpha and any parent, subsidiary or affiliate of Alpha.  All capitalized terms not otherwise defined in this Agreement have the same meaning given such capitalized terms in the Plan.
Plan
 
Pursuant to the provisions of the Plan, the Committee or its Designated Administrator has full power and authority to direct the execution and delivery of this Agreement in the name and on behalf of Alpha, and has authorized the execution and delivery of this Agreement.
 
 
The parties agree as follows:
 
Section 1.
 
Subject to and pursuant to all terms and conditions stated in this Agreement and in the Plan, as of the Grant Date, Alpha hereby makes a Performance Grant to Award Recipient in the form of performance share units ().  Each Performance Share Unit awarded under this Agreement shall represent a right to receive one share of Alphas Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share (the ), to the extent such Performance Share Unit is earned pursuant to the terms of this Agreement.  The shares of Common Stock to be issued and delivered to Award Recipient, if any, pursuant to the Performance Share Units awarded under this Agreement, including shares of capital stock, if any, issued from time to time with respect to such shares of Common Stock as a result of a stock dividend or stock split or in connection with a combination of shares, recapitalization, merger, consolidation or other reorganization are referred to in this Agreement as the .
Performance Share Unit Award.
Performance Share Units
Common Stock
Share(s)
 
Section 2.
 
  The target number of Performance Share Units covered by and subject to the terms of this Agreement (the ) is set forth on .
Performance Share Units.
Target Award
Exhibit A
 
Section 3.
 
  The  means the performance period as set forth on .
Performance Period.
Performance Period
Exhibit A
 
Section 4.
 
  Subject to the provisions of this Agreement, Alpha shall issue and deliver to the Award Recipient one (1) Share for each whole Performance Share Unit that is earned in accordance with the performance measures set forth on ; provided, however, that the Committee may reduce the number of Performance Share Units earned under this Award, but in no event may the Committee increase the number of Performance Share Units earned under this Award beyond the performance levels achieved.
Performance Measures.
Exhibit A
 
 
 
 
Section 5.
 
.  Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement and subject to satisfaction of the applicable tax withholding requirements set forth in Section 9, Alpha shall cause stock certificate(s) or other evidence of ownership representing the number of Shares earned and determined under Section 4 to be delivered to the Award Recipient in the first calendar year immediately following the end of the Performance Period on or before March 15th of such calendar year; provided, however, that: (i) except as provided below, no certificate(s) for, or other evidence of ownership of, Shares shall be delivered with respect to Performance Share Units unless the Committee has certified in writing that the applicable performance targets set forth on and other material terms of this Agreement have been achieved; and (ii) the Company shall not deliver stock certificate(s) or other evidence of ownership representing Shares if the Committee or Designated Administrator or other authorized agent determines, in its or his sole discretion, that the delivery of such certificate(s) or other evidence of ownership would violate the terms of the Plan, this Agreement or applicable law.
Delivery of Shares
Exhibit A
 
Section 6.
 
Separation from Service.
 
(a)
 
Except as set forth in this Section 6 or as otherwise provided in a Company plan applicable to Award Recipient or any agreement between the Award Recipient and the Company, if (i) Award Recipient Separates from Service for any reason prior to the end of the Performance Period, or (ii) Award Recipient breaches the confidentiality covenant as described in Section 12, then effective at the close of business on the date the Award Recipient Separates from Service, or the date the Award Recipient breaches the confidentiality covenant as described in Section 12 hereof, as applicable, all of Award Recipients Performance Share Units covered by this Agreement, whether earned or unearned, shall be automatically cancelled and forfeited in their entirety without any further obligation on the part of Alpha, such that Alpha shall not be obligated to issue any Shares or any other compensation to Award Recipient with respect to such cancelled and forfeited Performance Share Units.
 
(b)
 
Unless otherwise provided in a Company plan applicable to Award Recipient or any agreement between the Award Recipient and the Company, if during the Performance Period (i) the Award Recipient Separates from Service as a result of Award Recipients Permanent Disability (as defined below) or death, (ii) the Award Recipient experiences an involuntary Separation from Service by the Company other than for Cause (as defined below), or (iii) the Award Recipient Separates from Service as a result of Award Recipients Retirement (as defined below), the Award Recipient shall be entitled to receive a prorated portion of the Performance Share Units to the extent earned pursuant to Section 4 above, determined at the end of the Performance Period and based on the ratio of the number of complete months the Award Recipient is employed or serves during the Performance Period to the total number of months in the Performance Period.  Any Shares to which Award Recipient becomes entitled to receive pursuant to the preceding sentence will be issued and delivered to Award Recipient in accordance with the provisions of Section 5 of the Agreement; provided, that any payments due on the Award Recipients death shall be paid to the Award Recipients estate.
 
(c)
 
Unless otherwise provided in a Company plan applicable to Award Recipient or any agreement between the Award Recipient and the Company, in the event that a Change of Control (as defined below) occurs prior to the end of the Performance Period and the Award Recipient experiences an involuntary Separation from Service by the Company other than for Cause (i) within the 90-day period immediately preceding a Change of Control, or (ii) prior to the end of the Performance Period and on or within the one (1) year period following such Change of Control, the Performance Share Units that have not been previously cancelled and forfeited shall become fully vested and payable at the Target Award level (and the Performance Period shall thereafter be deemed to have terminated).  Any Shares to which Award Recipient becomes entitled to receive pursuant to the preceding sentence will be issued and delivered to Award Recipient contemporaneous with the consummation of the Change of Control or, if later, on or before the sixtieth (60th) day following the Award Recipients Separation from Service (but, in each case, within the short-term deferral exception as specified in Treas. Reg.  1.409A-1(b)(4)).
 
 
 
 
(d)
 
For purposes of this Agreement and unless otherwise defined in a Company plan applicable to Award Recipient or an agreement between the Award Recipient and the Company, if any, the following terms shall have the following meanings: (i) a  shall mean (A) any merger, consolidation or business combination in which the stockholders of Alpha immediately prior to the merger, consolidation or business combination do not own at least a majority of the outstanding equity interests of the surviving parent entity, (B) the sale of all or substantially all of the Companys assets in a single transaction or a series of related transactions, (C) the acquisition of beneficial ownership or control of (including, without limitation, power to vote) a majority of the outstanding Common Stock by any person or entity (including a group as defined by or under Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act), (D) the stockholders of Alpha approve any plan for the dissolution or liquidation of Alpha, or (E) a contested election of directors, as a result of which or in connection with which the persons who were directors of Alpha before such election or their nominees cease to constitute a majority of the Board; (ii) the term  shall mean Award Recipients physical or mental incapacity to perform his or her usual duties with such condition likely to remain continuously and permanently as determined by the Company; (iii) the term  shall mean Employer Cause as set forth in any employment agreement between the Award Recipient and the Company or, in the absence of such an agreement, Cause as defined by the Companys employment policies in effect at the time of Separation from Service; (iv) the term  shall mean (A) the date Award Recipient reaches the age of 62 with ten (10) Years of Service, (B) the date the Award Recipient reaches the age of 65, or (C) a combination of age and Years of Service which equals 80 (for example, an Award Recipient who reaches the age of 50 with thirty (30) Years of Service); and (v) the term  shall mean the aggregate annual periods of continuous employment or other service with the Company measured from the Award Recipients date of hire (or re-hire) and ending on the date the Award Recipient Separates from Service, including employment or other service with any affiliates or subsidiaries which become such after the Grant Date, including any predecessors and any other entities for this purpose as approved by the Committee (or its delegatee(s)), and provided that an absence or leave approved by the Company, to the extent permitted by applicable provisions of the Code, shall not be considered an interruption of employment or performance of services for any purpose under this Agreement.  Whether an Award Recipient has experienced a Separation from Service will be determined based on all of the facts and circumstances in accordance with the guidance issued under Section 409A and, to the extent not inconsistent therewith, the terms of the Plan.
Change of Control
Permanent Disability
Cause
Retirement
Years of Service
 
Section 7.
 
Clawback/Recoupment.
 
(a)
 
The Committee may, to the extent permitted by governing law, require reimbursement of any payment of Shares received in settlement of this Award if the Award Recipient is an employee of pay grade 22 or higher as of the Grant Date where: (i) the payment was predicated upon the achievement of certain financial results that were subsequently the subject of a restatement of the Companys financial statements filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which restatement occurs no more than three years from the date of settlement of this Award, where the Committee reasonably determines that any employee engaged in intentional misconduct that caused or partially caused the need for the restatement, and a lower payment would have been made to the Award Recipient based upon the restated financial results; provided, however, that the Committee reserves the discretion to determine that any Award Recipient shall not be subject to this provision; or (ii) the Award Recipient engaged in ethical misconduct in violation of the Companys Code of Business Ethics, which the Committee reasonably determines caused material business or reputational harm to the Company.
 
(b)
 
If the Committee reasonably determines that any payment of Shares received in settlement of this Award should be reimbursed under subsections (a)(i) or (a)(ii), then the following shall apply: (i) in the event reimbursement is required under subsection (a)(i), the Award Recipient shall be required to reimburse the Company in an amount equal to the dollar value of the Common Stock the Award Recipient received in excess of what the Award Recipient would have received on such date had the payment been based upon such restated financial results; or (ii) in the event reimbursement is required under subsection (a)(ii), the Award Recipient shall be required to promptly reimburse the Company in an amount the Committee reasonably determines to be appropriate, which could equal the full value of the Common Stock the Award Recipient received during such three-year period.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company shall not be required to make any additional payment in the event that the restated financial results would have resulted in a greater number of Shares upon payment of the Award to the Award Recipient.
 
 
 
 
(c)
 
In the event the Award Recipient is obligated to reimburse the Company for amounts under subsections (b)(i) or (b)(ii), the Company may, at its sole election: (i) require the Award Recipient to pay the amount in a lump sum within 30 days of such determination; (ii) deduct the amount from any other compensation owed to the Award Recipient (as a condition to receiving the performance-based compensation under this Award, the Award Recipient agrees to permit the deduction provided for by this subsection); or (iii) a combination of subsections (c)(i) and (c)(ii).
 
(d)
 
By accepting this Award, the Award Recipient agrees that timely payment to the Company as set forth in this Section 7 is reasonable and necessary, and that timely payment to the Company as set forth in this Section 7 is not a penalty, and it does not preclude the Company from seeking all other remedies that may be available to the Company.  The Award Recipient further acknowledges and agrees that the Award Recipients Performance Share Units shall be cancelled and forfeited without payment by the Company if the Committee reasonably determines that the Award Recipient has engaged in the conduct specified under subsection (a).
 
(e)
 
Notwithstanding any other provisions in this Agreement, if this Award becomes subject to recovery under any law, government regulation, stock exchange listing requirement, and/or Company policy, this Award shall be subject to such deductions, recoupment and clawback as may be required to be made pursuant to such law, government regulation, stock exchange listing requirement and/or Company policy.
 
Section 8.
 
  Except as otherwise provided in the Plan or this Agreement, no holder of Performance Share Units shall be, or have any of the rights or privileges of, a stockholder of Alpha with respect to any Shares unless and until certificates or other evidence of ownership representing such Shares shall have been issued or reflected in such persons name.  Prior to actual receipt of the Shares under this Award, Award Recipient may not transfer any interest in the Award or the underlying Shares. Award Recipient acknowledges and agrees that the Shares which Award Recipient acquires pursuant to this Agreement, if any, shall not be sold, transferred, assigned, pledged or hypothecated in the absence of an effective registration statement for the Shares under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ), and applicable state securities laws or an applicable exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act and any applicable state securities laws, and shall not be sold or otherwise disposed of in any manner which would constitute a violation of any applicable securities laws, whether federal or state.  Any attempt to transfer the Performance Share Units or Shares in violation of this Section or the Plan shall render this Award of Performance Share Units null and void.
Limitation of Rights; Investment Representation.
Securities Act
 
 
 
 
Section 9.
 
  Award Recipient acknowledges that any income for federal, state or local income tax purposes that Award Recipient is required to recognize on account of the issuance and delivery of Shares to Award Recipient shall be subject to withholding of tax by the Company.  In accordance with administrative procedures established by the Company, Award Recipient may elect to satisfy his or her minimum statutory withholding tax obligations, if any, on account of the issuance of Shares or settlement of this Award in one or a combination of the following methods: in cash or separate check made payable to the Company or by authorizing the Company to withhold from the Shares to be issued to the Award Recipient hereunder a sufficient number of whole Shares distributable in connection with this Award equal to the applicable minimum statutory withholding tax obligation.  In the event Award Recipient does not make such payment when requested, the Company may refuse to issue or cause to be delivered any Shares under this Agreement or any other incentive plan agreement entered into by Award Recipient and the Company until such payment has been made or arrangements for such payment satisfactory to the Company have been made.
Income Taxes.
 
Section 10.
 
Neither the Plan nor this Agreement shall be deemed to give Award Recipient any right to continue to be employed by, or provide services to, the Company, nor shall the Plan or the Agreement be deemed to limit in any way the Companys right to terminate the employment or services of the Award Recipient at any time.
Rights to Continued Employment.
 
Section 11.
 
  Award Recipient will provide assistance reasonably requested by the Company in connection with actions taken by Award Recipient while employed by the Company, including, but not limited to, assistance in connection with any lawsuits or other claims against the Company arising from events during the period in which Award Recipient was employed by the Company.
Further Assistance.
 
Section 12.
 
  Award Recipient acknowledges that the business of the Company is highly competitive and that the Companys strategies, methods, books, records, and documents, technical information concerning their products, equipment, services, and processes, procurement procedures and pricing techniques, the names of and other information (such as credit and financial data) concerning former, present or prospective customers and business affiliates, all comprise confidential business information and trade secrets which are valuable, special, and unique assets which the Company uses in its business to obtain a competitive advantage over competitors.  Award Recipient further acknowledges that protection of such confidential business information and trade secrets against unauthorized disclosure and use is of critical importance to the Company in maintaining its competitive position.  Award Recipient acknowledges that by reason of Award Recipients duties to an association with the Company, Award Recipient has had and will have access to and has and will become informed of confidential business information which is a competitive asset of the Company.  Award Recipient hereby agrees that Award Recipient will not, at any time during or after employment, make any unauthorized disclosure of any confidential business information or trade secrets of the Company, or make any use thereof, except in the carrying out of employment responsibilities. Award Recipient shall take all necessary and appropriate steps to safeguard confidential business information and protect it against disclosure, misappropriation, misuse, loss and theft.  Confidential business information shall not include information in the public domain (but only if the same becomes part of the public domain through a means other than a disclosure prohibited hereunder).  The above notwithstanding, a disclosure shall not be unauthorized if (i) it is required by law or by a court of competent jurisdiction or (ii) it is in connection with any judicial, arbitration, dispute resolution or other legal proceeding in which Award Recipients legal rights and obligations as an employee or under this Agreement are at issue; provided, however, that Award Recipient shall, to the extent practicable and lawful in any such events, give prior notice to the Company of Award Recipients intent to disclose any such confidential business information in such context so as to allow the Company an opportunity (which Award Recipient will not oppose) to obtain such protective orders or similar relief with respect thereto as may be deemed appropriate.  Any information not specifically related to the Company would not be considered confidential to the Company.  In addition to any other remedy available at law or in equity, in the event of any breach by Award Recipient of the provisions of this Section 12 which is not waived in writing by the Company, all vesting of the Performance Share Units shall cease effective upon the occurrence of the actions or inactions by Award Recipient constituting a breach by Award Recipient of the provisions of this Section 12.
Confidentiality.
 
 
 
 
Section 13.
 
  This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Company and Award Recipient and their respective heirs, representatives, successors and permitted assigns.  This Agreement shall not confer any rights or remedies upon any person other than the Company and the Award Recipient and their respective heirs, representatives, successors and permitted assigns.  The parties agree that this Agreement shall survive the issuance of the Shares.
Binding Effect; No Third Party Beneficiaries.
 
Section 14.
 
  The Plan is hereby incorporated by reference into this Agreement and is made a part hereof as though fully set forth in this Agreement.  Award Recipient, by execution of this Agreement, (i) represents that he or she is familiar with the terms and provisions of the Plan, and (ii) agrees to abide by all of the terms and conditions of this Agreement and the Plan. Award Recipient accepts as binding, conclusive and final all decisions or interpretations of the Designated Administrator of the Plan upon any question arising under the Plan and this Agreement (including, without limitation, the date of Award Recipients Separation from Service).  In the event of any conflict between the Plan and this Agreement, the Plan shall control and this Agreement shall be deemed to be modified accordingly, except to the extent that the Plan gives the Designated Administrator the express authority to vary the terms of the Plan by means of this Agreement, in which case, this Agreement shall govern.
Agreement to Abide by Plan; Conflict between Plan and Agreement.
 
Section 15.
 
  Except as otherwise provided herein, in any Company plan applicable to the Award Recipient, or in any other agreement between Award Recipient and the Company, this Agreement and the Plan, each of which Award Recipient has reviewed and accepted in connection with the grant of the Performance Share Units reflected by this Agreement, constitutes the entire agreement between the parties and supersedes any prior understandings, agreements, or representations by or between the parties, written or oral, to the extent they related in any way to the subject matter of this Agreement.  Without limitation upon the foregoing, Award Recipient hereby expressly agrees that the Performance-Based Incentive Compensation Award Agreement and related incentive compensation award that was granted to Award Recipient by the Company on [_____________] under the Alpha Natural Resources, Inc. 2010 Long-Term Incentive Plan is hereby terminated and cancelled and of no further force or effect as of the date hereof, without the payment of any additional consideration by or to the Award Recipient.
Entire Agreement; Prior Award.
 
 
 
 
Section 16.
 
  To the extent not superseded by federal law, the laws of the state of Delaware (without regard to the conflicts laws of Delaware) shall control in all matters relating to this Agreement and any action relating to this Agreement must be brought in State and Federal Courts located in the Commonwealth of Virginia.
Choice of Law.
 
Section 17.
 
  All notices, requests, demands, claims, and other communications under this Agreement shall be in writing. Any notice, request, demand, claim, or other communication under this Agreement shall be deemed duly given if (and then two business days after) it is sent by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, and addressed to the intended recipient and, if to Alpha, at its address provided in Section 20, and, if to the Award Recipient, the Award Recipients most recent address set forth in the Companys records.  Either party to this Agreement may send any notice, request, demand, claim, or other communication under this Agreement to the intended recipient at such address using any other means (including personal delivery, expedited courier, messenger service, telecopy, ordinary mail, or electronic mail), but no such notice, request, demand, claim, or other communication shall be deemed to have been duly given unless and until it actually is received by the intended recipient.  Either party to this Agreement may change the address to which notices, requests, demands, claims, and other communications hereunder are to be delivered by giving the other party notice in the manner set forth in this section.
Notice.
 
Section 18.
 
  This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original but all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
Counterparts.
 
Section 19.
 
  This Agreement may be amended or modified at any time by an instrument in writing signed by the parties hereto, or as otherwise provided under the Plan.  Notwithstanding, Alpha may, in its sole discretion and subject to the terms of the Plan, modify or amend the terms of this Agreement, impose conditions on the timing and effectiveness of the issuance of the Shares, or take any other action it deems necessary or advisable, to cause this Award to be excepted from Section 409A of the Code (or to comply therewith to the extent Alpha determines it is not excepted).
Amendments.
 
 
 
 
Section 20.
 
Acknowledgements.
 
(a)
 
By accepting this Award of Performance Share Units, the Award Recipient acknowledges receipt of a copy of the Plan, and the prospectus relating to this Award of Performance Share Units, and agrees to be bound by the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and the Plan, as in effect and/or amended from time to time.
 
(b)
 
The Plan and related documents, which may include but do not necessarily include the Plan prospectus, this Agreement and financial reports of the Company, may be delivered to you electronically.  Such means of delivery may include but do not necessarily include the delivery of a link to a Company intranet site or the internet site of a third party involved in administering the Plan, the delivery of the documents via e-mail or CD-ROM or such other delivery determined at the Designated Administrators discretion.  Both Internet Email and the World Wide Web are required in order to access documents electronically.
 
(c)
 
This Award is intended to be excepted from coverage under Section 409A of the Code and the regulations promulgated thereunder and shall be interpreted and construed accordingly.  Notwithstanding, Award Recipient recognizes and acknowledges that Section 409A of the Code may impose upon the Award Recipient certain taxes or interest charges for which the Award Recipient is and shall remain solely responsible.
 
(d)
 
Award Recipient acknowledges that, by receipt of this Award, Award Recipient has read this Section 20 and consents to the electronic delivery of the Plan and related documents, as described in this Section 20.  Award Recipient acknowledges that Award Recipient may receive from the Company a paper copy of any documents delivered electronically at no cost if Award Recipient contacts the Director-Compensation Systems of the Company by telephone at (276) 619-4410 or by mail to One Alpha Place, P.O. Box 16429, Bristol, VA 24209.  Award Recipient further acknowledges that Award Recipient will be provided with a paper copy of any documents delivered electronically if electronic delivery fails.
 
 
 
 
 
the parties hereto have signed this Agreement as of this __th day of _______, 20__.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF,
 
ALPHA NATURAL RESOURCES, INC.
By:   
                                                                          
Name:
Title:
Address:
Alpha Natural Resources, Inc.
One Alpha Place
P.O. Box 16429
Bristol, VA 24209
Attn: Director-Compensation Systems
AWARD RECIPIENT
 
 
                                                           
 
 
 
 


