FILE:ANR/ANR-8K-20120503070558.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  FINANCIAL CONDITION
 
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
 
SIGNATURES
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On May 3, 2012, Alpha Natural Resources, Inc. issued a press release announcing earnings and other financial results for its fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2012 and that Management would review these results in an investment community conference call at 10:00 AM Eastern (7:00 AM Pacific) on Thursday, May 3, 2012.
 
This Current Report on Form 8-K and the earnings press release attached hereto are being furnished by the Registrant pursuant to Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition. In accordance with General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99.1, shall not be deemed filed for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liability of that section or Sections 11 and 12(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. In addition, this information shall not be deemed incorporated by reference into any of the Registrants filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in any such filing.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d) Exhibit
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
Alpha Natural Resources, Inc.
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Alpha Natural Resources, Inc. (NYSE: ANR), a leading U.S. coal producer, reported a first quarter net loss of $29.1 million or $0.13 per diluted share compared to net income of $49.8 million or $0.41 per diluted share last year.  Excluding amortization of acquired intangibles, changes in fair value and settlement of derivative instruments, merger-related expenses, UBB expenses, severance charges arising from the production adjustments announced February 3, a weather-related property damage loss, and related tax impacts of these items, the first quarter 2012 adjusted net loss was $58.2 million or $0.27 per diluted share, compared to net income of $78.9 million or $0.65 per diluted share last year.
BRISTOL, Va., May 3, 2012
Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, depletion and amortization, or EBITDA, for the first quarter 2012 was $222.1 million, compared to $193.0 million in the year ago period.  Excluding the change in fair value and settlement of derivative instruments, merger-related expenses, UBB expenses, severance charges arising from the production adjustments announced February 3, and a weather-related property damage loss, first quarter 2012 adjusted EBITDA was $210.5 million.  
1.  These are non-GAAP financial measures.  A reconciliation of adjusted net income (loss) to net income (loss), a reconciliation of both EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA to net income (loss), and a reconciliation of adjusted cost of coal sales per ton to cost of coal sales per ton are included in tables accompanying the financial schedules.
2.  The results for the fourth quarter of 2011 have been adjusted to reflect certain immaterial corrections and the impact of retrospective adjustments made as a result of applying acquisition accounting for Massey.
 
 
 
 
 
During the first quarter, Alphas workforce continued to deliver on our shared commitment to Running Right, said Kevin Crutchfield, Alphas chief executive officer.  We recently announced that eight operations received MSHAs 2011 Sentinel of Safety certificates, and two operations received Mountaineer Guardian Safety awards.  In addition, Alphas incident rate improved 21 percent in the first quarter of 2012, compared to the last seven months of 2011 since the closing of the Massey acquisition.  We salute the successful efforts of our workforce, but the loss of a member of the Alpha family at the Kingston No. 2 mine reminds us that Alphas safety goal is zero incidents.  To that end, we remain dedicated to Running Right and continuous improvement in our safety performance.
 
 
Alpha responded swiftly to challenging market conditions, reducing planned 2012 production volumes by approximately 4 million tons based on actions announced in early February.  Since then unusually mild winter weather and decade-low natural gas prices have significantly reduced domestic steam coal consumption and driven utility inventories to near record levels.  In response coal producers continue to announce plans to reduce production.  Alpha plans to introduce additional production adjustments in the near future.  Accordingly, we are reducing the midpoint of our 2012 shipment guidance by an additional 7 million tons of steam coal.  The market for metallurgical coal has also softened somewhat, particularly for lower-quality metallurgical coals, due to increased global supply and a geographically mixed demand picture.  In response, we are reducing the midpoint of our shipment guidance for metallurgical coal by 0.5 million tons.  In this environment, Alpha will remain focused on selectively pruning our portfolio, controlling costs, and maximizing free cash flow generation.
In approximately one month, we will reach the first anniversary of Alphas acquisition of Massey Energy Company. With three full quarters as a combined entity now behind us, the integration is progressing well, and we are on track to achieve our targeted synergies.  Here is just a short list of our achievements thus far:
Following the Massey transaction, Alpha is now among the top three leading global suppliers of metallurgical coal and controls more export terminal capacity than any other U.S. producer.  As market conditions improve, Alpha is well-positioned to capitalize on strengthening global demand for metallurgical coal.
 
 
 
 
Financial Performance
During the first quarter of 2012, Alpha shipped 11.8 million tons of Powder River Basin (PRB) coal, 11.5 million tons of Eastern steam coal and 4.9 million tons of Eastern metallurgical coal, compared with 12.5 million tons of PRB coal, 4.9 million tons of Eastern steam coal and 3.6 million tons of Eastern metallurgical coal in the first quarter of 2011.  Average per ton realizations for PRB shipments rose to $12.95 compared to $11.96 in the fourth quarter of 2011 and $11.91 in the first quarter of 2011.  The average per ton realization for Eastern steam coal shipments in the first quarter of 2012 was $67.48 compared to $66.93 in the prior quarter and $66.89 in the first quarter last year, and the average per ton realization for metallurgical coal was $145.51 in the first quarter compared to $156.48 in the prior quarter and $141.76 in the first quarter of 2011.
 
 
 
 
Liquidity and Capital Resources
Cash provided by operations for the quarter ended March 31, 2012 was $166.6 million compared to $168.4 million for the first quarter of 2011.
Capital expenditures for the first quarter 2012 were $125.8 million, versus $57.1 million in the comparable period last year.  
At the end of the first quarter, Alpha had available liquidity of approximately $1.8 billion, consisting of an aggregate $0.7 billion of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, plus $1.1 billion available under the companys secured credit facilities.  Total long-term debt, including the current portion of long-term debt at March 31, 2012, remained approximately $3.0 billion, consistent with December 31, 2011.  
Market Overview
Following a year of record-high metallurgical coal pricing in 2011, the market for metallurgical coal experienced a period of relative weakness in the opening months of 2012.  Recent data suggests that pricing has stabilized for premium, benchmark quality coals in Asia due to Chinese steel production that rose four percent in March to an annualized rate of approximately 725 million metric tons and labor and weather-related supply disruptions in Australia.  However, European steel production is pacing below 2011 levels, and demand and pricing in the Atlantic basin remain challenged relative to the markets in Asia, particularly for lower quality and blended products that comprise the bulk of U.S. export products.  While the export market for U.S. metallurgical coal has been under pressure recently, the market appears unlikely to deteriorate further and may strengthen in coming quarters, depending upon a host of variables, including expected continued growth in Asian steel production, any further supply disruptions in Australia, expected gradual economic recovery in Europe, and potential additional cutbacks in U.S. production of lower quality coking coals.
Demand for domestic thermal coal has significantly declined in recent months due to the inter-related effects of mild winter weather and extremely low natural gas prices which have reduced coal burn by domestic utilities.  Utility inventories are approaching record levels and have grown rapidly to greater than 200 million tons nationwide.  Based on todays natural gas prices, coal-to-gas switching has expanded from the East, where it has been a fairly common phenomenon, into areas served by PRB coals.  Requests for shipment deferrals have become commonplace in all regions, and spot pricing is below production costs for much of Central Appalachia and certain PRB operations.  In light of burgeoning inventories, some thermal coal shipments have been re-sold either to other utilities or to traders with some of the coal ultimately moving into the seaborne market.  Producers are also striving to maximize exports in order to place thermal coal production, and seaborne thermal coal exports from the U.S. have increased significantly in the first quarter of 2012.  U.S. coal producers have responded to this challenging market environment by adjusting production volumes and idling high cost mines.  Announced cutbacks to date are in the range of approximately 50 million tons annually and additional reductions appear necessary to balance supply and demand.  Alpha remains focused on creating a sustainable thermal coal portfolio and continues to evaluate how best to match thermal coal production with expected demand.
Markets for both metallurgical and thermal coal are under pressure, but the challenges facing the metallurgical market appear to be cyclical and could reverse quickly.  The challenges facing the domestic steam coal market, on the other hand, appear to be both cyclical and structural and are likely to linger well into 2013.  Alpha continues to pursue its three-pronged strategy: supporting and augmenting our metallurgical coal franchise; creating a sustainable steam coal portfolio; and taking appropriate actions to address operations that are unable to contribute to a sustainable portfolio.  
 
 
 
 
Outlook
metallurgical coal, compared to the previous range of 20.0 million tons to 25.0 million tons.  Eastern steam coal shipments in 2012 are now expected to range from 38.0 million tons to 44.0 million tons, compared to the previous range of 42.0 million tons to 48.0 million tons.  Western steam coal shipments out of the Powder River Basin in 2012 are anticipated to be in the range of 42.0 million tons to 48.0 million tons, compared to the previous range of 45.0 million tons to 51.0 million tons.  As of April 20, 2012, 78 percent of the midpoint of anticipated metallurgical coal shipments were committed and priced at an average per ton realization of $146.31; 99 percent of the midpoint of anticipated Eastern steam coal shipments were committed and priced at an average per ton realization of $66.78; and 100 percent of the midpoint of anticipated PRB shipments were committed and priced at an average per ton realization of $12.83.  Alphas expected range for the cost of coal sales per ton in 2012 is $75 to $79 in the East, compared to the prior guidance range of $72 to $77.  The increase in Eastern cost of coal sales per ton is due to the reduction in expected shipment volumes and a mix shift with proportionally more metallurgical and less thermal coal shipments.  The expected range for the cost of coal sales per ton in West is unchanged at $10.50 to $11.50.  Selling, general and administrative expenses are anticipated to range from $210 million to $230 million for 2012, compared to prior guidance of $220 million to $240 million.  DD&A expense is expected to range between $1.1 billion and $1.2 billion, compared to the prior guidance of $1.05 billion to $1.15 billion.  Interest expense guidance remains unchanged at $175 million to $185 million.  Anticipated capital expenditures for 2012 have been reduced by $100 million to a range of $450 million to $650 million, compared to the prior guidance of $550 million to $750 million.
Alpha is updating its 2012 shipment guidance ranges.  The Company now expects to ship between 20.0 million tons and 24.0 million tons of Eastern
NOTES:
 
 
 
About Alpha Natural Resources
With $7.1 billion in total revenue in 2011, Alpha Natural Resources ranks as Americas second-largest coal producer by revenue and third-largest by production. Alpha is the nations largest supplier of metallurgical coal used in the steel-making process and is a major supplier of thermal coal to electric utilities and manufacturing industries. In 2011, the Company had more than 200 Customers on five continents. More information about Alpha can be found on the companys Web site at .
www.alphanr.com
Forward Looking Statements
This news release includes forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are based on Alphas expectations and beliefs concerning future events and involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from current expectations. These factors are difficult to predict accurately and may be beyond Alphas control. The following factors are among those that may cause actual results to differ materially from our forward-looking statements:
These and other risks and uncertainties are discussed in greater detail in Alphas and Masseys Annual Reports on Form 10-K and other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Forward-looking statements in this news release or elsewhere speak only as of the date made. New uncertainties and risks come up from time to time, and it is impossible for Alpha to predict these events or how they may affect the Company. Alpha has no duty to, and does not intend to, update or revise the forward-looking statements in this news release after the date it is issued.  In light of these risks and uncertainties, investors should keep in mind that the results, events or developments disclosed in any forward-looking statement made in this news release may not occur. 
 
 
 
 
 
Investor Contact
Todd Allen, CFA
Vice President, Investor Relations
276-739-5328
tallen@alphanr.com
Media Contact
Ted Pile
Vice President, Corporate Communications
276-623-2920
tpile@alphanr.com
Use of Non-GAAP Measures
In addition to the results prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (GAAP) provided throughout this press release, Alpha has presented the following non-GAAP financial measures, which management uses to gauge operating performance: EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, adjusted net income (loss), adjusted diluted earnings per common, adjusted cost of coal sales per ton, adjusted coal margin per ton and adjusted weighted average coal margin per ton.
 
Alpha defines EBITDA as net income (loss) plus interest expense, income tax expense, depreciation, depletion and amortization, and amortization of acquired intangibles less interest income and income tax benefit.  Alpha defines adjusted EBITDA as EBITDA plus expenses attributable to mergers, goodwill impairment, losses on early extinguishment of debt, UBB expenses, mineral lease terminations expense, losses from changes in fair value and settlements of derivative instruments, and changes in estimated future costs of water treatment at closed mines less gains from changes in fair value and settlements of derivative instruments and various gains and losses not expected to recur on a quarterly basis.  Alpha defines adjusted net income (loss) as net income (loss) plus expenses attributable to mergers, goodwill impairment, losses on early extinguishment of debt, losses from changes in fair value and settlements of derivative instruments, changes in estimated future costs of water treatment at closed mines, amortization of acquired intangibles, UBB expenses, mineral lease terminations expense, less gains from changes in fair value and settlements of derivative instruments and various gains and losses that are not expected to recur on a quarterly basis, discrete income tax benefits from reversal of valuation allowances for deferred tax assets and reversal of reserves for uncertain tax positions, adjustments to deferred taxes due to significant law changes and estimated income tax effects of the pre-tax adjustments.  Adjusted diluted earnings (loss) per common share is adjusted net income (loss) divided by weighted average diluted shares.  
Alpha defines adjusted cost of coal sales per ton as the cost of coal sales per ton less per ton expenses attributable to mergers, UBB expenses, mineral lease terminations expense, changes in estimated future costs of water treatment at closed mines and various gains and losses that are not expected to recur on a quarterly basis.  Alpha defines adjusted coal margin per ton as the average realized price per ton sold less the adjusted cost of coal sales per ton.  Alpha defines adjusted weighted average coal margin per ton as the weighted average realized price per ton sold less the adjusted weighted average total cost of coal sales per ton.
The definition of these non-GAAP measures may be changed periodically by management to adjust for significant items important to an understanding of operating trends.  These measures are not intended to replace financial performance measures determined in accordance with GAAP. Rather, they are presented as supplemental measures of the Companys performance that management believes are useful to securities analysts, investors and others in assessing the Companys performance over time.  Moreover, these measures are not calculated identically by all companies and therefore may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies.  A reconciliation of each of these measures to its most directly comparable GAAP measure is provided in the tables below.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


