FILE:ANR/ANR-8K-20120222160847.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[  ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[  ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[  ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
           Appointment of New Director
(d)
 
 
On February 22, 2012, the Board of Directors (the Board) of Alpha Natural Resources, Inc. (the Company) appointed Deborah M. Fretz to the Companys Board.  Ms. Fretzs Board committee assignments have not yet been determined.  In connection with her membership on the Board and in keeping with the Companys non-employee director compensatory arrangements effective for the 2011-2012 Board year, the Board approved (i) a restricted stock unit award under the Companys 2006 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan (the Plan) with a grant date fair value of $80,000; (ii) a pro-rated annual equity retainer with a grant date fair value of $21,794 under the Plan in the form of restricted stock units for the period from the date of her election to the Board to the Annual Meeting of Stockholders expected to be held on May 17, 2012 (the Annual Meeting); and (iii) a pro-rated annual cash retainer of $14,137 for the period from her date of election to the Board to the Annual Meeting.  Restricted stock units generally vest six months after retirement from the Board.  The Company issued a press release announcing Ms. Fretzs appointment, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
 
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
           Exhibits
(d)
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
Alpha Natural Resources, Inc.
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
Alpha Natural Resources (NYSE:ANR), a leading U.S. coal supplier, today announced the appointment of Deborah M. Fretz to the company's board of directors.
Bristol, Va.
, Feb. 22, 2012
 
 
Ms. Fretz was the President and Chief Executive Officer of Sunoco Logistics Partners (NYSE: SXL) from its initial public offering in 2002 until her retirement in July 2010. Sunoco Logistics is a publicly-traded master limited partnership that was formed to acquire, expand, own and operate a geographically diverse group of crude oil and refined products pipelines, terminals and storage facilities that currently operates in eleven states.
 
 
Ms. Fretz also serves as a board member of GATX Corp. (NYSE: GMT), a Chicago-based global transportation services firm, and Niska Gas Storage Partners L.P. (NYSE: NKA), an independent owner and operator of natural gas storage in North America. She also currently serves as a director of the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia. Ms. Fretz holds a Bachelor of Science degree in Biology/Chemistry from Butler University and an MBA from Temple University. She completed the Senior Executive Program through MITs Sloan School.
 
"We are pleased to welcome Debbie Fretz as a member of Alphas board of directors," said Michael Quillen, Chairman. "Her knowledge of energy, logistics and storage companies, coupled with her broad managerial and financial background, brings additional depth to our board's collective expertise and positions us for continued growth and success in the coal industry. I look forward to working with Debbie in our efforts to bring additional value to our stockholders and many stakeholders."
Fretz joins current board members: Michael Quillen, William J. Crowley, Jr., Kevin S. Crutchfield, E. Linn Draper, Jr. Glenn A. Eisenberg, P. Michael Giftos, Joel Richards, III, James F. Roberts, and Ted G. Wood.
About Alpha Natural Resources
Alpha Natural Resources is one of America's premier coal suppliers with coal production capacity of greater than 120 million tons a year.  Alpha is the nation's leading supplier and exporter of metallurgical coal used in the steel-making process and is a major supplier of thermal coal to electric utilities and manufacturing industries.  More information about Alpha can be found on the companys Web site at www.alphanr.com.
Media Contact
Rick Nida
Tel. 276-739-5304
Email: rnida@alphanr.com
                                                                     
 
 


