FILE:ANR/ANR-8K-20120808070439.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits

Alpha Natural Resources, Inc.
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
  Excluding impairment and restructuring charges, expenses related to the Upper Big Branch (UBB) mine, net amortization of acquired intangibles, changes in fair value and settlement of derivative instruments, merger-related expenses, certain other items, and related tax impacts of these items and other discrete tax items, the second quarter adjusted net loss was $72 million or $0.33 per diluted share, compared to adjusted net income of $152 million or $0.97 per diluted share last year.
BRISTOL, Va., August 8, 2012
Alpha Natural Resources, Inc. (NYSE: ANR), a leading U.S. coal producer, reported a second quarter loss of $2.2 billion or $10.14 per diluted share, compared with a loss of $50 million or $0.32 per diluted share in the second quarter of 2011.
Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, depletion and amortization (EBITDA) for the second quarter 2012 was a loss of $2.4 billion, compared with EBITDA of $109 million in the year ago period.  , and loss on early extinguishment of debt, Adjusted EBITDA was $186 million, compared with Adjusted EBITDA of $369 million in the second quarter of 2011.
Excluding impairment and restructuring charges, UBB expenses, changes in fair value and settlement of derivative instruments, merger-related expenses
In the second quarter, Alpha recorded restructuring and long-lived asset impairment charges totaling $1.0 billion, primarily associated with current market conditions and the continued optimization of Eastern operations which included reductions in operating levels and idling of several operations, as well as actions to streamline the companys organizational structure.  The $991 million reduction to long-lived asset carrying values is anticipated to reduce non-cash depletion, depreciation and amortization expense by approximately $80 million on an annualized basis.  In addition, Alpha recorded a non-cash goodwill impairment charge of $1.5 billion, reflecting the current coal market conditions, and lower expected production and shipment levels.  None of these charges are anticipated to materially impact the companys liquidity position or the future operation of its business.
 
 
 
 
 
Kevin Crutchfield, Alphas Chairman and CEO, said, These are extremely challenging times in the U.S. coal industry, with softness in both the thermal and now the metallurgical coal markets and the pace at which the fundamentals changed.  Alpha has taken decisive actions to ensure that our business is both well-suited to todays demand environment and efficient enough to provide us with the flexibility to ramp-up our world-class asset base once market conditions improve.  We have continued to optimize our Central Appalachia operations by adjusting our footprint, idling high cost thermal coal and lower-quality metallurgical coal production while focusing on our higher-margin metallurgical products. Additionally, we have reduced our overhead expenses.  Unfortunately, this occurred at a time of heightened and sustained unemployment rates and a very tepid economic recovery in the United States.  We sincerely regret the impact our production curtailments have had on good employees and their families, but the market environment with which we are faced left us no other options.  We will continue to evaluate market conditions and will make further adjustments if market conditions warrant.
We have also taken proactive steps to ensure significant financial flexibility by amending our secured credit facility and relaxing certain of our covenants in the near-term.  The amendment does not alter our total liquidity position, maintains all of our available credit facilities, does not increase our current borrowing rates, and does not force us to incur any additional debt.
It is a credit to our entire workforce, and to our ongoing dedication to Running Right, that our safety and compliance performance continues to improve despite broader market uncertainty and a regulatory environment that threatens the long-term competitive position of America.  During the second quarter, Alphas overall incident rate improved 13 percent compared with the first quarter of 2012, and our legacy Massey operations improved 9 percent from the prior quarter and a remarkable 39 percent since the third quarter of 2011, the first full quarter following our acquisition of Massey.  Seven of our Virginia operations were recognized by the Virginia Coal Mine Safety Board and Department of Mines, Minerals and Energy for their outstanding safety performance, and four of our West Virginia operations received 2011 Joseph A. Holmes Safety Association awards during the quarter.  I commend all of the hard working people in the Alpha family for their dedication to Running Right.
 
 
 
 
Financial Performance
Selling, general and administrative expense in the second quarter of 2012 was $46 million and included approximately $5 million of merger-related expenses, approximately $2 million of bad debt expense, and a benefit of approximately $15 million arising from the adjustment of incentive compensation accruals.  This compares with selling, general and administrative expense of $190 million in the second quarter last year, which $125 million of Massey acquisition-related expenses attributable to professional fees, financing and debt-related costs and various human resource-related expenses.  Depreciation, depletion and amortization (DD&A) during the quarter was $273 million, compared with $147 million in second quarter of 2011, reflecting a full three months of combined company operations in the second quarter of 2012.  Net amortization of acquired intangibles was a $17 million benefit in the second quarter of 2012, compared with a $9 million benefit in the second quarter last year.
included
 
 
 
 
Year-to-Date Results
Liquidity and Capital Resources
Operating cash flow for the quarter ended June 30, 2012 was a use of $31 million, compared with operating cash flow of $126 million in the second quarter of 2011.  The year-over-year change in operating cash flow is primarily the result of Alphas larger second quarter 2012 loss from operations and certain other cash expenditures, including legal settlement payments.
Capital expenditures for the second quarter of 2012 were $119 million, versus $116 million in the comparable period last year.  Investing activities during the second quarter also included $36.1 million for the final annual installment payment pertaining to a federal coal lease in the PRB.
At the end of the second quarter, Alpha had total liquidity of approximately $1.6 billion, which includes the $500 million minimum liquidity that must be maintained according to the terms of our recent secured credit facility amendment.  Alphas liquidity as of June 30 consisted of an aggregate $0.5 billion of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, plus $1.1 billion available under the companys secured credit facilities.  Total long-term debt, including the current portion of long-term debt at June 30, 2012, remained at approximately $3.0 billion.
th
 
 
 
 
Market Overview
The domestic market for thermal coal has been extraordinarily weak in the first half of 2012, as the combination of low-priced natural gas and mild winter weather led to a sharp reduction in coal burn and a rapid increase in utility stockpiles.  Exacerbating the situation is a regulatory environment designed to constrain the mining and use of coal for electricity generation and promote the use of natural gas and heavily-subsidized renewable sources, raising the prospect of higher electricity prices in the future.  Court decisions suggest that environmental regulation has gone too far, demonstrated by the recent decision to reject the EPAs overreaching efforts to direct the process of mine permitting that rightfully belongs to the states, and the decision to overturn the EPAs veto of the Spruce No. 1 permit.
Thermal coal consumption in 2012 is expected to decrease by more than 120 million tons compared with last year, and spot prices for thermal coal in Central Appalachia and the Powder River Basin (PRB) have languished at levels below each basins typical cash production costs.  However, the domestic thermal coal market is showing signs of gradual improvement.  Natural gas prices have risen approximately 50 percent from their recent lows.  Domestic utility inventories, which peaked at approximately 212 million tons in April, inflected and decreased slightly in the month of May, demonstrating the impact of production cutbacks implemented by U.S. producers in the first half of 2012.  Inventories stood at an estimated 204 million tons at the end of June, a level that implies the drawdown was slightly greater than the historical average due to reduced production and a heat wave throughout much of the country.  While stockpiles have fallen and thermal coal spot prices have begun to improve, inventories remain elevated, new contracting is limited, and spot pricing remains unattractive, both domestically and in the Atlantic market.  As expected, the need for baseload coal-fired generation and an uptick in natural gas prices drove a quick resurgence in PRB shipments, which have recently returned to more historically normal levels for Alpha.  Despite the signs of improvement in the domestic thermal coal market, conditions remain challenging. In this environment, Alpha will continue to assess expected demand and adjust its thermal coal production accordingly.
In light of the burgeoning utility inventories in the U.S., producers, traders and some utilities have attempted to move thermal coal onto the seaborne market.  As a result, U.S. exports are on pace for a record year, with thermal coal exports in the first five months of 2012 up approximately 77 percent to 25 million tons.  Given this significant increase in supply, primarily into the Atlantic basin, seaborne prices for thermal coal have fallen, and opportunities for additional near-term export business have diminished.  Metallurgical coal export volumes have remained relatively healthy by historical standards but are down approximately 6 percent year-over-year through May at 28 million tons.  Alphas metallurgical coal exports during the second quarter of 2012 increased to just over 4 million tons, a 17 percent increase from the first quarter.
While export volumes have held up reasonably well, the global market for metallurgical coal has been softening across the board recently.  Spot pricing for benchmark quality coals in Asia has disconnected from the third quarter benchmark of $225 per tonne and is reportedly under the $200 per metric tonne mark due to slowing steel production in China and the expected recovery of Australian export volumes following the reported resolution of recent labor disputes.  In the face of European economic weakness, year-to-date European steel production is down approximately 4 percent compared with 2011.  Given the challenging conditions in Europe, metallurgical coals are being contracted at a discount to similar qualities sold into Asia, and the market is awash with lower-quality metallurgical coals, placing significant downward pressure on pricing.  In the near-term, Alpha has pared back production of its lower quality metallurgical coals, but the company believes it is well-positioned to capitalize on improving global market fundamentals for metallurgical coal with up to 30 million tons of export terminal capacity and the ability to rapidly increase metallurgical coal shipments in the future.
   
   
 
 
 
  
Outlook
  
In 2012, Alpha anticipates total shipment volumes of 100-115 million tons, including 20-23 million tons of Eastern metallurgical coal, 38-44 million tons of Eastern steam coal, and 42-48 million tons of Western steam coal.  During the second quarter of 2012, Alpha priced 2.4 million tons of metallurgical coal for delivery in 2012 at average per ton realizations of approximately $105.  As of July 18, 2012, based on the midpoint of guidance, 86 percent of Alphas 2012 Eastern metallurgical coal shipment volume was committed and priced at an average per ton realization of $136.06, and 10 percent was committed and unpriced.  Also based on the midpoint of guidance, Alphas 2012 Eastern steam coal shipment volume was 100 percent committed and priced at an average per ton realization of $66.22, and 100 percent of Alphas 2012 Western steam coal shipment volume was committed and priced at an average per ton realization of $12.89.  Adjusted cost of coal sales in 2012 are anticipated to range from $74.00 to $78.00 per ton in the East (metallurgical and steam), down from the previous range of $75.00 to $79.00 per ton, and in the West the range is unchanged from prior guidance at $10.50 to $11.50 per ton.  Guidance ranges for selling, general and administrative expense and for depletion, depreciation and amortization expense in 2012 have both been reduced to $210 million to $225 million and $1.05 billion to $1.15 billion, respectively.  Guidance for interest expense in 2012 remains unchanged at $175 million to $185 million.  Due to expected reductions in capital purchases and leasing of selected items, Alpha has again reduced its anticipated 2012 capital expenditures to a range of $450 million to $600 million, compared with the prior range of $450 million to $650 million.
As of July 18, 2012, Alpha had 2.7 million tons of Eastern metallurgical coal committed and priced for 2013 at average per ton realizations of $125.24 and 11.0 million tons of Eastern metallurgical coal committed and unpriced.  As of the same date, Alpha had 14.6 million tons of Eastern steam coal committed and priced at average per ton realizations of $68.48 and 4.9 million tons committed and unpriced, and in the West, Alpha had 36.8 million tons committed and priced at average realizations of $12.99 per ton.
 
 
 
NOTES:
 
 
 
 
About Alpha Natural Resources
With $7.1 billion in total revenue in 2011, Alpha Natural Resources ranks as Americas second-largest coal producer by revenue and third-largest by production.  Alpha is the nations largest supplier of metallurgical coal used in the steel-making process and is a major supplier of thermal coal to electric utilities and manufacturing industries.  In 2011, the Company had more than 200 Customers on five continents.  More information about Alpha can be found on the companys Web site at .
www.alphanr.com
Forward Looking Statements
This news release includes forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are based on Alphas expectations and beliefs concerning future events and involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from current expectations. These factors are difficult to predict accurately and may be beyond Alphas control. The following factors are among those that may cause actual results to differ materially from our forward-looking statements:
These and other risks and uncertainties are discussed in greater detail in Alphas Annual Reports on Form 10-K and other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Forward-looking statements in this news release or elsewhere speak only as of the date made.  New uncertainties and risks come up from time to time, and it is impossible for Alpha to predict these events or how they may affect the Company.  Alpha has no duty to, and does not intend to, update or revise the forward-looking statements in this news release after the date it is issued.  In light of these risks and uncertainties, investors should keep in mind that the results, events or developments disclosed in any forward-looking statement made in this news release may not occur. 
Investor Contact
Todd Allen, CFA
Vice President, Investor Relations
276-739-5328
tallen@alphanr.com
Media Contact
Ted Pile
Vice President, Corporate Communications
276-623-2920
tpile@alphanr.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
Use of Non-GAAP Measures
In addition to the results prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (GAAP) provided throughout this press release, Alpha has presented the following non-GAAP financial measures, which management uses to gauge operating performance: EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, adjusted net income (loss), adjusted diluted earnings (loss) per common share, adjusted cost of coal sales per ton, adjusted coal margin per ton and adjusted weighted average coal margin per ton.
 
Alpha defines EBITDA as net income (loss) plus interest expense, income tax expense, depreciation, depletion and amortization, and amortization of acquired intangibles less interest income and income tax benefit.  Alpha defines adjusted EBITDA as EBITDA plus expenses attributable to mergers, goodwill impairment, long-lived asset impairment and restructuring, losses on early extinguishment of debt, impact of write-off of weather-related property damage, UBB expenses, mineral lease terminations expense, losses from changes in fair value and settlements of derivative instruments, and changes in estimated future costs of water treatment at closed mines less gains or losses from changes in fair value and settlements of derivative instruments and various gains and losses not expected to recur on a quarterly basis.  Alpha defines adjusted net income (loss) as net income (loss) plus expenses attributable to mergers, goodwill impairment, long-lived asset impairment and restructuring, losses on early extinguishment of debt, impact of write-off of weather-related property damage, losses from changes in fair value and settlements of derivative instruments, changes in estimated future costs of water treatment at closed mines, amortization of acquired intangibles, UBB expenses, mineral lease terminations expense, income tax charges from valuation allowance adjustments, less gains or losses from changes in fair value and settlements of derivative instruments and various gains and losses that are not expected to recur on a quarterly basis, certain discrete income tax items, adjustments to deferred taxes due to significant law changes and estimated income tax effects of the pre-tax adjustments.  Adjusted diluted earnings (loss) per common share is adjusted net income (loss) divided by weighted average diluted shares.  
Alpha defines adjusted cost of coal sales per ton as the cost of coal sales per ton less per ton expenses attributable to mergers, UBB expenses and various expenses, gains and losses that are not expected to recur on a quarterly basis.  Alpha defines adjusted coal margin per ton as the average realized price per ton sold less the adjusted cost of coal sales per ton.  Alpha defines adjusted weighted average coal margin per ton as the weighted average realized price per ton sold less the adjusted weighted average total cost of coal sales per ton.
The definition of these non-GAAP measures may be changed periodically by management to adjust for significant items important to an understanding of operating trends.  These measures are not intended to replace financial performance measures determined in accordance with GAAP. Rather, they are presented as supplemental measures of the Companys performance that management believes are useful to securities analysts, investors and others in assessing the Companys performance over time.  Moreover, these measures are not calculated identically by all companies and therefore may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies.  A reconciliation of each of these measures to its most directly comparable GAAP measure is provided in the tables below.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


