FILE:ANR/ANR-8K-20120806090431.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[  ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[  ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[  ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
           Appointment of New Director
(d)
 
On July 31, 2012, the Board of Directors (the Board) of Alpha Natural Resources, Inc. (the Company) appointed L. Patrick Hassey to the Board, effective August 1, 2012.  Mr. Hasseys Board committee assignments have not yet been determined.  
In connection with his membership on the Board and in keeping with the Companys non-employee director compensatory arrangements effective for the 2011-2012 Board year, the Board approved (i) a restricted stock unit award pursuant to the Companys 2012 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the Plan) with a grant date fair value of $80,000; (ii) a pro-rated annual equity retainer, pursuant to the Plan, in the form of restricted stock units with a grant date fair value of $73,746, for the period from the date of his appointment until the Annual Meeting of Stockholders expected to be held on May 22, 2013 (the Annual Meeting); and (iii) a pro-rated annual cash retainer of $47,835 for the period from his date of appointment until the Annual Meeting.  Restricted stock units generally vest six months after a directors retirement from the Board.  On August 6, the Company issued a press release announcing Mr. Hasseys appointment, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
 
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
           Exhibits
(d)
 
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
Exhibit Index
 

 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
Alpha Natural Resources (NYSE:ANR), a leading U.S. coal supplier, today announced the appointment of L. Patrick Hassey to the company's board of directors.
BRISTOL, Va., Aug. 6, 2012
 
 
Mr. Hassey was the chairman and chief executive officer of Allegheny Technologies Incorporated (NYSE:ATI) until his retirement in May 2011. Allegheny Technologies is one of the largest and most diversified specialty metals producers in the world. He also serves as a member of the board of directors of Ryder System, Inc. (NYSE:R), a global leader in transportation and supply chain management solutions.
"We are very pleased that Pat has joined Alphas board," said Kevin Crutchfield, chairman and CEO. "Pat has more than four decades of experience in the metals industry, a key destination for our products. His broad management background, both in the U.S. and internationally, along with his expertise in manufacturing, logistics and marketing, will further strengthen the resources available to the board and support Alphas plans for the future."
Hassey joins current board members: Kevin S. Crutchfield; William J. Crowley, Jr.; E. Linn Draper, Jr.; Glenn A. Eisenberg; Deborah M. Fretz; P. Michael Giftos; Joel Richards, III; James F. Roberts; and Ted G. Wood.
About Alpha Natural Resources
With $7.1 billion in total revenue in 2011, Alpha Natural Resources ranks as America's second-largest coal producer by revenue and third-largest by production. Alpha is the nation's largest supplier of metallurgical coal used in the steel-making process and is a major supplier of thermal coal to electric utilities and manufacturing industries. In 2011, the company had more than 200 customers on five continents. More information about Alpha can be found on the company's Web site at www.alphanr.com.
Media Contact
Rick Nida
Tel. 276-739-5304
Email: rnida@alphanr.com


