Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Introduction In 2001, the Company set records in bookings, revenues, pro forma earnings and cash flow. The Company continued to expand its product line to more than 40 products at the end of 2001, and the breadth of the Companys products was evidenced by record bookings contributions from ten different application categories. The Company continued to build new client relationships, with approximately 40 percent of new business bookings coming from clients that had no prior relationship with the Company. The Company also continued to strengthen its strategic presence in Europe. Operationally, the Company brought 420 Millennium applications live in 2001, bringing the total number of live applications to more than 1,200. The Company continued to address new markets in 2001 with the launch of two major new application suites, ProFit and Cerner ProVision. During 2001, the Company completed a major implementation of ProFit, the Companys patient accounting solution, improving its position to address an estimated $3 billion market. ProVision, the Companys enterprise wide image management solution, was also launched in 2001. ProVision allows the Company to be competitive in an estimated $1 billion market. Several industry forces continue to create significant pressures on health care organizations to expand the use of information technology. The Leapfrog Group is becoming an increasing force for driving systemic change in health care organizations. Leapfrog recommends that employers select health plans with hospitals that use a computerized physician order entry system as a primary method of eliminating medical errors in hospitals. The Institute of Medicine issued a report in 2001 indicating that the use of information technology is critical to improving the quality and safety of health care. The industry is also facing workforce shortages, with as many as 126,000 open nursing positions, and this issue could be exacerbated in coming years by the very large increase in demand for health care services that will be caused by the aging of the baby boomers, the average of whom will be approximately 65 years old by 2010. The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA) adds an additional element of complexity for healthcare organizations around security and patient confidentiality. The Company believes the wide range of issues health care organizations face can be best addressed with information technology. The Company believes that its investment in the Millennium architecture creates a major competitive advantage. Millennium is the only fully integrated, large scale, contemporary, enterprise wide architecture in the industry. This integration and the comprehensiveness of the Companys solutions position the Company very well to address the array of issues faced by health care organizations. Results of Operations Year Ended December 29, 2001, Compared to Year Ended December 30, 2000 The Companys revenues increased 34% to $542,605,000 in 2001 from $404,504,000 in 2000. Net earnings, before non recurring charges and credits were $34,217,000 in 2001 compared to $20,366,000 in 2000. Non recurring charges and credits in 2001, as described below, included a gain on software license settlement and investment losses. Non recurring charges and credits in 2000, as described below, included a realized investment gain and loss, write offs of acquired in process research and development and a write down of intangible assets. Including the non recurring charges and credits, the Company had a loss of $42,366,000 in 2001 compared to net earnings of $105,265,000 in 2000. Revenues In 2001, revenues increased due to an increase in system sales and support of installed systems. System sales increased 42% to $373,078,000 in 2001 from $263,109,000 in 2000. Included in system sale are revenues from the sale of software, hardware, sublicensed software and professional services. The increase in system sales is due to an increase in new contract bookings in 2001 compared to 2000. 20 Total sales to the installed base in 2001, including new systems, incremental hardware and software, support and maintenance services and discrete services, were 73% of total revenues in 2001 compared to 77% in 2000. At December 29, 2001, the Company had $566,280,000 in contract backlog and $221,393,000 in support and maintenance backlog, compared to $439,943,000 in contract backlog and $184,360,000 in support and maintenance backlog at the end of 2000. Support and maintenance revenues increased 22% in 2001 compared to 2000. Included in support and maintenance are revenues from support and maintenance of software, hardware and sublicensed software. These revenues represented 26% of 2001 and 28% of 2000 total revenues. This increase was due primarily to the increase in the Companys installed and converted client base. Other revenues increased 9% to $28,861,000 in 2001 from $26,497,000 in 2000. Included in other revenues are revenues from subscriptions, services to clients and education to clients. This increase was due primarily to additional revenues derived from subscriptions and services to clients. Cost of Revenues The cost of revenues includes the cost of third party consulting services, computer hardware and sublicensed software purchased from computer and software manufacturers for delivery to clients. It also includes the cost of hardware maintenance and sublicensed software support subcontracted to the manufacturers. The cost of revenues was 21% of total revenues in 2001, and 22% of total revenues in 2000. Such costs, as a percent of revenues, typically have varied as the mix of revenue (software, hardware, services and support) components carrying different margin rates changes from period to period. The decrease in the cost of revenue as a percent of total revenues resulted principally from a decrease in the percent of revenue from computer hardware and sublicensed software, which carry a higher cost of revenue percentage. Sales and Client Service Sales and client service expenses include salaries of client service personnel, communications expenses and unreimbursed travel expenses. Also included are sales and marketing salaries, travel expenses, tradeshow costs and advertising costs. These expenses as a percent of total revenues were 42% in both 2001 and 2000. The increase in total sales and client service expenses is attributable to the cost of a larger field sales and services organization and marketing of new products. Software Development Software development expenses include salaries, documentation and other direct expenses incurred in product development and amortization of software development costs. Total expenditures for software development, including both capitalized and noncapitalized portions, for 2001 and 2000 were $113,872,000 and $90,694,000, respectively. These amounts exclude amortization. Capitalized software costs were $37,828,000 and $30,982,000 for 2001 and 2000, respectively. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses include salaries for corporate, financial, and administrative staffs, utilities, communications expenses and professional fees. These expenses as a percent of total revenues were 7% in both 2001 and 2000. Write off of Acquired In Process Research and Development Write off of acquired in process research and development includes one time expenses resulting from the acquisitions of CITATION Computer Systems, Inc. and ADAC Healthcare Information Systems, Inc., in 2000. Write down of Intangible Assets Write down of intangible assets is a one time expense resulting from the decision to discontinue a portion of the Health Network Ventures, Inc. business as more fully described in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Interest Expense, Net Interest income was $2,896,000 in 2001 compared to $3,645,000 in 2000. This decrease is due primarily to a decrease in invested cash. Interest expense was $7,321,000 in 2001 compared to $7,316,000 in 2000. Write Down of Investment The write down of investment is a non recurring charge related to the adjustment of the carrying value of the WebMD shares in 2001. 21 Gain on Software License Settlement The gain on software license settlement is a non recurring gain related to the settlement of the WebMD performance warrants in 2001. Realized Gain on Exchange of Stock The realized gain on exchange of stock is a non recurring investment gain related to the exchange of CareInsite shares for WebMD shares in 2000. Realized Loss on Sale of Stock The realized loss on sale of stock is a non recurring investment loss related to the sale of Cybercare shares in 2001 and a portion of the WebMD shares in 2000. Income Taxes The Companys effective tax rate was a benefit of 33% in 2001 and an expense of 39% in 2000. The benefit is a result of the non recurring loss on the WebMD shares and other permanent differences. Year Ended December 30, 2000, Compared to Year Ended January 1, 2000 The Companys revenues increased 19% to $404,504,000 in 2000 from $340,197,000 in 1999. Net earnings, before extraordinary item and non recurring charges and credits was $20,366,000 in 2000 compared to $6,857,000 in 1999. Non recurring charges and credits in 2000, as described below, included a realized investment gain and loss, write off of acquired in process research and development and a write down of intangible assets. Non recurring charges in 1999, as described below, include contract reserves and branch restructuring charges. Including the extraordinary item and non recurring charges, the Company had earnings of $105,265,000 in 2000 compared to a loss of $1,211,000 in 1999. Revenues In 2000, revenues increased due to an increase in system sales and support of installed systems. System sales increased 17% to $263,109,000 in 2000 from $224,510,000 in 1999. Included in system sale are revenues from the sale of software, hardware, sublicensed software and professional services. The increase in system sales is due to an increase in new contract bookings in 2000 compared to 1999. Total sales to the installed base in 2000, including new systems, incremental hardware and software, support and maintenance services and discrete services, were 77% of total revenues in 2000 compared to 75% in 1999. At December 30, 2000, the Company had $439,943,000 in contract backlog and $184,360,000 in support and maintenance backlog, compared to $338,614,000 in contract backlog and $162,798,000 in support and maintenance backlog at the end of 1999. Support and maintenance revenues increased 22% in 2000 as compared to 1999. Included in support and maintenance are revenues from support and maintenance of software, hardware and sublicensed software. These revenues represented 28% of 2000 and 1999 total revenues. Other revenues increased 23% to $26,497,000 in 2000 from $21,489,000 in 1999. Included in other revenues are revenues from subscriptions, services to clients and education to clients. This increase was due primarily to additional revenues derived from subscriptions and services to clients; these increases were $1,765,000 and $2,324,000, respectively. The Company anticipates that other revenues will continue to increase in 2001. Cost of Revenues The cost of revenues includes the cost of third party consulting services, computer hardware and sublicensed software purchased from computer and software manufacturers for delivery to clients. It also includes the cost of hardware maintenance and sublicensed software support subcontracted to the manufacturers. The cost of revenues was 22% of total revenues in 2000, and 25% of total revenues in 1999, excluding a non recurring charge relating to fixed fee implementation contracts, as described below. Such costs, as a percent of revenues, typically have varied as the mix of revenue (software, hardware, services and support) components carrying different margin rates changes from period to period. The decrease in the cost of revenue as a percent of total revenues resulted principally from a decrease in the percent of revenue from computer hardware and sublicensed software, which carry a higher cost of revenue percentage. 22 Included in the 1999 cost of revenues is a charge of $9,449,000, which represents the remaining additional costs in excess of revenues required to complete certain remaining Cerner Millennium fixed fee implementation contracts. The Company switched to an hourly fee for service implementation model in 1997. Delays in some of the older projects, primarily caused by delays in development of the Companys Cerner Millennium products, increased the time required to complete these installations. While the Company originally anticipated these fixed fee implementations would be completed in 1999, in some instances the focus by clients on their internal Y2K projects created a further delay. As a result of the significant implementation work completed in the last half of 1999 and the agreement between the Company and these clients in the fourth quarter as to the scope of work remaining, the Company estimated that the costs to complete certain fixed fee implementation contracts would exceed the remaining revenue by $9,449,000. The Company recognized the impact of these excess costs in the fourth quarter income statement as a non recurring cost of revenues. $7,148,000 of these additional costs were incurred in 2000, with the remaining costs to be completed in 2001. There were no significant changes in the estimates of the costs to complete in 2000. Sales and Client Service Sales and client service expenses include salaries of client service personnel, communications expenses and unreimbursed travel expenses. Also included are sales and marketing salaries, travel expenses, tradeshow costs and advertising costs. These expenses as a percent of total revenues were 42% in 2000 and 41% in 1999, excluding a non recurring charge related to the closing of five branch offices, as described below. The increase in total sales and client service expenses is attributable to the cost of a larger field sales and services organization and marketing of new products. Included in 1999 sales and client service expenses is a non recurring charge related to the closing of five branch offices. In December, 1999, the Company made a decision to close five of its branch offices. The Company created a regional branch structure in 1994 in order to bring associates closer to its clients. The natural evolution of that strategy and the ability to leverage internal information technology infrastructure to create a more virtual workplace has resulted in a significant decrease in utilization of certain regional offices. This led to the decision to close these physical locations. The Company recorded a charge of $1.4 million in the 1999 fourth quarter to provide for the costs of closing these locations, primarily based on estimated lease cancellation fees. All of these costs were paid in 2000. The Company continued to maintain offices in Denver, Colorado; Detroit, Michigan; St. Louis, Missouri; Dallas, Texas; Washington, D.C.; Chesapeake, Virginia; Houston, Texas; Brussels, Belgium and Sydney, Australia, in addition to the world headquarters in North Kansas City, Missouri. Software Development Software development expenses include salaries, documentation and other direct expenses incurred in product development and amortization of software development costs. Total expenditures for software development, including both capitalized and noncapitalized portions, for 2000 and 1999 were $90,694,000 and $88,699,000, respectively. These amounts exclude amortization. Capitalized software costs were $30,982,000 and $30,192,000 for 2000 and 1999, respectively. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses include salaries for corporate, financial, and administrative staffs, utilities, communications expenses and professional fees. These expenses as a percent of total revenues were 7% in 2000 and 8% in 1999. Write off of In Process Research and Development Write off of in process research and development includes one time expenses resulting from the acquisitions of CITATION Computer Systems, Inc. and ADAC Healthcare Information Systems, Inc., in 2000. Write down of Intangible Assets Write down of intangible assets is a one time expense resulting from the decision to discontinue a portion of the Health Network Ventures, Inc. business as more fully described in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Interest Expense, Net Net interest expense was $3,671,000 in 2000 compared to $3,396,000 in 1999. The increase is due to an increase in borrowings. Realized Gain on Exchange of Stock The Realized gain on exchange of stock is a non recurring investment gain related to the exchange of CareInsite shares for WebMD shares in 2000. 23 Realized Loss on Sale of Stock The realized loss on sale of stock is a non recurring investment loss related to the sale of a portion of the WebMD shares in 2000. Income Taxes The Companys effective tax rate was 39% in 2000 and 1999. Liquidity and Capital Resources The Company had total cash and cash equivalents of $107,536,000 at the end of 2001 and working capital of $189,488,000 compared to cash and cash equivalents of $90,893,000 at the end of 2000 and working capital of $186,181,000. The Company generated cash of $64,838,000, $53,313,000 and $27,389,000 from operations in 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively. Cash flow from operations increased in 2001 and 2000, due primarily to the increase in net earnings before noncash charges, increased collection of receivables, improved payment terms and record level of conversions. Cash flow from operations increased in 1999, due primarily to increased collection of receivables, improved payment terms and record level of conversions. Cash used in investing activities consisted primarily of capitalized software development costs of $37,828,000 and $30,982,000 and purchases of capital equipment, land and buildings of $25,722,000 and $16,154,000 in 2001 and 2000, respectively. The Company also made additional investments in affiliates of $1,664,000 and $7,370,000 and completed acquisitions of businesses for $4,045,000 and $16,829,000 in 2001 and 2000, respectively. Revenues provided under support and maintenance agreements represent recurring cash flows. Support and maintenance revenues increased 22%, 22% and 23%, in 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively, and the Company expects these revenues to continue to grow as the base of installed systems grows. On April 15, 1999, the Company completed a $100,000,000 private placement of debt pursuant to a Note Agreement dated April 1, 1999. The Series A Senior Notes, with a $60,000,000 principal amount at 7.14% are payable in five equal annual installments beginning in April 2002. The Series B Senior Notes, with a $40,000,000 principal amount at 7.66% are payable in six equal annual installments beginning April 2004. The proceeds were used to retire the Companys existing $30,000,000 of debt, and the remaining funds are being used for capital improvements and to strengthen the Companys cash position. In connection with the early extinguishment of debt, the Company incurred a $1,395,000, net of taxes, extraordinary loss for a prepayment penalty and write off of deferred loan costs. The Note Agreement contains certain net worth, current ratio, and fixed charge coverage covenants and provides certain restrictions on the Companys ability to borrow, incur liens, sell assets and pay dividends. The Company was in compliance with all covenants at December 29, 2001. The Companys liquidity is influenced by many factors, including the amount and timing of the Companys revenues, its cash collections from its clients and the amounts the Company invests in software development, acquisitions and capital expenditures. The Company has a loan agreement with a bank that provides for a long term revolving line of credit for working capital purposes. The long term revolving line of credit is unsecured and requires monthly payments of interest only. Interest is payable at the Companys option at a rate based on prime (4.75% at December 29, 2001) less .5% or LIBOR (1.87% at December 29, 2001) plus 1.35%. The interest rate may be reduced by up to .5% if certain net worth ratios are maintained. At December 29, 2001, the Company had $15,000,000 in outstanding borrowings under this agreement and had $30,000,000 available for working capital purposes. The agreement contains certain net worth, current ratio, and fixed charge coverage covenants and provides certain restrictions on the Companys ability to borrow, incur liens, sell assets, and pay dividends. A commitment fee of 1/4% is payable quarterly on the unused portion of the revolving line of credit. The revolving line of credit matures on September 30, 2002. The Company believes that its present cash position, together with cash generated from operations, will be sufficient to meet anticipated cash requirements during 2002. At December 29, 2001, the Company was committed to spending between $35,000,000 to $40,000,000 under a construction contract for a new building at its Kansas City headquarters complex. The construction will be financed by the Companys line of credit and cash generated from operations. 24 The effects of inflation on the Companys business during 2001 and 2000 were not significant. Critical Accounting Policies The Company believes that there are several accounting policies that are critical to understanding the Companys historical and future performance, as these policies affect the reported amount of revenue and other significant areas involving managements judgements and estimates. These significant accounting policies relate to revenue recognition, software development, other than temporary declines in the market value of investments, allowance for doubtful accounts, and potential impairments of goodwill. These policies and the Companys procedures related to these policies are described in detail below and under specific areas within the discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations. In addition, please refer to Note 1 to the accompanying financial statements for further discussion of the Companys accounting policies. Revenue Recognition Revenues are derived primarily from the sale of clinical and financial information systems and solutions. The components of these revenues are the licensing of computer software, software support and hardware maintenance, remote hosting and outsourcing, training, installation, consulting and implementation services, subscription content, and the sale of computer hardware and sublicensed software. The Company recognizes revenue in accordance with the provisions of Statement of Position (SOP) No. 97 2, "Software Revenue Recognition," as amended by SOP No. 98 4, SOP 98 9 and clarified by Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) 101 "Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements". SOP No 97 2, as amended, generally requires revenue earned on software arrangements involving multiple elements to be allocated to each element based on the relative fair values of those elements. Revenue from multiple element software arrangements is recognized using the residual method. Under the residual method, revenue is recognized in a multiple element arrangement when Company specific objective evidence of fair value exists for all of the undelivered elements in the arrangement (i.e. professional services, maintenance, hardware and sublicensed software), but does not exist for one or more of the delivered elements in the arrangement (i.e. software products). The Company allocates revenue to each element in a multiple element arrangement based on the elements respective fair value, with the fair value determined by the price charged when that element is sold separately. Specifically, the Company determines the fair value of the maintenance portion of the arrangement based on the renewal price of the maintenance charged to clients, professional services portion of the arrangement, other than installation services, based on hourly rates which the Company charges for these services when sold apart from a software license, and the hardware and sublicense software based on the prices for these elements when they are sold separate from the software. If evidence of the fair value cannot be established for the undelivered elements of a license agreement, the entire amount of revenue under the arrangement is deferred until these elements have been delivered or objective evidence can be established. Inherent in the revenue recognition process are significant management estimates and judgements which influence the timing and the amount of revenue recognition. The Company provides several models for the procurement of its clinical and financial information systems. The predominant method is a perpetual software license agreement, project related installation services, implementation and consulting services, computer hardware and sublicensed software, and software support. For those arrangements involving the use of services, the Company uses the percentage of completion method of accounting, following the guidance in the AICPA Statement of Position No. 81 1 (SOP 81 1), Accounting for Performance of Construction Type and Certain Production Type Contracts. The Company provides installation services, which include project scoping services, conducting pre installation audit and creating initial environments. Because installation services are deemed to be essential to the functionality of the software, software license and installation services fees are recognized over the software installation period using output measures which reflect direct labor hours incurred, 25 beginning at software delivery and culminating at completion of installation, typically a three to six month process. The Company also provides implementation and consulting services, which include consulting activities that fall outside of the scope of the standard installation services. These services vary depending on the scope and complexity requested by the client. Examples of such services may include additional database consulting, system configuration, project management, testing assistance, network consulting and post conversion review services. Implementation and consulting services are generally not deemed to be essential to the functionality of the software, and, thus, do not impact the timing of the software license recognition, unless software license fees are tied to implementation milestones. In those instances, the portion of the software license fee tied to implementation milestones is deferred until the related milestone is accomplished and related fees become billable and non forfeitable. Implementation fees are recognized over the service period, which may extend from six months to three years. Remote hosting and outsourcing services are marketed under long term arrangements generally over periods of 5 to 10 years. Revenues from these arrangements are recognized as the services are performed. Software maintenance fees are marketed under annual and multi year arrangements and are recognized as revenue ratably over the contracted maintenance term. Hardware maintenance revenues are billed and recognized monthly over the contracted maintenance term. Subscription and content fees are generally marketed under annual and multi year agreements and are recognized ratably over the contracted terms. Hardware and sublicensed software sales are generally recognized upon delivery to the customer. The Company also offers its products on an application service provider ("ASP") or a term license basis, making available Company software functionality on a remote processing basis from the Companys data centers. The data centers provide system and administrative support as well as processing services. Revenue on software and services provided on an ASP or term license basis is recognized on a monthly basis over the term of the contract. The Company capitalizes related direct costs consisting of third party costs and direct software installation and implementation costs. These costs are amortized over the term of the arrangement. In the event the Company contractually agrees to develop new or customized software code for a client, the Company will utilize percentage of completion accounting in accordance with SOP 81 1. Deferred revenue is comprised of deferrals for license fees, maintenance and other services for which payment has been received and for which the service has not yet been performed. Long term deferred revenue, at December 29, 2001, represents amounts received from license fees, maintenance and other services to be earned or provided beginning in periods on or after December 29, 2002. Software Development Costs Costs incurred internally in creating computer software products are expensed until technological feasibility has been established upon completion of a detailed program design. Thereafter, all software development costs are capitalized and subsequently reported at the lower of amortized cost or net realizable value. Capitalized costs are amortized based on current and expected future revenue for each product with minimum annual amortization equal to the straight line amortization over the estimated economic life of the product. The Company is amortizing capitalized costs over five years. During 2001, 2000 and 1999, the Company capitalized $37,828,000, $30,982,000 and $30,192,000, respectively, of total software development costs of $113,872,000, $90,694,000, and $88,699,000, respectively. Amortization expense of capitalized software development costs in 2001, 2000, and 1999 was $24,142,000, $18,713,000, and $14,156,000, respectively, and accumulated amortization was $100,553,000, $76,411,000, and $57,698,000, respectively. 26 The Company expects that major software information systems companies, large information technology consulting service providers and systems integrators, internet based start up companies and others specializing in the healthcare industry may offer competitive products or services. The pace of change in the healthcare information systems market is rapid and there are frequent new product introductions, product enhancements and evolving industry standards and requirements. As a result, the capitalized software may become less valuable or obsolete and could be subject to impairment. Investments The Company accounts for its investments in equity securities which have readily determinable fair values as available for sale. Available for sale securities are reported at fair value with unrealized gains and losses reported, net of tax, as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income. For realized gains and losses on available for sale investments, the Company utilizes the specific identification method as the basis to determine cost. Investments in the common stock of certain affiliates over which the Company exerts significant influence are accounted for by the equity method. The Company also has certain other minority equity investments in non publicly traded securities. These investments are generally carried at cost as the Company owns less than 20% of the voting equity and does not have the ability to exercise significant influence over these companies. The balance of these investments at December 29, 2001 and December 30, 2000 was $18,212,000 and $26,601,000, respectively. These investments are inherently high risk as the market for technologies and content by these companies are usually early stage at the time of the investment by the Company and such markets may never be significant. The Company could lose its entire investment in certain or all of these companies. The Company monitors these investments for impairment and makes appropriate reductions in carrying values when necessary. All equity securities are reviewed by the Company for declines in fair value. If such declines are considered to be other than temporary, the cost basis of the individual security is written down to fair value as a new cost basis, and the amount of the write down is included in earnings. Concentrations Substantially all of the Companys cash and cash equivalents and short term investments, are held at two major U.S. financial institutions. The majority of the Companys cash equivalents consist of U.S. Government Federal Agency Securities, short term marketable securities, and overnight repurchase agreements. Deposits held with banks may exceed the amount of insurance provided on such deposits. Generally these deposits may be redeemed upon demand and, therefore, bear minimal risk. Substantially all of the Companys clients are integrated delivery networks, hospitals, and other healthcare related organizations. If significant adverse macro economic factors were to impact these organizations it could materially adversely affect the Company. The Companys access to certain software and hardware components are dependent upon single and sole source suppliers. The inability of any supplier to fulfill supply requirements of the Company could affect future results. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts The Company performs ongoing credit evaluations of its clients and generally does not require collateral from its clients. The Company maintains an allowance for potential losses on a specific identification basis and based on historical experience and managements judgements. The Companys allowance for doubtful accounts as of December 29, 2001 and December 30, 2000 was $6,880,000 and $5,999,000, respectively. Goodwill Excess of cost over net assets acquired (goodwill) is being amortized on a straight line basis over four to eight years. Accumulated amortization was $8,727,000, and $5,964,000 at the end of 2001, and 2000, respectively. The Company assesses the recoverability of goodwill based on forecasted undiscounted 27 future operating cash flows. Estimates of future operating cash flows inherently involve substantial management judgement about the likely impacts of current and future events and conditions. On June 30, 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") 141, "Business Combinations", and SFAS 142, "Goodwill and Intangible Assets". Major provisions of these Statements are as follows: all business combinations initiated after June 30, 2001 must use the purchase method of accounting; the pooling of interests method of accounting is prohibited except for transactions initiated before July 1, 2001; intangible assets acquired in a business combinations must be recorded separately from goodwill if they arise from contractual or other legal rights or are separable from the acquired entity and can be sold, transferred, licensed, retired or exchanged, either individually or as part of a related contract, asset or liability; goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives are not amortized but are tested for impairment annually, and whenever there is an impairment indicator; all acquired goodwill must be assigned to reporting units for purposes of impairment testing and segment reporting; and effective January 1, 2002, goodwill from previous acquisitions will no longer be subject to amortization, but will be subject to annual evaluations for impairment based on fair value. The Company completed two acquisitions subsequent to June 30, 2001, which resulted in approximately, $14.2 million of goodwill that was not amortized in accordance with SFAS 142. Goodwill amortization for 2001 was approximately $2,247,000. Management is currently reviewing the impact that the provisions of this statement will have on the Companys financial statements. Factors that may Affect Future Results of Operations, Financial Condition or Business Statements made in this report, the Annual Report to Shareholders in which this report is made a part, other reports and proxy statements filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, communications to stockholders, press releases and oral statements made by representatives of the Company that are not historical in nature, or that state the Companys or managements intentions, hopes, beliefs, expectations or predictions of the future, are "forward looking statements" within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and involve risks and uncertainties. The words "could," "should," "will be," "will lead," "will assist," "intended," "continue," "believe," "may," "expect," "hope," "anticipate," "goal," "forecast" and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward looking statements. It is important to note that any such performance and actual results, financial condition or business, could differ materially from those expressed in such forward looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed below as well as those discussed elsewhere in reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise forward looking statements to reflect changed assumptions, the occurrence of unanticipated events or changes in future operating results, financial condition or business over time. Quarterly Operating Results May Vary The Companys quarterly operating results have varied in the past and may continue to vary in future periods. Quarterly operating results may vary for a number of reasons including demand for the Companys products and services, the Companys long sales cycle, potentially long installation and implementation cycle for these larger, more complex and costlier systems and other factors described in this section and elsewhere in this report. As a result of healthcare industry trends and the market for the Companys Cerner Millennium products, a large percentage of the Companys revenues are generated by the sale and installation of larger, more complex and costlier systems. The sales process for these systems is lengthy and involves a significant technical evaluation and commitment of capital and other resources by the client. The sale may be subject to delays due to clients internal budgets and procedures for approving large capital expenditures and by competing needs for other capital expenditures and deploying new technologies or personnel resources. Delays in the expected sale or installation of these large contracts may have a significant impact on the Companys anticipated quarterly revenues and consequently its earnings, since a significant percentage of the Companys expenses are relatively fixed. These larger, more complex and costlier systems are installed and implemented over time periods ranging from approximately one month to three years and may involve significant efforts both by the Company and the client. The Company recognizes revenue upon the completion of standard milestone conditions and the amount of revenue recognized in any quarter depends upon the Companys and the 28 clients ability to meet these project milestones. Delays in meeting these milestone conditions or modification of the contract relating to one or more of these systems could result in a shift of revenue recognition from one quarter to another and could have a material adverse effect on results of operations for a particular quarter. In addition, support payments by clients for the Companys products generally do not commence until the product is in use. The Companys revenues from system sales historically have been lower in the first quarter of the year and greater in the fourth quarter of the year. Stock Price May Be Volatile The trading price of the Companys common stock may be volatile. The market for the Companys common stock may experience significant price and volume fluctuations in response to a number of factors including actual or anticipated quarterly variations in operating results, changes in expectations of future financial performance or changes in estimates of securities analysts, governmental regulatory action, healthcare reform measures, client relationship developments and other factors, many of which are beyond the Companys control. Furthermore, the stock market in general, and the market for software, healthcare and high technology companies in particular, has experienced extreme volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of the Companys common stock, regardless of actual operating performance. Market Risk of Investments The Company accounts for its investments in equity securities which have readily determinable fair values as available for sale. Available for sale securities are reported at fair value with unrealized gains and losses reported, net of tax, as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income. Investments in the common stock of certain affiliates over which the Company exerts significant influence are accounted for by the equity method. Investments in other equity securities are reported at cost. All equity securities are reviewed by the Company for declines in fair value. If such declines are considered to be other than temporary, the cost basis of the individual security is written down to fair value as a new cost basis, and the amount of the write down is included in earnings. At December 29, 2001, the Company owned 14,820,527 shares of common stock of WebMD Corporation (WebMD) (formerly CareInsite, Inc.), which have a cost basis of $85,811,000 and a carrying value of $104,485,000, as these shares are accounted for as available for sale. 2,000,000 shares of WebMD held by the Company are not registered. At December 29, 2001 the Company also holds 1,048,783 warrants of WebMD with an exercise price of $3.08 and a cost basis and carrying value of $4,146,000. The warrants are carried at cost, as they do not have a fair value that is currently available on a securities exchange. The warrants expire on January 26, 2003. On February 13, 2000 CareInsite entered into an agreement to merge with WebMD. The merger of CareInsite and WebMD ("Merger") closed on September 12, 2000. Prior to the merger, the carrying value of the CareInsite stock was $6.22 per share, the market price of WebMD on September 12, 2000 was $15.00 per share. Upon the exchange of CareInsite stock for WebMD stock the Company recorded a non recurring investment gain of $120,362,000, net of tax, as a result of the exchange. On December 12, 2000, the Company sold 4,273,509 shares of WebMD for $25,641,000. Accordingly, the Company recorded a non recurring investment loss of $24,539,000, net of tax, as a result of the sale. On June 18, 2001 the Company reached an agreement with WebMD regarding certain performance metrics related to specified levels of physician usage arising out of the original license transaction between the Company and CareInsite, which has been merged into WebMD. Under the agreement, the Company received 2,000,000 shares of WebMD stock, valued at $11,580,000, in exchange for $432,000 in cash and the cancellation of various obligations due to the Company by WebMD. As a result of this agreement, the Company recognized a non recurring gain of $4,836,000, net of $2,744,000 in tax, on software license settlement in the accompanying consolidated statement of operations. The Companys policy is to review declines in fair value of its marketable equity securities for declines that may be other than temporary. As a result of this policy, during the second quarter of 2001, the Company recorded a 29 write down of its investment in WebMD from $15.00 to $5.79 per share. Accordingly, the Company recognized a charge to earnings in 2001 of $81,419,000, net of $46,197,000 in tax. At December 29, 2001, marketable securities (which consist of money market and commercial paper) of the Company were recorded at cost, which approximates fair value of approximately $108 million, with an overall average return of approximately 4.5% and an overall weighted maturity of less than 90 days. The marketable securities held by the Company are not subject to significant price risk as a result of the short term nature of the investments. The Company has limited exposure to material future earnings or cash flow exposures from changes in interest rates on long term debt since substantially all of its long term debt is at a fixed rate. The Company also had $15,000,000 outstanding under its working capital line of credit, which has a variable interest rate based on prime (4.75% at December 29, 2001) less .5% or LIBOR (1.87% at December 29, 2001) plus 1.35%. To date, the Company has not entered into any derivative financial instruments to manage interest rate risk. The Company conducts business in several foreign jurisdictions. However, the business transacted is in the local functional currency and the Company does not currently have any material exposure to foreign currency transaction gains or losses. All other business transactions are in U.S. dollars. To date, the Company has not entered into any derivative financial instruments to manage foreign currency risk. Potential Impairment of Goodwill Excess of cost over net assets acquired (goodwill) is being amortized on a straight line basis over four to eight years. Accumulated amortization was $8,727,000, and $5,964,000 at the end of 2001, and 2000, respectively. The Company assesses the recoverability of goodwill based on forecasted undiscounted future operating cash flows. Effective January 1, 2002, under SFAS 141 and SFAS 142 goodwill from previous acquisitions will no longer be subject to amortization, but will be subject to annual evaluations for impairment based on fair value. The Company completed two acquisitions subsequent to June 30, 2001, which resulted in approximately $14.2 million of goodwill that was not amortized in accordance with SFAS 142. Goodwill amortization for 2001 was approximately $2,247,000. In the event that goodwill becomes impaired the Company would be required to take a charge against earnings for the impairment. Changes in the Healthcare Industry The healthcare industry is highly regulated and is subject to changing political, economic and regulatory influences. For example, the Balanced Budget Act of 1997 (Public Law 105 32) contains significant changes to Medicare and Medicaid and began to have its initial impact in 1998 due to limitations on reimbursement, resulting cost containment initiatives, and effects on pricing and demand for capital intensive systems. In addition, the issued and pending rules under the Health Information Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA), will have a direct impact on the healthcare industry by requiring identifiers and standardized transactions/code sets and necessary security and privacy measures in order to ensure the protection of patient health information. These factors affect the purchasing practices and operation of healthcare organizations. Federal and state legislatures have periodically considered programs to reform or amend the U.S. healthcare system at both the federal and state level and to change healthcare financing and reimbursement systems. These programs may contain proposals to increase governmental involvement in healthcare, lower reimbursement rates or otherwise change the environment in which healthcare industry participants operate. Healthcare industry participants may respond by reducing their investments or postponing investment decisions, including investments in the Companys products and services. Many healthcare providers are consolidating to create integrated healthcare delivery systems with greater market power. These providers may try to use their market power to negotiate price reductions for the Companys products and services. As the healthcare industry consolidates, the Companys client base could be eroded, competition for clients could become more intense and the importance of acquiring each client becomes greater. Significant Competition The market for healthcare information systems is intensely competitive, rapidly evolving and subject to rapid technological change. The Company believes that the principal competitive factors in this market include the breadth and quality of system and product offerings, the stability of the 30 information systems provider, the features and capabilities of the information systems, the ongoing support for the system and the potential for enhancements and future compatible products. Certain of the Companys competitors have greater financial, technical, product development, marketing and other resources than the Company and some of its competitors offer products that it does not offer. The Companys principal existing competitors include GE Medical Systems, Siemens Medical Solutions Health Services Corporation, IDX Systems Corporation, McKesson HBOC, Inc. and Eclipsys Corporation, each of which offers a suite of products that compete with many of the Companys products. There are other competitors that offer a more limited number of competing products. In addition, the Company expects that major software information systems companies, large information technology consulting service providers and system integrators, Internet based start up companies and others specializing in the healthcare industry may offer competitive products or services. The pace of change in the healthcare information systems market is rapid and there are frequent new product introductions, product enhancements and evolving industry standards and requirements. As a result, the Companys success will depend upon its ability to keep pace with technological change and to introduce, on a timely and cost effective basis, new and enhanced products that satisfy changing client requirements and achieve market acceptance. Proprietary Technology May Be Subjected to Infringement Claims or May Be Infringed Upon The Company relies upon a combination of trade secret, copyright and trademark laws, license agreements, confidentiality procedures, employee nondisclosure agreements and technical measures to maintain the trade secrecy of its proprietary information. The Company recently initiated a patent program but currently has a very limited patent portfolio. As a result, the Company may not be able to protect against misappropriation of its intellectual property. In addition, the Company could be subject to intellectual property infringement claims as the number of competitors grows and the functionality of its products overlaps with competitive offerings. These claims, even if not meritorious, could be expensive to defend. If the Company becomes liable to third parties for infringing their intellectual property rights, it could be required to pay a substantial damage award and to develop noninfringing technology, obtain a license or cease selling the products that contain the infringing intellectual property. Government Regulation The United States Food and Drug Administration (the "FDA") has declared that software products intended for the maintenance of data used in making decisions regarding the suitability of blood donors and the release of blood or blood components for transfusion are medical devices under the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act ("Act") and amendments to the Act. As a consequence, the Company is subject to extensive regulation by the FDA with regard to its blood bank software. If other of the Companys products are deemed to be actively regulated medical devices by the FDA, the Company could be subject to extensive requirements governing pre and post marketing requirements including premarket notification clearance prior to marketing. Complying with these FDA regulations would be time consuming and expensive. It is possible that the FDA may become more active in regulating computer software that is used in healthcare. Following an inspection by the FDA in March of 1998, the Company received a Form FDA 483 (Notice of Inspectional Observations) alleging non compliance with certain aspects of FDAs Quality System Regulation with respect to the Companys PathNet HNAC Blood Bank Transfusion and Donor products (the "Blood Bank Products"). The Company subsequently received a Warning Letter, dated April 29, 1998, as a result of the same inspection. The Company responded promptly to the FDA and undertook a number of actions in response to the Form 483 and Warning Letter including an audit by a third party of the Companys Blood Bank Products and improvements to Cerners Quality System. A copy of the third party audit was submitted to the FDA in October of 1998 and, at the request of the FDA, additional information and clarification were submitted to the FDA in January of 1999. There can be no assurance, however, that the Companys actions taken in response to the Form 483 and Warning Letter will be deemed adequate by the FDA or that additional actions on behalf of the Company will not be required. In addition, the Company remains subject to periodic FDA inspections and there can be no assurances that the Company will not be required to undertake additional actions to comply with the Act and any other applicable regulatory requirements. Any failure by the Company to comply with 31 the Act and any other applicable regulatory requirements could have a material adverse effect on the Companys ability to continue to manufacture and distribute its products. FDA has many enforcement tools including recalls, seizures, injunctions, civil fines and or criminal prosecutions. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on the Companys business, results of operations or financial condition. Product Related Liabilities Many of the Companys products provide data for use by healthcare providers in providing care to patients. Although no such claims have been brought against the Company to date regarding injuries related to the use of its products, such claims may be made in the future. Although the Company maintains product liability insurance coverage in an amount that it believes is sufficient for its business, there can be no assurance that such coverage will prove to be adequate or that such coverage will continue to remain available on acceptable terms, if at all. A successful claim brought against the Company which is uninsured or under insured could materially harm its business, results of operations or financial condition. System Errors and Warranties The Companys systems, particularly the Cerner Millennium versions, are very complex. As with complex systems offered by others, the Companys systems may contain errors, especially when first introduced. Although the Company conducts extensive testing, it has discovered software errors in its products after their introduction. The Companys systems are intended for use in collecting and displaying clinical information used in the diagnosis and treatment of patients. Therefore, users of the Company products have a greater sensitivity to system errors than the market for software products generally. The Companys agreements with its clients typically provide warranties against material errors and other matters. Failure of a clients system to meet these criteria could constitute a material breach under such contracts allowing the client to cancel the contract, or could require the Company to incur additional expense in order to make the system meet these criteria. The Companys contracts with its clients generally limit the Companys liability arising from such claims but such limits may not be enforceable in certain jurisdictions. Anti Takeover Defenses The Companys charter, bylaws, shareholders rights plan and certain provisions of Delaware law contain certain provisions that may have the effect of delaying or preventing an acquisition of the Company. Such provisions are intended to encourage any person interested in acquiring the Company to negotiate with and obtain the approval of the Board of Directors in connection with any such transaction. These provisions include (a) a Board of Directors that is staggered into three classes to serve staggered three year terms, (b) blank check preferred stock, (c) supermajority voting provisions, (d) inability of shareholders to act by written consent or call a special meeting, (e) limitations on the ability of shareholders to nominate directors or make proposals at shareholder meetings and (f) triggering the exercisability of stock purchase rights on a discriminatory basis, which may invoke extensive economic and voting dilution of a potential acquirer if its beneficial ownership of the Companys common stock exceeds a specified threshold. Certain of these provisions may discourage a future acquisition of the Company not approved by the Board of Directors in which shareholders might receive a premium value for their shares. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Information contained under the caption "Factors That May Affect Future Results of Operations, Financial Condition or Business Market Risk of Investments" set forth under "Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Item 7 is incorporated herein by reference. 
 
