Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations below and in Note 14 to the financial statements. Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Cerner Corporation 6 Table of Contents We may be subject to product related liabilities. Many of our software solutions, healthcare devices or services (including life sciences/research services) provide data for use by healthcare providers in providing care to patients. Although we maintain liability insurance coverage in an amount that we believe is sufficient for our business, there can be no assurance that such coverage will cover any particular claim that has been brought or that may be brought in the future, prove to be adequate or that such coverage will continue to remain available on acceptable terms, if at all. A successful material claim brought against us, if uninsured or under insured, could materially harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Product related claims could damage our reputation, cause us to lose existing clients, limit our ability to obtain new clients, result in revenues loss, create potential liabilities for our clients and us and increase insurance and other operational costs. We may be subject to claims for system errors and warranties. Our software solutions and healthcare devices, particularly the Cerner Millennium versions, are very complex. Our software solutions and healthcare devices may contain coding or other errors, especially when first introduced. We have discovered errors in our software solutions and healthcare devices after their introduction. Our software solutions and healthcare devices are intended for use in collecting and displaying clinical information used in the diagnosis and treatment of patients. Therefore, users of our software solutions and healthcare devices have a greater sensitivity to errors than the market for software products and devices generally. Our client agreements typically provide warranties concerning material errors and other matters. Failure of a clients Cerner software solutions and or healthcare devices to meet these warranties could constitute a material breach under the client agreement, allowing the client to terminate the agreement and possibly obtain a refund and or damages, or might require us to incur additional expense in order to make the software solution or healthcare device meet these criteria. Our client agreements generally limit our liability arising from such claims but such limits may not be enforceable in certain jurisdictions or circumstances. Although we maintain liability insurance coverage in an amount that we believe is sufficient for our business, there can be no assurance that such coverage will cover any particular claim that has been brought or that may be brought in the future, prove to be adequate or that such coverage will continue to remain available on acceptable terms, if at all. A successful material claim or series of claims brought against us, if uninsured or under insured, could materially harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may experience interruption at our data centers or client support facilities. We perform data center and or hosting services for certain clients, including the storage of critical patient and administrative data. In addition, we provide support services to our clients through various client support facilities. We have invested in reliability features such as multiple power feeds, multiple backup generators and redundant telecommunications lines, as well as technical and physical security safeguards, and structured our operations to reduce the likelihood of disruptions. However, complete failure of all generators, impairment of all telecommunications lines, damage (environmental, accidental, intentional or pandemic) to the buildings, the equipment inside the buildings housing our data centers, the client data contained therein and or the personnel trained to operate such facilities could cause a disruption in operations and negatively impact clients who depend on us for data center and system support services. Any interruption in operations at our data centers and or client support facilities could damage our reputation, cause us to lose existing clients, hurt our ability to obtain new clients, result in revenue loss, create potential liabilities for our clients and us and increase insurance and other operating costs. Our proprietary technology may be subject to claims for infringement or misappropriation of intellectual property rights of others, or may be infringed or misappropriated by others. We rely upon a combination of license agreements, confidentiality procedures, employee nondisclosure agreements, confidentiality agreements with third parties and technical measures to maintain the confidentiality and trade secrecy of our proprietary information. We also rely on trademark and copyright laws to protect our intellectual property rights in the United States and abroad. We continue to develop our patent portfolio of U.S. and global patents, but currently have a limited number of issued patents. Despite our protective measures and intellectual property rights, we may not be able to adequately protect against copying, reverse engineering, misappropriation, infringement or unauthorized use or disclosure of our intellectual property. In addition, we are routinely involved in intellectual property infringement or misappropriation claims and we expect this activity to continue or even increase as the number of competitors, patents and patent enforcement organizations in the HIT market increases, the functionality of our software solutions and services expands, and we 7 Table of Contents enter new markets such as healthcare device innovation, healthcare transactions and life sciences. These claims, even if not meritorious, are expensive to defend. If we become liable to third parties for infringing or misappropriating their intellectual property rights, we could be required to pay a substantial damage award, develop alternative technology, obtain a license and or cease using, selling, licensing, implementing and supporting the solutions, devices and services that violate the intellectual property rights. We are subject to risks associated with our non U.S. operations. We market, sell and service our solutions, devices and services globally. We have established offices around the world, including in: the Americas, Europe, the Middle East and the Asia Pacific region. We will continue to expand our non U.S. operations and enter new global markets. This expansion will require significant management attention and financial resources to develop successful direct and indirect non U.S. sales and support channels. Our business is generally transacted in the local functional currency. In some countries, our success will depend in part on our ability to form relationships with local partners. There is a risk that we may sometimes choose the wrong partner. For these reasons, we may not be able to maintain or increase non U.S. market demand for our solutions, devices and services. Non U.S. operations are subject to inherent risks, and our future results could be adversely affected by a variety of uncontrollable and changing factors. These include, but are not limited to: Greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable and longer collection periods Difficulties and costs of staffing and managing non U.S. operations The impact of global economic conditions Unfavorable or changing foreign currency exchange rates Legal compliance costs and or business risks associated with our global operations where local laws and customs differ from those in the U.S. Certification, licensing or regulatory requirements Unexpected changes in regulatory requirements Changes to or reduced protection of intellectual property rights in some countries Inability to obtain necessary financing on reasonable terms to adequately support non U.S. operations and expansion Potentially adverse tax consequences and difficulties associated with repatriating cash generated or held abroad in a tax efficient manner. Different or additional functionality requirements Trade protection measures Export control regulations Service provider and government spending patterns Natural disasters, war or terrorist acts Labor disruptions that may occur in a country Poor selection of a partner in a country Political conditions which may impact sales or threaten the safety of associates or our continued presence in these countries Our failure to effectively hedge exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could unfavorably affect our performance. We utilize derivative instruments to hedge our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Some of these instruments and contracts may involve elements of market and credit risk in excess of the amounts recognized in the Consolidated Financial Statements. For additional information about risk on financial instruments, see Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation under Market Risk. Further, our financial results from non U.S. operations may be negatively affected if we fail to execute or improperly hedge our exposure to currency fluctuations. Our success depends upon the recruitment and retention of key personnel. To remain competitive in our industries, we must attract, motivate and retain highly skilled managerial, sales, marketing, consulting and technical personnel, including executives, consultants, programmers and systems architects skilled in the HIT, healthcare devices, healthcare transactions and life sciences industries and the technical environments in which 8 Table of Contents our solutions, devices and services are needed. Competition for such personnel in our industries is intense in both the United States and abroad. Our failure to attract additional qualified personnel to meet our non U.S. personnel needs could have a material adverse effect on our prospects for long term growth. Our success is dependent to a significant degree on the continued contributions of key management, sales, marketing, consulting and technical personnel. The unexpected loss of key personnel could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations, and could potentially inhibit development and delivery of our solutions, devices and services and market share advances. We rely significantly on third party suppliers. We license or purchase intellectual property and technology (such as software, hardware and content) from third parties, including some competitors, and incorporate software, hardware, and or content into or sell it in conjunction with our solutions, devices and services, some of which are critical to the operation and delivery of our solutions, devices and services. For instance, we currently depend on Microsoft and IBM Websphere technologies for portions of the operational abilities of our Millennium solutions. Our remote hosting business also relies on a single or a limited number of suppliers for certain functions of this business, such as Oracle database technologies, CITRIX technologies and CISCO network technologies. Most of the software licenses we have expire within one to five years, can be renewed only by mutual consent and may be terminated if we breach the terms of the license and fail to cure the breach within a specified period of time. Most of these third party software licenses are non exclusive; therefore, our competitors may obtain the right to use any of the technology covered by these licenses and use the technology to compete directly with us. If any of the third party suppliers were to change product offerings, cease actively supporting the technologies, fail to update and enhance the technologies to keep pace with changing industry standards, encounter technical difficulties in the continuing development of these technologies, significantly increase prices or terminate our licenses or supply contracts, we would need to seek alternative suppliers and incur additional internal or external development costs to ensure continued performance of our solutions, devices and services. Such alternatives may not be available on attractive terms, or may not be as widely accepted or as effective as the intellectual property or technology provided by our existing suppliers. If the cost of licensing, purchasing or maintaining the third party intellectual property or technology significantly increases, our gross margin levels could significantly decrease. In addition, interruption in functionality of our solutions, devices and services as a result of changes in third party suppliers could adversely affect future sales of solutions, devices and services. We intend to continue strategic business acquisitions, which are subject to inherent risks. In order to expand our solutions, device offerings and services and grow our market and client base, we may continue to seek and complete strategic business acquisitions that we believe are complementary to our business. Acquisitions have inherent risks which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results or prospects, including, but not limited to: 1) failure to successfully integrate the business and financial operations, services, intellectual property, solutions or personnel of an acquired business and to maintain uniform standard controls, policies and procedures; 2) diversion of managements attention from other business concerns; 3) entry into markets in which we have little or no direct prior experience; 4) failure to achieve projected synergies and performance targets; 5) loss of clients or key personnel; 6) incurrence of debt and or assumption of known and unknown liabilities; 7) write off of software development costs, goodwill, client lists and amortization of expenses related to intangible assets; 8) dilutive issuances of equity securities; and, 9) accounting deficiencies that could arise in connection with, or as a result of, the acquisition of an acquired company, including issues related to internal control over financial reporting and the time and cost associated with remedying such deficiencies. If we fail to successfully integrate acquired businesses or fail to implement our business strategies with respect to these acquisitions, we may not be able to achieve projected results or support the amount of consideration paid for such acquired businesses. Risks Related to the Healthcare Information Technology, Healthcare Device and Healthcare Transaction Industry 9 Table of Contents The healthcare industry is subject to changing political, economic and regulatory influences. For example, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA) continues to have a direct impact on the healthcare industry by requiring identifiers and standardized transactions/code sets and necessary security and privacy measures in order to ensure the appropriate level of privacy of protected health information. These regulatory factors affect the purchasing practices and operation of healthcare organizations. Federal and state legislatures have periodically considered programs to reform or amend the U.S. healthcare system at both the federal and state level and to change healthcare financing and reimbursement systems. These programs may contain proposals to increase governmental involvement in healthcare, lower reimbursement rates or otherwise change the environment in which healthcare industry participants operate. Healthcare industry participants may respond by reducing their investments or postponing investment decisions, including investments in our solutions and services. Many healthcare providers are consolidating to create integrated healthcare delivery systems with greater market power. These providers may try to use their market power to negotiate price reductions for our solutions and services. As the healthcare industry consolidates, our client base could be eroded, competition for clients could become more intense and the importance of landing new client relationships becomes greater. The healthcare industry is highly regulated at the local, state and federal level. We are subject to a significant and wide ranging number of regulations both within the U.S. and elsewhere, such as, regulations in the areas of: healthcare fraud, e prescribing, claims processing and transmission, medical devices, the security and privacy of patient data and interoperability standards. Healthcare Fraud. Federal and state governments continue to increase their scrutiny over practices involving healthcare fraud affecting healthcare providers whose services are reimbursed by Medicare, Medicaid and other government healthcare programs. Our healthcare provider clients are subject to laws and regulations on fraud and abuse which, among other things, prohibit the direct or indirect payment or receipt of any remuneration for patient referrals, or arranging for or recommending referrals or other business paid for in whole or in part by these federal or state healthcare programs. Federal enforcement personnel have substantial funding, powers and remedies to pursue suspected or perceived fraud and abuse. The effect of this government regulation on our clients is difficult to predict. Many of the regulations applicable to our clients and that may be applicable to us, are vague or indefinite and have not been interpreted by the courts. They may be interpreted or applied by a prosecutorial, regulatory or judicial authority in a manner that could broaden their applicability to us or require our clients to make changes in their operations or the way in which they deal with us. If such laws and regulations are determined to be applicable to us and if we fail to comply with any applicable laws and regulations, we could be subject to sanctions or liability, including exclusion from government health programs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. E Prescribing. The use of our solutions by physicians for electronic prescribing, electronic routing of prescriptions to pharmacies and dispensing is governed by state and federal law. States have differing prescription format requirements, which we have programmed into our software. In addition, in November 2005, the Department of Health and Human Services announced regulations by CMS related to E Prescribing and the Prescription Drug Program (E Prescribing Regulations). These E Prescribing Regulations were mandated by the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003. The E Prescribing Regulations set forth standards for the transmission of electronic prescriptions. The final regulations adopted two standards effective January 2006. A second and final set of additional e prescribing transaction standards was published on April 2, 2008 and become effective on April 1, 2009. These standards are detailed and significant, and cover not only transactions between prescribers and dispensers for prescriptions but also electronic eligibility and benefits inquiries and drug formulary and benefit coverage information. Our efforts to provide solutions that enable our clients to comply with these regulations could be time consuming and expensive. Claims Transmissions. Certain of our solutions assist our clients in submitting claims to payers, which claims are governed by federal and state laws. Our solutions are capable of electronically transmitting claims for services and items rendered by a physician to many patients payers for approval and reimbursement. Federal law provides 10 Table of Contents civil liability to any person that knowingly submits a claim to a payer, including Medicare, Medicaid and private health plans, seeking payment for any services or items that have not been provided to the patient. Federal law may also impose criminal penalties for intentionally submitting such false claims. We have policies and procedures in place that we believe result in the accurate and complete transmission of claims, provided that the information given to us by our clients is also accurate and complete. The HIPAA security, privacy and transaction standards, as discussed below, also have a potentially significant effect on our claims transmission services, since those services must be structured and provided in a way that supports our clients HIPAA compliance obligations. Regulation of Medical Devices. The United States Food and Drug Administration (the FDA) has declared that certain of our solutions are medical devices that are actively regulated under the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act (Act) and amendments to the Act. Other countries have similar regulations in place related to medical devices, that now or may in the future apply to certain of our solutions. If other of our solutions are deemed to be actively regulated medical devices by the FDA or similar regulatory agencies in countries where we do business, we could be subject to extensive requirements governing pre and post marketing requirements including pre market notification clearance. Complying with these medical device regulations on a global perspective is time consuming and expensive. Further, it is possible that these regulatory agencies may become more active in regulating software that is used in healthcare. There have been nine FDA inspections at various Cerner sites since 1998. Inspections conducted at our world headquarters in 1999 and our prior Houston, Texas facility in 2002 each resulted in the issuance of an FDA Form 483 that we responded to promptly. The FDA has taken no further action with respect to either of the Form 483s that were issued in 1999 and 2002. The remaining seven FDA inspections, including inspections at our world headquarters in 2006 and 2007, resulted in no issuance of a Form 483. We remain subject to periodic FDA inspections and we could be required to undertake additional actions to comply with the Act and any other applicable regulatory requirements. Our failure to comply with the Act and any other applicable regulatory requirements could have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue to manufacture and distribute our solutions. The FDA has many enforcement tools including recalls, seizures, injunctions, civil fines and or criminal prosecutions. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Security and Privacy of Patient Information. State and federal laws regulate the confidentiality of patient records and the circumstances under which those records may be released. These regulations govern both the disclosure and use of confidential patient medical record information and require the users of such information to implement specified security measures. Regulations currently in place governing electronic health data transmissions continue to evolve and are often unclear and difficult to apply. HIPAA regulations require national standards for some types of electronic health information transactions and the data elements used in those transactions, security standards to ensure the integrity and confidentiality of health information and standards to protect the privacy of individually identifiable health information. Covered entities under HIPAA, which include healthcare organizations such as our clients, our employer clinic business model and our claims transmission services, were required to comply with the privacy standards by April 2003, the transaction regulations by October 2003 and the security regulations by April 2005. As a business associate of our clients who are covered entities, we, in most instances, must also ensure compliance with the HIPAA regulations as it pertains to our clients. Evolving HIPAA related laws or regulations could restrict the ability of our clients to obtain, use or disseminate patient information. This could adversely affect demand for our solutions if they are not re designed in a timely manner in order to meet the requirements of any new interpretations or regulations that seek to protect the privacy and security of patient data or enable our clients to execute new or modified healthcare transactions. We may need to expend additional capital, software development and other resources to modify our solutions and devices to address these evolving data security and privacy issues. 11 Table of Contents Interoperability Standards. Our clients are concerned with and often require that our software solutions and healthcare devices be interoperable with other third party HIT suppliers. Market forces or governmental/regulatory authorities could create software interoperability standards that would apply to our solutions, and if our software solutions and or healthcare devices are not consistent with those standards, we could be forced to incur substantial additional development costs to conform. The Certification Commission for Healthcare Information Technology (CCHIT) has developed a comprehensive set of criteria for the functionality, interoperability and security of various software modules in the HIT industry. CCHIT, however, continues to modify and refine those standards. Achieving CCHIT certification is becoming a competitive requirement, resulting in increased software development and administrative expense to conform to these requirements. If our software solutions and healthcare devices are not consistent with these evolving standards, our market position and sales could be impaired and we may have to invest significantly in changes to our software solutions and healthcare devices. We operate in intensely competitive and dynamic industries, and our ability to successfully compete and continue to grow our business depends on our ability to respond quickly to market changes and changing technologies and to bring competitive new solutions, devices, features and services to market in a timely fashion. The market for healthcare information systems, healthcare devices, healthcare transactions and life sciences consulting services are intensely competitive, dynamically evolving and subject to rapid technological and innovative changes. Development of new proprietary technology or services is complex, entails significant time and expense and may not be successful. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to introduce new solutions, devices or services on schedule, or at all, nor can we guarantee that errors will not be found in our new solution releases, devices or services before or after commercial release, which could result in solution, device or service delivery redevelopment costs and loss of, or delay in, market acceptance. Certain of our competitors have greater financial, technical, product development, marketing and other resources than us and some of our competitors offer software solutions that we do not offer. Our principal existing competitors are set forth above under Part I, Item 1 Competition. In addition, we expect that major software information systems companies, large information technology consulting service providers and system integrators, start up companies and others specializing in the healthcare industry may offer competitive software solutions, devices or services. We face strong competitors and often face downward price pressure. Additionally, the pace of change in the healthcare information systems market is rapid and there are frequent new software solution introductions, software solution enhancements, device introductions, device enhancements and evolving industry standards and requirements. There are a limited number of hospitals and other healthcare providers in the U.S. HIT market. As costs fall, technology improves, and market factors continue to compel investment by healthcare organizations in solutions and services like ours, market saturation in the U.S. may change the competitive landscape in favor of larger, more diversified competitors with greater scale. Risks Related to Our Stock The ongoing adverse financial market environment and uncertainty in global economic conditions could negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our operating results may be impacted by the health of the global economy. Adverse economic conditions may cause a slowdown or decline in client spending which could adversely affect our business and financial performance. Our business and financial performance, including new business bookings and collection of our accounts receivable, may be adversely affected by current and future economic conditions (including a reduction in the availability of credit, higher energy costs, rising interest rates, financial market volatility and recession) that cause a slowdown or decline in client spending. Further, the ongoing global financial crisis may also limit our ability to access the capital markets at a time when we would like, or need, to raise capital, which could have an impact on our ability to react to changing economic and business conditions. Accordingly, if the global financial crisis and current economic downturn continue or worsen, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. 12 Table of Contents Our quarterly operating results may vary which could adversely affect our stock price. Our quarterly operating results have varied in the past and may continue to vary in future periods, including, variations from guidance, expectations or historical results or trends. Quarterly operating results may vary for a number of reasons including accounting policy changes, demand for our solutions, devices and services, the financial condition of our clients and potential clients, our long sales cycle, potentially long installation and implementation cycles for larger, more complex and higher priced systems and other factors described in this section and elsewhere in this report. As a result of healthcare industry trends and the market for our Cerner Millennium solutions, a large percentage of our revenues are generated by the sale and installation of larger, more complex and higher priced systems. The sales process for these systems is lengthy and involves a significant technical evaluation and commitment of capital and other resources by the client. Sales may be subject to delays due to changes in clients internal budgets, procedures for approving large capital expenditures, competing needs for other capital expenditures, availability of personnel resources and by actions taken by competitors. Delays in the expected sale, installation or implementation of these large systems may have a significant impact on our anticipated quarterly revenues and consequently our earnings, since a significant percentage of our expenses are relatively fixed. Revenue recognized in any quarter may depend upon our and our clients abilities to meet project milestones. Delays in meeting these milestone conditions or modification of the project plan could result in a shift of revenue recognition from one quarter to another and could have a material adverse effect on results of operations for a particular quarter. Our revenues from system sales historically have been lower in the first quarter of the year and greater in the fourth quarter of the year, primarily as a result of clients year end efforts to make all final capital expenditures for the then current year. Our sales forecasts may vary from actual sales in a particular quarter. We use a pipeline system, a common industry practice, to forecast sales and trends in our business. Our sales associates monitor the status of all sales opportunities, such as the date when they estimate that a client will make a purchase decision and the potential dollar amount of the sale. These estimates are aggregated periodically to generate a sales pipeline. We compare this pipeline at various points in time to evaluate trends in our business. This analysis provides guidance in business planning and forecasting, but these pipeline estimates are by their nature speculative. Our pipeline estimates are not necessarily reliable predictors of revenues in a particular quarter or over a longer period of time, partially because of changes in the pipeline and in conversion rates of the pipeline into contracts that can be very difficult to estimate. A negative variation in the expected conversion rate or timing of the pipeline into contracts, or in the pipeline itself, could cause our plan or forecast to be inaccurate and thereby adversely affect business results. For example, a slowdown in information technology spending, adverse economic conditions or a variety of other factors can cause purchasing decisions to be delayed, reduced in amount or cancelled, which would reduce the overall pipeline conversion rate in a particular period of time. Because a substantial portion of our contracts are completed in the latter part of a quarter, we may not be able to adjust our cost structure quickly enough in response to a revenue shortfall resulting from a decrease in our pipeline conversion rate in any given fiscal quarter(s). The trading price of our common stock may be volatile. The market for our common stock may experience significant price and volume fluctuations in response to a number of factors including actual or anticipated variations in operating results, rumors about our performance or solutions, devices and services, changes in expectations of future financial performance or estimates of securities analysts, governmental regulatory action, healthcare reform measures, client relationship developments, changes occurring in the securities markets in general and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. As a matter of policy, we do not generally comment on our stock price or rumors. Furthermore, the stock market in general, and the markets for software, healthcare and information technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating 13 Table of Contents performance of particular companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock, regardless of actual operating performance. Our Directors have authority to issue preferred stock and our corporate governance documents contain anti takeover provisions. Our Board of Directors has the authority to issue up to 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the preferences, rights and privileges of those shares without any further vote or action by the shareholders. The rights of the holders of common stock may be harmed by rights granted to the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. In addition, some provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws could make it more difficult for a potential acquirer to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. These include provisions that: provide for a classified board of directors, prohibit shareholders from taking action by written consent and restrict the ability of shareholders to call special meetings. We are also subject to provisions of Delaware law that prohibit us from engaging in any business combination with any interested shareholder for a period of three years from the date the person became an interested shareholder, unless certain conditions are met, which could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control. Factors that May Affect Future Results of Operations, Financial Condition or Business Statements made in this report, the Annual Report to Shareholders of which this report is made a part, other reports and proxy statements filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, communications to shareholders, press releases and oral statements made by representatives of the Company that are not historical in nature, or that state the Companys or managements intentions, hopes, beliefs, expectations or predictions of the future, may constitute forward looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). Forward looking statements can often be identified by the use of forward looking terminology, such as could, should, will, intended, continue, believe, may, expect, hope, anticipate, goal, forecast, plan, guidance or estimate or the negative of these words, variations thereof or similar expressions. Forward looking statements are not guarantees of future performance or results. They involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. It is important to note that any such performance and actual results, financial condition or business, could differ materially from those expressed in such forward looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in this Item 1A. Risk Factors and elsewhere herein or in other reports filed with the SEC. Other unforeseen factors not identified herein could also have such an effect. We undertake no obligation to update or revise forward looking statements to reflect changed assumptions, the occurrence of unanticipated events or changes in future operating results, financial condition or business over time. Item 2. Properties World Headquarters Our world headquarters offices are located in a Company owned office park in North Kansas City, Missouri, containing approximately 992,877 gross square feet of useable space (the Campus), inclusive of the new data center and clinic buildings described below. As of January 3, 2009, we were using all of the useable space for our U.S. corporate headquarters operations. In June 2007, the Company completed construction of the world headquarters Technology Center, a 135,161 square foot data center facility on the Campus. We deliver remote hosting, disaster recovery and other services to our clients from this facility. In February 2006, we completed construction on the Campus of a 13,136 square foot addition to the 2901 Rockcreek Parkway building to house Healthe Clinic, a wholly owned subsidiary, which provides primary care medical services for our associates and their family members. In 2004, we purchased approximately 12 acres of unimproved real estate adjacent to the Campus for campus expansion. This land was purchased to provide a secondary entry into the Campus and to provide for future building development as needed. The first phase of development was a roadway extension and second entry point 14 Table of Contents into the Campus. The second phase of development is the data center facility described above. Future development of this land is undetermined at this time. Other Properties In February 2007, we entered into a long term lease for 480,700 gross square feet of property located in Kansas City, Missouri. This office space, known as the Innovation Campus, houses associates from our intellectual property organizations. In April and August 2007, additional space was added to this lease so that the Innovation Campus now consists of 791,940 square feet, including the daycare facility listed below. In July 2007, we entered into a lease for 36,800 gross square feet of property located in Kansas City, Missouri, near the Innovation Campus, which is the home for our Innovation Kids Learning Center, providing on site daycare for Cerner associate families. In June 2005, we purchased 263,512 gross square feet of property located in Kansas City, Missouri. The office space, known as the Cerner Oaks Campus, houses associates from the CernerWorks group and associates of Cerners wholly owned subsidiary, Healthe Exchange. We also own property located along the north riverbank of the Missouri River, approximately two miles from the Campus. This property consists of a 96,318 gross square foot building and a 1,300 car parking garage. The building has been renovated for use as a corporate training, meeting and event center for the Company and third parties. We have also made use of the parking garage to meet overflow parking demands on the Campus. As of the end of February 2009, the Company leased office space in: Beverly Hills and Garden Grove, California; Denver, Colorado; Overland Park, Kansas; Waltham, Massachusetts; Minneapolis and Rochester, Minnesota; Kansas City, Missouri; Beaverton, Oregon; Blue Bell, Pennsylvania; and Vienna, Virginia. The Company operates one of its data centers in leased space in Lees Summit, Missouri. Globally, the Company also leases office space in: Brisbane, Sydney and Melbourne, Australia; London Ontario, Canada; Hong Kong, China; London, England; Paris, France; Herzogenrath and Idstein, Germany; Bangalore, India; Dublin, Ireland; Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia; Riyadh, Saudi Arabia; Ngee Ann City, Singapore; Barcelona and Madrid, Spain; and, Abu Dhabi and Dubai, United Arab Emirates. In 2008, our Birmingham, Alabama; Bel Air, Maryland; Charlotte, North Carolina; and Brussels, Belgium and Slough, England offices were closed as we relocated many associates and or the necessary business functions to other Company offices. Item 3. Legal Proceedings We have no material pending litigation. Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders No matters were submitted to a vote of the shareholders of the Company during the fourth quarter of the fiscal year ended January 3, 2009. PART II Item 5. Market for the Registrants Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities The Companys common stock trades on The NASDAQ Global Select MarketSM under the symbol CERN. The following table sets forth the high, low and last sales prices for the fiscal quarters of 2008 and 2007 as reported by The Nasdaq Stock Market. 15 Table of Contents 2008 2007 High Low Last High Low Last First Quarter $ 59.59 $ 38.40 $ 38.40 $ 56.25 $ 44.11 $ 54.45 Second Quarter 48.17 37.28 45.70 60.43 52.20 55.47 Third Quarter 49.34 43.21 47.32 66.17 52.32 59.81 Fourth Quarter 45.08 31.58 39.18 65.92 53.50 57.58 At February 20, 2009, there were approximately 1,145 owners of record. To date, the Company has paid no cash dividends and it does not intend to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Management believes it is in the shareholders best interest for the Company to reinvest funds in the operation of the business. (c) In March 2008, the Companys Board of Directors authorized a stock repurchase program for $45 million of our Common Stock. The stock repurchase activity for the quarter ended January 3, 2009 is as follows: Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Total Number of Approximate Dollar Shares Purchased Value of Shares that Total Number as Part of Publicly May Yet Be of Shares Average Price Announced Plans Purchased Under the Period Purchased Paid per Share or Programs Plan September 28 October 25, 2008 265,000 $ 33.21 265,000 $ 31,751,000 October 26 November 22, 2008 425,000 $ 34.68 425,000 $ 16,998,000 November 23, 2008 January 3, 2009 $ 16,998,000 Total: 690,000 $ 34.11 690,000 $ 16,998,000 These repurchased shares are recorded as treasury stock and are accounted for under the cost method. No repurchased shares have been retired. 16 Table of Contents Item 6. Selected Financial Data 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 (In thousands, except per share data) (1)(2) (1)(3)(4)(5) (1)(6) (7)(8) (9)(10) Statement of Earnings Data: Revenues $ 1,676,028 $ 1,519,877 $ 1,378,038 $ 1,160,785 $ 926,356 Operating earnings 278,885 204,083 166,167 140,436 111,464 Earnings before income taxes 281,431 203,967 167,544 135,244 107,920 Net earnings 188,658 127,125 109,891 86,251 64,648 Earnings per share: Basic 2.34 1.60 1.41 1.16 0.90 Diluted 2.26 1.53 1.34 1.10 0.86 Weighted average shares outstanding: Basic 80,549 79,395 77,691 74,144 72,174 Diluted 83,435 83,218 81,723 78,090 75,142 Balance Sheet Data: Working capital $ 517,650 $ 530,441 $ 444,656 $ 391,541 $ 310,229 Total assets 1,880,988 1,689,956 1,496,433 1,303,629 982,265 Long term debt, excluding current installments 111,370 177,606 187,391 194,265 108,804 Shareholders equity 1,311,009 1,132,428 922,294 760,533 597,485 (1) Includes share based compensation expense recognized in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123R. The impact of including this expense is a $9.5 million decrease, net of $5.6 million tax benefit, in net earnings and a decrease to diluted earnings per share of $.11 in 2008, a $10.2 million decrease, net of $6.0 million tax benefit, in net earnings and a decrease to diluted earnings per share of $.12 in 2007 and a $11.7 million decrease, net of $7.3 million tax benefit, in net earnings and a decrease to diluted earnings per share of $.14 in 2006. (2) Includes expense related to a settlement with a third party provider of software related to the use of the third partys software in the Companys remote hosting business. The settlement included compensation for the use of the software for periods prior to 2008 as well as compensation for licenses of the software for future use for existing and additional clients through January 2009. Of the total settlement amount, the Company determined that $5.0 million should have been recorded in prior periods, primarily 2005 through 2007. Based on this valuation, 2008 results include an increase of $8.0 million sales and client service expense, a decrease of $5.0 million to net earnings, and a decrease of $.06 to diluted earnings per share that are attributable to prior periods. (3) Includes a research and development write off related to the RxStation medication dispensing devices. In connection with production and delivery of the RxStation medication dispensing devices, the Company reviewed the accounting treatment for the RxStation line of devices and determined that $8.6 million of research and development activities for the RxStation medication dispensing devices that should have been expensed was incorrectly capitalized. The impact of this charge is a $5.4 million decrease, net of $3.2 million tax benefit, in net earnings and a decrease to diluted earnings per share of $.06 in the year ended December 29, 2007. $2.1 million of this $5.4 million after tax amount recorded in 2007 related to periods prior to 2007. (4) Includes a $3.1 million tax benefit recorded in 2007 related to periods prior to 2007. The tax benefit relates to the over expensing of state income taxes, which resulted in an increase to diluted earnings per share of $.04 in the year ended December 29, 2007. (5) Includes an adjustment to correct the amounts previously reported for the second quarter of 2007 for a previously disclosed out of period tax item relating to foreign net operating losses. The effect of this adjustment increases tax expense for the year ended December 29, 2007, by $4.2 million and increases January 1, 2005 retained earnings (Shareholders Equity) by the same amount. (6) Includes a tax benefit of $2.0 million for adjustments relating to prior periods. This results in an increase to diluted earnings per share of $.02. 17 Table of Contents (7) Includes a tax benefit of $4.8 million relating to the carry back of a capital loss generated by the sale of Zynx Health Incorporated (Zynx) in the first quarter of 2004. The impact of this refund claim is a $4.8 million increase in net earnings and an increase in diluted earnings per share of $.06 for 2005. (8) Includes a charge for the write off of acquired in process research and development related to the acquisition of the medical business division of VitalWorks, Inc. The impact of this charge is a $3.9 million decrease, net of $2.4 million tax benefit, in net earnings and a decrease to diluted earnings per share of $.05 for 2005. (9) Includes a gain on the sale of Zynx. The impact of this gain is a $3.0 million increase in net earnings and increase to diluted earnings per share of $.04 for 2004. (10) Includes a charge for vacation accrual of $3.3 million included in general and administrative. The impact of this charge is a $2.1 million decrease, net of $1.2 million tax benefit, in net earnings and a decrease to diluted earnings per share of $.03 for 2004. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following Management Discussion and Analysis (MDA) is intended to help the reader understand the results of operations and financial condition of Cerner Corporation (Cerner or the Company). This MDA is provided as a supplement to, and should be read in conjunction with, our financial statements and the accompanying notes to the financial statements (Notes). Management Overview Cerner primarily derives revenue by selling, implementing and supporting software solutions, clinical content, hardware, healthcare devices and services that give healthcare providers secure access to clinical, administrative and financial data in real time, allowing them to improve the quality, safety and efficiency in the delivery of healthcare. We implement the healthcare solutions as stand alone, combined or enterprise wide systems. Cerner Millennium software solutions can be managed by the Companys clients or in the Companys data center via a managed services model. Cerners fundamental strategy centers on creating organic growth by investing in research and development (RD) to create solutions and services for the healthcare industry. This strategy has driven strong growth over the long term, as reflected in five and ten year compound annual revenue growth rates of 15% or more. This growth has also created a very strategic client base of more than 6,000 hospital, health system, physician practice, clinic, laboratory and pharmacy clients around the world. Selling additional solutions back into this client base is an important element of Cerners future revenue growth. We are also focused on driving growth through market share expansion by replacing competitors in healthcare settings that are looking to replace their current HIT partners or those who have not yet strategically aligned with a supplier. We also expect to drive growth through new initiatives that reflect our ongoing ability to innovate such as our CareAware healthcare device architecture and devices, Healthe employer services, physician practice solutions and solutions and services for the pharmaceutical market. Finally, we expect continued strong revenue contributions from the sale of our solutions and services outside of the U.S. Many non U.S. markets have a low penetration of HIT solutions and their governing bodies are in many cases focused on HIT as part of their strategy to improve the quality and lower the cost of healthcare. Beyond our strategy for driving revenue growth, Cerner is also focused on earnings growth. Similar to our history of growing revenue, our net earnings have increased at more than 20% compound annual rates over five and ten year periods. We believe we can continue driving strong levels of earnings growth by continuing to grow revenue while also leveraging key areas to create operating margin expansion. The primary areas of opportunity for margin expansion include: 18 Table of Contents becoming more efficient at implementing our software by leveraging implementation tools and methodologies we have developed that can reduce the amount of effort required to implement our software; leveraging our investments in RD by addressing new markets (i.e., non U.S.) that do not require significant incremental RD but can contribute significantly to revenue growth; and, leveraging our scalable business infrastructure to reduce the rate of increase in general and administrative spending to below our revenue growth rate. We are also focused on increasing cash flow by growing earnings, reducing the use of working capital and controlling capital expenditures. While 2007 was a year of heavy capital investment because of investments in a new data center to support our rapidly growing hosting business and purchasing new buildings to accommodate growth in our associate base, capital spending decreased in 2008 and we expect capital spending in 2009 to remain at levels below our 2007 spending. Results Overview In a challenging economic environment, we continued to execute on our core strategies to drive revenue growth, expand operating margins, grow earnings and generate good cash flow in 2008. The 2008 results included strong levels of earnings, and cash flow and solid new business bookings. New business bookings revenue in 2008, which reflects the value of executed contracts for software, hardware, professional services and managed services (hosting of software in the Companys data center) was $1.54 billion, which is an increase of 2% when compared to $1.51 billion in 2007. The 2007 bookings exclude bookings related to the Companys participation in the National Health Services (NHS) initiative to automate clinical processes and digitize medical records in England in the amount of $97.8 million. Revenues for 2008 increased 10% to $1.68 billion compared to $1.52 billion in 2007, driven primarily by an increase in support, maintenance and services revenues. 2008 revenues and margin include a cumulative catch up adjustment recognized in the fourth quarter, in the amount of $28,640,000, resulting from a significant change in an accounting estimate related to the Companys contract in London as part of the NHS initiative to automate clinical processes and digitize medical records in England. The 2008 net earnings increased 48% to $188.7 million compared to $127.1 million in 2007. Diluted earnings per share increased 48% to $2.26 compared to $1.53 in 2007. The 2008 and 2007 net earnings and diluted earnings per share reflect the impact of accounting pursuant to Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 123R, Share Based Payment, which requires the expensing of stock options. The effect of accounting under SFAS 123R reduced the 2008 net earnings and diluted earnings per share by $9.5 million and $0.11, and the 2007 earnings and diluted earnings per share by $10.2 million and $0.12, respectively. 2008 net earnings also include the catch up of margin adjustment related to the Companys contract in London. The after tax effect of this catch up increased 2008 net earnings and diluted earnings per share by $20,600,000 and $0.24, respectively. In addition to the benefit from the catch up adjustment, the growth in net earnings and diluted earnings per share was driven primarily by continued progress with the Companys margin expansion initiatives, particularly expanding the profitability of support and maintenance revenue, leveraging RD investments, and controlling sales, general, and administrative expenses. Our 2008 operating margin was 17%, and would have been 15% without the catch up adjustment, compared to 13% in 2007, and we remain on target to achieve our long term goal of 20% operating margins. We had cash collections of receivables of $1.73 billion in 2008 compared to $1.65 billion in 2007, with the increase driven by increased billings. Days sales outstanding increased to 92 days for the quarter ended January 3, 2009 compared to 90 days for the quarter ended December 29, 2007. Operating cash flows for 2008 were $281.8 million compared to $274.6 million in 2007. This year also included progress on our strategic initiatives that, while not yet material to our current results, are an important part of our longer term growth strategy. For example, we had several sales and implementations of our CareAware MDBus healthcare device connectivity solution that allows medical devices to be connected to an electronic medical record through a USB like connection. We also made progress with our employer focused 19 Table of Contents initiatives, with our first health center client, Cisco Systems, opening their LifeConnections Health Center in November 2008. This is a fully automated employee based health center based on Cerners own successful on campus model that has led to improvements in quality, efficiency, and access to care for Cerners associates and their dependents. The Companys fiscal year ends on the Saturday closest to December 31. Fiscal year 2008 consisted of 53 weeks and fiscal years 2007 and 2006 consisted of 52 weeks each. Healthcare Information Technology Market Outlook We have provided a detailed assessment of the healthcare information technology market under Part I, Item 1, The Healthcare and Healthcare IT Industry. Results of Operations Year Ended January 3, 2009, Compared to Year Ended December 29, 2007 Revenues increased 10% to $1,676,028,000 in 2008, compared with $1,519,877,000 in 2007. The revenue composition for 2008 was $522,373,000 in system sales, $472,579,000 in support and maintenance, $643,317,000 in services and $37,759,000 in reimbursed travel. The Companys net earnings increased 48% to $188,658,000 in 2008 from $127,125,000 in 2007. The effects of SFAS No. 123R, which requires the expensing of stock options, decreased net earnings in 2008 and 2007 by $9,503,000, net of $5,641,000 tax benefit and $10,159,000, net of $6,030,000 tax benefit, respectively. As discussed in the results overview and more fully described in the Operations by Segment, 2008 revenues and margin included a cumulative catch up adjustment recognized in the fourth quarter, in the amount of $28,640,000, resulting from a significant change in accounting estimate related to the Companys contract in London. The majority of the catch up adjustment revenue was included in support, maintenance and services. System sales revenues increased 4% to $522,373,000 in 2008 from $500,319,000 in 2007. Included in system sales are revenues from the sale of software, hardware, sublicensed software, deployment period licensed software upgrade rights, installation fees, transaction processing and subscriptions. The increase in system sales was driven by growth in licensed software, sublicensed software, and subscriptions. Support, maintenance and services revenues increased 14% to $1,115,896,000 in 2008 from $982,780,000 in 2007. Included in support, maintenance and services revenues are support and maintenance of software and hardware, professional services excluding installation, and managed services. A summary of the Companys support, maintenance and services revenues in 2008 and 2007 is as follows: (In thousands) 2008 2007 Support and maintenance revenues $ 472,579 $ 397,713 Services revenue 643,317 585,067 Total support, maintenance, and services revenues $ 1,115,896 $ 982,780 The $58,250,000, or 10%, increase in services revenue was primarily attributable to growth in CernerWorks managed services. The $74,866,000, or 19%, increase in support and maintenance revenues is attributable to continued success at selling Cerner Millennium applications, implementing them at client sites, and initiating billing for support and maintenance fees. Contract backlog, which reflects new business bookings that have not yet been recognized as revenue, increased 7% in 2008 compared to 2007. This increase was driven by growth in new business bookings during the past four quarters, including continued strong levels of managed services bookings that typically have longer contract terms. In the second quarter of 2008, contract backlog was reduced by 20 Table of Contents approximately $178,000,000 as a result of the contract withdrawal by the prime contractor in the southern region of England. A summary of the Companys total backlog for 2008 and 2007 follows: (In thousands) 2008 2007 Contract backlog $ 2,907,762 $ 2,712,195 Support and maintenance backlog 580,915 541,095 Total backlog $ 3,488,677 $ 3,253,290 The cost of revenues was 18% of total revenues in both 2008 and 2007. The cost of revenues includes the cost of reimbursed travel expense, sales commissions, third party consulting services and subscription content, computer hardware and sublicensed software purchased from hardware and software manufacturers for delivery to clients. It also includes the cost of hardware maintenance and sublicensed software support subcontracted to the manufacturers. Such costs, as a percent of revenues, typically have varied as the mix of revenue (software, hardware, maintenance, support, services and reimbursed travel) carrying different margin rates changes from period to period. Costs of revenues does not include the costs of our client service personnel who are responsible for delivering our service offerings, such costs are included in sales and client service expense. Total operating expenses, excluding cost of revenues, increased 6% to $1,101,080,000 in 2008 from $1,035,684,000 in 2007. Accounting pursuant to SFAS 123(R), which results in the expensing of share based compensation, impacted expenses in 2008 and 2007 as indicated below: (In thousands) 2008 2007 Sales and client service expenses $ 7,750 $ 9,518 Software development expense 3,232 3,032 General and administrative expenses 4,162 3,639 Total stock based compensation expense $ 15,144 $ 16,189 Sales and client service expenses as a percent of total revenues were 43% in both 2008 and 2007. These expenses increased 9% to $715,512,000 in 2008, from $657,956,000 in 2007. Sales and client service expenses include salaries of sales and client service personnel, depreciation and other expenses associated with our CernerWorks managed service business, communications expenses, unreimbursed travel expenses, expense for share based payments, sales and marketing salaries and trade show and advertising costs. The increase was primarily attributable to growth in the managed services business, including $8,014,000 of expense recorded in the second quarter of 2008 for a settlement with a third party provider of software related to the use of the third partys software in this business. Total expense for software development in 2008 increased 1% to $272,519,000, from $270,576,000 in 2007. Expenditures for software development in 2008 reflect continued development and enhancement of the Cerner Millennium platform and software solutions and investments in new initiatives, such as RxStation medication dispensing devices. Included in 2007 software development expense is $8.6 million of research and development activities for the RxStation medical dispensing device. $3.4 million of this amount recorded in 2007 is related to periods prior to 2007. A summary of the Companys total software development expense in 2008 and 2007 is as follows: 21 Table of Contents (In thousands) 2008 2007 Software development costs $ 291,368 $ 283,086 Capitalized software costs (69,039 ) (64,789 ) Capitalized costs related to share based payments (942 ) (1,196 ) Amortization of capitalized software costs 51,132 53,475 Total software development expense $ 272,519 $ 270,576 General and administrative expenses as a percent of total revenues were 7% in 2008 and 2007. These expenses increased 6% to $113,049,000 in 2008 from $107,152,000 in 2007. This increase was due primarily to the growth of the Companys core business and increased presence in the global market. General and administrative expenses include salaries for corporate, financial and administrative staff, utilities, communications expenses, professional fees, the transaction gains or losses on foreign currency and expense for share based payments. The Company recorded a net transaction gain on foreign currency of $9,858,000 and $3,691,000 in 2008 and 2007, respectively. Net interest income was $3,056,000 in 2008, compared with net interest income of $1,269,000 in 2007. Interest income increased to $13,604,000 in 2008 from $13,206,000 in 2007, due primarily to higher returns received from our investments in auction rate securities. Interest expense decreased to $10,548,000 in 2008 from $11,937,000 in 2007, due primarily to a reduction in long term debt. Other expense was $510,000 in 2008, compared to other expense of $1,385,000 in 2007. As a result of the Company entering into a settlement agreement with an investment firm relating to auction rate securities, Other expense in 2008 includes the recognition of a gain of $19,860,000 for a put like feature. This gain was offset by the recognition of an other than temporary impairment loss recorded on the Companys auction rate securities due to a reclassification of these securities from available for sale to trading. The Companys effective tax rate was 33% and 38% in 2008 and 2007, respectively. This decrease is primarily due to a higher than normal rate in 2007. The increase in the effective rate in 2007 was primarily due to recognition of a valuation allowance in the third quarter of 2007 on certain of the Companys foreign tax loss carryforwards. Such additional tax expense in 2007 was partially offset by a tax benefit for adjustments relating to prior periods. The tax rate for 2008 was slightly lower than normal due to strong income levels from global regions that have lower tax rates. During the second quarter of 2007, the Company determined that due to a change in circumstances in the quarter, it is more likely than not that certain tax operating loss carry forwards in a non U.S. jurisdiction would not be realized resulting in the recognition of a valuation allowance totaling approximately $7,982,000. The 2007 valuation allowance was used in 2008 to offset a reduction in the operating loss carry forward for the non U.S. jurisdiction. Tax expense for 2007 and 2008 include benefits of approximately $3,125,000 and $2,879,000, respectively, for corrections relating to prior periods. Operations by Segment The Company has two operating segments, Domestic and Global. The following table presents a summary of the operating information for the years ended 2008 and 2007: 22 Table of Contents Operating Segments 2008 Domestic Global Other Total (In thousands) Revenues $ 1,307,510 $ 368,518 $ $ 1,676,028 Cost of revenues 225,955 70,108 296,063 Operating expenses 361,213 150,729 589,138 1,101,080 Total costs and expenses 587,168 220,837 589,138 1,397,143 Operating earnings (loss) $ 720,342 $ 147,681 $ (589,138 ) $ 278,885 Operating Segments 2007 Domestic Global Other Total (In thousands) Revenues $ 1,227,434 $ 290,677 $ 1,766 $ 1,519,877 Cost of revenues 221,154 53,367 5,589 280,110 Operating expenses 331,124 151,355 553,205 1,035,684 Total costs and expenses 552,278 204,722 558,794 1,315,794 Operating earnings (loss) $ 675,156 $ 85,955 $ (557,028 ) $ 204,083 Domestic Segment The Companys Domestic segment includes revenue contributions and expenditures associated with business activity in the United States. Operating earnings increased 7% to $720,342,000 in 2008 from $675,156,000 in 2007. Revenues increased 7% to $1,307,510,000 in 2008 from $1,227,434,000 in 2007. This increase was primarily driven by growth in managed services and support and maintenance. Cost of revenues was 17% and 18% in 2008 and 2007, respectively. The decline was driven primarily by a lower level of hardware sales. Operating expenses increased 9% for 2008, compared to 2007, due primarily to growth in managed services. Global Segment The Companys Global segment in 2008 and 2007 includes revenue contributions and expenditures linked to business activity in Aruba, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Cayman Islands, Chile, China (Hong Kong), Egypt, England, France, Germany, India, Ireland, Malaysia, Puerto Rico, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland and the United Arab Emirates. Operating earnings increased 72% to $147,681,000 in 2008 from $85,955,000 in 2007. Revenues increased 27% to $368,518,000 in 2008 from $290,677,000 in 2007. This increase was primarily driven by an increase in sales in Europe and the Middle East. Global revenue includes work related to the Companys participation in the NHS initiative to automate clinical processes and digitize medical records in England. Prior to 2008, the revenues related to this effort were accounted for using a zero margin approach of applying percentage of completion accounting resulting from the Companys inability to 23 Table of Contents accurately estimate the work effort required to complete the project as well as the determination of fair value for the support services and other elements which would not be accounted for in accordance with the percentage of completion accounting methodology. London is one of two regions in England in which the Company is participating. As it relates to the London arrangement, during 2008 the Company established fair value of the undelivered elements of the arrangement that are not subject to percentage of completion accounting. Also, during the fourth quarter of 2008 the Company realized a significant milestone in London which significantly enhances the Companys ability to make reliable estimates of the work effort for the remainder of the contract. These events, combined with our experience since the contract signed in 2006 and our experience in the Southern region of England, allowed the Company to conclude that reasonably dependable estimates of work effort could be produced and allow for margin recognition. As a result, the Companys fourth quarter 2008 revenues included a cumulative catch up adjustment, resulting from the significant change in accounting estimate, in the amount of $28,640,000 which represents the margin on the contract which had been previously deferred as a result of the zero margin approach of applying percentage of completion accounting. The remaining margin attributed to the services subject to SOP 81 1 will be recognized over the remaining service period until the services are complete and amounts allocated to the other support services subject to SOP 97 2 will be recognized over the relevant support periods. The contract expires in 2014. The other region in England the Company is participating in is the Southern region. During the second quarter of 2008, the contract with Fujitsu, the prime contractor in the Southern region of England, was terminated which had the effect of automatically terminating the Companys subcontract for the project. A transition services agreement was signed during the third quarter of 2008 that provides for ongoing services for the Trusts that already have live systems for which margin was recognized. No formal timeline has been set for addressing the implementations at the remaining Trusts, but the Company currently expects to play an ongoing role in this region. Margin recognized in 2008 was not significant. Cost of revenues was 19% and 18% in 2008 and 2007, respectively. The higher cost of revenues was driven by a higher mix of hardware revenues in 2008. Operating expenses for the year ended January 3, 2009 decreased less than 1%, compared to the year ended December 29, 2007. Other Segment The Companys Other segment includes revenues and expenses which are not tracked by geographic segment. Operating losses increased 6% to $589,138,000 in 2008 from $557,028,000 in 2007. This increase was primarily due to increased research and development and general and administrative spending and a settlement with a third party supplier in the second quarter of 2008 related to the prior period usage of their software in the Companys remote hosting business. The third party supplier settlement increased Other segment expense by $8,014,000 in the second quarter of 2008. Year Ended December 29, 2007, Compared to Year Ended December 30, 2006 The Companys net earnings increased 16% to $127,125,000 in 2007 from $109,891,000 in 2006. The effects of SFAS No. 123R, which requires the expensing of stock options, decreased net earnings in 2007 and 2006 by $10,159,000, net of $6,030,000 tax benefit and $11,746,000, net of $7,275,000 tax benefit, respectively. Revenues increased 10% to $1,519,877,000 in 2007, compared with $1,378,038,000 in 2006. The revenue composition for 2007 was $500,319,000 in system sales, $397,713,000 in support and maintenance, $585,067,000 in services and $36,778,000 in reimbursed travel. System sales revenues decreased 1% to $500,319,000 in 2007 from $505,743,000 in 2006. Included in system sales are revenues from the sale of software, hardware, sublicensed software, deployment period 24 Table of Contents licensed software upgrade rights, installation fees, transaction processing and subscriptions. The slight decrease in system sales was primarily attributable to a decrease in software revenue, which was largely offset by an increase in hardware, sublicensed software, and subscriptions revenue. We believe the decline in software revenue was primarily caused by much of our client base being focused on upgrading to the Cerner Millennium 2007 release. Cerner generally sells a perpetual license, so our clients do not have to pay new license fees when they upgrade to a new version of our software, so the focus by much of our base on implementing the upgrade impacted our software sales. Support, maintenance and services revenues increased 18% to $982,780,000 in 2007 from $833,244,000 in 2006. Included in support, maintenance and services revenues are support and maintenance of software and hardware, professional services excluding installation, and managed services. A summary of the Companys support, maintenance and services revenues in 2007 and 2006 is as follows: (In thousands) 2007 2006 Support and maintenance revenues $ 397,713 $ 340,416 Services revenue 585,067 492,828 Total support, maintenance, and services revenues $ 982,780 $ 833,244 The $92,239,000, or 19%, increase in services revenue was attributable to growth in CernerWorks managed services and increased professional services utilization rates. The $57,297,000, or 17%, increase in support and maintenance revenues was attributable to continued success at selling Cerner Millennium applications, implementing them at client sites, and initiating billing for support and maintenance fees. Contract backlog, which reflects new business bookings that have not yet been recognized as revenue, increased 24% in 2007 compared to 2006. This increase was driven by growth in new business bookings during the past four quarters, including continued strong levels of managed services bookings that typically have longer contract terms. A summary of the Companys total backlog for 2007 and 2006 follows: (In thousands) 2007 2006 Contract backlog $ 2,712,195 $ 2,194,460 Support and maintenance backlog 541,095 469,473 Total backlog $ 3,253,290 $ 2,663,933 The cost of revenues was 18% of total revenues in 2007 and 21% in 2006. The cost of revenues includes the cost of reimbursed travel expense, sales commissions, third party consulting services and subscription content, computer hardware and sublicensed software purchased from hardware and software manufacturers for delivery to clients. It also includes the cost of hardware maintenance and sublicensed software support subcontracted to the manufacturers. Such costs, as a percent of revenues, typically have varied as the mix of revenue (software, hardware, maintenance, support, services and reimbursed travel) carrying different margin rates changes from period to period. The decline in cost of revenues as a percent of revenue was primarily associated with lower commissions and third party costs on licensed software sales and a higher mix of support, maintenance and services revenues, which have a lower cost of revenue. Total operating expenses, excluding cost of revenues, increased 12% to $1,035,684,000 in 2007 from $920,901,000 in 2006. Accounting pursuant to SFAS 123(R), which results in the expensing of share based compensation, impacted expenses in 2007 and 2006 as indicated below: 25 Table of Contents (In thousands) 2007 2006 Sales and client service expenses $ 9,518 $ 11,412 Software development expense 3,032 4,269 General and administrative expenses 3,639 3,340 Total stock based compensation expense $ 16,189 $ 19,021 Sales and client service expenses as a percent of total revenues were 43% and 42% in 2007 and 2006, respectively. These expenses increased 14% to $657,956,000 in 2007, from $578,050,000 in 2006. Sales and client service expenses include salaries of sales and client service personnel, communications expenses, unreimbursed travel expenses, expense for share based payments, sales and marketing salaries and trade show and advertising costs. The increase was primarily attributable to growth in CernerWorks managed services business. Total expense for software development in 2007 increased 10% to $270,576,000, from $246,970,000 in 2006. The increase in aggregate expenditures for software development in 2007 was due to continued development and enhancement of the Cerner Millennium platform and software solutions and investments in new initiatives, such as RxStation medication dispensing devices. Included in 2007 software development expense is $8.6 million of research and development activities for the RxStation medical dispensing device. $3.4 million of this amount recorded in 2007 is related to periods prior to 2007. A summary of the Companys total software development expense in 2007 and 2006 is as follows: (In thousands) 2007 2006 Software development costs $ 283,086 $ 262,163 Capitalized software costs (64,789 ) (59,991 ) Capitalized costs related to share based payments (1,196 ) (952 ) Amortization of capitalized software costs 53,475 45,750 Total software development expense $ 270,576 $ 246,970 General and administrative expenses as a percent of total revenues were 7% in 2007 and 2006. These expenses increased 12% to $107,152,000 in 2007 from $95,881,000 in 2006. This increase was due primarily to the growth of the Companys core business and increased presence in the global market. General and administrative expenses include salaries for corporate, financial and administrative staff, utilities, communications expenses, professional fees, the transaction gains or losses on foreign currency and expense for share based payments. The Company recorded a net transaction gain on foreign currency of $3,691,000 and $3,764,000 in 2007 and 2006, respectively. Net interest income was $1,269,000 in 2007, compared with net interest expense of $697,000 in 2006. Interest income increased to $13,206,000 in 2007 from $11,877,000 in 2006, due primarily to higher yields on cash and short term investments. Interest expense decreased to $11,937,000 in 2007 from $12,574,000 in 2006, due primarily to a reduction in long term debt. Other expense was $1,385,000 in 2007, compared to other income of $2,074,000 in 2006. Included in 2006 other income is a gain recorded in the first quarter of 2006 related to the renegotiation of a supplier contract that eliminated a liability related to unfavorable future commitments due to that supplier. The Company was able to renegotiate the contract to eliminate certain minimum volume requirements and reduce pricing to market rates leading to the elimination of the previously recorded liability. The Companys effective tax rate was 38% and 34% in 2007 and 2006, respectively. The change in tax rate was principally related to the creation of a valuation allowance in a non U.S. jurisdiction in 2007. 26 Table of Contents During the second quarter of 2007, the Company determined that due to a change in circumstances in the quarter, it is more likely than not that certain tax operating loss carry forwards in a non U.S. jurisdiction would not be realized resulting in the recognition of a valuation allowance totaling approximately $7,982,000. Tax expense for 2007 and 2006 includes benefits of approximately $3,125,000 and $1,994,000, respectively for adjustments to correct certain tax items relating to prior periods. Operations by Segment The Company has two operating segments, Domestic and Global. The following table presents a summary of the operating information for the years ended 2007 and 2006: Operating Segments 2007 Domestic Global Other Total (In thousands) Revenues $ 1,227,434 $ 290,677 $ 1,766 $ 1,519,877 Cost of revenues 221,154 53,367 5,589 280,110 Operating expenses 331,124 151,355 553,205 1,035,684 Total costs and expenses 552,278 204,722 558,794 1,315,794 Operating earnings (loss) $ 675,156 $ 85,955 $ (557,028 ) $ 204,083 Operating Segments 2006 Domestic Global Other Total (In thousands) Revenues $ 1,166,662 $ 207,367 $ 4,009 $ 1,378,038 Cost of revenues 251,574 39,224 172 290,970 Operating expenses 308,085 107,571 505,245 920,901 Total costs and expenses 559,659 146,795 505,417 1,211,871 Operating earnings (loss) $ 607,003 $ 60,572 $ (501,408 ) $ 166,167 Domestic Segment The Companys Domestic segment includes revenue contributions and expenditures associated with business activity in the United States. Operating earnings increased 11% to $675,156,000 in 2007 from $607,003,000 in 2006. Revenues increased 5% to $1,227,434,000 in 2007 from $1,166,662,000 in 2006. This increase was primarily driven by growth in managed services and support and maintenance. Cost of revenues was 18% and 22% in 2007 and 2006, respectively. The decline was driven primarily by lower commissions and third party costs on licensed software sales, lower hardware sales, and a higher mix of support, maintenance and services revenues, which have a lower cost of revenue. 27 Table of Contents Operating expenses increased 7% for the year ended December 29, 2007, as compared to the year ended December 30, 2006, due primarily to growth in managed services. Global Segment The Companys Global segment in 2007 and 2006 includes revenue contributions and expenditures linked to business activity in Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Cayman Islands, China (Hong Kong), Egypt, England, France, Germany, India, Ireland, Malaysia, Puerto Rico, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland and the United Arab Emirates. Operating earnings increased 42% to $85,955,000 in 2007 from $60,572,000 in 2006. Revenues increased 40% to $290,677,000 in 2007 from $207,367,000 in 2006. Approximately one third of this increase was driven by an increase in revenue from the Companys participation in the National Health Service (NHS) initiative to automate clinical processes and digitize medical records in England. The increase in global revenue was also driven by growth in several other countries, including Malaysia, Australia, Egypt, France, Spain and the United Arab Emirates. Revenue related to the NHS initiative that was being accounted for at zero margin totaled $96,000,000 and $71,000,000 for the 2007 and 2006 fiscal years, respectively. These revenues did not affect operating earnings as the Company was accounting for them at zero margin using a zero margin approach of applying percentage of completion accounting until either the software customization and development services are completed or the Company is able to determine fair value for the support services. Cost of revenues was 18% and 19% in 2007 and 2006, respectively. The lower cost of revenues was driven by a slightly higher mix of support, maintenance and services revenues, which have a lower cost of revenue. Operating expenses for the year ended December 29, 2007 increased 41%, compared to the year ended December 30, 2006, primarily due to hiring personnel for the projects in England and supporting growth in other global regions. Other Segment The Companys Other segment includes revenues and expenses which are not tracked by geographic segment. Operating losses increased 11% to $557,028,000 in 2007 from $501,408,000 in 2006. This increase was primarily due to an increase in operating expenses such as software development, marketing, general and administrative, share based compensation expense and depreciation. Liquidity and Capital Resources The Companys liquidity is influenced by many factors, including the amount and timing of the Companys revenues, its cash collections from its clients and the amounts the Company invests in software development, acquisitions and capital expenditures. The Companys principal source of liquidity is its cash, cash equivalents and short term investments. The majority of the Companys cash and cash equivalents consist of money market funds. At January 3, 2009 the Company had cash and cash equivalents of $270,494,000, short term investments of $38,400,000 and working capital of $517,650,000 compared to cash and cash equivalents of $182,914,000, short term investments of $161,600,000 and working capital of $530,441,000 at December 29, 2007. At January 3, 2009, more than 10 percent of total net receivables represent accounts receivable and contracts receivable related to a contract with Fujitsu that was terminated in the second quarter of 2008 when Fujitsu withdrew from the National Health Service (NHS) initiative to automate clinical processes and digitize medical records in the Southern region of England. The Company expects to collect these receivables in full based on the terms of the contract. 28 Table of Contents At January 3, 2009, the Company held auction rate securities with a par value of $105,300,000 and an estimated fair value of $85,440,000. In February and March 2008, liquidity issues in the global credit markets resulted in the progressive failure of auctions representing all the auction rate securities held by Cerner. These conditions persisted through the remainder of 2008 and into 2009. In November 2008, the Company entered into a settlement agreement with the investment firm that sold the Company its auction rate securities. Under the terms of the settlement agreement the Company received the right to redeem the securities at par value during a period from mid 2010 through mid 2012. The right to redeem the securities is being treated similar to a put option, which the Company has elected to measure under the fair value option of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 159 (SFAS No. 159), The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities". The Companys valuation model resulted in a pre tax, estimated value of $19,860,000 for the value of the put like settlement feature, which such gain was recognized through other income. Concurrently with the recognition of the put like feature, the Company transferred the auction rate securities from available for sale to trading securities. As a result of the transfer, the Company recognized a pre tax, other than temporary impairment loss of approximately $19,860,000 in other income. The recording of the put like feature and the recognition of the other than temporary impairment loss on the securities resulted in no impact to the Consolidated Statements of Operating Earnings for the year ended January 3, 2009. The Company anticipates that any future changes in the fair value of the put like feature will be offset by the changes in the fair value of the related auction rate securities with no material net impact to the Consolidated Statements of Earnings. For a more detailed discussion of the auction rate securities situation, please refer to Note (7) to the consolidated financial statements. Cerner does not expect the auction failures to impact the Companys ability to fund its working capital needs, capital expenditures or other business requirements. Cash Flows from Operating Activities The Company generated cash of $281,802,000, $274,565,000, and $232,718,000 from operations in 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. Cash flow from operations increased in 2008 due primarily to the increase in net earnings which was partially offset by changes in working capital. The Company has periodically provided long term financing options to creditworthy clients through third party financing institutions and has directly provided extended payment terms to clients from contract date. These extended payment term arrangements typically provide for date based payments over periods ranging from 12 months to seven years. Pursuant to SOP 97 2, because a significant portion of the fee is due beyond one year, we have analyzed our history with these types of arrangements and have concluded that we do have a standard business practice of using extended payment term arrangements and have a long history of successfully collecting under the original payment terms for arrangements with similar clients, product offerings and economics without granting concessions. Accordingly, we consider the fee to be fixed and determinable in these extended payment term arrangements and, thus, the timing of revenue is not impacted by the existence of extended payments. Some of these payment streams have been assigned on a non recourse basis to third party financing institutions. The Company has provided its usual and customary performance guarantees to the third party financing institutions in connection with its on going obligations under the client contract. During 2008, 2007, and 2006, the Company received total client cash collections of $1,729,526,000, $1,646,584,000, and $1,457,603,000, respectively, of which approximately 5%, 5%, and 7% were received from third party client financing arrangements and non recourse payment assignments, respectively. The days sales outstanding increased to 92 days for the quarter ended January 3, 2009 compared to 90 days for the quarter ended December 29, 2007. Revenues provided under support and maintenance agreements represent recurring cash flows. Support and maintenance revenues increased 19% in 2008 and 17% in 2007, and the Company expects these revenues to continue to grow as the base of installed Cerner Millennium systems grows. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Cash used in investing activities in 2008 consisted primarily of capital purchases of $108,099,000, which includes $89,904,000 of capital equipment and $18,195,000 of land, buildings and improvements. Capitalized software development costs were $70,098,000 in 2008. Payments aggregating $5,719,000 were made during 2008 for an 29 Table of Contents acquisition of a business and an earnout payment related to a 2005 acquisition. Cash received from short term investments, net of purchases was $17,510,000 in 2008. Cash used in investing activities in 2007 consisted primarily of capital purchases of $180,723,000, which includes $105,678,000 of capital equipment and $75,045,000 of land, buildings and improvements. Capitalized software development costs were $66,063,000 and the acquisition of businesses totaled $24,061,000. Cash paid for short term investments, net of sales and maturities, was $13,277,000 in 2007. In the second quarter of 2007, the Company completed the construction of a new data center on its World Headquarters campus in North Kansas City, Missouri. The Company spent approximately $61,203,000 on this construction project. Of this amount, approximately $26,858,000 was spent in 2007, with the remainder being spent in prior years. Cash Flows from Financing Activities The Companys 2008 financing activities consisted of proceeds from the exercise of options of $15,364,000, the excess tax benefit from share based compensation of $9,166,000, net repayment of long term debt of $15,317,000, sales of future receivables of $7,135,000, and purchases of treasury stock of $28,002,000. In 2007, the Companys financing activities consisted primarily of proceeds from the exercise of options of $29,085,000, the excess tax benefit from share based compensation of $30,357,000 and repayment of long term debt of $22,359,000. In December 2008, the Company had a same day borrowing of $44,500,000 from its line of credit which was repaid that same day. This was in connection with tax incentives related to the World Headquarters data center and the Innovation Campus. In December 2007, the Company had a one day borrowing of $40,000,000 from its line of credit which was repaid on the following day. This was in connection with tax incentives related to the World Headquarters data center. In November 2005, the Company completed a 65,000,000 ($94,556,000 at January 3, 2009) private placement of debt at 5.54% pursuant to a Note Agreement. The Note Agreement is payable in seven equal annual installments beginning in November 2009. The proceeds were used to repay the outstanding amount under the Companys credit facility and for general corporate purposes. The Note Agreement contains certain net worth and fixed charge coverage covenants and provides certain restrictions on the Companys ability to borrow, incur liens, sell assets and pay dividends. The Company was in compliance with all covenants at January 3, 2009. In December 2002, the Company completed a $60,000,000 private placement of debt pursuant to a Note Agreement. The Series A Senior Notes, with a $21,000,000 principal amount at 5.57% were paid in full by the end of 2008. The Series B Senior notes, with a $39,000,000 principal amount at 6.42%, are payable in four equal annual installments beginning December 2009. The proceeds were used to repay the outstanding amount under the Companys credit facility and for general corporate purposes. The Note Agreement contains certain net worth and fixed charge coverage covenants and provides certain restrictions on the Companys ability to borrow, incur liens, sell assets and pay dividends. The Company was in compliance with all covenants at January 3, 2009. In May 2002, the Company expanded its credit facility by entering into an unsecured credit agreement with a group of banks led by US Bank. This agreement was amended and restated on November 30, 2006, and provides for a current revolving line of credit for working capital purposes. The current revolving line of credit is unsecured and requires monthly payments of interest only. Interest is payable at the Companys option at a rate based on prime (3.25% at January 3, 2009) or LIBOR (1.41% at January 3, 2009) plus 1.55%. The interest rate may be reduced by up to 1.15% if certain net worth ratios are maintained. The agreement contains certain net worth, current ratio, and fixed charge coverage covenants and provides certain restrictions on the Companys ability to borrow, incur liens, sell assets and pay dividends. A commitment fee of .2% is payable quarterly based on the usage of the revolving line of credit. The revolving line of credit matures on May 31, 2010. At January 3, 2009, the Company had no outstanding borrowings under this agreement and had $90,000,000 available for working capital purposes. The Company was in compliance with all covenants at January 3, 2009. 30 Table of Contents In April 1999, the Company completed a $100,000,000 private placement of debt pursuant to a Note Agreement. The Series A Senior Notes, with a $60,000,000 principal amount at 7.14%, were paid in full by the end of 2006. The Series B Senior Notes, with a $40,000,000 principal amount at 7.66%, are payable in six equal annual installments which commenced in April 2004. The proceeds were used to retire the Companys then existing $30,000,000 of debt, and the remaining funds were used for capital improvements and to strengthen the Companys cash position. The Note Agreement contains certain net worth, current ratio, and fixed charge coverage covenants and provides certain restrictions on the Companys ability to borrow, incur liens, sell assets and pay dividends. The Company was in compliance with all covenants at January 3, 2009. The Company believes that its present cash position, together with cash generated from operations, short term investments and, if necessary, its lines of credit, will be sufficient to meet anticipated cash requirements during 2009. The following table represents a summary of the Companys contractual obligations and commercial commitments, excluding interest, as of January 3, 2009, except short term purchase order commitments arising in the ordinary course of business. Payments due by period Contractual Obligations 2014 and (In thousands) 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 thereafter Total Long term debt obligations $ 29,925 $ 24,330 $ 23,258 $ 23,258 $ 13,508 $ 27,016 $ 141,295 Capital lease obligations 191 191 Operating lease obligations 13,442 12,553 11,237 10,686 9,533 32,998 90,449 Purchase obligations 19,787 12,269 5,788 5,802 5,878 49,524 Uncertain tax positions 1,457 2,314 3,785 4,884 12,440 Total $ 64,802 $ 51,466 $ 44,068 $ 44,630 $ 28,919 $ 60,014 $ 293,899 The effects of inflation on the Companys business during 2008, 2007 and 2006 were not significant. 31 Table of Contents Recent Accounting Pronouncements In September 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 157 (SFAS 157), Fair Value Measurements. This statement establishes a single authoritative definition of fair value when accounting rules require the use of fair value, sets out a framework for measuring fair value and requires additional disclosures about fair value measurements. On February 12, 2008, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position (FSP) No. FAS 157 2. This FSP defers the effective date of SFAS 157 to fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2008 for nonfinancial assets and liabilities within the scope of the FSP. The Company adopted SFAS 157 for fair value measurement outside of the scope of FSP No. 157 2 on December 30, 2007. On October 10, 2008, the FASB issued FSP No. FAS 157 3 that clarifies the application of SFAS 157 in a market that is not active. FSP No. 157 3 is effective for all periods presented in accordance with SFAS 157 and the Company has considered the guidance with respect to the valuation of its financial assets and their designation within the fair value hierarchy. The Company was required to fully adopt SFAS 157 as of the first day of the 2009 fiscal year and does not expect its adoption to have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. In December 2007, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 141 (revised 2007), Business Combinations (SFAS 141(R)) which replaces SFAS 141 and supersedes FIN 4, Applicability of FASB Statement No. 2 to Business Combinations Accounted for by the Purchase Method. SFAS 141(R) establishes guidelines for how an acquirer measures and recognizes the identifiable assets, goodwill, noncontrolling interest, and liabilities assumed in a business combination. Additionally, SFAS 141(R) outlines the disclosures necessary to allow financial statement users to assess the impact of the acquisition. The Company is currently assessing the impact of adoption of SFAS 141(R), which will depend on future acquisition activity, and will be required to adopt SFAS 141(R) prospectively for business combinations occurring on or after the first day of the 2009 fiscal year. Also in December 2007, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 160 (SFAS 160), Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements, which amends ARB No. 51. SFAS 160 guides that a noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary should be reported as equity in the consolidated financial statements, and that net income should be reported at amounts that include the amounts attributable to both the parent and the noncontrolling interest. The Company is currently assessing the impact of adoption of SFAS 160 on its results of operations, which is expected to be immaterial, and its financial position and was required to adopt SFAS 160 as of the first day of the 2009 fiscal year. In March 2008, the FASB issued Statement of Accounting Standards No. 161 (SFAS 161), Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities an amendment of FASB Statement No. 133. SFAS 161 requires enhanced disclosures about the uses of derivative instruments and hedging activities, how these activities are accounted for, and their respective impact on an entitys financial position, financial performance, and cash flows. The Company is currently assessing the impact of adoption of SFAS 161 on its results of operations and its financial position, which is expected to be immaterial, and was required to adopt SFAS 161 as of the first day of the 2009 fiscal year. Critical Accounting Policies The Company believes that there are several accounting policies that are critical to understanding the Companys historical and future performance, as these policies affect the reported amount of revenue and other significant areas involving managements judgments and estimates. These significant accounting policies relate to revenue recognition, software development, potential impairments of goodwill and income taxes. These policies and the Companys procedures related to these policies are described in detail below and under specific areas within this Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. In addition, Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements expands upon discussion of the Companys accounting policies. Revenue Recognition The Company recognizes its multiple element arrangements, including software and software related services, using the residual method under SOP 97 2, Software Revenue Recognition, as amended by SOP No. 98 4, SOP 98 9 and clarified by Staff Accounting Bulletins (SAB) 104 Revenue Recognition and Emerging Issues Task Force 32 Table of Contents 00 21 Accounting for Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables (EITF 00 21). Key factors in the Companys revenue recognition model are managements assessments that installation services are essential to the functionality of the Companys software whereas implementation services are not; and the length of time it takes for the Company to achieve its delivery and installation milestones for its licensed software. If the Companys business model were to change such that implementation services are deemed to be essential to the functionality of the Companys software, the period of time over which the Companys licensed software revenue would be recognized would lengthen. The Company generally recognizes combined revenue from the sale of its licensed software and related installation services over two key milestones, delivery and installation, based on percentages that reflect the underlying effort from planning to installation. Generally, both milestones are achieved in the quarter the contracts are executed. If the period of time to achieve the Companys delivery and installation milestones for its licensed software were to lengthen, its milestones would be adjusted and the timing of revenue recognition for its licensed software could materially change. The Company also recognizes revenue for certain projects using the percentage of completion method pursuant to Statement of Position 81 1 (SOP 81 1), Accounting for Performance of Construction Type and Certain Production Type Contracts, as prescribed by SOP 97 2. The Companys revenue recognition is dependent upon the Companys ability to reliably estimate the direct labor hours to complete a project which in some cases can span several years. The Company utilizes its historical project experience and detailed planning process as a basis for its future estimates to complete current projects. Significant delays in completion of the projects, unforeseen cost increases or penalties could result in significant reductions to revenue and margins on these contracts. Software Development Costs Costs incurred internally in creating computer software solutions and enhancements to those solutions are expensed until completion of a detailed program design, which is when the Company determines that technological feasibility has been established. Thereafter, all software development costs are capitalized until such time as the software solutions and enhancements are available for general release, and the capitalized costs subsequently are reported at the lower of amortized cost or net realizable value. Net realizable value is computed as the estimated gross future revenues from each software solution less the amount of estimated future costs of completing and disposing of that product. Because the development of projected net future revenues related to our software solutions used in our net realizable value computation is based on estimates, a significant reduction in our future revenues could impact the recovery of our capitalized software development costs. We historically have not experienced significant inaccuracies in computing the net realizable value of our software solutions and the difference between the net realizable value and the unamortized cost has grown over the past three years. We expect that trend to continue in the future. If we missed our estimates of net future revenues by up to 10%, the amount of our capitalized software development costs would not be impaired. Capitalized costs are amortized based on current and expected net future revenue for each software solution with minimum annual amortization equal to the straight line amortization over the estimated economic life of the software solution. The Company is amortizing capitalized costs over five years. The five year period over which capitalized software development costs are amortized is an estimate based upon the Companys forecast of a reasonable useful life for the capitalized costs. Historically, use of the Companys software programs by its clients has exceeded five years and is capable of being used a decade or more. The Company expects that major software information systems companies, large information technology consulting service providers and systems integrators and others specializing in the healthcare industry may offer competitive products or services. The pace of change in the HIT market is rapid and there are frequent new product introductions, product enhancements and evolving industry standards and requirements. As a result, the capitalized software solutions may become less valuable or obsolete and could be subject to impairment. Fair Value Measurements On December 30, 2007, the Company adopted the provisions of SFAS 157, Fair Value Measurements except for portions related to the non financial assets and liabilities within the scope of the deferral provided by FSP No. FAS 157 2. The three levels of the fair value hierarchy defined by SFAS No. 157 are as follows: Level 1 Valuations based on quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that the entity has the ability to access. Level 2 Valuations based on quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities, quoted prices in markets that are not active, or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities. Level 3 Valuations based on inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities. At January 3, 2009, the Company held investments in commercial paper along with auction rate securities. Commercial paper consists of short term corporate debt with maturities of less than three months. All of the commercial paper held at January 3, 2009 was rated P1/A1 or higher. Auction rate securities are debt instruments with long term nominal maturities, for which the interest rates regularly reset every 7 35 days under an auction system. Due to the lack of availability of observable market quotes on the Companys investment portfolio of auction rate securities, the Company utilizes valuation models including those that are based on discounted cash flow streams, including assessments of counterparty credit quality, default risk underlying the security, discount rates and overall capital market liquidity. The valuation is subject to uncertainties that are difficult to predict. A considerable amount of judgment and estimation is applied in the valuation of auction rate securities. In addition, the Company also applies judgment in determining whether the marketable securities are other than temporarily impaired. The Company typically considers the severity and duration of the decline, future prospects of the issuer and the Companys ability and intent to hold the security to recovery. Goodwill The Company accounts for its goodwill under the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. As a result, goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives are not amortized but are evaluated for impairment annually or whenever there is an impairment indicator. All goodwill is assigned to a reporting unit, where it is subject to an annual impairment test based on fair value. The Company assesses goodwill for impairment in the second quarter of each fiscal year and evaluates impairment 33 Table of Contents indicators at each quarter end. The Company assessed its goodwill for impairment in the second quarters of 2008 and 2007 and concluded that no goodwill was impaired. The Company used a discounted cash flow analysis to determine the fair value of the reporting units for all periods. Goodwill amounted to $146,666,000 and $143,924,000 at January 3, 2009 and December 29, 2007, respectively. If future, anticipated cash flows from the Companys reporting units that recognized goodwill do not materialize as expected the Companys goodwill could be impaired, which could result in significant write offs. Income Taxes In 2006, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 48 (FIN 48), Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes an Interpretation of SFAS No. 109. FIN 48 clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in an enterprises financial statements in accordance with SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes. FIN 48 also prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in an enterprises tax return. Management makes a number of assumptions and estimates in determining the appropriate amount of expense to record for income taxes. These assumptions and estimates consider the taxing jurisdiction in which the Company operates as well as current tax regulations. Accruals are established for estimates of tax effects for certain transactions, business structures and future projected profitability of the Companys businesses based on managements interpretation of existing facts and circumstances. If these assumptions and estimates were to change as a result of new evidence or changes in circumstances the change in estimate could result in a material adjustment to the consolidated financial statements. The Company adopted FIN 48 effective at the beginning of 2007. The adoption of FIN 48 did not have a material impact on Cerners consolidated financial position. See Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements for additional disclosures related to FIN 48. Our management has discussed the development and selection of these critical accounting estimates with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors and the Audit Committee has reviewed the Companys disclosure contained herein. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk At January 3, 2009, the Company had a 65,000,000 ($94,556,000 at January 3, 2009) note payable outstanding through a private placement with an interest rate of 5.54%. The note is payable in seven equal installments beginning in November 2009. Because the borrowing is denominated in pounds, the Company is exposed to movements in the foreign currency exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the Great Britain pound. The note was entered into for other than trading purposes. Beginning in 2006, at the beginning of each quarterly period, the Company designated a portion (between 60 million and 63 million during the year) of its debt (65 million) that is denominated in Great Britain Pounds, to hedge its net investment in a subsidiary in England. During 2007 and 2008 the Company designated all 65 million of its debt that is denominated in Great Britain Pounds. 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following Management Discussion and Analysis (MDA) is intended to help the reader understand the results of operations and financial condition of Cerner Corporation (Cerner or the Company). This MDA is provided as a supplement to, and should be read in conjunction with, our financial statements and the accompanying notes to the financial statements (Notes). Management Overview Cerner primarily derives revenue by selling, implementing and supporting software solutions, clinical content, hardware, healthcare devices and services that give healthcare providers secure access to clinical, administrative and financial data in real time, allowing them to improve the quality, safety and efficiency in the delivery of healthcare. We implement the healthcare solutions as stand alone, combined or enterprise wide systems. Cerner Millennium software solutions can be managed by the Companys clients or in the Companys data center via a managed services model. Cerners fundamental strategy centers on creating organic growth by investing in research and development (RD) to create solutions and services for the healthcare industry. This strategy has driven strong growth over the long term, as reflected in five and ten year compound annual revenue growth rates of 15% or more. This growth has also created a very strategic client base of more than 6,000 hospital, health system, physician practice, clinic, laboratory and pharmacy clients around the world. Selling additional solutions back into this client base is an important element of Cerners future revenue growth. We are also focused on driving growth through market share expansion by replacing competitors in healthcare settings that are looking to replace their current HIT partners or those who have not yet strategically aligned with a supplier. We also expect to drive growth through new initiatives that reflect our ongoing ability to innovate such as our CareAware healthcare device architecture and devices, Healthe employer services, physician practice solutions and solutions and services for the pharmaceutical market. Finally, we expect continued strong revenue contributions from the sale of our solutions and services outside of the U.S. Many non U.S. markets have a low penetration of HIT solutions and their governing bodies are in many cases focused on HIT as part of their strategy to improve the quality and lower the cost of healthcare. Beyond our strategy for driving revenue growth, Cerner is also focused on earnings growth. Similar to our history of growing revenue, our net earnings have increased at more than 20% compound annual rates over five and ten year periods. We believe we can continue driving strong levels of earnings growth by continuing to grow revenue while also leveraging key areas to create operating margin expansion. The primary areas of opportunity for margin expansion include: 18 Table of Contents becoming more efficient at implementing our software by leveraging implementation tools and methodologies we have developed that can reduce the amount of effort required to implement our software; leveraging our investments in RD by addressing new markets (i.e., non U.S.) that do not require significant incremental RD but can contribute significantly to revenue growth; and, leveraging our scalable business infrastructure to reduce the rate of increase in general and administrative spending to below our revenue growth rate. We are also focused on increasing cash flow by growing earnings, reducing the use of working capital and controlling capital expenditures. While 2007 was a year of heavy capital investment because of investments in a new data center to support our rapidly growing hosting business and purchasing new buildings to accommodate growth in our associate base, capital spending decreased in 2008 and we expect capital spending in 2009 to remain at levels below our 2007 spending. Results Overview In a challenging economic environment, we continued to execute on our core strategies to drive revenue growth, expand operating margins, grow earnings and generate good cash flow in 2008. The 2008 results included strong levels of earnings, and cash flow and solid new business bookings. New business bookings revenue in 2008, which reflects the value of executed contracts for software, hardware, professional services and managed services (hosting of software in the Companys data center) was $1.54 billion, which is an increase of 2% when compared to $1.51 billion in 2007. The 2007 bookings exclude bookings related to the Companys participation in the National Health Services (NHS) initiative to automate clinical processes and digitize medical records in England in the amount of $97.8 million. Revenues for 2008 increased 10% to $1.68 billion compared to $1.52 billion in 2007, driven primarily by an increase in support, maintenance and services revenues. 2008 revenues and margin include a cumulative catch up adjustment recognized in the fourth quarter, in the amount of $28,640,000, resulting from a significant change in an accounting estimate related to the Companys contract in London as part of the NHS initiative to automate clinical processes and digitize medical records in England. The 2008 net earnings increased 48% to $188.7 million compared to $127.1 million in 2007. Diluted earnings per share increased 48% to $2.26 compared to $1.53 in 2007. The 2008 and 2007 net earnings and diluted earnings per share reflect the impact of accounting pursuant to Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 123R, Share Based Payment, which requires the expensing of stock options. The effect of accounting under SFAS 123R reduced the 2008 net earnings and diluted earnings per share by $9.5 million and $0.11, and the 2007 earnings and diluted earnings per share by $10.2 million and $0.12, respectively. 2008 net earnings also include the catch up of margin adjustment related to the Companys contract in London. The after tax effect of this catch up increased 2008 net earnings and diluted earnings per share by $20,600,000 and $0.24, respectively. In addition to the benefit from the catch up adjustment, the growth in net earnings and diluted earnings per share was driven primarily by continued progress with the Companys margin expansion initiatives, particularly expanding the profitability of support and maintenance revenue, leveraging RD investments, and controlling sales, general, and administrative expenses. Our 2008 operating margin was 17%, and would have been 15% without the catch up adjustment, compared to 13% in 2007, and we remain on target to achieve our long term goal of 20% operating margins. We had cash collections of receivables of $1.73 billion in 2008 compared to $1.65 billion in 2007, with the increase driven by increased billings. Days sales outstanding increased to 92 days for the quarter ended January 3, 2009 compared to 90 days for the quarter ended December 29, 2007. Operating cash flows for 2008 were $281.8 million compared to $274.6 million in 2007. This year also included progress on our strategic initiatives that, while not yet material to our current results, are an important part of our longer term growth strategy. For example, we had several sales and implementations of our CareAware MDBus healthcare device connectivity solution that allows medical devices to be connected to an electronic medical record through a USB like connection. We also made progress with our employer focused 19 Table of Contents initiatives, with our first health center client, Cisco Systems, opening their LifeConnections Health Center in November 2008. This is a fully automated employee based health center based on Cerners own successful on campus model that has led to improvements in quality, efficiency, and access to care for Cerners associates and their dependents. The Companys fiscal year ends on the Saturday closest to December 31. Fiscal year 2008 consisted of 53 weeks and fiscal years 2007 and 2006 consisted of 52 weeks each. Healthcare Information Technology Market Outlook We have provided a detailed assessment of the healthcare information technology market under Part I, Item 1, The Healthcare and Healthcare IT Industry. Results of Operations Year Ended January 3, 2009, Compared to Year Ended December 29, 2007 Revenues increased 10% to $1,676,028,000 in 2008, compared with $1,519,877,000 in 2007. The revenue composition for 2008 was $522,373,000 in system sales, $472,579,000 in support and maintenance, $643,317,000 in services and $37,759,000 in reimbursed travel. The Companys net earnings increased 48% to $188,658,000 in 2008 from $127,125,000 in 2007. The effects of SFAS No. 123R, which requires the expensing of stock options, decreased net earnings in 2008 and 2007 by $9,503,000, net of $5,641,000 tax benefit and $10,159,000, net of $6,030,000 tax benefit, respectively. As discussed in the results overview and more fully described in the Operations by Segment, 2008 revenues and margin included a cumulative catch up adjustment recognized in the fourth quarter, in the amount of $28,640,000, resulting from a significant change in accounting estimate related to the Companys contract in London. The majority of the catch up adjustment revenue was included in support, maintenance and services. System sales revenues increased 4% to $522,373,000 in 2008 from $500,319,000 in 2007. Included in system sales are revenues from the sale of software, hardware, sublicensed software, deployment period licensed software upgrade rights, installation fees, transaction processing and subscriptions. The increase in system sales was driven by growth in licensed software, sublicensed software, and subscriptions. Support, maintenance and services revenues increased 14% to $1,115,896,000 in 2008 from $982,780,000 in 2007. Included in support, maintenance and services revenues are support and maintenance of software and hardware, professional services excluding installation, and managed services. A summary of the Companys support, maintenance and services revenues in 2008 and 2007 is as follows: (In thousands) 2008 2007 Support and maintenance revenues $ 472,579 $ 397,713 Services revenue 643,317 585,067 Total support, maintenance, and services revenues $ 1,115,896 $ 982,780 The $58,250,000, or 10%, increase in services revenue was primarily attributable to growth in CernerWorks managed services. The $74,866,000, or 19%, increase in support and maintenance revenues is attributable to continued success at selling Cerner Millennium applications, implementing them at client sites, and initiating billing for support and maintenance fees. Contract backlog, which reflects new business bookings that have not yet been recognized as revenue, increased 7% in 2008 compared to 2007. This increase was driven by growth in new business bookings during the past four quarters, including continued strong levels of managed services bookings that typically have longer contract terms. In the second quarter of 2008, contract backlog was reduced by 20 Table of Contents approximately $178,000,000 as a result of the contract withdrawal by the prime contractor in the southern region of England. A summary of the Companys total backlog for 2008 and 2007 follows: (In thousands) 2008 2007 Contract backlog $ 2,907,762 $ 2,712,195 Support and maintenance backlog 580,915 541,095 Total backlog $ 3,488,677 $ 3,253,290 The cost of revenues was 18% of total revenues in both 2008 and 2007. The cost of revenues includes the cost of reimbursed travel expense, sales commissions, third party consulting services and subscription content, computer hardware and sublicensed software purchased from hardware and software manufacturers for delivery to clients. It also includes the cost of hardware maintenance and sublicensed software support subcontracted to the manufacturers. Such costs, as a percent of revenues, typically have varied as the mix of revenue (software, hardware, maintenance, support, services and reimbursed travel) carrying different margin rates changes from period to period. Costs of revenues does not include the costs of our client service personnel who are responsible for delivering our service offerings, such costs are included in sales and client service expense. Total operating expenses, excluding cost of revenues, increased 6% to $1,101,080,000 in 2008 from $1,035,684,000 in 2007. Accounting pursuant to SFAS 123(R), which results in the expensing of share based compensation, impacted expenses in 2008 and 2007 as indicated below: (In thousands) 2008 2007 Sales and client service expenses $ 7,750 $ 9,518 Software development expense 3,232 3,032 General and administrative expenses 4,162 3,639 Total stock based compensation expense $ 15,144 $ 16,189 Sales and client service expenses as a percent of total revenues were 43% in both 2008 and 2007. These expenses increased 9% to $715,512,000 in 2008, from $657,956,000 in 2007. Sales and client service expenses include salaries of sales and client service personnel, depreciation and other expenses associated with our CernerWorks managed service business, communications expenses, unreimbursed travel expenses, expense for share based payments, sales and marketing salaries and trade show and advertising costs. The increase was primarily attributable to growth in the managed services business, including $8,014,000 of expense recorded in the second quarter of 2008 for a settlement with a third party provider of software related to the use of the third partys software in this business. Total expense for software development in 2008 increased 1% to $272,519,000, from $270,576,000 in 2007. Expenditures for software development in 2008 reflect continued development and enhancement of the Cerner Millennium platform and software solutions and investments in new initiatives, such as RxStation medication dispensing devices. Included in 2007 software development expense is $8.6 million of research and development activities for the RxStation medical dispensing device. $3.4 million of this amount recorded in 2007 is related to periods prior to 2007. A summary of the Companys total software development expense in 2008 and 2007 is as follows: 21 Table of Contents (In thousands) 2008 2007 Software development costs $ 291,368 $ 283,086 Capitalized software costs (69,039 ) (64,789 ) Capitalized costs related to share based payments (942 ) (1,196 ) Amortization of capitalized software costs 51,132 53,475 Total software development expense $ 272,519 $ 270,576 General and administrative expenses as a percent of total revenues were 7% in 2008 and 2007. These expenses increased 6% to $113,049,000 in 2008 from $107,152,000 in 2007. This increase was due primarily to the growth of the Companys core business and increased presence in the global market. General and administrative expenses include salaries for corporate, financial and administrative staff, utilities, communications expenses, professional fees, the transaction gains or losses on foreign currency and expense for share based payments. The Company recorded a net transaction gain on foreign currency of $9,858,000 and $3,691,000 in 2008 and 2007, respectively. Net interest income was $3,056,000 in 2008, compared with net interest income of $1,269,000 in 2007. Interest income increased to $13,604,000 in 2008 from $13,206,000 in 2007, due primarily to higher returns received from our investments in auction rate securities. Interest expense decreased to $10,548,000 in 2008 from $11,937,000 in 2007, due primarily to a reduction in long term debt. Other expense was $510,000 in 2008, compared to other expense of $1,385,000 in 2007. As a result of the Company entering into a settlement agreement with an investment firm relating to auction rate securities, Other expense in 2008 includes the recognition of a gain of $19,860,000 for a put like feature. This gain was offset by the recognition of an other than temporary impairment loss recorded on the Companys auction rate securities due to a reclassification of these securities from available for sale to trading. The Companys effective tax rate was 33% and 38% in 2008 and 2007, respectively. This decrease is primarily due to a higher than normal rate in 2007. The increase in the effective rate in 2007 was primarily due to recognition of a valuation allowance in the third quarter of 2007 on certain of the Companys foreign tax loss carryforwards. Such additional tax expense in 2007 was partially offset by a tax benefit for adjustments relating to prior periods. The tax rate for 2008 was slightly lower than normal due to strong income levels from global regions that have lower tax rates. During the second quarter of 2007, the Company determined that due to a change in circumstances in the quarter, it is more likely than not that certain tax operating loss carry forwards in a non U.S. jurisdiction would not be realized resulting in the recognition of a valuation allowance totaling approximately $7,982,000. The 2007 valuation allowance was used in 2008 to offset a reduction in the operating loss carry forward for the non U.S. jurisdiction. Tax expense for 2007 and 2008 include benefits of approximately $3,125,000 and $2,879,000, respectively, for corrections relating to prior periods. Operations by Segment The Company has two operating segments, Domestic and Global. The following table presents a summary of the operating information for the years ended 2008 and 2007: 22 Table of Contents Operating Segments 2008 Domestic Global Other Total (In thousands) Revenues $ 1,307,510 $ 368,518 $ $ 1,676,028 Cost of revenues 225,955 70,108 296,063 Operating expenses 361,213 150,729 589,138 1,101,080 Total costs and expenses 587,168 220,837 589,138 1,397,143 Operating earnings (loss) $ 720,342 $ 147,681 $ (589,138 ) $ 278,885 Operating Segments 2007 Domestic Global Other Total (In thousands) Revenues $ 1,227,434 $ 290,677 $ 1,766 $ 1,519,877 Cost of revenues 221,154 53,367 5,589 280,110 Operating expenses 331,124 151,355 553,205 1,035,684 Total costs and expenses 552,278 204,722 558,794 1,315,794 Operating earnings (loss) $ 675,156 $ 85,955 $ (557,028 ) $ 204,083 Domestic Segment The Companys Domestic segment includes revenue contributions and expenditures associated with business activity in the United States. Operating earnings increased 7% to $720,342,000 in 2008 from $675,156,000 in 2007. Revenues increased 7% to $1,307,510,000 in 2008 from $1,227,434,000 in 2007. This increase was primarily driven by growth in managed services and support and maintenance. Cost of revenues was 17% and 18% in 2008 and 2007, respectively. The decline was driven primarily by a lower level of hardware sales. Operating expenses increased 9% for 2008, compared to 2007, due primarily to growth in managed services. Global Segment The Companys Global segment in 2008 and 2007 includes revenue contributions and expenditures linked to business activity in Aruba, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Cayman Islands, Chile, China (Hong Kong), Egypt, England, France, Germany, India, Ireland, Malaysia, Puerto Rico, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland and the United Arab Emirates. Operating earnings increased 72% to $147,681,000 in 2008 from $85,955,000 in 2007. Revenues increased 27% to $368,518,000 in 2008 from $290,677,000 in 2007. This increase was primarily driven by an increase in sales in Europe and the Middle East. Global revenue includes work related to the Companys participation in the NHS initiative to automate clinical processes and digitize medical records in England. Prior to 2008, the revenues related to this effort were accounted for using a zero margin approach of applying percentage of completion accounting resulting from the Companys inability to 23 Table of Contents accurately estimate the work effort required to complete the project as well as the determination of fair value for the support services and other elements which would not be accounted for in accordance with the percentage of completion accounting methodology. London is one of two regions in England in which the Company is participating. As it relates to the London arrangement, during 2008 the Company established fair value of the undelivered elements of the arrangement that are not subject to percentage of completion accounting. Also, during the fourth quarter of 2008 the Company realized a significant milestone in London which significantly enhances the Companys ability to make reliable estimates of the work effort for the remainder of the contract. These events, combined with our experience since the contract signed in 2006 and our experience in the Southern region of England, allowed the Company to conclude that reasonably dependable estimates of work effort could be produced and allow for margin recognition. As a result, the Companys fourth quarter 2008 revenues included a cumulative catch up adjustment, resulting from the significant change in accounting estimate, in the amount of $28,640,000 which represents the margin on the contract which had been previously deferred as a result of the zero margin approach of applying percentage of completion accounting. The remaining margin attributed to the services subject to SOP 81 1 will be recognized over the remaining service period until the services are complete and amounts allocated to the other support services subject to SOP 97 2 will be recognized over the relevant support periods. The contract expires in 2014. The other region in England the Company is participating in is the Southern region. During the second quarter of 2008, the contract with Fujitsu, the prime contractor in the Southern region of England, was terminated which had the effect of automatically terminating the Companys subcontract for the project. A transition services agreement was signed during the third quarter of 2008 that provides for ongoing services for the Trusts that already have live systems for which margin was recognized. No formal timeline has been set for addressing the implementations at the remaining Trusts, but the Company currently expects to play an ongoing role in this region. Margin recognized in 2008 was not significant. Cost of revenues was 19% and 18% in 2008 and 2007, respectively. The higher cost of revenues was driven by a higher mix of hardware revenues in 2008. Operating expenses for the year ended January 3, 2009 decreased less than 1%, compared to the year ended December 29, 2007. Other Segment The Companys Other segment includes revenues and expenses which are not tracked by geographic segment. Operating losses increased 6% to $589,138,000 in 2008 from $557,028,000 in 2007. This increase was primarily due to increased research and development and general and administrative spending and a settlement with a third party supplier in the second quarter of 2008 related to the prior period usage of their software in the Companys remote hosting business. The third party supplier settlement increased Other segment expense by $8,014,000 in the second quarter of 2008. Year Ended December 29, 2007, Compared to Year Ended December 30, 2006 The Companys net earnings increased 16% to $127,125,000 in 2007 from $109,891,000 in 2006. The effects of SFAS No. 123R, which requires the expensing of stock options, decreased net earnings in 2007 and 2006 by $10,159,000, net of $6,030,000 tax benefit and $11,746,000, net of $7,275,000 tax benefit, respectively. Revenues increased 10% to $1,519,877,000 in 2007, compared with $1,378,038,000 in 2006. The revenue composition for 2007 was $500,319,000 in system sales, $397,713,000 in support and maintenance, $585,067,000 in services and $36,778,000 in reimbursed travel. System sales revenues decreased 1% to $500,319,000 in 2007 from $505,743,000 in 2006. Included in system sales are revenues from the sale of software, hardware, sublicensed software, deployment period 24 Table of Contents licensed software upgrade rights, installation fees, transaction processing and subscriptions. The slight decrease in system sales was primarily attributable to a decrease in software revenue, which was largely offset by an increase in hardware, sublicensed software, and subscriptions revenue. We believe the decline in software revenue was primarily caused by much of our client base being focused on upgrading to the Cerner Millennium 2007 release. Cerner generally sells a perpetual license, so our clients do not have to pay new license fees when they upgrade to a new version of our software, so the focus by much of our base on implementing the upgrade impacted our software sales. Support, maintenance and services revenues increased 18% to $982,780,000 in 2007 from $833,244,000 in 2006. Included in support, maintenance and services revenues are support and maintenance of software and hardware, professional services excluding installation, and managed services. A summary of the Companys support, maintenance and services revenues in 2007 and 2006 is as follows: (In thousands) 2007 2006 Support and maintenance revenues $ 397,713 $ 340,416 Services revenue 585,067 492,828 Total support, maintenance, and services revenues $ 982,780 $ 833,244 The $92,239,000, or 19%, increase in services revenue was attributable to growth in CernerWorks managed services and increased professional services utilization rates. The $57,297,000, or 17%, increase in support and maintenance revenues was attributable to continued success at selling Cerner Millennium applications, implementing them at client sites, and initiating billing for support and maintenance fees. Contract backlog, which reflects new business bookings that have not yet been recognized as revenue, increased 24% in 2007 compared to 2006. This increase was driven by growth in new business bookings during the past four quarters, including continued strong levels of managed services bookings that typically have longer contract terms. A summary of the Companys total backlog for 2007 and 2006 follows: (In thousands) 2007 2006 Contract backlog $ 2,712,195 $ 2,194,460 Support and maintenance backlog 541,095 469,473 Total backlog $ 3,253,290 $ 2,663,933 The cost of revenues was 18% of total revenues in 2007 and 21% in 2006. The cost of revenues includes the cost of reimbursed travel expense, sales commissions, third party consulting services and subscription content, computer hardware and sublicensed software purchased from hardware and software manufacturers for delivery to clients. It also includes the cost of hardware maintenance and sublicensed software support subcontracted to the manufacturers. Such costs, as a percent of revenues, typically have varied as the mix of revenue (software, hardware, maintenance, support, services and reimbursed travel) carrying different margin rates changes from period to period. The decline in cost of revenues as a percent of revenue was primarily associated with lower commissions and third party costs on licensed software sales and a higher mix of support, maintenance and services revenues, which have a lower cost of revenue. Total operating expenses, excluding cost of revenues, increased 12% to $1,035,684,000 in 2007 from $920,901,000 in 2006. Accounting pursuant to SFAS 123(R), which results in the expensing of share based compensation, impacted expenses in 2007 and 2006 as indicated below: 25 Table of Contents (In thousands) 2007 2006 Sales and client service expenses $ 9,518 $ 11,412 Software development expense 3,032 4,269 General and administrative expenses 3,639 3,340 Total stock based compensation expense $ 16,189 $ 19,021 Sales and client service expenses as a percent of total revenues were 43% and 42% in 2007 and 2006, respectively. These expenses increased 14% to $657,956,000 in 2007, from $578,050,000 in 2006. Sales and client service expenses include salaries of sales and client service personnel, communications expenses, unreimbursed travel expenses, expense for share based payments, sales and marketing salaries and trade show and advertising costs. The increase was primarily attributable to growth in CernerWorks managed services business. Total expense for software development in 2007 increased 10% to $270,576,000, from $246,970,000 in 2006. The increase in aggregate expenditures for software development in 2007 was due to continued development and enhancement of the Cerner Millennium platform and software solutions and investments in new initiatives, such as RxStation medication dispensing devices. Included in 2007 software development expense is $8.6 million of research and development activities for the RxStation medical dispensing device. $3.4 million of this amount recorded in 2007 is related to periods prior to 2007. A summary of the Companys total software development expense in 2007 and 2006 is as follows: (In thousands) 2007 2006 Software development costs $ 283,086 $ 262,163 Capitalized software costs (64,789 ) (59,991 ) Capitalized costs related to share based payments (1,196 ) (952 ) Amortization of capitalized software costs 53,475 45,750 Total software development expense $ 270,576 $ 246,970 General and administrative expenses as a percent of total revenues were 7% in 2007 and 2006. These expenses increased 12% to $107,152,000 in 2007 from $95,881,000 in 2006. This increase was due primarily to the growth of the Companys core business and increased presence in the global market. General and administrative expenses include salaries for corporate, financial and administrative staff, utilities, communications expenses, professional fees, the transaction gains or losses on foreign currency and expense for share based payments. The Company recorded a net transaction gain on foreign currency of $3,691,000 and $3,764,000 in 2007 and 2006, respectively. Net interest income was $1,269,000 in 2007, compared with net interest expense of $697,000 in 2006. Interest income increased to $13,206,000 in 2007 from $11,877,000 in 2006, due primarily to higher yields on cash and short term investments. Interest expense decreased to $11,937,000 in 2007 from $12,574,000 in 2006, due primarily to a reduction in long term debt. Other expense was $1,385,000 in 2007, compared to other income of $2,074,000 in 2006. Included in 2006 other income is a gain recorded in the first quarter of 2006 related to the renegotiation of a supplier contract that eliminated a liability related to unfavorable future commitments due to that supplier. The Company was able to renegotiate the contract to eliminate certain minimum volume requirements and reduce pricing to market rates leading to the elimination of the previously recorded liability. The Companys effective tax rate was 38% and 34% in 2007 and 2006, respectively. The change in tax rate was principally related to the creation of a valuation allowance in a non U.S. jurisdiction in 2007. 26 Table of Contents During the second quarter of 2007, the Company determined that due to a change in circumstances in the quarter, it is more likely than not that certain tax operating loss carry forwards in a non U.S. jurisdiction would not be realized resulting in the recognition of a valuation allowance totaling approximately $7,982,000. Tax expense for 2007 and 2006 includes benefits of approximately $3,125,000 and $1,994,000, respectively for adjustments to correct certain tax items relating to prior periods. Operations by Segment The Company has two operating segments, Domestic and Global. The following table presents a summary of the operating information for the years ended 2007 and 2006: Operating Segments 2007 Domestic Global Other Total (In thousands) Revenues $ 1,227,434 $ 290,677 $ 1,766 $ 1,519,877 Cost of revenues 221,154 53,367 5,589 280,110 Operating expenses 331,124 151,355 553,205 1,035,684 Total costs and expenses 552,278 204,722 558,794 1,315,794 Operating earnings (loss) $ 675,156 $ 85,955 $ (557,028 ) $ 204,083 Operating Segments 2006 Domestic Global Other Total (In thousands) Revenues $ 1,166,662 $ 207,367 $ 4,009 $ 1,378,038 Cost of revenues 251,574 39,224 172 290,970 Operating expenses 308,085 107,571 505,245 920,901 Total costs and expenses 559,659 146,795 505,417 1,211,871 Operating earnings (loss) $ 607,003 $ 60,572 $ (501,408 ) $ 166,167 Domestic Segment The Companys Domestic segment includes revenue contributions and expenditures associated with business activity in the United States. Operating earnings increased 11% to $675,156,000 in 2007 from $607,003,000 in 2006. Revenues increased 5% to $1,227,434,000 in 2007 from $1,166,662,000 in 2006. This increase was primarily driven by growth in managed services and support and maintenance. Cost of revenues was 18% and 22% in 2007 and 2006, respectively. The decline was driven primarily by lower commissions and third party costs on licensed software sales, lower hardware sales, and a higher mix of support, maintenance and services revenues, which have a lower cost of revenue. 27 Table of Contents Operating expenses increased 7% for the year ended December 29, 2007, as compared to the year ended December 30, 2006, due primarily to growth in managed services. Global Segment The Companys Global segment in 2007 and 2006 includes revenue contributions and expenditures linked to business activity in Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Cayman Islands, China (Hong Kong), Egypt, England, France, Germany, India, Ireland, Malaysia, Puerto Rico, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland and the United Arab Emirates. Operating earnings increased 42% to $85,955,000 in 2007 from $60,572,000 in 2006. Revenues increased 40% to $290,677,000 in 2007 from $207,367,000 in 2006. Approximately one third of this increase was driven by an increase in revenue from the Companys participation in the National Health Service (NHS) initiative to automate clinical processes and digitize medical records in England. The increase in global revenue was also driven by growth in several other countries, including Malaysia, Australia, Egypt, France, Spain and the United Arab Emirates. Revenue related to the NHS initiative that was being accounted for at zero margin totaled $96,000,000 and $71,000,000 for the 2007 and 2006 fiscal years, respectively. These revenues did not affect operating earnings as the Company was accounting for them at zero margin using a zero margin approach of applying percentage of completion accounting until either the software customization and development services are completed or the Company is able to determine fair value for the support services. Cost of revenues was 18% and 19% in 2007 and 2006, respectively. The lower cost of revenues was driven by a slightly higher mix of support, maintenance and services revenues, which have a lower cost of revenue. Operating expenses for the year ended December 29, 2007 increased 41%, compared to the year ended December 30, 2006, primarily due to hiring personnel for the projects in England and supporting growth in other global regions. Other Segment The Companys Other segment includes revenues and expenses which are not tracked by geographic segment. Operating losses increased 11% to $557,028,000 in 2007 from $501,408,000 in 2006. This increase was primarily due to an increase in operating expenses such as software development, marketing, general and administrative, share based compensation expense and depreciation. Liquidity and Capital Resources The Companys liquidity is influenced by many factors, including the amount and timing of the Companys revenues, its cash collections from its clients and the amounts the Company invests in software development, acquisitions and capital expenditures. The Companys principal source of liquidity is its cash, cash equivalents and short term investments. The majority of the Companys cash and cash equivalents consist of money market funds. At January 3, 2009 the Company had cash and cash equivalents of $270,494,000, short term investments of $38,400,000 and working capital of $517,650,000 compared to cash and cash equivalents of $182,914,000, short term investments of $161,600,000 and working capital of $530,441,000 at December 29, 2007. At January 3, 2009, more than 10 percent of total net receivables represent accounts receivable and contracts receivable related to a contract with Fujitsu that was terminated in the second quarter of 2008 when Fujitsu withdrew from the National Health Service (NHS) initiative to automate clinical processes and digitize medical records in the Southern region of England. The Company expects to collect these receivables in full based on the terms of the contract. 28 Table of Contents At January 3, 2009, the Company held auction rate securities with a par value of $105,300,000 and an estimated fair value of $85,440,000. In February and March 2008, liquidity issues in the global credit markets resulted in the progressive failure of auctions representing all the auction rate securities held by Cerner. These conditions persisted through the remainder of 2008 and into 2009. In November 2008, the Company entered into a settlement agreement with the investment firm that sold the Company its auction rate securities. Under the terms of the settlement agreement the Company received the right to redeem the securities at par value during a period from mid 2010 through mid 2012. The right to redeem the securities is being treated similar to a put option, which the Company has elected to measure under the fair value option of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 159 (SFAS No. 159), The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities". The Companys valuation model resulted in a pre tax, estimated value of $19,860,000 for the value of the put like settlement feature, which such gain was recognized through other income. Concurrently with the recognition of the put like feature, the Company transferred the auction rate securities from available for sale to trading securities. As a result of the transfer, the Company recognized a pre tax, other than temporary impairment loss of approximately $19,860,000 in other income. The recording of the put like feature and the recognition of the other than temporary impairment loss on the securities resulted in no impact to the Consolidated Statements of Operating Earnings for the year ended January 3, 2009. The Company anticipates that any future changes in the fair value of the put like feature will be offset by the changes in the fair value of the related auction rate securities with no material net impact to the Consolidated Statements of Earnings. For a more detailed discussion of the auction rate securities situation, please refer to Note (7) to the consolidated financial statements. Cerner does not expect the auction failures to impact the Companys ability to fund its working capital needs, capital expenditures or other business requirements. Cash Flows from Operating Activities The Company generated cash of $281,802,000, $274,565,000, and $232,718,000 from operations in 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. Cash flow from operations increased in 2008 due primarily to the increase in net earnings which was partially offset by changes in working capital. The Company has periodically provided long term financing options to creditworthy clients through third party financing institutions and has directly provided extended payment terms to clients from contract date. These extended payment term arrangements typically provide for date based payments over periods ranging from 12 months to seven years. Pursuant to SOP 97 2, because a significant portion of the fee is due beyond one year, we have analyzed our history with these types of arrangements and have concluded that we do have a standard business practice of using extended payment term arrangements and have a long history of successfully collecting under the original payment terms for arrangements with similar clients, product offerings and economics without granting concessions. Accordingly, we consider the fee to be fixed and determinable in these extended payment term arrangements and, thus, the timing of revenue is not impacted by the existence of extended payments. Some of these payment streams have been assigned on a non recourse basis to third party financing institutions. The Company has provided its usual and customary performance guarantees to the third party financing institutions in connection with its on going obligations under the client contract. During 2008, 2007, and 2006, the Company received total client cash collections of $1,729,526,000, $1,646,584,000, and $1,457,603,000, respectively, of which approximately 5%, 5%, and 7% were received from third party client financing arrangements and non recourse payment assignments, respectively. The days sales outstanding increased to 92 days for the quarter ended January 3, 2009 compared to 90 days for the quarter ended December 29, 2007. Revenues provided under support and maintenance agreements represent recurring cash flows. Support and maintenance revenues increased 19% in 2008 and 17% in 2007, and the Company expects these revenues to continue to grow as the base of installed Cerner Millennium systems grows. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Cash used in investing activities in 2008 consisted primarily of capital purchases of $108,099,000, which includes $89,904,000 of capital equipment and $18,195,000 of land, buildings and improvements. Capitalized software development costs were $70,098,000 in 2008. Payments aggregating $5,719,000 were made during 2008 for an 29 Table of Contents acquisition of a business and an earnout payment related to a 2005 acquisition. Cash received from short term investments, net of purchases was $17,510,000 in 2008. Cash used in investing activities in 2007 consisted primarily of capital purchases of $180,723,000, which includes $105,678,000 of capital equipment and $75,045,000 of land, buildings and improvements. Capitalized software development costs were $66,063,000 and the acquisition of businesses totaled $24,061,000. Cash paid for short term investments, net of sales and maturities, was $13,277,000 in 2007. In the second quarter of 2007, the Company completed the construction of a new data center on its World Headquarters campus in North Kansas City, Missouri. The Company spent approximately $61,203,000 on this construction project. Of this amount, approximately $26,858,000 was spent in 2007, with the remainder being spent in prior years. Cash Flows from Financing Activities The Companys 2008 financing activities consisted of proceeds from the exercise of options of $15,364,000, the excess tax benefit from share based compensation of $9,166,000, net repayment of long term debt of $15,317,000, sales of future receivables of $7,135,000, and purchases of treasury stock of $28,002,000. In 2007, the Companys financing activities consisted primarily of proceeds from the exercise of options of $29,085,000, the excess tax benefit from share based compensation of $30,357,000 and repayment of long term debt of $22,359,000. In December 2008, the Company had a same day borrowing of $44,500,000 from its line of credit which was repaid that same day. This was in connection with tax incentives related to the World Headquarters data center and the Innovation Campus. In December 2007, the Company had a one day borrowing of $40,000,000 from its line of credit which was repaid on the following day. This was in connection with tax incentives related to the World Headquarters data center. In November 2005, the Company completed a 65,000,000 ($94,556,000 at January 3, 2009) private placement of debt at 5.54% pursuant to a Note Agreement. The Note Agreement is payable in seven equal annual installments beginning in November 2009. The proceeds were used to repay the outstanding amount under the Companys credit facility and for general corporate purposes. The Note Agreement contains certain net worth and fixed charge coverage covenants and provides certain restrictions on the Companys ability to borrow, incur liens, sell assets and pay dividends. The Company was in compliance with all covenants at January 3, 2009. In December 2002, the Company completed a $60,000,000 private placement of debt pursuant to a Note Agreement. The Series A Senior Notes, with a $21,000,000 principal amount at 5.57% were paid in full by the end of 2008. The Series B Senior notes, with a $39,000,000 principal amount at 6.42%, are payable in four equal annual installments beginning December 2009. The proceeds were used to repay the outstanding amount under the Companys credit facility and for general corporate purposes. The Note Agreement contains certain net worth and fixed charge coverage covenants and provides certain restrictions on the Companys ability to borrow, incur liens, sell assets and pay dividends. The Company was in compliance with all covenants at January 3, 2009. In May 2002, the Company expanded its credit facility by entering into an unsecured credit agreement with a group of banks led by US Bank. This agreement was amended and restated on November 30, 2006, and provides for a current revolving line of credit for working capital purposes. The current revolving line of credit is unsecured and requires monthly payments of interest only. Interest is payable at the Companys option at a rate based on prime (3.25% at January 3, 2009) or LIBOR (1.41% at January 3, 2009) plus 1.55%. The interest rate may be reduced by up to 1.15% if certain net worth ratios are maintained. The agreement contains certain net worth, current ratio, and fixed charge coverage covenants and provides certain restrictions on the Companys ability to borrow, incur liens, sell assets and pay dividends. A commitment fee of .2% is payable quarterly based on the usage of the revolving line of credit. The revolving line of credit matures on May 31, 2010. At January 3, 2009, the Company had no outstanding borrowings under this agreement and had $90,000,000 available for working capital purposes. The Company was in compliance with all covenants at January 3, 2009. 30 Table of Contents In April 1999, the Company completed a $100,000,000 private placement of debt pursuant to a Note Agreement. The Series A Senior Notes, with a $60,000,000 principal amount at 7.14%, were paid in full by the end of 2006. The Series B Senior Notes, with a $40,000,000 principal amount at 7.66%, are payable in six equal annual installments which commenced in April 2004. The proceeds were used to retire the Companys then existing $30,000,000 of debt, and the remaining funds were used for capital improvements and to strengthen the Companys cash position. The Note Agreement contains certain net worth, current ratio, and fixed charge coverage covenants and provides certain restrictions on the Companys ability to borrow, incur liens, sell assets and pay dividends. The Company was in compliance with all covenants at January 3, 2009. The Company believes that its present cash position, together with cash generated from operations, short term investments and, if necessary, its lines of credit, will be sufficient to meet anticipated cash requirements during 2009. The following table represents a summary of the Companys contractual obligations and commercial commitments, excluding interest, as of January 3, 2009, except short term purchase order commitments arising in the ordinary course of business. Payments due by period Contractual Obligations 2014 and (In thousands) 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 thereafter Total Long term debt obligations $ 29,925 $ 24,330 $ 23,258 $ 23,258 $ 13,508 $ 27,016 $ 141,295 Capital lease obligations 191 191 Operating lease obligations 13,442 12,553 11,237 10,686 9,533 32,998 90,449 Purchase obligations 19,787 12,269 5,788 5,802 5,878 49,524 Uncertain tax positions 1,457 2,314 3,785 4,884 12,440 Total $ 64,802 $ 51,466 $ 44,068 $ 44,630 $ 28,919 $ 60,014 $ 293,899 The effects of inflation on the Companys business during 2008, 2007 and 2006 were not significant. 31 Table of Contents Recent Accounting Pronouncements In September 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 157 (SFAS 157), Fair Value Measurements. This statement establishes a single authoritative definition of fair value when accounting rules require the use of fair value, sets out a framework for measuring fair value and requires additional disclosures about fair value measurements. On February 12, 2008, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position (FSP) No. FAS 157 2. This FSP defers the effective date of SFAS 157 to fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2008 for nonfinancial assets and liabilities within the scope of the FSP. The Company adopted SFAS 157 for fair value measurement outside of the scope of FSP No. 157 2 on December 30, 2007. On October 10, 2008, the FASB issued FSP No. FAS 157 3 that clarifies the application of SFAS 157 in a market that is not active. FSP No. 157 3 is effective for all periods presented in accordance with SFAS 157 and the Company has considered the guidance with respect to the valuation of its financial assets and their designation within the fair value hierarchy. The Company was required to fully adopt SFAS 157 as of the first day of the 2009 fiscal year and does not expect its adoption to have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. In December 2007, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 141 (revised 2007), Business Combinations (SFAS 141(R)) which replaces SFAS 141 and supersedes FIN 4, Applicability of FASB Statement No. 2 to Business Combinations Accounted for by the Purchase Method. SFAS 141(R) establishes guidelines for how an acquirer measures and recognizes the identifiable assets, goodwill, noncontrolling interest, and liabilities assumed in a business combination. Additionally, SFAS 141(R) outlines the disclosures necessary to allow financial statement users to assess the impact of the acquisition. The Company is currently assessing the impact of adoption of SFAS 141(R), which will depend on future acquisition activity, and will be required to adopt SFAS 141(R) prospectively for business combinations occurring on or after the first day of the 2009 fiscal year. Also in December 2007, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 160 (SFAS 160), Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements, which amends ARB No. 51. SFAS 160 guides that a noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary should be reported as equity in the consolidated financial statements, and that net income should be reported at amounts that include the amounts attributable to both the parent and the noncontrolling interest. The Company is currently assessing the impact of adoption of SFAS 160 on its results of operations, which is expected to be immaterial, and its financial position and was required to adopt SFAS 160 as of the first day of the 2009 fiscal year. In March 2008, the FASB issued Statement of Accounting Standards No. 161 (SFAS 161), Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities an amendment of FASB Statement No. 133. SFAS 161 requires enhanced disclosures about the uses of derivative instruments and hedging activities, how these activities are accounted for, and their respective impact on an entitys financial position, financial performance, and cash flows. The Company is currently assessing the impact of adoption of SFAS 161 on its results of operations and its financial position, which is expected to be immaterial, and was required to adopt SFAS 161 as of the first day of the 2009 fiscal year. Critical Accounting Policies The Company believes that there are several accounting policies that are critical to understanding the Companys historical and future performance, as these policies affect the reported amount of revenue and other significant areas involving managements judgments and estimates. These significant accounting policies relate to revenue recognition, software development, potential impairments of goodwill and income taxes. These policies and the Companys procedures related to these policies are described in detail below and under specific areas within this Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. In addition, Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements expands upon discussion of the Companys accounting policies. Revenue Recognition The Company recognizes its multiple element arrangements, including software and software related services, using the residual method under SOP 97 2, Software Revenue Recognition, as amended by SOP No. 98 4, SOP 98 9 and clarified by Staff Accounting Bulletins (SAB) 104 Revenue Recognition and Emerging Issues Task Force 32 Table of Contents 00 21 Accounting for Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables (EITF 00 21). Key factors in the Companys revenue recognition model are managements assessments that installation services are essential to the functionality of the Companys software whereas implementation services are not; and the length of time it takes for the Company to achieve its delivery and installation milestones for its licensed software. If the Companys business model were to change such that implementation services are deemed to be essential to the functionality of the Companys software, the period of time over which the Companys licensed software revenue would be recognized would lengthen. The Company generally recognizes combined revenue from the sale of its licensed software and related installation services over two key milestones, delivery and installation, based on percentages that reflect the underlying effort from planning to installation. Generally, both milestones are achieved in the quarter the contracts are executed. If the period of time to achieve the Companys delivery and installation milestones for its licensed software were to lengthen, its milestones would be adjusted and the timing of revenue recognition for its licensed software could materially change. The Company also recognizes revenue for certain projects using the percentage of completion method pursuant to Statement of Position 81 1 (SOP 81 1), Accounting for Performance of Construction Type and Certain Production Type Contracts, as prescribed by SOP 97 2. The Companys revenue recognition is dependent upon the Companys ability to reliably estimate the direct labor hours to complete a project which in some cases can span several years. The Company utilizes its historical project experience and detailed planning process as a basis for its future estimates to complete current projects. Significant delays in completion of the projects, unforeseen cost increases or penalties could result in significant reductions to revenue and margins on these contracts. Software Development Costs Costs incurred internally in creating computer software solutions and enhancements to those solutions are expensed until completion of a detailed program design, which is when the Company determines that technological feasibility has been established. Thereafter, all software development costs are capitalized until such time as the software solutions and enhancements are available for general release, and the capitalized costs subsequently are reported at the lower of amortized cost or net realizable value. Net realizable value is computed as the estimated gross future revenues from each software solution less the amount of estimated future costs of completing and disposing of that product. Because the development of projected net future revenues related to our software solutions used in our net realizable value computation is based on estimates, a significant reduction in our future revenues could impact the recovery of our capitalized software development costs. We historically have not experienced significant inaccuracies in computing the net realizable value of our software solutions and the difference between the net realizable value and the unamortized cost has grown over the past three years. We expect that trend to continue in the future. If we missed our estimates of net future revenues by up to 10%, the amount of our capitalized software development costs would not be impaired. Capitalized costs are amortized based on current and expected net future revenue for each software solution with minimum annual amortization equal to the straight line amortization over the estimated economic life of the software solution. The Company is amortizing capitalized costs over five years. The five year period over which capitalized software development costs are amortized is an estimate based upon the Companys forecast of a reasonable useful life for the capitalized costs. Historically, use of the Companys software programs by its clients has exceeded five years and is capable of being used a decade or more. The Company expects that major software information systems companies, large information technology consulting service providers and systems integrators and others specializing in the healthcare industry may offer competitive products or services. The pace of change in the HIT market is rapid and there are frequent new product introductions, product enhancements and evolving industry standards and requirements. As a result, the capitalized software solutions may become less valuable or obsolete and could be subject to impairment. Fair Value Measurements On December 30, 2007, the Company adopted the provisions of SFAS 157, Fair Value Measurements except for portions related to the non financial assets and liabilities within the scope of the deferral provided by FSP No. FAS 157 2. The three levels of the fair value hierarchy defined by SFAS No. 157 are as follows: Level 1 Valuations based on quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that the entity has the ability to access. Level 2 Valuations based on quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities, quoted prices in markets that are not active, or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities. Level 3 Valuations based on inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities. At January 3, 2009, the Company held investments in commercial paper along with auction rate securities. Commercial paper consists of short term corporate debt with maturities of less than three months. All of the commercial paper held at January 3, 2009 was rated P1/A1 or higher. Auction rate securities are debt instruments with long term nominal maturities, for which the interest rates regularly reset every 7 35 days under an auction system. Due to the lack of availability of observable market quotes on the Companys investment portfolio of auction rate securities, the Company utilizes valuation models including those that are based on discounted cash flow streams, including assessments of counterparty credit quality, default risk underlying the security, discount rates and overall capital market liquidity. The valuation is subject to uncertainties that are difficult to predict. A considerable amount of judgment and estimation is applied in the valuation of auction rate securities. In addition, the Company also applies judgment in determining whether the marketable securities are other than temporarily impaired. The Company typically considers the severity and duration of the decline, future prospects of the issuer and the Companys ability and intent to hold the security to recovery. Goodwill The Company accounts for its goodwill under the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. As a result, goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives are not amortized but are evaluated for impairment annually or whenever there is an impairment indicator. All goodwill is assigned to a reporting unit, where it is subject to an annual impairment test based on fair value. The Company assesses goodwill for impairment in the second quarter of each fiscal year and evaluates impairment 33 Table of Contents indicators at each quarter end. The Company assessed its goodwill for impairment in the second quarters of 2008 and 2007 and concluded that no goodwill was impaired. The Company used a discounted cash flow analysis to determine the fair value of the reporting units for all periods. Goodwill amounted to $146,666,000 and $143,924,000 at January 3, 2009 and December 29, 2007, respectively. If future, anticipated cash flows from the Companys reporting units that recognized goodwill do not materialize as expected the Companys goodwill could be impaired, which could result in significant write offs. Income Taxes In 2006, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 48 (FIN 48), Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes an Interpretation of SFAS No. 109. FIN 48 clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in an enterprises financial statements in accordance with SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes. FIN 48 also prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in an enterprises tax return. Management makes a number of assumptions and estimates in determining the appropriate amount of expense to record for income taxes. These assumptions and estimates consider the taxing jurisdiction in which the Company operates as well as current tax regulations. Accruals are established for estimates of tax effects for certain transactions, business structures and future projected profitability of the Companys businesses based on managements interpretation of existing facts and circumstances. If these assumptions and estimates were to change as a result of new evidence or changes in circumstances the change in estimate could result in a material adjustment to the consolidated financial statements. The Company adopted FIN 48 effective at the beginning of 2007. The adoption of FIN 48 did not have a material impact on Cerners consolidated financial position. See Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements for additional disclosures related to FIN 48. Our management has discussed the development and selection of these critical accounting estimates with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors and the Audit Committee has reviewed the Companys disclosure contained herein. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk At January 3, 2009, the Company had a 65,000,000 ($94,556,000 at January 3, 2009) note payable outstanding through a private placement with an interest rate of 5.54%. The note is payable in seven equal installments beginning in November 2009. Because the borrowing is denominated in pounds, the Company is exposed to movements in the foreign currency exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the Great Britain pound. The note was entered into for other than trading purposes. Beginning in 2006, at the beginning of each quarterly period, the Company designated a portion (between 60 million and 63 million during the year) of its debt (65 million) that is denominated in Great Britain Pounds, to hedge its net investment in a subsidiary in England. During 2007 and 2008 the Company designated all 65 million of its debt that is denominated in Great Britain Pounds. 
 
