Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations below and in Note 18 to the financial statements. Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Cerner Corporation We may incur substantial costs related to product related liabilities. Many of our software solutions, healthcare devices or services (including life sciences/research services) provide data for use by healthcare providers in providing care to patients. We attempt to limit by contract our liability to clients; however, the limitations of liability set forth in the contracts may not be enforceable or may not otherwise protect us from liability for damages. Although we maintain liability insurance coverage in an amount that we believe is sufficient for our business, there can be no assurance that such coverage will cover any particular claim that has been brought or 7 Table of Contents that may be brought in the future, prove to be adequate or that such coverage will continue to remain available on acceptable terms, if at all. A successful material claim or series of claims brought against us, if uninsured or under insured, could materially harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Product related claims, even if not successful, could damage our reputation, cause us to lose existing clients, limit our ability to obtain new clients, divert managements attention from operations, result in revenues loss, create potential liabilities for our clients and us and increase insurance and other operational costs. We may be subject to claims for system errors and warranties. Our software solutions and healthcare devices, particularly the Cerner Millennium versions, are very complex. Our software solutions and healthcare devices may contain design, coding or other errors, especially when first introduced. We have discovered errors in our software solutions and healthcare devices after their introduction. Our software solutions and healthcare devices are intended for use in collecting, storing, and displaying clinical and healthcare related information used in the diagnosis and treatment of patients and in related healthcare settings such as admissions, billing, etc. Therefore, users of our software solutions and healthcare devices have a greater sensitivity to errors than the market for software products and devices generally. Our client agreements typically provide warranties concerning material errors and other matters. Failure of a clients Cerner software solutions and or healthcare devices to meet these warranties could constitute a material breach under the client agreement, allowing the client to terminate the agreement and possibly obtain a refund and or damages, or might require us to incur additional expense in order to make the software solution or healthcare device meet these criteria. Our client agreements generally limit our liability arising from such claims but such limits may not be enforceable in certain jurisdictions or circumstances. Although we maintain liability insurance coverage in an amount that we believe is sufficient for our business, there can be no assurance that such coverage will cover any particular claim that has been brought or that may be brought in the future, prove to be adequate or that such coverage will continue to remain available on acceptable terms, if at all. A successful material claim or series of claims brought against us, if uninsured or under insured, could materially harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may experience interruption at our data centers or client support facilities. We perform data center and or hosting services for certain clients, including the storage of critical patient and administrative data. In addition, we provide support services to our clients through various client support facilities. We have invested in reliability features such as multiple power feeds, multiple backup generators and redundant telecommunications lines, as well as technical (such as multiple overlapping security applications and countermeasures) and physical security safeguards, and structured our operations to reduce the likelihood of disruptions. Periodic risk assessments are conducted to ensure additional risks are identified and appropriately mitigated. However, complete failure of all local public power and backup generators, impairment of all telecommunications lines, a concerted denial of service cyber attack, damage (environmental, accidental, intentional or pandemic) to the buildings, the equipment inside the buildings housing our data centers, the client data contained therein and or the personnel trained to operate such facilities could cause a disruption in operations and negatively impact clients who depend on us for data center and system support services. Any interruption in operations at our data centers and or client support facilities could damage our reputation, cause us to lose existing clients, hurt our ability to obtain new clients, result in revenue loss, create potential liabilities for our clients and us and increase insurance and other operating costs. Our proprietary technology may be subject to claims for infringement or misappropriation of intellectual property rights of others, or may be infringed or misappropriated by others. We rely upon a combination of license agreements, confidentiality procedures, employee nondisclosure agreements, confidentiality agreements with third parties and technical measures to maintain the confidentiality and trade secrecy of our proprietary information. We also rely on trademark and copyright laws to protect our intellectual property rights in the United States and abroad. We continue to develop our patent portfolio of United States and global patents, but currently have a limited number of issued patents. Despite our protective measures and intellectual property rights, we may not be able to adequately protect against copying, reverse engineering, misappropriation, infringement or unauthorized use or disclosure of our intellectual property. In addition, we are routinely involved in intellectual property infringement or misappropriation claims and we expect this activity to continue or even increase as the number of competitors, patents and patent enforcement organizations in the HIT market increases, the functionality of our software solutions and services expands, and we 8 Table of Contents enter new markets such as healthcare device innovation, healthcare transactions and life sciences. These claims, even if not meritorious, are expensive to defend. If we become liable to third parties for infringing or misappropriating their intellectual property rights, we could be required to pay a substantial damage award, develop alternative technology, obtain a license and or cease using, selling, licensing, implementing and supporting the solutions, devices and services that violate the intellectual property rights. We are subject to risks associated with our non U.S. operations. We market, sell and service our solutions, devices and services globally. We have established offices around the world, including in: the Americas, Europe, the Middle East and the Asia Pacific region. We will continue to expand our non U.S. operations and enter new global markets. This expansion will require significant management attention and financial resources to develop successful direct and indirect non U.S. sales and support channels. Our business is generally transacted in the local functional currency. In some countries, our success will depend in part on our ability to form relationships with local partners. There is a risk that we may sometimes choose the wrong partner. For these reasons, we may not be able to maintain or increase non U.S. market demand for our solutions, devices and services. Non U.S. operations are subject to inherent risks, and our future results could be adversely affected by a variety of uncontrollable and changing factors. These include, but are not limited to: Greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable and longer collection periods Difficulties and costs of staffing and managing non U.S. operations The impact of global economic conditions Unfavorable or changing foreign currency exchange rates Legal compliance costs and or business risks associated with our global operations where local laws and customs differ from those in the United States Certification, licensing or regulatory requirements Unexpected changes in regulatory requirements Changes to or reduced protection of intellectual property rights in some countries Inability to obtain necessary financing on reasonable terms to adequately support non U.S. operations and expansion Potentially adverse tax consequences and difficulties associated with repatriating cash generated or held abroad in a tax efficient manner. Different or additional functionality requirements Trade protection measures Export control regulations Service provider and government spending patterns Natural disasters, war or terrorist acts Labor disruptions that may occur in a country Poor selection of a partner in a country Political conditions which may impact sales or threaten the safety of associates or our continued presence in these countries Our failure to effectively hedge exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could unfavorably affect our performance. We currently utilize a non derivative instrument to hedge our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. This instrument may involve elements of market risk in excess of the amounts recognized in the Consolidated Financial Statements. For additional information about risk on financial instruments, see Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk. Further, our financial results from non U.S. operations may be negatively affected if we fail to execute or improperly hedge our exposure to currency fluctuations. We are subject to tax legislation in several countries; tax legislation initiatives or challenges to our tax positions could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We are a large corporation with operations in more than twenty countries. As such, we are, or in the future could be, subject to tax laws and regulations of the United States federal, state and local governments and of other country jurisdictions. From time 9 Table of Contents to time, various legislative initiatives may be proposed that could adversely affect our tax positions and or our tax liabilities. There can be no assurance that our effective tax rate or tax payments will not be adversely affected by these initiatives. In addition, United States federal, state and local, as well as other countries tax laws and regulations, are extremely complex and subject to varying interpretations. There can be no assurance that our tax positions will not be challenged by relevant tax authorities or that we would be successful in any such challenge. Our success depends upon the recruitment and retention of key personnel. To remain competitive in our industries, we must attract, motivate and retain highly skilled managerial, sales, marketing, consulting and technical personnel, including executives, consultants, programmers and systems architects skilled in the HIT, healthcare devices, healthcare transactions and life sciences industries and the technical environments in which our solutions, devices and services are needed. Competition for such personnel in our industries is intense in both the United States and abroad. Our failure to attract additional qualified personnel to meet our non U.S. personnel needs could have a material adverse effect on our prospects for long term growth. Our success is dependent to a significant degree on the continued contributions of key management, sales, marketing, consulting and technical personnel. The unexpected loss of key personnel could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations, and could potentially inhibit development and delivery of our solutions, devices and services and market share advances. We rely significantly on third party suppliers. We license or purchase intellectual property and technology (such as software, hardware and content) from third parties, including some competitors, and incorporate such third party software, hardware and or content into or sell it in conjunction with our solutions, devices and services. We rely significantly on some of the third party software, hardware and or content in the operation and delivery of our solutions, devices and services. For instance, we currently depend on Microsoft and IBM Websphere technologies for portions of the operational abilities of our Millennium solutions. Our remote hosting business also relies on a single or a limited number of suppliers for certain functions of this business, such as Oracle database technologies, CITRIX technologies and CISCO network technologies, and we rely on Hewlett Packard and IBM for our hardware technology platforms. Most of the third party software licenses we have expire within one to five years, can be renewed only by mutual consent and may be terminated if we breach the terms of the license and fail to cure the breach within a specified period of time. Most of these third party software licenses are non exclusive; therefore, our competitors may obtain the right to use any of the technology covered by these licenses and use the technology to compete directly with us. If any of the third party suppliers were to change product offerings, cease actively supporting the technologies, fail to update and enhance the technologies to keep pace with changing industry standards, encounter technical difficulties in the continuing development of these technologies, significantly increase prices or terminate our licenses or supply contracts, we would need to seek alternative suppliers and incur additional internal or external development costs to ensure continued performance of our solutions, devices and services. Such alternatives may not be available on attractive terms, or may not be as widely accepted or as effective as the intellectual property or technology provided by our existing suppliers. If the cost of licensing, purchasing or maintaining the third party intellectual property or technology significantly increases, our gross margin levels could significantly decrease. In addition, interruption in functionality of our solutions, devices and services as a result of changes in third party suppliers could adversely affect future sales of solutions, devices and services. We intend to continue strategic business acquisitions, which are subject to inherent risks. In order to expand our solutions, device offerings and services and grow our market and client base, we may continue to seek and complete strategic business acquisitions that we believe are complementary to our business. Acquisitions have inherent risks which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results or prospects, including, but not limited to: 1) failure to successfully integrate the business and financial operations, services, intellectual property, solutions or personnel of an acquired business and to maintain uniform standard controls, policies and procedures; 2) diversion of managements attention from other business concerns; 3) entry into markets in which we have little or no direct prior experience; 4) failure to achieve projected synergies and performance targets; 5) loss of clients or key personnel; 6) incurrence of debt and or assumption of known and 10 Table of Contents unknown liabilities; 7) write off of software development costs, goodwill, client lists and amortization of expenses related to intangible assets; 8) dilutive issuances of equity securities; and, 9) accounting deficiencies that could arise in connection with, or as a result of, the acquisition of an acquired company, including issues related to internal control over financial reporting and the time and cost associated with remedying such deficiencies. If we fail to successfully integrate acquired businesses or fail to implement our business strategies with respect to these acquisitions, we may not be able to achieve projected results or support the amount of consideration paid for such acquired businesses. Risks Related to the Healthcare Information Technology, Healthcare Device and Healthcare Transaction Industry The healthcare industry is subject to changing political, economic and regulatory influences. For example, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (as modified by The Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act (HITECH) provisions of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009) (HIPAA) continues to have a direct impact on the healthcare industry by requiring identifiers and standardized transactions/code sets and necessary security and privacy measures in order to ensure the appropriate level of privacy of protected health information. These regulatory factors affect the purchasing practices and operation of healthcare organizations. Federal and state legislatures have periodically considered programs to reform or amend the United States healthcare system at both the federal and state level and to change healthcare financing and reimbursement systems. These programs may contain proposals to increase governmental involvement in healthcare, lower reimbursement rates or otherwise change the environment in which healthcare industry participants operate. Healthcare industry participants may respond by reducing their investments or postponing investment decisions, including investments in our solutions and services. Many healthcare providers are consolidating to create integrated healthcare delivery systems with greater market power. These providers may try to use their market power to negotiate price reductions for our solutions and services. As the healthcare industry consolidates, our client base could be eroded, competition for clients could become more intense and the importance of landing new client relationships becomes greater. Recently, Congressional leaders also have expressed their intention to enact a comprehensive healthcare reform plan, including provisions to control healthcare costs, improve healthcare quality, and expand access to affordable health insurance, potentially including the establishment of a government health insurance plan that would compete with private health plans. Healthcare reform legislation could include changes in Medicare and Medicaid payment policies and other healthcare delivery reforms that would potentially impact our business. The United States House of Representatives and United States Senate have each passed different versions of healthcare reform legislation, but Congress has not yet issued a Conference Committee Report reconciling the House and Senate versions of the legislation. As a result, the exact provisions to be included in a final bill are unknown at this time, and we cannot be certain of when or if any such legislation will be enacted. Given the potentially sweeping nature of the changes under consideration, there can be no assurances that healthcare reform legislation, if adopted, will not adversely impact either our results of operations or the manner in which we operate our business. The healthcare industry is highly regulated at the local, state and federal level. We are subject to a significant and wide ranging number of regulations both within the United States and elsewhere, such as regulations in the areas of healthcare fraud, e prescribing, claims processing and transmission, medical devices, the security and privacy of patient data and interoperability standards. Healthcare Fraud. Federal and state governments continue to enhance regulation of and increase their scrutiny over practices involving healthcare fraud affecting healthcare providers whose services are reimbursed by Medicare, Medicaid and other government healthcare programs. Our healthcare provider clients are subject to laws and regulations on fraud and abuse which, among other things, prohibit the direct or indirect payment or receipt of any remuneration for patient referrals, or arranging for or recommending referrals or other business paid for in whole or in part by these federal or state healthcare programs. Federal enforcement personnel have substantial funding, powers and remedies to pursue suspected or perceived fraud and abuse. The effect of this 11 Table of Contents government regulation on our clients is difficult to predict. Many of the regulations applicable to our clients and that may be applicable to us, including those relating to marketing incentives offered in connection with medical device sales, are vague or indefinite and have not been interpreted by the courts. They may be interpreted or applied by a prosecutorial, regulatory or judicial authority in a manner that could broaden their applicability to us or require our clients to make changes in their operations or the way in which they deal with us. If such laws and regulations are determined to be applicable to us and if we fail to comply with any applicable laws and regulations, we could be subject to civil and criminal penalties, sanctions or other liability, including exclusion from government health programs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. E Prescribing. The use of our solutions by physicians for electronic prescribing, electronic routing of prescriptions to pharmacies and dispensing is governed by state and Federal law. States have differing prescription format requirements, which we have programmed into our solutions. In addition, in November 2005, the Department of Health and Human Services announced regulations by Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) related to E Prescribing and the Prescription Drug Program (E Prescribing Regulations). These E Prescribing Regulations were mandated by the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003. The E Prescribing Regulations set forth standards for the transmission of electronic prescriptions. These standards are detailed and significant, and cover not only transactions between prescribers and dispensers for prescriptions but also electronic eligibility, benefits inquiries, drug formulary and benefit coverage information. Our efforts to provide solutions that enable our clients to comply with these regulations could be time consuming and expensive. Claims Transmissions. Certain of our solutions assist our clients in submitting claims to payers, which claims are governed by federal and state laws. Our solutions are capable of electronically transmitting claims for services and items rendered by a physician to many patients payers for approval and reimbursement. Federal law provides civil liability to any person that knowingly submits a claim to a payer, including Medicare, Medicaid and private health plans, seeking payment for any services or items that have not been provided to the patient. Federal law may also impose criminal penalties for intentionally submitting such false claims. We have policies and procedures in place that we believe result in the accurate and complete transmission of claims, provided that the information given to us by our clients is also accurate and complete. The HIPAA security, privacy and transaction standards, as discussed below, also have a potentially significant effect on our claims transmission services, since those services must be structured and provided in a way that supports our clients HIPAA compliance obligations. Any investigation or proceeding related to these laws may have an adverse impact on our results of operations. Regulation of Medical Devices. The United States Food and Drug Administration (the FDA) has determined that certain of our solutions are medical devices that are actively regulated under the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act (Act) and amendments to the Act. Other countries have similar regulations in place related to medical devices, that now or may in the future apply to certain of our solutions. If other of our solutions are deemed to be actively regulated medical devices by the FDA or similar regulatory agencies in countries where we do business, we could be subject to extensive requirements governing pre and post marketing requirements including pre market notification clearance. Complying with these medical device regulations on a global perspective is time consuming and expensive, and could be subject to unanticipated and significant delays. Further, it is possible that these regulatory agencies may become more active in regulating software that is used in healthcare. If we are unable to obtain the required regulatory approvals for any such solutions or medical devices, our short to long term business plans for these solutions and or medical devices could be delayed or canceled. There have been nine FDA inspections at various Cerner sites since 1998. Inspections conducted at our world headquarters in 1999 and our prior Houston, Texas facility in 2002 each resulted in the issuance of an FDA Form 483 that we responded to promptly. The FDA has taken no further action with respect to either of the Form 483s that were issued in 1999 and 2002. The remaining seven FDA inspections, including inspections at our world headquarters in 2006 and 2007, resulted in no issuance of a Form 483. We remain subject to periodic FDA inspections and we could be required to undertake additional actions to comply with the Act and any other applicable regulatory requirements. Our failure to comply with the Act and any other applicable regulatory requirements could have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue to manufacture and distribute our 12 Table of Contents solutions. The FDA has many enforcement tools including recalls, seizures, injunctions, civil fines and or criminal prosecutions. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Security and Privacy of Patient Information. State, federal and local laws regulate the confidentiality of patient records and the circumstances under which those records may be released. These regulations govern both the disclosure and use of confidential patient medical record information and require the users of such information to implement specified security measures. United States regulations currently in place governing electronic health data transmissions continue to evolve and are often unclear and difficult to apply. Similarly, laws in non U.S. jurisdictions may have similar or even stricter requirements related to the treatment of patient information. In the United States, HIPAA regulations require national standards for some types of electronic health information transactions and the data elements used in those transactions, security standards to ensure the integrity and confidentiality of health information and standards to protect the privacy of individually identifiable health information. Covered entities under HIPAA, which include healthcare organizations such as our clients, our employer clinic business model and our claims transmission services, are required to comply with the privacy standards, the transaction regulations and the security regulations. Moreover, the recently enacted HITECH provisions of ARRA extend many of the HIPAA obligations, formerly imposed only upon covered entities, to business associates as well. As a business associate of our clients who are covered entities, we were in most instances already contractually required to ensure compliance with the HIPAA regulations as it pertains to handling of covered client data, and when the HITECH provisions go into effect, we will have additional liability risks related to the privacy and security of individually identifiable health information. Evolving HIPAA and HITECH related laws or regulations and regulations in non U.S. jurisdictions could restrict the ability of our clients to obtain, use or disseminate patient information. This could adversely affect demand for our solutions if they are not re designed in a timely manner in order to meet the requirements of any new interpretations or regulations that seek to protect the privacy and security of patient data or enable our clients to execute new or modified healthcare transactions. We may need to expend additional capital, software development and other resources to modify our solutions and devices to address these evolving data security and privacy issues. Furthermore, our failure to maintain confidentiality of sensitive personal information in accordance with the applicable regulatory requirements could damage our reputation and expose us to breach of contract claims, fines and penalties. Interoperability Standards. Our clients are concerned with and often require that our software solutions and healthcare devices be interoperable with other third party HIT suppliers. Market forces or governmental/regulatory authorities could create software interoperability standards that would apply to our solutions, and if our software solutions and or healthcare devices are not consistent with those standards, we could be forced to incur substantial additional development costs to conform. The Certification Commission for Healthcare Information Technology (CCHIT) has developed a comprehensive set of criteria for the functionality, interoperability and security of various software modules in the HIT industry. CCHIT, however, continues to modify and refine those standards. Achieving CCHIT certification is becoming a competitive requirement, resulting in increased software development and administrative expense to conform to these requirements. Additionally, various Federal, state and non U.S. government agencies are also developing standards that could become mandatory for systems purchased by these agencies. For example, ARRA requires meaningful use of certified electronic health record technology by healthcare providers in order to receive stimulus funds from the United States Federal government. Interim final regulations have been issued that identify initial standards and implementation specifications and establish the certification standards for qualifying electronic health record technology. Nevertheless, these standards and specifications, once finalized, will be subject to interpretation by the entities designated to certify such technology. We may incur increased development costs and delays in delivering solutions if we need to upgrade our software and healthcare devices to be in compliance with these varying and evolving standards. In addition, delays in interpreting these standards may result in postponement or cancellation of our clients decisions to purchase our solutions. If our software solutions and healthcare devices are not consistent with these evolving standards, our market position and sales could be impaired and we may 13 Table of Contents have to invest significantly in changes to our software solutions and healthcare devices, although we do not expect such costs to be significant in relation to the overall development costs for our solutions. We operate in intensely competitive and dynamic industries, and our ability to successfully compete and continue to grow our business depends on our ability to respond quickly to market changes and changing technologies and to bring competitive new solutions, devices, features and services to market in a timely fashion. The market for healthcare information systems, healthcare devices, healthcare transactions and life sciences consulting services are intensely competitive, dynamically evolving and subject to rapid technological and innovative changes. Development of new proprietary technology or services is complex, entails significant time and expense and may not be successful. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to introduce new solutions, devices or services on schedule, or at all, nor can we guarantee that errors will not be found in our new solution releases, devices or services before or after commercial release, which could result in solution, device or service delivery redevelopment costs and loss of, or delay in, market acceptance. Certain of our competitors have greater financial, technical, product development, marketing and other resources than us and some of our competitors offer software solutions that we do not offer. Our principal existing competitors are set forth above under Part I, Item 1 Competition. In addition, we expect that major software information systems companies, large information technology consulting service providers and system integrators, start up companies and others specializing in the healthcare industry may offer competitive software solutions, devices or services. We face strong competitors and often face downward price pressure, which could adversely affect our results of operations or liquidity. Additionally, the pace of change in the healthcare information systems market is rapid and there are frequent new software solution introductions, software solution enhancements, device introductions, device enhancements and evolving industry standards and requirements. There are a limited number of hospitals and other healthcare providers in the United States HIT market and in recent years, the healthcare industry has been subject to increasing consolidation. As the industry consolidates, costs fall, technology improves, and market factors continue to compel investment by healthcare organizations in solutions and services like ours, market saturation in the United States may change the competitive landscape in favor of larger, more diversified competitors with greater scale. Risks Related to Our Stock The ongoing adverse financial market environment and uncertainty in global economic conditions could negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our operating results may be impacted by the health of the global economy. Adverse economic conditions may cause a slowdown or decline in client spending which could adversely affect our business and financial performance. Our business and financial performance, including new business bookings and collection of our accounts receivable, may be adversely affected by current and future economic conditions (including a reduction in the availability of credit, higher energy costs, rising interest rates, financial market volatility and recession) that cause a slowdown or decline in client spending. Reduced purchases by our clients or changes in payment terms could adversely affect our revenue growth and cause a decrease in our cash flow from operations. Bankruptcies or similar events affecting clients may cause us to incur bad debt expense at levels higher than historically experienced. Further, the ongoing global financial crisis may also limit our ability to access the capital markets at a time when we would like, or need, to raise capital, which could have an impact on our ability to react to changing economic and business conditions. Accordingly, if the global financial crisis and current economic downturn continue or worsen, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Our quarterly operating results may vary, which could adversely affect our stock price. Our quarterly operating results have varied in the past and may continue to vary in future periods, including, variations from guidance, expectations or historical results or trends. Quarterly operating results may vary for a number of reasons including accounting policy changes, demand for our solutions, devices and services, the financial condition of our clients and potential clients, our long sales cycle, potentially long installation and implementation cycles for larger, more complex and higher priced systems and other factors described in this section and elsewhere in this report. As a 14 Table of Contents result of healthcare industry trends and the market for our Cerner Millennium solutions, a large percentage of our revenues are generated by the sale and installation of larger, more complex and higher priced systems. The sales process for these systems is lengthy and involves a significant technical evaluation and commitment of capital and other resources by the client. Sales may be subject to delays due to changes in clients internal budgets, procedures for approving large capital expenditures, competing needs for other capital expenditures, availability of personnel resources and by actions taken by competitors. Delays in the expected sale, installation or implementation of these large systems may have a significant impact on our anticipated quarterly revenues and consequently our earnings, since a significant percentage of our expenses are relatively fixed. Revenue recognized in any quarter may depend upon our and our clients abilities to meet project milestones. Delays in meeting these milestone conditions or modification of the project plan could result in a shift of revenue recognition from one quarter to another and could have a material adverse effect on results of operations for a particular quarter. Our revenues from system sales historically have been lower in the first quarter of the year and greater in the fourth quarter of the year, primarily as a result of clients year end efforts to make all final capital expenditures for the then current year. Our sales forecasts may vary from actual sales in a particular quarter. We use a pipeline system, a common industry practice, to forecast sales and trends in our business. Our sales associates monitor the status of all sales opportunities, such as the date when they estimate that a client will make a purchase decision and the potential dollar amount of the sale. These estimates are aggregated periodically to generate a sales pipeline. We compare this pipeline at various points in time to evaluate trends in our business. This analysis provides guidance in business planning and forecasting, but these pipeline estimates are by their nature speculative. Our pipeline estimates are not necessarily reliable predictors of revenues in a particular quarter or over a longer period of time, partially because of changes in the pipeline and in conversion rates of the pipeline into contracts that can be very difficult to estimate. A negative variation in the expected conversion rate or timing of the pipeline into contracts, or in the pipeline itself, could cause our plan or forecast to be inaccurate and thereby adversely affect business results. For example, a slowdown in information technology spending, adverse economic conditions or a variety of other factors can cause purchasing decisions to be delayed, reduced in amount or cancelled, which would reduce the overall pipeline conversion rate in a particular period of time. Because a substantial portion of our contracts are completed in the latter part of a quarter, we may not be able to adjust our cost structure quickly enough in response to a revenue shortfall resulting from a decrease in our pipeline conversion rate in any given fiscal quarter. The trading price of our common stock may be volatile. The market for our common stock may experience significant price and volume fluctuations in response to a number of factors including actual or anticipated variations in operating results, rumors about our performance or solutions, devices and services, changes in expectations of future financial performance or estimates of securities analysts, governmental regulatory action, healthcare reform measures, client relationship developments, changes occurring in the securities markets in general and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. As a matter of policy, we do not generally comment on our stock price or rumors. Furthermore, the stock market in general, and the markets for software, healthcare devices, other healthcare solutions and services and information technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock, regardless of actual operating performance. Our Directors have authority to issue preferred stock and our corporate governance documents contain anti takeover provisions. Our Board of Directors has the authority to issue up to 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the preferences, rights and privileges of those shares without any further vote or action by the shareholders. The rights of the holders of common stock may be harmed by rights granted to the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. 15 Table of Contents In addition, some provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws could make it more difficult for a potential acquirer to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. These include provisions that provide for a classified board of directors, prohibit shareholders from taking action by written consent and restrict the ability of shareholders to call special meetings. We are also subject to provisions of Delaware law that prohibit us from engaging in any business combination with any interested shareholder for a period of three years from the date the person became an interested shareholder, unless certain conditions are met, which could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control. Factors that May Affect Future Results of Operations, Financial Condition or Business Statements made in this report, the Annual Report to Shareholders of which this report is made a part, other reports and proxy statements filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, communications to shareholders, press releases and oral statements made by representatives of the Company that are not historical in nature, or that state the Companys or managements intentions, hopes, beliefs, expectations or predictions of the future, may constitute forward looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). Forward looking statements can often be identified by the use of forward looking terminology, such as could, should, will, intended, continue, believe, may, expect, hope, anticipate, goal, forecast, plan, guidance or estimate or the negative of these words, variations thereof or similar expressions. Forward looking statements are not guarantees of future performance or results. They involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. It is important to note that any such performance and actual results, financial condition or business, could differ materially from those expressed in such forward looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in this Item 1A. Risk Factors and elsewhere herein or in other reports filed with the SEC. Other unforeseen factors not identified herein could also have such an effect. We undertake no obligation to update or revise forward looking statements to reflect changed assumptions, the occurrence of unanticipated events or changes in future operating results, financial condition or business over time. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 2. Properties Our properties consist mainly of owned and leased office and data center facilities. Our United States corporate world headquarters operations are located in a Company owned office park (the Headquarters Campus) in North Kansas City, Missouri, containing approximately 1.1 million gross square feet of useable space and land capable of housing approximately 300,000 square feet of future building development. The Headquarters Campus primarily houses office space, but also includes space for other business needs, such as our Healthe Clinic and our Headquarters Campus data center. In December 2009, we purchased approximately 790,000 gross square feet of property located in Kansas City, Missouri, which we had previously occupied under a long term lease since 2007. This office space, known as the Innovation Campus, houses associates from our intellectual property organizations. Our Cerner operated data center facilities, which are used to provide remote hosting, disaster recovery and other services to our clients, are located at the Headquarters Campus and a leased facility in Lees Summit, Missouri. As of the end of 2009, we leased additional office space in Beverly Hills and Garden Grove, California; Denver, Colorado; Overland Park, Kansas; Waltham, Massachusetts; Minneapolis and Rochester, Minnesota; N. Kansas City, Missouri; Blue Bell, Pennsylvania; and Vienna, Virginia. Globally, we also leased office space in: Brisbane, Sydney and Melbourne, Australia; London Ontario, Canada; Santiago, Chile; Hong Kong, China; London, England; Paris, 16 Table of Contents France; Herzogenrath and Idstein, Germany; Bangalore, India; Dublin, Ireland; Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia; Riyadh, Saudi Arabia; Singapore; Barcelona and Madrid, Spain; and, Abu Dhabi and Dubai, United Arab Emirates. Item 3. Legal Proceedings We have no material pending litigation. Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders No matters were submitted to a vote of the shareholders of the Company during the fourth quarter of the fiscal year ended January 2, 2010. Executive Officers of the Registrant The following table sets forth the names, ages, positions and certain other information regarding the Companys executive officers as of February 16, 2010. Officers are elected annually and serve at the discretion of the Board of Directors. Name Age Positions Neal L. Patterson 60 Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer Clifford W. Illig 59 Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors Earl H. Devanny, III 58 President Marc G. Naughton 54 Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Michael R. Nill 45 Executive Vice President and Chief Engineering Officer Randy D. Sims 49 Vice President, Chief Legal Officer and Secretary Jeffrey A. Townsend 46 Executive Vice President Mike Valentine 41 Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer Julia M. Wilson 47 Senior Vice President and Chief People Officer Neal L. Patterson has been Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer of the Company for more than five years. Mr. Patterson also served as President of the Company from March of 1999 until August of 1999. Clifford W. Illig has been a Director of the Company for more than five years. He also served as Chief Operating Officer of the Company for more than five years until October 1998 and as President of the Company for more than five years until March of 1999. Mr. Illig was appointed Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors in March of 1999. Earl H. Devanny, III joined the Company in August of 1999 as President. Mr. Devanny also served as interim President of Cerner Southeast from January 2003 through July 2003. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Devanny served as president of ADAC Healthcare Information Systems, Inc. Prior to joining ADAC, Mr. Devanny served as a Vice President of the Company from 1994 to 1997. Prior to that he spent 17 years with IBM Corporation. 17 Table of Contents Marc G. Naughton joined the Company in November 1992 as Manager of Taxes. In November 1995 he was named Chief Financial Officer and in February 1996 he was promoted to Vice President. He was promoted to Senior Vice President in March 2002. Michael R. Nill joined the Company in November, 1996. Since that time he has held several positions in the Technology, Intellectual Property and CernerWorks client hosting organizations. He was promoted to Vice President in January 2000, promoted to Senior Vice President in April 2006 and promoted to Executive Vice President and named Chief Engineering Officer in February 2009. Randy D. Sims joined the Company in March 1997 as Vice President and Chief Legal Officer. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Sims worked at Farmland Industries, Inc. for three years where he served most recently as Associate General Counsel. Prior to Farmland, Mr. Sims was in house legal counsel at The Marley Company for seven years, holding the position of Assistant General Counsel when he left to join Farmland. Jeffrey A. Townsend joined the Company in June 1985. Since that time he has held several positions in the Intellectual Property Organization and was promoted to Vice President in February 1997. He was appointed Chief Engineering Officer in March 1998, promoted to Senior Vice President in March 2001 and promoted to Executive Vice President in March 2005. Mike Valentine joined the Company in December 1998 as Director of Technology. He was promoted to Vice President in 2000 and to President of Cerner Mid America in January of 2003. In February 2005, he was named General Manager of the United States Client Organization and was promoted to Senior Vice President in March 2005. He was promoted to Executive Vice President in March 2007 and named Chief Operation Officer in January 2010. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Valentine was with Accenture Consulting. Julia M. Wilson joined the Company in November 1995. Since that time, she has held several positions in the Functional Group Organization. She was promoted to Vice President and Chief People Officer in August 2003 and to Senior Vice President in March 2007. PART II Item 5. Market for the Registrants Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Our common stock trades on The NASDAQ Global Select MarketSM under the symbol CERN. The following table sets forth the high, low and last sales prices for the fiscal quarters of 2009 and 2008 as reported by The Nasdaq Stock Market. 2009 2008 High Low Last High Low Last First Quarter $ 46.40 $ 33.72 $ 43.29 $ 59.59 $ 38.40 $ 38.40 Second Quarter 63.82 41.88 60.05 48.17 37.28 45.70 Third Quarter 75.17 56.80 72.50 49.34 43.21 47.32 Fourth Quarter 85.51 73.53 82.44 45.08 31.58 39.18 At February 16, 2010, there were approximately 1,106 owners of record. To date, we have paid no cash dividends and we do not intend to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We believe it is in the shareholders best interest for us to reinvest funds in the operation of the business. In March 2008, our Board of Directors authorized a stock repurchase program for $45 million of our Common Stock. There were no shares repurchased by us during the quarter or the year ended January 2, 2010. 18 Table of Contents Item 6. Selected Financial Data (In thousands, except per share data) 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 (1) (1)(2) (1)(3)(4)(5) (1)(6) (7)(8) Statement of Earnings Data: Revenues $ 1,671,864 $ 1,676,028 $ 1,519,877 $ 1,378,038 $ 1,160,785 Operating earnings 292,006 278,885 204,083 166,167 140,436 Earnings before income taxes 292,681 281,431 203,967 167,544 135,244 Net earnings 193,465 188,658 127,125 109,891 86,251 Earnings per share: Basic 2.39 2.34 1.60 1.41 1.16 Diluted 2.31 2.26 1.53 1.34 1.10 Weighted average shares outstanding: Basic 80,981 80,549 79,395 77,691 74,144 Diluted 83,882 83,435 83,218 81,723 78,090 Balance Sheet Data: Working capital $ 788,232 $ 517,650 $ 530,441 $ 444,656 $ 391,541 Total assets 2,148,567 1,880,988 1,689,956 1,496,433 1,303,629 Long term debt, excl. current installments 95,506 111,370 177,606 187,391 194,265 Cerner Corporation stockholders equity 1,580,678 1,311,009 1,132,428 922,294 760,533 (1) Includes share based compensation expense recognized in accordance with ASC 718, Stock Compensation. The impact of including this expense is a $10.6 million decrease, net of $6.3 million tax benefit, in net earnings and a decrease to diluted earnings per share of $0.12 in 2009, $9.5 million decrease, net of $5.6 million tax benefit, in net earnings and a decrease to diluted earnings per share of $0.11 in 2008, a $10.2 million decrease, net of $6.0 million tax benefit, in net earnings and a decrease to diluted earnings per share of $0.12 in 2007 and a $11.7 million decrease, net of $7.3 million tax benefit, in net earnings and a decrease to diluted earnings per share of $0.14 in 2006. (2) Includes expense related to a settlement with a third party provider of software related to the use of the third partys software in our remote hosting business. The settlement included compensation for the use of the software for periods prior to 2008 as well as compensation for licenses of the software for future use for existing and additional clients through January 2009. Of the total settlement amount, we determined that $5.0 million should have been recorded in prior periods, primarily 2005 through 2007. Based on this valuation, 2008 results include an increase of $8.0 million to sales and client service expense, a decrease of $5.0 million to net earnings, and a decrease of $0.06 to diluted earnings per share that are attributable to prior periods. (3) Includes a research and development write off related to the RxStation medication dispensing devices. In connection with production and delivery of the RxStation medication dispensing devices, we reviewed the accounting treatment for the RxStation line of devices and determined that $8.6 million of research and development activities for the RxStation medication dispensing devices that should have been expensed was incorrectly capitalized. The impact of this charge is a $5.4 million decrease, net of $3.2 million tax benefit, in net earnings and a decrease to diluted earnings per share of $0.06 in the year ended December 29, 2007. $2.1 million of this $5.4 million after tax amount recorded in 2007 related to periods prior to 2007. (4) Includes a $3.1 million tax benefit recorded in 2007 related to periods prior to 2007. The tax benefit relates to the over expensing of state income taxes, which resulted in an increase to diluted earnings per share of $0.04 in the year ended December 29, 2007. 19 Table of Contents (5) Includes an adjustment to correct the amounts previously reported for the second quarter of 2007 for a previously disclosed out of period tax item relating to foreign net operating losses. The effect of this adjustment increases tax expense for the year ended December 29, 2007, by $4.2 million and increases January 1, 2005 retained earnings (Shareholders Equity) by the same amount. (6) Includes a tax benefit of $2.0 million for adjustments relating to prior periods. This results in an increase to diluted earnings per share of $0.02. (7) Includes a tax benefit of $4.8 million relating to the carry back of a capital loss generated by the sale of Zynx Health Incorporated (Zynx) in the first quarter of 2004. The impact of this refund claim is a $4.8 million increase in net earnings and an increase in diluted earnings per share of $0.06 for 2005. (8) Includes a charge for the write off of acquired in process research and development related to the acquisition of the medical business division of VitalWorks, Inc. The impact of this charge is a $3.9 million decrease, net of $2.4 million tax benefit, in net earnings and a decrease to diluted earnings per share of $0.05 for 2005. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following Management Discussion and Analysis (MDA) is intended to help the reader understand our results of operations and financial condition. This MDA is provided as a supplement to, and should be read in conjunction with, our financial statements and the accompanying notes to the financial statements (Notes). Our fiscal year ends on the Saturday closest to December 31. Fiscal year 2009 consisted of 52 weeks and ended on January 2, 2010; fiscal year 2008 consisted of 53 weeks and ended on January 3, 2009; and fiscal year 2007 consisted of 52 weeks and ended on December 29, 2007. All references to years in this MDA represent fiscal years unless otherwise noted. Management Overview Our revenues are primarily derived by selling, implementing and supporting software solutions, clinical content, hardware, healthcare devices and services that allow healthcare providers to securely access clinical, administrative and financial data in real time, allowing them to improve the quality, safety and efficiency in the delivery of healthcare. We implement the healthcare solutions as stand alone, combined or enterprise wide systems. Cerner Millennium software solutions can be managed by our clients or in our data center via a managed services model. Our fundamental strategy centers on creating organic growth by investing in research and development (RD) to create solutions and services for the healthcare industry. This strategy has driven strong growth over the long term, as reflected in five and ten year compound annual revenue growth rates of 13% or more. This growth has also created a very strategic footprint in healthcare, with Cerner solutions licensed by over 8,500 facilities, including approximately 2,300 hospitals; 3,400 physician practices with over 30,000 physicians; 600 ambulatory facilities, such as laboratories, ambulatory centers, cardiac facilities, radiology clinics and surgery centers; 700 home health facilities; and 1,500 retail pharmacies. Selling additional solutions back into this client base is an important element of our future revenue growth. We are also focused on driving growth through market share expansion by replacing competitors in healthcare settings that are looking to replace their current HIT partners or those who have not yet strategically aligned with a supplier. We expect the HITECH provisions in ARRA will create a period of increased demand within the United States during which we believe we can gain additional market share. We also expect to drive growth through new initiatives and services that reflect our ongoing ability to innovate and expand our reach into healthcare. Examples of these include our CareAware healthcare device architecture and devices, Healthe employer services, Cerner ITWorksSM services, Cerner RevWorksSM services, physician practice solutions and solutions and services for the pharmaceutical market. Finally, we are focused on selling our solutions and services outside of the United States. Many non U.S. markets have a low penetration of HIT 20 Table of Contents solutions and their governing bodies are in many cases focused on HIT as part of their strategy to improve the quality and lower the cost of healthcare. Beyond our strategy for driving revenue growth, we are also focused on earnings growth. Similar to our history of growing revenue, our net earnings have increased at more than 20% compound annual rates over five and ten year periods. We believe we can continue driving strong levels of earnings growth by continuing to grow revenue while also leveraging key areas to create operating margin expansion. The primary areas of opportunity for margin expansion include: becoming more efficient at implementing our software by leveraging implementation tools and methodologies we have developed that can reduce the amount of effort required to implement our software; leveraging our investments in RD by addressing new markets that do not require significant incremental RD but can contribute significantly to revenue growth; and, leveraging our scalable business infrastructure to reduce the rate of increase in general and administrative spending to below our revenue growth rate. We are also focused on increasing cash flow by growing earnings, reducing the use of working capital and controlling capital expenditures. Results Overview In a challenging economic environment, we continued to execute on our core strategies to drive top line growth, expand operating margins, grow earnings and generate good cash flow in 2009. The 2009 results included strong levels of new business bookings, earnings and cash flow. New business bookings revenue in 2009, which reflects the value of executed contracts for software, hardware, professional services and managed services, was $1.83 billion, which is an increase of 19% compared to $1.54 billion in 2008. This growth was concentrated in the second half of 2009, which included strong bookings growth that offset slight declines in the first half of the year. The improvement in the second half of the year reflects slightly better economic conditions and some early demand driven by the HITECH stimulus incentives. Our 2009 revenues remained flat at $1.7 billion as compared to 2008, with the lack of growth largely the result of the challenging economic conditions that persisted through much of the year. Additionally, our revenue comparisons in 2009 were impacted by a $28.6 million cumulative catch up adjustment recognized in the fourth quarter of 2008, resulting from a significant change in an accounting estimate related to our contract in London as part of the NHS initiative to automate clinical processes and digitize medical records in England. Our 2009 net earnings increased 3% to $193.5 million compared to $188.7 million in 2008. Diluted earnings per share increased 2% to $2.31 compared to $2.26 in 2008. The 2009 and 2008 net earnings and diluted earnings per share reflect the impact of accounting for stock based compensation using the fair value method to measure and record expense for stock options, pursuant to Accounting Standards Codification (ASC), 718, Stock Compensation. The effect of these expenses reduced the 2009 net earnings and diluted earnings per share by $10.5 million and $0.12, and the 2008 earnings and diluted earnings per share by $9.5 million and $0.11, respectively. Our 2008 net earnings also include the previously discussed cumulative catch up adjustment. The after tax effect of this catch up increased 2008 net earnings and diluted earnings per share by $20.6 million and $0.24, respectively. The growth in net earnings and diluted earnings per share was driven primarily by continued progress with our margin expansion initiatives, particularly expanding the profitability of support and maintenance revenue, leveraging RD investments, and controlling sales and client services expenses, partially offset by the 2008 catch up adjustment. Our 2009 operating margin was 17.5%, compared to 16.6% in 2008, and we remain on target to achieve our long term goal of 20% operating margins. 21 Table of Contents We had cash collections of receivables of $1.8 billion in 2009 compared to $1.7 billion in 2008. Days sales outstanding decreased to 90 days for the 2009 fourth quarter compared to 105 days for 2009 third quarter and 92 days for the 2008 fourth quarter. Approximately 12 days of this quarterly decline is driven by the reclassification of our Fujitsu receivables to other long term assets, which are not included in our days sales outstanding calculation. The remaining decline is reflective of improved cash collections. Operating cash flows for 2009 were $347.3 million compared to $281.8 million in 2008, with the growth driven by increased earnings and decreased use of working capital. Healthcare Information Technology Market Outlook We have provided a detailed assessment of the healthcare information technology market under Part I, Item 1, The Healthcare and Healthcare IT Industry. Results of Operations Fiscal Year 2009 Compared to Fiscal Year 2008 % of % of (in thousands) 2009 Revenue 2008 Revenue % Change Revenues System sales $ 504,561 30% $ 522,373 31% 3 % Support and maintenance 493,193 29% 472,579 28% 4 % Services 643,678 39% 643,317 38% 0 % Reimbursed travel 30,432 2% 37,759 2% 19 % Total revenues 1,671,864 100% 1,676,028 100% 0 % Costs of revenue Costs of revenue 281,198 17% 296,063 18% 5 % Total margin 1,390,666 83% 1,379,965 82% 1 % Operating expenses Sales and client 700,639 42% 715,512 43% 2 % Software development 271,051 16% 272,519 16% 1 % General and administrative 126,970 8% 113,049 7% 12 % Total operating expenses 1,098,660 66% 1,101,080 66% 0 % Total costs and expenses 1,379,858 83% 1,397,143 83% 1 % Operating earnings 292,006 17% 278,885 17% 5 % Interest income (expense), net 308 3,056 Other income (expense), net 367 (510 ) Income taxes (99,216 ) (92,773 ) Net earnings $ 193,465 $ 188,658 3 % As discussed in the results overview, our 2008 consolidated and global segment revenues and margin included a cumulative catch up adjustment recognized in the fourth quarter, in the amount of $28.6 million, resulting from a significant change in accounting estimate related to our contract in London. The majority of the catch up adjustment revenue was included in support, maintenance and services. Refer to Note (1a) of the notes to consolidated financial statements for more information on this adjustment. Revenues Backlog Revenues were $1.7 billion in 2009, which is flat compared to 2008. 22 Table of Contents System sales, which include revenues from the sale of software, technology resale (hardware and sublicensed software), deployment period licensed software upgrade rights, installation fees, transaction processing and subscriptions, decreased 3% to $504.6 million in 2009 from $522.4 million in 2008. The decrease in system sales was driven by a decline in technology resale, with licensed software basically flat and subscriptions increasing slightly. Support and maintenance revenues increased 4% to $493.2 million in 2009 compared to $472.6 million in 2008. This increase is attributable to continued success at selling Cerner Millennium applications, implementing them at client sites and initiating billing for support and maintenance fees. The growth rate of support and maintenance revenue was negatively impacted by the extra week in 2008 (53) compared to 2009 (52) and the catch up adjustment in 2008. Services revenue, which includes professional services excluding installation, and managed services, remained flat, with growth in CernerWorksSM managed services being offset by declines in professional services. The decline in professional services reflects the impact of the economy and lower billable headcount in 2009 compared to 2008. Contract backlog, which reflects new business bookings that have not yet been recognized as revenue, increased 23% in 2009 compared to 2008. This increase was driven by growth in new business bookings during the past four quarters, including continued strong levels of managed services bookings that typically have longer contract terms. In the second quarter of 2008, contract backlog was reduced by approximately $178.0 million as a result of the contract withdrawal by Fujitsu Limited as the prime contractor in the southern region of England. A summary of our total backlog for 2009 and 2008 follows: (In thousands) 2009 2008 Contract backlog $ 3,591,026 $ 2,907,762 Support and maintenance backlog 620,616 580,915 Total backlog $ 4,211,642 $ 3,488,677 Costs of Revenue Cost of revenues was 17% of total revenues in 2009, as compared to 18% in 2008, with the slightly lower level reflective of the decline in technology resale, which includes higher third party costs. The cost of revenues includes the cost of reimbursed travel expense, sales commissions, third party consulting services and subscription content, computer hardware and sublicensed software purchased from hardware and software manufacturers for delivery to clients. It also includes the cost of hardware maintenance and sublicensed software support subcontracted to the manufacturers. Such costs, as a percent of revenues, typically have varied as the mix of revenue (software, hardware, maintenance, support, services and reimbursed travel) carrying different margin rates changes from period to period. Costs of revenues does not include the costs of our client service personnel who are responsible for delivering our service offerings, such costs are included in sales and client service expense. Operating Expenses Total operating expenses remained flat in 2009 at $1.1 billion as compared to 2008. Accounting pursuant to ASC 718, which results in the expensing of share based compensation, impacted expenses in 2009 and 2008 as indicated below: 23 Table of Contents (In thousands) 2009 2008 Sales and client service expenses $ 7,552 $ 7,750 Software development expense 4,374 3,232 General and administrative expenses 4,916 4,162 Total stock based compensation expense $ 16,842 $ 15,144 Sales and client service expenses as a percent of total revenues were 42% in 2009, as compared to 43% in 2008. These expenses decreased 2% to $700.6 million in 2009, from $715.5 million in 2008. Sales and client service expenses include salaries of sales and client service personnel, depreciation and other expenses associated with our CernerWorks managed service business, communications expenses, unreimbursed travel expenses, expense for share based payments, sales and marketing salaries and trade show and advertising costs. The decrease was primarily attributable to lower professional services expense, partially offset by growth in the managed services business. Software development expense decreased 1% in 2009 to $271.1 million, from $272.5 million in 2008. Expenditures for software development in 2009 reflect continued development and enhancement of the Cerner Millennium platform and software solutions and investments in new growth initiatives. A summary of our total software development expense in 2009 and 2008 is as follows: (In thousands) 2009 2008 Software development costs $ 285,187 $ 291,368 Capitalized software costs (76,876 ) (69,039 ) Capitalized costs related to share based payments (871 ) (942 ) Amortization of capitalized software costs 63,611 51,132 Total software development expense $ 271,051 $ 272,519 General and administrative expenses as a percent of total revenues were 8% in 2009, as compared to 7% in 2008. These expenses increased 12% to $127.0 million in 2009 from $113.0 million in 2008. General and administrative expenses include salaries for corporate, financial and administrative staff, utilities, communications expenses, professional fees, the transaction gains or losses on foreign currency and expense for share based payments. We recorded a net transaction gain on foreign currency of $4.0 million and $9.9 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively. The lower gain in 2009 compared to 2008 was the primary reason for the increase in general and administrative expenses, with the balance driven by legal fees and other corporate expenses. Non Operating Items Net interest income was $0.3 million in 2009, compared with net interest income of $3.1 million in 2008. Interest income decreased to $8.8 million in 2009 from $13.6 million in 2008, due primarily to a decline in investment returns. Interest expense decreased to $8.5 million in 2009 from $10.5 million in 2008, due primarily to a reduction in long term debt. Other income was $0.4 million in 2009, compared to other expense of $0.5 million in 2008. Other income and expense in 2009 and 2008 includes offsetting unrealized gains and losses included in earnings related to our auction rate securities and put like settlement feature in the amounts of $10.5 million and $19.9 million, respectively. Refer to Liquidity and Capital Resources within this MDA and Notes 3 and 4 of the notes to consolidated financial statements for additional information on our auction rate securities. Our effective tax rate was 34% and 33% in 2009 and 2008, respectively. This net increase is primarily due to higher tax expense recorded at the statutory rates of approximately $5.0 million and prior period tax 24 Table of Contents expense of $2.3 million, offset by a decrease in our unrecognized tax benefits of $5.6 million. The tax rate for 2008 was slightly lower than normal due to strong income levels from global regions that have lower tax rates. Tax expense for 2009 includes expense of approximately $2.3 million and 2008 includes benefits of approximately $2.9 million for corrections relating to prior periods. Operations by Segment We have two operating segments, Domestic and Global. The Domestic segment includes revenue contributions and expenditures associated with business activity in the United States. The Global segment includes revenue contributions and expenditures linked to business activity in Aruba, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Cayman Islands, Chile, China (Hong Kong), Egypt, England, France, Germany, India, Ireland, Malaysia, Puerto Rico, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland and the United Arab Emirates. The following table presents a summary of our operating segment information for the years ended 2009 and 2008: % of % of (in thousands) 2009 Revenue 2008 Revenue % Change Domestic Segment Revenues $ 1,398,715 100% $ 1,307,510 100% 7 % Costs of revenue 240,847 17% 225,955 17% 7 % Operating expenses 372,370 27% 361,213 28% 3 % Total costs and expenses 613,217 44% 587,168 45% 4 % Domestic operating earnings 785,498 56% 720,342 55% 9 % Global Segment Revenues 273,149 100% 368,518 100% 26 % Costs of revenue 40,351 15% 70,108 19% 42 % Operating expenses 130,256 48% 150,729 41% 14 % Total costs and expenses 170,607 62% 220,837 60% 23 % Global operating earnings 102,542 38% 147,681 40% 31 % Other, net (596,034 ) (589,138 ) 1 % Consolidated operating earnings $ 292,006 $ 278,885 5 % Domestic Segment Revenues increased 7% to $1.4 billion in 2009 from $1.3 billion in 2008. This increase was driven by growth in managed services, licensed software, technology resale, and support and maintenance, partially offset by a decline in professional services. Cost of revenues was 17% of revenues in both 2009 and 2008. Operating expenses increased 3% to $372.4 million in 2009, from $361.2 million in 2008, due primarily to growth in managed services. Operating earnings of the Domestic segment increased 9% to $785.5 million in 2009 from $720.3 million in 2008. Global Segment Revenues decreased 26% to $273.1 million in 2009 from $368.5 million in 2008. This decrease was driven by the previously discussed cumulative catch up adjustment in 2008 and a decline in revenue from Middle Eastern and European countries resulting from the challenging global economic conditions. 25 Table of Contents Cost of revenues was 15% and 19% of revenues in 2009 and 2008, respectively. The lower cost of revenues was driven by a lower mix of hardware revenues in 2009. Operating expenses decreased 14% to $130.3 million in 2009, from $150.7 million in 2008, primarily due to a decrease in professional services expense. Operating earnings of the Global segment decreased 31% to $102.5 million in 2009 from $147.7 million in 2008. This decline was driven by the catch up adjustment in 2008 and the lower level of revenues in 2009. Other, net Operating results not attributed to an operating segment include expenses, such as software development, marketing, general and administrative, stock based compensation and depreciation. These expenses increased 1% to $596.0 million in 2009 from $589.1 million in 2008. Fiscal Year 2008 Compared to Fiscal Year 2007 % of % of (in thousands) 2008 Revenue 2007 Revenue % Change Revenues System sales $ 522,373 31% $ 500,319 33% 4 % Support and maintenance 472,579 28% 397,713 26% 19 % Services 643,317 38% 585,067 38% 10 % Reimbursed travel 37,759 2% 36,778 2% 3 % Total revenues 1,676,028 100% 1,519,877 100% 10 % Costs of revenue Costs of revenue 296,063 18% 280,110 18% 6 % Total margin 1,379,965 82% 1,239,767 82% 11 % Operating expenses Sales and client 715,512 43% 657,956 43% 9 % Software development 272,519 16% 270,576 18% 1 % General and administrative 113,049 7% 107,152 7% 6 % Total operating expenses 1,101,080 66% 1,035,684 68% 6 % Total costs and expenses 1,397,143 83% 1,315,794 87% 6 % Operating earnings 278,885 17% 204,083 13% 37 % Interest income (expense), net 3,056 1,269 Other income (expense), net (510 ) (1,385 ) Income taxes (92,773 ) (76,842 ) Net earnings $ 188,658 $ 127,125 48 % As discussed in the results overview, our 2008 consolidated and global segment revenues and margin included a cumulative catch up adjustment recognized in the fourth quarter, in the amount of $28.6 million, resulting from a significant change in accounting estimate related to our contract in London. The majority of the catch up adjustment revenue was included in support, maintenance and services. Refer to Note (1a) of the notes to consolidated financial statements for more information on this adjustment. Revenues and Backlog Revenues increased 10% to $1.7 billion in 2008, compared with $1.5 billion in 2007. 26 Table of Contents System sales revenues increased 4% to $522.4 million in 2008 from $500.3 million in 2007. The increase in system sales was driven by growth in licensed software, sublicensed software and subscriptions. Support and maintenance revenues increased 19% to $472.6 million in 2008 from $397.7 million in 2007, mainly due to continued success at selling Cerner Millennium applications, implementing them at client sites and initiating billing for support and maintenance fees. Services revenue increased 10% to $643.3 million in 2008 from $585.1 million in 2007 primarily attributable to growth in CernerWorks managed services. Contract backlog, which reflects new business bookings that have not yet been recognized as revenue, increased 7% in 2008 compared to 2007. This increase was driven by growth in new business bookings during the past four quarters, including continued strong levels of managed services bookings that typically have longer contract terms. In the second quarter of 2008, contract backlog was reduced by approximately $178.0 million as a result of the contract withdrawal by the prime contractor in the southern region of England. A summary of our total backlog for 2008 and 2007 follows: (In thousands) 2008 2007 Contract backlog $ 2,907,762 $ 2,712,195 Support and maintenance backlog 580,915 541,095 Total backlog $ 3,488,677 $ 3,253,290 Costs of Revenue Cost of revenues was 18% of total revenues in both 2008 and 2007. Such costs, as a percent of revenues, typically have varied as the mix of revenue (software, hardware, maintenance, support, services and reimbursed travel) carrying different margin rates changes from period to period. Operating Expenses Total operating expenses increased 6% to $1.1 billion in 2008 from $1.0 billion in 2007. Accounting pursuant to ASC 718, which results in the expensing of share based compensation, impacted expenses in 2008 and 2007 as indicated below: (In thousands) 2008 2007 Sales and client service expenses $ 7,750 $ 9,518 Software development expense 3,232 3,032 General and administrative expenses 4,162 3,639 Total stock based compensation expense $ 15,144 $ 16,189 Sales and client service expenses as a percent of total revenues were 43% in both 2008 and 2007. These expenses increased 9% to $715.5 million in 2008, from $658.0 million in 2007. The increase was primarily attributable to growth in the managed services business, including $8.0 million of expense recorded in the second quarter of 2008 for a settlement with a third party provider of software related to the use of the third partys software in this business. Total expense for software development in 2008 increased 1% to $272.5 million, from $270.6 million in 2007. Included in 2007 software development expense is $8.6 million of research and development activities for the RxStation medical dispensing device. $3.4 million of this amount recorded in 2007 is related to periods prior to 2007. A summary of our total software development expense in 2008 and 2007 is as follows: 27 Table of Contents (In thousands) 2008 2007 Software development costs $ 291,368 $ 283,086 Capitalized software costs (69,039 ) (64,789 ) Capitalized costs related to share based payments (942 ) (1,196 ) Amortization of capitalized software costs 51,132 53,475 Total software development expense $ 272,519 $ 270,576 General and administrative expenses as a percent of total revenues were 7% in 2008 and 2007. These expenses increased 6% to $113.0 million in 2008 from $107.2 million in 2007. This increase was due primarily to the growth of our core business and increased presence in the global market. We recorded a net transaction gain on foreign currency of $9.9 million and $3.7 million in 2008 and 2007, respectively. Non Operating Items Net interest income was $3.1 million in 2008, compared with net interest income of $1.3 million in 2007. Interest income increased to $13.6 million in 2008 from $13.2 million in 2007, due primarily to higher returns received from our investments in auction rate securities. Interest expense decreased to $10.5 million in 2008 from $11.9 million in 2007, due primarily to a reduction in long term debt. Other expense was $0.5 million in 2008, compared to $1.4 million in 2007. As a result of entering into a settlement agreement with an investment firm relating to auction rate securities, other expense in 2008 includes the recognition of a gain of $19.9 million for a put like feature. This gain was offset by the recognition of an unrealized loss recorded on our auction rate securities due to a transfer of these securities from available for sale to trading. Our effective tax rate was 33% and 38% in 2008 and 2007, respectively. This decrease is primarily due to a higher than normal rate in 2007. The effective rate in 2007 was impacted primarily by a recognition of a valuation allowance in the third quarter of 2007 on certain of our foreign tax loss carry forwards. Such additional tax expense in 2007 was partially offset by a tax benefit for adjustments relating to prior periods. The tax rate for 2008 was slightly lower than normal due to strong income levels from global regions that have lower tax rates. During the second quarter of 2007, we determined that due to a change in circumstances in the quarter, it was more likely than not that certain tax operating loss carry forwards in a non U.S. jurisdiction would not be realized resulting in the recognition of a valuation allowance totaling approximately $8.0 million. The 2007 valuation allowance was used in 2008 to offset a reduction in the operating loss carry forward for the non U.S. jurisdiction. Tax expense for 2008 and 2007 include benefits of approximately $2.9 million and $3.1 million, respectively, for corrections relating to prior periods. Operations by Segment The following table presents a summary of our operating segment information for the years ended 2008 and 2007: 28 Table of Contents % of % of (in thousands) 2008 Revenue 2007 Revenue % Change Domestic Segment Revenues $ 1,307,510 100% $ 1,227,434 100% 7 % Costs of revenue 225,955 17% 221,154 18% 2 % Operating expenses 361,213 28% 331,124 27% 9 % Total costs and expenses 587,168 45% 552,278 45% 6 % Domestic operating earnings 720,342 55% 675,156 55% 7 % Global Segment Revenues 368,518 100% 290,677 100% 27 % Costs of revenue 70,108 19% 53,367 18% 31 % Operating expenses 150,729 41% 151,355 52% 0 % Total costs and expenses 220,837 60% 204,722 70% 8 % Global operating earnings 147,681 40% 85,955 30% 72 % Other, net (589,138 ) (557,028 ) 6 % Consolidated operating earnings $ 278,885 $ 204,083 37 % Domestic Segment Revenues increased 7% to $1.3 billion in 2008 from $1.2 billion in 2007. This increase was primarily driven by growth in managed services and support and maintenance. Cost of revenues was 17% and 18% of revenues in 2008 and 2007, respectively. The decline was driven primarily by a lower level of hardware sales. Operating expenses increased 9% to $361.2 million 2008, from $331.1 million in 2007, due primarily to growth in managed services. Operating earnings of the Domestic segment increased 7% to $720.3 million in 2008 from $675.2 million in 2007. Global Segment Revenues increased 27% to $368.5 million in 2008 from $290.7 million in 2007. This increase was primarily driven by an increase in sales in Europe and the Middle East and the previously discussed cumulative catch up adjustment. Cost of revenues was 19% and 18% of revenues in 2008 and 2007, respectively. The higher cost of revenues was driven by a higher mix of hardware revenues in 2008. Operating expenses remained flat in 2008 as compared to 2007. Operating earnings of the Global segment increased 72% to $147.7 million in 2008 from $86.0 million in 2007. Other, net Net operating expenses not attributed to an operating segment increased 6% to $589.1 million in 2008 from $557.0 million in 2007. This increase was primarily due to increased research and development and general and administrative spending and a settlement with a third party supplier in the second quarter of 2008 related to the prior period usage of their software in our remote hosting business. The third party supplier settlement increased expense by $8.0 million in the second quarter of 2008. 29 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources Our liquidity is influenced by many factors, including the amount and timing of our revenues, our cash collections from our clients, and the amount we invest in software development, acquisitions and capital expenditures. Our principal sources of liquidity are our cash, cash equivalents, which consist of money market funds, time deposits and bonds with original maturities of less than 90 days and short term investments. At the end of 2009, we had cash of $144.8 million, cash equivalents of $97.0 million and short term investments of $317.1 million, as compared to cash of $199.5 million, cash equivalents of $71.0 million and short term investments of $38.4 million at the end of 2008. We believe that our present cash position, together with cash generated from operations, short term investments and, if necessary, our available lines of credit, will be sufficient to meet anticipated cash requirements during 2010. During the second quarter of 2008, Fujitsu Services Limiteds (Fujitsu) contract as the prime contractor in the National Health Service (NHS) initiative to automate clinical processes and digitize medical records in the Southern region of England was terminated by the NHS. This had the effect of automatically terminating our subcontract for the project. We are in dispute with Fujitsu regarding Fujitsus obligation to pay the amounts comprised of accounts receivable and contracts receivable related to that subcontract, and we are working with Fujitsu to resolve these issues based on processes provided for in the contract. Part of that process requires resolution of disputes between Fujitsu and the NHS regarding the contract termination. During the 2009 fourth quarter certain events occurred in the resolution process between Fujitsu and the NHS which reduced the likelihood the matter will be resolved in the next 12 months. Therefore we reclassified the receivables, which represented more than 10% of our net receivables, from current assets to other long term assets during the 2009 fourth quarter. These receivables represent the significant majority of other long term assets at the end of 2009. While the ultimate collectability of the receivables pursuant to this process is uncertain, management believes that it has valid and equitable grounds for recovery of such amounts and that collection of recorded amounts is probable. In February and March 2008, liquidity issues in the global credit markets resulted in the progressive failure of auctions representing all the auction rate securities held by us. These conditions persisted through the remainder of 2008 and into 2009. During the fourth quarter of 2008, we entered into a settlement agreement with the investment firm that sold us the auction rate securities. Under the terms of the settlement agreement, we received the right to redeem the securities at par value during a period from mid 2010 through mid 2012. The settlement is in effect a put like instrument with a fair value generally equal to the difference between the auction rate securities fair value and par value. In the fourth quarter of 2009, these securities were reclassified to short term investments based on our intention to exercise the put like settlement feature and redeem the securities within the next year. At the end of 2009, we held auction rate securities with a par value of $94.6 million and an estimated fair value of $85.2 million. We anticipate that any future changes in the fair value of the put like feature will be offset by the changes in the fair value of the related auction rate securities with no material net impact to the Consolidated Statements of Operations. For a more detailed discussion of the auction rate securities, please refer to Note (3), Cash and Investments, in the Consolidated Financial Statements. We do not expect the auction failures to impact our ability to fund our working capital needs, capital expenditures or other business requirements. The following table provides details about our cash flows in 2009, 2008 and 2007: 30 Table of Contents For the Years Ended (In thousands) 2009 2008 2007 Cash flows from operating activities $ 347,291 $ 281,802 $ 274,565 Cash flows from investing activities (394,321 ) (170,607 ) (287,666 ) Cash flows from financing activities 16,770 (11,654 ) 37,083 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash 1,489 (11,961 ) (3,613 ) Total change in cash and cash equivalents $ (28,771 ) $ 87,580 $ 20,369 Cash Flows from Operating Activities Cash flows from operations increased in 2009 due primarily to the increase in cash impacting earnings and decreased use of working capital. During 2009, 2008 and 2007, we received total client cash collections of $1.8 billion, $1.7 billion and $1.6 billion, respectively, of which approximately 3%, 5% and 5% were received from third party client financing arrangements and non recourse payment assignments, respectively. Days sales outstanding decreased to 90 days for the 2009 fourth quarter compared to 105 days for 2009 third quarter and 92 days for the 2008 fourth quarter. Approximately 12 days of this quarterly decline is driven by the reclassification of our Fujitsu receivables to other long term assets, which are not included in our days sales outstanding calculation. The remaining decline is reflective of our improved cash collections. Revenues provided under support and maintenance agreements represent recurring cash flows. Support and maintenance revenues increased 4% in 2009 and 19% in 2008, and we expect these revenues to continue to grow as the base of installed Cerner Millennium systems grows. Cash Flows from Investing Activities For the Years Ended (In thousands) 2009 2008 2007 Capital purchases $ (131,265 ) $ (108,099 ) $ (180,723 ) Capitalized software development costs (77,747 ) (70,098 ) (66,063 ) Purchases of investments, net of maturities (169,295 ) 17,510 (13,277 ) Other, net (16,014 ) (9,920 ) (27,603 ) Total cash flows from investing activities $ (394,321 ) $ (170,607 ) $ (287,666 ) Cash flows from investing activities consists primarily of capital spending and our short term investment activities. Capital spending consists of capitalized equipment purchases primarily to support growth in our CernerWorks managed services business, capitalized land, building and improvement purchases to support our facilities requirements and capitalized spending to support our ongoing software development initiatives. Capital spending in 2010 is expected to approximate our 2009 levels. Cash Flows from Financing Activities For the Years Ended (In thousands) 2009 2008 2007 Line of credit and long term debt borrowings and repayments, net $ (32,352 ) $ (15,317 ) $ (22,359 ) Cash from option exercises (incl. excess tax benefits) 47,234 24,530 59,442 Purchase of treasury stock (28,002 ) Other, net 1,888 7,135 Total cash flows from financing activities $ 16,770 $ (11,654 ) $ 37,083 31 Table of Contents In November 2005, we completed a 65.0 million private placement of debt at 5.54% pursuant to a Note Agreement. The Note Agreement is payable in seven equal annual installments, which commenced in November 2009. The proceeds were used to repay the outstanding amount under our credit facility and for general corporate purposes. The Note Agreement contains certain net worth and fixed charge coverage covenants and provides certain restrictions on our ability to borrow, incur liens, sell assets and pay dividends. We were in compliance with all covenants at the end of 2009. In December 2002, we completed a $60.0 million private placement of debt pursuant to a Note Agreement. The Series A Senior Notes, with a $21.0 million principal amount at 5.57% were paid in full by the end of 2008. The Series B Senior notes, with a $39.0 million principal amount at 6.42%, are payable in four equal annual installments, which commenced in December 2009. The proceeds were used to repay the outstanding amount under our credit facility and for general corporate purposes. The Note Agreement contains certain net worth and fixed charge coverage covenants and provides certain restrictions on our ability to borrow, incur liens, sell assets and pay dividends. We were in compliance with all covenants at the end of 2009. In April 1999, we completed a $100.0 million private placement of debt pursuant to a Note Agreement. The Series A Senior Notes, with a $60.0 million principal amount at 7.14%, were paid in full by the end of 2006. The Series B Senior Notes, with a $40.0 million principal amount at 7.66%, were paid in full by the end of 2009. We maintain a $90 million, multi year revolving credit facility, which provides an unsecured revolving line of credit for working capital purposes. Interest is payable at a rate based on prime or LIBOR plus a spread that varies depending on the net worth ratios maintained. The agreement contains certain net worth, current ratio and fixed charge coverage covenants and provides certain restrictions on our ability to borrow, incur liens, sell assets and pay dividends. The current agreement expires on May 31, 2013. As of the end of 2009, we had no outstanding borrowings under this agreement and were in compliance with all covenants. Contractual Obligations, Commitments and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements The following table represents a summary of our contractual obligations and commercial commitments, excluding interest, at the end of 2009, except short term purchase order commitments arising in the ordinary course of business. Payments due by period (In thousands) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 and thereafter Total Long term debt obligations $ 24,765 $ 25,338 $ 24,765 $ 15,015 $ 15,015 $ 15,015 $ 119,913 Capital lease obligations 249 250 108 607 Operating lease obligations 25,504 23,041 20,573 17,677 15,143 60,195 162,133 Purchase obligations 15,592 6,067 5,644 5,597 2,797 10,665 46,362 Uncertain tax positions 314 3,226 3,059 6,599 Total $ 66,110 $ 55,010 $ 54,316 $ 41,348 $ 32,955 $ 85,875 $ 335,614 The effects of inflation on our business during 2009, 2008 and 2007 were not significant. 32 Table of Contents Recent Accounting Pronouncements In September 2009, Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 09 13, Revenue Recognition (Topic 605) Multiple Deliverable Revenue Arrangements, was issued, which will require an entity to apply the relative selling price allocation method in order to estimate selling price for all units of accounting, including delivered items, when vendor specific objective evidence (VSOE) or acceptable third party evidence (TPE) does not exist and expands the disclosure requirements to require an entity to provide both qualitative and quantitative information about the significant judgments made in applying the guidance in ASU 09 13 and subsequent changes in those judgments that may significantly affect the timing or amount of revenue recognition. ASU 09 13 is effective for revenue arrangements entered into or materially modified in fiscal years beginning on or after June 15, 2010 and shall be applied on a prospective basis. Earlier application is permitted. We are assessing the potential impact of ASU 09 13 on our financial position and results of operations. In September 2009, ASU 09 14, Software (Topic 985) Certain Revenue Arrangements that Include Software Elements, was issued, which requires the exclusion from the scope of ASC 985 of all tangible products containing both software and non software components that function together to deliver the products essential functionality. ASU 09 14 is effective for revenue arrangements entered into or materially modified in fiscal years beginning on or after June 15, 2010 and shall be applied on a prospective basis. Earlier application is permitted. We are assessing the impact of ASU 09 14 on our financial position and results of operations. In December 2009, ASU 09 16, Accounting for Transfers of Financial Assets, was issued, which among other things creates more stringent conditions for reporting a transfer of a portion of a financial asset as a sale. ASU 09 16 is effective for financial asset transfers as of the beginning of fiscal years that begin after November 15, 2009. Earlier adoption is prohibited. We are assessing the impact of ASU 09 16 on our financial position and results of operations. Critical Accounting Policies We believe that there are several accounting policies that are critical to understanding our historical and future performance, as these policies affect the reported amount of revenue and other significant areas involving our judgments and estimates. These significant accounting policies relate to revenue recognition, software development, potential impairments of goodwill and income taxes. These policies and our procedures related to these policies are described in detail below and under specific areas within this MDA. In addition, Note (1) to the consolidated financial statements expands upon discussion of our accounting policies. Revenue Recognition We recognize revenue within our multiple element arrangements, including software and software related services, using the residual method under ASC 985 605, Software Revenue Recognition. Key factors in our revenue recognition model are our assessments that installation services are essential to the functionality of our software whereas implementation services are not; and the length of time it takes for us to achieve the delivery and installation milestones for our licensed software. If our business model were to change such that implementation services are deemed to be essential to the functionality of our software, the period of time over which our licensed software revenue would be recognized would lengthen. We generally recognize revenue from the sale of our licensed software over two key milestones, delivery and installation, based on percentages that reflect the underlying effort from planning to installation. Generally, both milestones are achieved in the quarter the contracts are executed. If the period of time to achieve our delivery and installation milestones for our licensed software were to lengthen, our milestones would be adjusted and the timing of revenue recognition for our licensed software could materially change. We also recognize revenue for certain projects using the percentage of completion method pursuant to ASC 605 35, Revenue Recognition Construction Type and Production Type Contracts, as prescribed by ASC 985 605. Our revenue recognition is dependent upon our ability to reliably estimate the direct labor hours to complete a project which generally can span several years. We utilize our historical project experience and detailed planning process 33 Table of Contents as a basis for our future estimates to complete current projects. Significant delays in completion of the projects, unforeseen cost increases or penalties could result in significant reductions to revenue and margins on these contracts. The actual project results can be significantly different from the estimated results. When adjustments are indentified near or at the end of a project, the full impact of the change in estimate is recognized in that period. This can result in a material impact on our results for a single reporting period. Software Development Costs Costs incurred internally in creating computer software solutions and enhancements to those solutions are expensed until completion of a detailed program design, which is when we determine that technological feasibility has been established. Thereafter, all software development costs are capitalized until such time as the software solutions and enhancements are available for general release, and the capitalized costs subsequently are reported at the lower of amortized cost or net realizable value. Net realizable value is computed as the estimated gross future revenues from each software solution less the amount of estimated future costs of completing and disposing of that product. Because the development of projected net future revenues related to our software solutions used in our net realizable value computation is based on estimates, a significant reduction in our future revenues could impact the recovery of our capitalized software development costs. We historically have not experienced significant inaccuracies in computing the net realizable value of our software solutions and the difference between the net realizable value and the unamortized cost has grown over the past three years. We expect that trend to continue in the future. If we missed our estimates of net future revenues by up to 10%, the amount of our capitalized software development costs would not be impaired. Capitalized costs are amortized based on current and expected net future revenue for each software solution with minimum annual amortization equal to the straight line amortization over the estimated economic life of the software solution. We are amortizing capitalized costs over five years. The five year period over which capitalized software development costs are amortized is an estimate based upon our forecast of a reasonable useful life for the capitalized costs. Historically, use of our software programs by our clients has exceeded five years and is capable of being used a decade or more. We expect that major software information systems companies, large information technology consulting service providers and systems integrators and others specializing in the healthcare industry may offer competitive products or services. The pace of change in the HIT market is rapid and there are frequent new product introductions, product enhancements and evolving industry standards and requirements. As a result, the capitalized software solutions may become less valuable or obsolete and could be subject to impairment. Fair Value Measurements We determine fair value measurements used in our consolidated financial statements based upon the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. The fair value hierarchy distinguishes between (1) market participant assumptions developed based on market data obtained from independent sources (observable inputs) and (2) an entitys own assumptions about market participant assumptions developed based on the best information available in the circumstances (unobservable inputs). The fair value hierarchy consists of three broad levels, which gives the highest priority to unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (Level 1) and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs (Level 3). The three levels of the fair value hierarchy are described below: Level 1 Valuations based on quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that the entity has the ability to access. Level 2 Valuations based on quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities, quoted prices in markets that are not active, or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities. 34 Table of Contents Level 3 Valuations based on inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities. As of the end of 2009, we held investments in money market funds, time deposits, commercial paper, government and corporate bonds and auction rate securities. Auction rate securities are debt instruments with long term nominal maturities, for which the interest rates regularly reset every 7 35 days under an auction system. Due to the lack of availability of observable market quotes on our investment portfolio of auction rate securities, we utilize valuation models that are based on discounted cash flow streams, including assessments of counterparty credit quality, default risk underlying the security, discount rates and overall capital market liquidity. The valuation is subject to uncertainties that are difficult to predict. If different assumptions were used for the various inputs to the valuation, including, but not limited to, assumptions involving the estimated holding periods for the auction rate securities, the estimated cash flows over those estimated lives, and the estimated discount rates, including the liquidity discount rate, applied to those cash flows, the estimated fair value of these investments could be significantly higher or lower than the fair value we determined. A considerable amount of judgment and estimation is applied in the valuation of auction rate securities. In addition, we also apply judgment in determining whether the marketable securities are other than temporarily impaired. We typically consider the severity and duration of the decline, future prospects of the issuer and our ability and intent to hold the security to recovery. Goodwill We account for goodwill under the provisions of ASC 350, Intangibles Goodwill and Other. As a result, goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives are not amortized but are evaluated for impairment annually or whenever there is an impairment indicator. All goodwill is assigned to a reporting unit, where it is subject to an annual impairment test based on fair value. We assess goodwill for impairment in the second quarter of each fiscal year and evaluate impairment indicators at each quarter end. We assessed our goodwill for impairment in the second quarters of 2009 and 2008 and concluded that goodwill was not impaired. In each respective year, the fair values of each of our reporting units exceeded their carrying amounts by a significant margin. We used a discounted cash flow analysis utilizing Level 3 inputs, to determine the fair value of the reporting units for all periods. Goodwill amounted to $151.5 million and $146.7 million at the end of 2009 and 2008, respectively. If future, anticipated cash flows from our reporting units that recognized goodwill do not materialize as expected, our goodwill could be impaired, which could result in significant charges to earnings. Income Taxes We account for income taxes under the provisions of ASC 740, Income Taxes. We make a number of assumptions and estimates in determining the appropriate amount of expense to record for income taxes. These assumptions and estimates consider the taxing jurisdictions in which we operate as well as current tax regulations. Accruals are established for estimates of tax effects for certain transactions, business structures and future projected profitability of our businesses based on our interpretation of existing facts and circumstances. If these assumptions and estimates were to change as a result of new evidence or changes in circumstances, the change in estimate could result in a material adjustment to the consolidated financial statements. We have discussed the development and selection of these critical accounting estimates with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors and the Audit Committee has reviewed our disclosure contained herein. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk We use a foreign currency denominated debt instrument to reduce our foreign currency exposure in the U.K. As of the end of 2009, we designated all of our Great Britain Pound (GBP) denominated long term debt (55.7 million GBP) as a net investment hedge of our U.K. operations. Because the borrowing is denominated in pounds, we are exposed to movements in the foreign currency exchange rate between the U.S. dollar (USD) and the GPB. We 35 Table of Contents estimate that a hypothetical 10% change in the foreign currency exchange rate between the USD and GBP would have impacted the unrealized loss, net of related income tax effects, of the net investment hedge recognized in other comprehensive income by approximately $6.6 million. Please refer to Notes (9) and (10) to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a more detailed discussion of the foreign currency denominated debt instrument. 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following Management Discussion and Analysis (MDA) is intended to help the reader understand our results of operations and financial condition. This MDA is provided as a supplement to, and should be read in conjunction with, our financial statements and the accompanying notes to the financial statements (Notes). Our fiscal year ends on the Saturday closest to December 31. Fiscal year 2009 consisted of 52 weeks and ended on January 2, 2010; fiscal year 2008 consisted of 53 weeks and ended on January 3, 2009; and fiscal year 2007 consisted of 52 weeks and ended on December 29, 2007. All references to years in this MDA represent fiscal years unless otherwise noted. Management Overview Our revenues are primarily derived by selling, implementing and supporting software solutions, clinical content, hardware, healthcare devices and services that allow healthcare providers to securely access clinical, administrative and financial data in real time, allowing them to improve the quality, safety and efficiency in the delivery of healthcare. We implement the healthcare solutions as stand alone, combined or enterprise wide systems. Cerner Millennium software solutions can be managed by our clients or in our data center via a managed services model. Our fundamental strategy centers on creating organic growth by investing in research and development (RD) to create solutions and services for the healthcare industry. This strategy has driven strong growth over the long term, as reflected in five and ten year compound annual revenue growth rates of 13% or more. This growth has also created a very strategic footprint in healthcare, with Cerner solutions licensed by over 8,500 facilities, including approximately 2,300 hospitals; 3,400 physician practices with over 30,000 physicians; 600 ambulatory facilities, such as laboratories, ambulatory centers, cardiac facilities, radiology clinics and surgery centers; 700 home health facilities; and 1,500 retail pharmacies. Selling additional solutions back into this client base is an important element of our future revenue growth. We are also focused on driving growth through market share expansion by replacing competitors in healthcare settings that are looking to replace their current HIT partners or those who have not yet strategically aligned with a supplier. We expect the HITECH provisions in ARRA will create a period of increased demand within the United States during which we believe we can gain additional market share. We also expect to drive growth through new initiatives and services that reflect our ongoing ability to innovate and expand our reach into healthcare. Examples of these include our CareAware healthcare device architecture and devices, Healthe employer services, Cerner ITWorksSM services, Cerner RevWorksSM services, physician practice solutions and solutions and services for the pharmaceutical market. Finally, we are focused on selling our solutions and services outside of the United States. Many non U.S. markets have a low penetration of HIT 20 Table of Contents solutions and their governing bodies are in many cases focused on HIT as part of their strategy to improve the quality and lower the cost of healthcare. Beyond our strategy for driving revenue growth, we are also focused on earnings growth. Similar to our history of growing revenue, our net earnings have increased at more than 20% compound annual rates over five and ten year periods. We believe we can continue driving strong levels of earnings growth by continuing to grow revenue while also leveraging key areas to create operating margin expansion. The primary areas of opportunity for margin expansion include: becoming more efficient at implementing our software by leveraging implementation tools and methodologies we have developed that can reduce the amount of effort required to implement our software; leveraging our investments in RD by addressing new markets that do not require significant incremental RD but can contribute significantly to revenue growth; and, leveraging our scalable business infrastructure to reduce the rate of increase in general and administrative spending to below our revenue growth rate. We are also focused on increasing cash flow by growing earnings, reducing the use of working capital and controlling capital expenditures. Results Overview In a challenging economic environment, we continued to execute on our core strategies to drive top line growth, expand operating margins, grow earnings and generate good cash flow in 2009. The 2009 results included strong levels of new business bookings, earnings and cash flow. New business bookings revenue in 2009, which reflects the value of executed contracts for software, hardware, professional services and managed services, was $1.83 billion, which is an increase of 19% compared to $1.54 billion in 2008. This growth was concentrated in the second half of 2009, which included strong bookings growth that offset slight declines in the first half of the year. The improvement in the second half of the year reflects slightly better economic conditions and some early demand driven by the HITECH stimulus incentives. Our 2009 revenues remained flat at $1.7 billion as compared to 2008, with the lack of growth largely the result of the challenging economic conditions that persisted through much of the year. Additionally, our revenue comparisons in 2009 were impacted by a $28.6 million cumulative catch up adjustment recognized in the fourth quarter of 2008, resulting from a significant change in an accounting estimate related to our contract in London as part of the NHS initiative to automate clinical processes and digitize medical records in England. Our 2009 net earnings increased 3% to $193.5 million compared to $188.7 million in 2008. Diluted earnings per share increased 2% to $2.31 compared to $2.26 in 2008. The 2009 and 2008 net earnings and diluted earnings per share reflect the impact of accounting for stock based compensation using the fair value method to measure and record expense for stock options, pursuant to Accounting Standards Codification (ASC), 718, Stock Compensation. The effect of these expenses reduced the 2009 net earnings and diluted earnings per share by $10.5 million and $0.12, and the 2008 earnings and diluted earnings per share by $9.5 million and $0.11, respectively. Our 2008 net earnings also include the previously discussed cumulative catch up adjustment. The after tax effect of this catch up increased 2008 net earnings and diluted earnings per share by $20.6 million and $0.24, respectively. The growth in net earnings and diluted earnings per share was driven primarily by continued progress with our margin expansion initiatives, particularly expanding the profitability of support and maintenance revenue, leveraging RD investments, and controlling sales and client services expenses, partially offset by the 2008 catch up adjustment. Our 2009 operating margin was 17.5%, compared to 16.6% in 2008, and we remain on target to achieve our long term goal of 20% operating margins. 21 Table of Contents We had cash collections of receivables of $1.8 billion in 2009 compared to $1.7 billion in 2008. Days sales outstanding decreased to 90 days for the 2009 fourth quarter compared to 105 days for 2009 third quarter and 92 days for the 2008 fourth quarter. Approximately 12 days of this quarterly decline is driven by the reclassification of our Fujitsu receivables to other long term assets, which are not included in our days sales outstanding calculation. The remaining decline is reflective of improved cash collections. Operating cash flows for 2009 were $347.3 million compared to $281.8 million in 2008, with the growth driven by increased earnings and decreased use of working capital. Healthcare Information Technology Market Outlook We have provided a detailed assessment of the healthcare information technology market under Part I, Item 1, The Healthcare and Healthcare IT Industry. Results of Operations Fiscal Year 2009 Compared to Fiscal Year 2008 % of % of (in thousands) 2009 Revenue 2008 Revenue % Change Revenues System sales $ 504,561 30% $ 522,373 31% 3 % Support and maintenance 493,193 29% 472,579 28% 4 % Services 643,678 39% 643,317 38% 0 % Reimbursed travel 30,432 2% 37,759 2% 19 % Total revenues 1,671,864 100% 1,676,028 100% 0 % Costs of revenue Costs of revenue 281,198 17% 296,063 18% 5 % Total margin 1,390,666 83% 1,379,965 82% 1 % Operating expenses Sales and client 700,639 42% 715,512 43% 2 % Software development 271,051 16% 272,519 16% 1 % General and administrative 126,970 8% 113,049 7% 12 % Total operating expenses 1,098,660 66% 1,101,080 66% 0 % Total costs and expenses 1,379,858 83% 1,397,143 83% 1 % Operating earnings 292,006 17% 278,885 17% 5 % Interest income (expense), net 308 3,056 Other income (expense), net 367 (510 ) Income taxes (99,216 ) (92,773 ) Net earnings $ 193,465 $ 188,658 3 % As discussed in the results overview, our 2008 consolidated and global segment revenues and margin included a cumulative catch up adjustment recognized in the fourth quarter, in the amount of $28.6 million, resulting from a significant change in accounting estimate related to our contract in London. The majority of the catch up adjustment revenue was included in support, maintenance and services. Refer to Note (1a) of the notes to consolidated financial statements for more information on this adjustment. Revenues Backlog Revenues were $1.7 billion in 2009, which is flat compared to 2008. 22 Table of Contents System sales, which include revenues from the sale of software, technology resale (hardware and sublicensed software), deployment period licensed software upgrade rights, installation fees, transaction processing and subscriptions, decreased 3% to $504.6 million in 2009 from $522.4 million in 2008. The decrease in system sales was driven by a decline in technology resale, with licensed software basically flat and subscriptions increasing slightly. Support and maintenance revenues increased 4% to $493.2 million in 2009 compared to $472.6 million in 2008. This increase is attributable to continued success at selling Cerner Millennium applications, implementing them at client sites and initiating billing for support and maintenance fees. The growth rate of support and maintenance revenue was negatively impacted by the extra week in 2008 (53) compared to 2009 (52) and the catch up adjustment in 2008. Services revenue, which includes professional services excluding installation, and managed services, remained flat, with growth in CernerWorksSM managed services being offset by declines in professional services. The decline in professional services reflects the impact of the economy and lower billable headcount in 2009 compared to 2008. Contract backlog, which reflects new business bookings that have not yet been recognized as revenue, increased 23% in 2009 compared to 2008. This increase was driven by growth in new business bookings during the past four quarters, including continued strong levels of managed services bookings that typically have longer contract terms. In the second quarter of 2008, contract backlog was reduced by approximately $178.0 million as a result of the contract withdrawal by Fujitsu Limited as the prime contractor in the southern region of England. A summary of our total backlog for 2009 and 2008 follows: (In thousands) 2009 2008 Contract backlog $ 3,591,026 $ 2,907,762 Support and maintenance backlog 620,616 580,915 Total backlog $ 4,211,642 $ 3,488,677 Costs of Revenue Cost of revenues was 17% of total revenues in 2009, as compared to 18% in 2008, with the slightly lower level reflective of the decline in technology resale, which includes higher third party costs. The cost of revenues includes the cost of reimbursed travel expense, sales commissions, third party consulting services and subscription content, computer hardware and sublicensed software purchased from hardware and software manufacturers for delivery to clients. It also includes the cost of hardware maintenance and sublicensed software support subcontracted to the manufacturers. Such costs, as a percent of revenues, typically have varied as the mix of revenue (software, hardware, maintenance, support, services and reimbursed travel) carrying different margin rates changes from period to period. Costs of revenues does not include the costs of our client service personnel who are responsible for delivering our service offerings, such costs are included in sales and client service expense. Operating Expenses Total operating expenses remained flat in 2009 at $1.1 billion as compared to 2008. Accounting pursuant to ASC 718, which results in the expensing of share based compensation, impacted expenses in 2009 and 2008 as indicated below: 23 Table of Contents (In thousands) 2009 2008 Sales and client service expenses $ 7,552 $ 7,750 Software development expense 4,374 3,232 General and administrative expenses 4,916 4,162 Total stock based compensation expense $ 16,842 $ 15,144 Sales and client service expenses as a percent of total revenues were 42% in 2009, as compared to 43% in 2008. These expenses decreased 2% to $700.6 million in 2009, from $715.5 million in 2008. Sales and client service expenses include salaries of sales and client service personnel, depreciation and other expenses associated with our CernerWorks managed service business, communications expenses, unreimbursed travel expenses, expense for share based payments, sales and marketing salaries and trade show and advertising costs. The decrease was primarily attributable to lower professional services expense, partially offset by growth in the managed services business. Software development expense decreased 1% in 2009 to $271.1 million, from $272.5 million in 2008. Expenditures for software development in 2009 reflect continued development and enhancement of the Cerner Millennium platform and software solutions and investments in new growth initiatives. A summary of our total software development expense in 2009 and 2008 is as follows: (In thousands) 2009 2008 Software development costs $ 285,187 $ 291,368 Capitalized software costs (76,876 ) (69,039 ) Capitalized costs related to share based payments (871 ) (942 ) Amortization of capitalized software costs 63,611 51,132 Total software development expense $ 271,051 $ 272,519 General and administrative expenses as a percent of total revenues were 8% in 2009, as compared to 7% in 2008. These expenses increased 12% to $127.0 million in 2009 from $113.0 million in 2008. General and administrative expenses include salaries for corporate, financial and administrative staff, utilities, communications expenses, professional fees, the transaction gains or losses on foreign currency and expense for share based payments. We recorded a net transaction gain on foreign currency of $4.0 million and $9.9 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively. The lower gain in 2009 compared to 2008 was the primary reason for the increase in general and administrative expenses, with the balance driven by legal fees and other corporate expenses. Non Operating Items Net interest income was $0.3 million in 2009, compared with net interest income of $3.1 million in 2008. Interest income decreased to $8.8 million in 2009 from $13.6 million in 2008, due primarily to a decline in investment returns. Interest expense decreased to $8.5 million in 2009 from $10.5 million in 2008, due primarily to a reduction in long term debt. Other income was $0.4 million in 2009, compared to other expense of $0.5 million in 2008. Other income and expense in 2009 and 2008 includes offsetting unrealized gains and losses included in earnings related to our auction rate securities and put like settlement feature in the amounts of $10.5 million and $19.9 million, respectively. Refer to Liquidity and Capital Resources within this MDA and Notes 3 and 4 of the notes to consolidated financial statements for additional information on our auction rate securities. Our effective tax rate was 34% and 33% in 2009 and 2008, respectively. This net increase is primarily due to higher tax expense recorded at the statutory rates of approximately $5.0 million and prior period tax 24 Table of Contents expense of $2.3 million, offset by a decrease in our unrecognized tax benefits of $5.6 million. The tax rate for 2008 was slightly lower than normal due to strong income levels from global regions that have lower tax rates. Tax expense for 2009 includes expense of approximately $2.3 million and 2008 includes benefits of approximately $2.9 million for corrections relating to prior periods. Operations by Segment We have two operating segments, Domestic and Global. The Domestic segment includes revenue contributions and expenditures associated with business activity in the United States. The Global segment includes revenue contributions and expenditures linked to business activity in Aruba, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Cayman Islands, Chile, China (Hong Kong), Egypt, England, France, Germany, India, Ireland, Malaysia, Puerto Rico, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland and the United Arab Emirates. The following table presents a summary of our operating segment information for the years ended 2009 and 2008: % of % of (in thousands) 2009 Revenue 2008 Revenue % Change Domestic Segment Revenues $ 1,398,715 100% $ 1,307,510 100% 7 % Costs of revenue 240,847 17% 225,955 17% 7 % Operating expenses 372,370 27% 361,213 28% 3 % Total costs and expenses 613,217 44% 587,168 45% 4 % Domestic operating earnings 785,498 56% 720,342 55% 9 % Global Segment Revenues 273,149 100% 368,518 100% 26 % Costs of revenue 40,351 15% 70,108 19% 42 % Operating expenses 130,256 48% 150,729 41% 14 % Total costs and expenses 170,607 62% 220,837 60% 23 % Global operating earnings 102,542 38% 147,681 40% 31 % Other, net (596,034 ) (589,138 ) 1 % Consolidated operating earnings $ 292,006 $ 278,885 5 % Domestic Segment Revenues increased 7% to $1.4 billion in 2009 from $1.3 billion in 2008. This increase was driven by growth in managed services, licensed software, technology resale, and support and maintenance, partially offset by a decline in professional services. Cost of revenues was 17% of revenues in both 2009 and 2008. Operating expenses increased 3% to $372.4 million in 2009, from $361.2 million in 2008, due primarily to growth in managed services. Operating earnings of the Domestic segment increased 9% to $785.5 million in 2009 from $720.3 million in 2008. Global Segment Revenues decreased 26% to $273.1 million in 2009 from $368.5 million in 2008. This decrease was driven by the previously discussed cumulative catch up adjustment in 2008 and a decline in revenue from Middle Eastern and European countries resulting from the challenging global economic conditions. 25 Table of Contents Cost of revenues was 15% and 19% of revenues in 2009 and 2008, respectively. The lower cost of revenues was driven by a lower mix of hardware revenues in 2009. Operating expenses decreased 14% to $130.3 million in 2009, from $150.7 million in 2008, primarily due to a decrease in professional services expense. Operating earnings of the Global segment decreased 31% to $102.5 million in 2009 from $147.7 million in 2008. This decline was driven by the catch up adjustment in 2008 and the lower level of revenues in 2009. Other, net Operating results not attributed to an operating segment include expenses, such as software development, marketing, general and administrative, stock based compensation and depreciation. These expenses increased 1% to $596.0 million in 2009 from $589.1 million in 2008. Fiscal Year 2008 Compared to Fiscal Year 2007 % of % of (in thousands) 2008 Revenue 2007 Revenue % Change Revenues System sales $ 522,373 31% $ 500,319 33% 4 % Support and maintenance 472,579 28% 397,713 26% 19 % Services 643,317 38% 585,067 38% 10 % Reimbursed travel 37,759 2% 36,778 2% 3 % Total revenues 1,676,028 100% 1,519,877 100% 10 % Costs of revenue Costs of revenue 296,063 18% 280,110 18% 6 % Total margin 1,379,965 82% 1,239,767 82% 11 % Operating expenses Sales and client 715,512 43% 657,956 43% 9 % Software development 272,519 16% 270,576 18% 1 % General and administrative 113,049 7% 107,152 7% 6 % Total operating expenses 1,101,080 66% 1,035,684 68% 6 % Total costs and expenses 1,397,143 83% 1,315,794 87% 6 % Operating earnings 278,885 17% 204,083 13% 37 % Interest income (expense), net 3,056 1,269 Other income (expense), net (510 ) (1,385 ) Income taxes (92,773 ) (76,842 ) Net earnings $ 188,658 $ 127,125 48 % As discussed in the results overview, our 2008 consolidated and global segment revenues and margin included a cumulative catch up adjustment recognized in the fourth quarter, in the amount of $28.6 million, resulting from a significant change in accounting estimate related to our contract in London. The majority of the catch up adjustment revenue was included in support, maintenance and services. Refer to Note (1a) of the notes to consolidated financial statements for more information on this adjustment. Revenues and Backlog Revenues increased 10% to $1.7 billion in 2008, compared with $1.5 billion in 2007. 26 Table of Contents System sales revenues increased 4% to $522.4 million in 2008 from $500.3 million in 2007. The increase in system sales was driven by growth in licensed software, sublicensed software and subscriptions. Support and maintenance revenues increased 19% to $472.6 million in 2008 from $397.7 million in 2007, mainly due to continued success at selling Cerner Millennium applications, implementing them at client sites and initiating billing for support and maintenance fees. Services revenue increased 10% to $643.3 million in 2008 from $585.1 million in 2007 primarily attributable to growth in CernerWorks managed services. Contract backlog, which reflects new business bookings that have not yet been recognized as revenue, increased 7% in 2008 compared to 2007. This increase was driven by growth in new business bookings during the past four quarters, including continued strong levels of managed services bookings that typically have longer contract terms. In the second quarter of 2008, contract backlog was reduced by approximately $178.0 million as a result of the contract withdrawal by the prime contractor in the southern region of England. A summary of our total backlog for 2008 and 2007 follows: (In thousands) 2008 2007 Contract backlog $ 2,907,762 $ 2,712,195 Support and maintenance backlog 580,915 541,095 Total backlog $ 3,488,677 $ 3,253,290 Costs of Revenue Cost of revenues was 18% of total revenues in both 2008 and 2007. Such costs, as a percent of revenues, typically have varied as the mix of revenue (software, hardware, maintenance, support, services and reimbursed travel) carrying different margin rates changes from period to period. Operating Expenses Total operating expenses increased 6% to $1.1 billion in 2008 from $1.0 billion in 2007. Accounting pursuant to ASC 718, which results in the expensing of share based compensation, impacted expenses in 2008 and 2007 as indicated below: (In thousands) 2008 2007 Sales and client service expenses $ 7,750 $ 9,518 Software development expense 3,232 3,032 General and administrative expenses 4,162 3,639 Total stock based compensation expense $ 15,144 $ 16,189 Sales and client service expenses as a percent of total revenues were 43% in both 2008 and 2007. These expenses increased 9% to $715.5 million in 2008, from $658.0 million in 2007. The increase was primarily attributable to growth in the managed services business, including $8.0 million of expense recorded in the second quarter of 2008 for a settlement with a third party provider of software related to the use of the third partys software in this business. Total expense for software development in 2008 increased 1% to $272.5 million, from $270.6 million in 2007. Included in 2007 software development expense is $8.6 million of research and development activities for the RxStation medical dispensing device. $3.4 million of this amount recorded in 2007 is related to periods prior to 2007. A summary of our total software development expense in 2008 and 2007 is as follows: 27 Table of Contents (In thousands) 2008 2007 Software development costs $ 291,368 $ 283,086 Capitalized software costs (69,039 ) (64,789 ) Capitalized costs related to share based payments (942 ) (1,196 ) Amortization of capitalized software costs 51,132 53,475 Total software development expense $ 272,519 $ 270,576 General and administrative expenses as a percent of total revenues were 7% in 2008 and 2007. These expenses increased 6% to $113.0 million in 2008 from $107.2 million in 2007. This increase was due primarily to the growth of our core business and increased presence in the global market. We recorded a net transaction gain on foreign currency of $9.9 million and $3.7 million in 2008 and 2007, respectively. Non Operating Items Net interest income was $3.1 million in 2008, compared with net interest income of $1.3 million in 2007. Interest income increased to $13.6 million in 2008 from $13.2 million in 2007, due primarily to higher returns received from our investments in auction rate securities. Interest expense decreased to $10.5 million in 2008 from $11.9 million in 2007, due primarily to a reduction in long term debt. Other expense was $0.5 million in 2008, compared to $1.4 million in 2007. As a result of entering into a settlement agreement with an investment firm relating to auction rate securities, other expense in 2008 includes the recognition of a gain of $19.9 million for a put like feature. This gain was offset by the recognition of an unrealized loss recorded on our auction rate securities due to a transfer of these securities from available for sale to trading. Our effective tax rate was 33% and 38% in 2008 and 2007, respectively. This decrease is primarily due to a higher than normal rate in 2007. The effective rate in 2007 was impacted primarily by a recognition of a valuation allowance in the third quarter of 2007 on certain of our foreign tax loss carry forwards. Such additional tax expense in 2007 was partially offset by a tax benefit for adjustments relating to prior periods. The tax rate for 2008 was slightly lower than normal due to strong income levels from global regions that have lower tax rates. During the second quarter of 2007, we determined that due to a change in circumstances in the quarter, it was more likely than not that certain tax operating loss carry forwards in a non U.S. jurisdiction would not be realized resulting in the recognition of a valuation allowance totaling approximately $8.0 million. The 2007 valuation allowance was used in 2008 to offset a reduction in the operating loss carry forward for the non U.S. jurisdiction. Tax expense for 2008 and 2007 include benefits of approximately $2.9 million and $3.1 million, respectively, for corrections relating to prior periods. Operations by Segment The following table presents a summary of our operating segment information for the years ended 2008 and 2007: 28 Table of Contents % of % of (in thousands) 2008 Revenue 2007 Revenue % Change Domestic Segment Revenues $ 1,307,510 100% $ 1,227,434 100% 7 % Costs of revenue 225,955 17% 221,154 18% 2 % Operating expenses 361,213 28% 331,124 27% 9 % Total costs and expenses 587,168 45% 552,278 45% 6 % Domestic operating earnings 720,342 55% 675,156 55% 7 % Global Segment Revenues 368,518 100% 290,677 100% 27 % Costs of revenue 70,108 19% 53,367 18% 31 % Operating expenses 150,729 41% 151,355 52% 0 % Total costs and expenses 220,837 60% 204,722 70% 8 % Global operating earnings 147,681 40% 85,955 30% 72 % Other, net (589,138 ) (557,028 ) 6 % Consolidated operating earnings $ 278,885 $ 204,083 37 % Domestic Segment Revenues increased 7% to $1.3 billion in 2008 from $1.2 billion in 2007. This increase was primarily driven by growth in managed services and support and maintenance. Cost of revenues was 17% and 18% of revenues in 2008 and 2007, respectively. The decline was driven primarily by a lower level of hardware sales. Operating expenses increased 9% to $361.2 million 2008, from $331.1 million in 2007, due primarily to growth in managed services. Operating earnings of the Domestic segment increased 7% to $720.3 million in 2008 from $675.2 million in 2007. Global Segment Revenues increased 27% to $368.5 million in 2008 from $290.7 million in 2007. This increase was primarily driven by an increase in sales in Europe and the Middle East and the previously discussed cumulative catch up adjustment. Cost of revenues was 19% and 18% of revenues in 2008 and 2007, respectively. The higher cost of revenues was driven by a higher mix of hardware revenues in 2008. Operating expenses remained flat in 2008 as compared to 2007. Operating earnings of the Global segment increased 72% to $147.7 million in 2008 from $86.0 million in 2007. Other, net Net operating expenses not attributed to an operating segment increased 6% to $589.1 million in 2008 from $557.0 million in 2007. This increase was primarily due to increased research and development and general and administrative spending and a settlement with a third party supplier in the second quarter of 2008 related to the prior period usage of their software in our remote hosting business. The third party supplier settlement increased expense by $8.0 million in the second quarter of 2008. 29 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources Our liquidity is influenced by many factors, including the amount and timing of our revenues, our cash collections from our clients, and the amount we invest in software development, acquisitions and capital expenditures. Our principal sources of liquidity are our cash, cash equivalents, which consist of money market funds, time deposits and bonds with original maturities of less than 90 days and short term investments. At the end of 2009, we had cash of $144.8 million, cash equivalents of $97.0 million and short term investments of $317.1 million, as compared to cash of $199.5 million, cash equivalents of $71.0 million and short term investments of $38.4 million at the end of 2008. We believe that our present cash position, together with cash generated from operations, short term investments and, if necessary, our available lines of credit, will be sufficient to meet anticipated cash requirements during 2010. During the second quarter of 2008, Fujitsu Services Limiteds (Fujitsu) contract as the prime contractor in the National Health Service (NHS) initiative to automate clinical processes and digitize medical records in the Southern region of England was terminated by the NHS. This had the effect of automatically terminating our subcontract for the project. We are in dispute with Fujitsu regarding Fujitsus obligation to pay the amounts comprised of accounts receivable and contracts receivable related to that subcontract, and we are working with Fujitsu to resolve these issues based on processes provided for in the contract. Part of that process requires resolution of disputes between Fujitsu and the NHS regarding the contract termination. During the 2009 fourth quarter certain events occurred in the resolution process between Fujitsu and the NHS which reduced the likelihood the matter will be resolved in the next 12 months. Therefore we reclassified the receivables, which represented more than 10% of our net receivables, from current assets to other long term assets during the 2009 fourth quarter. These receivables represent the significant majority of other long term assets at the end of 2009. While the ultimate collectability of the receivables pursuant to this process is uncertain, management believes that it has valid and equitable grounds for recovery of such amounts and that collection of recorded amounts is probable. In February and March 2008, liquidity issues in the global credit markets resulted in the progressive failure of auctions representing all the auction rate securities held by us. These conditions persisted through the remainder of 2008 and into 2009. During the fourth quarter of 2008, we entered into a settlement agreement with the investment firm that sold us the auction rate securities. Under the terms of the settlement agreement, we received the right to redeem the securities at par value during a period from mid 2010 through mid 2012. The settlement is in effect a put like instrument with a fair value generally equal to the difference between the auction rate securities fair value and par value. In the fourth quarter of 2009, these securities were reclassified to short term investments based on our intention to exercise the put like settlement feature and redeem the securities within the next year. At the end of 2009, we held auction rate securities with a par value of $94.6 million and an estimated fair value of $85.2 million. We anticipate that any future changes in the fair value of the put like feature will be offset by the changes in the fair value of the related auction rate securities with no material net impact to the Consolidated Statements of Operations. For a more detailed discussion of the auction rate securities, please refer to Note (3), Cash and Investments, in the Consolidated Financial Statements. We do not expect the auction failures to impact our ability to fund our working capital needs, capital expenditures or other business requirements. The following table provides details about our cash flows in 2009, 2008 and 2007: 30 Table of Contents For the Years Ended (In thousands) 2009 2008 2007 Cash flows from operating activities $ 347,291 $ 281,802 $ 274,565 Cash flows from investing activities (394,321 ) (170,607 ) (287,666 ) Cash flows from financing activities 16,770 (11,654 ) 37,083 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash 1,489 (11,961 ) (3,613 ) Total change in cash and cash equivalents $ (28,771 ) $ 87,580 $ 20,369 Cash Flows from Operating Activities Cash flows from operations increased in 2009 due primarily to the increase in cash impacting earnings and decreased use of working capital. During 2009, 2008 and 2007, we received total client cash collections of $1.8 billion, $1.7 billion and $1.6 billion, respectively, of which approximately 3%, 5% and 5% were received from third party client financing arrangements and non recourse payment assignments, respectively. Days sales outstanding decreased to 90 days for the 2009 fourth quarter compared to 105 days for 2009 third quarter and 92 days for the 2008 fourth quarter. Approximately 12 days of this quarterly decline is driven by the reclassification of our Fujitsu receivables to other long term assets, which are not included in our days sales outstanding calculation. The remaining decline is reflective of our improved cash collections. Revenues provided under support and maintenance agreements represent recurring cash flows. Support and maintenance revenues increased 4% in 2009 and 19% in 2008, and we expect these revenues to continue to grow as the base of installed Cerner Millennium systems grows. Cash Flows from Investing Activities For the Years Ended (In thousands) 2009 2008 2007 Capital purchases $ (131,265 ) $ (108,099 ) $ (180,723 ) Capitalized software development costs (77,747 ) (70,098 ) (66,063 ) Purchases of investments, net of maturities (169,295 ) 17,510 (13,277 ) Other, net (16,014 ) (9,920 ) (27,603 ) Total cash flows from investing activities $ (394,321 ) $ (170,607 ) $ (287,666 ) Cash flows from investing activities consists primarily of capital spending and our short term investment activities. Capital spending consists of capitalized equipment purchases primarily to support growth in our CernerWorks managed services business, capitalized land, building and improvement purchases to support our facilities requirements and capitalized spending to support our ongoing software development initiatives. Capital spending in 2010 is expected to approximate our 2009 levels. Cash Flows from Financing Activities For the Years Ended (In thousands) 2009 2008 2007 Line of credit and long term debt borrowings and repayments, net $ (32,352 ) $ (15,317 ) $ (22,359 ) Cash from option exercises (incl. excess tax benefits) 47,234 24,530 59,442 Purchase of treasury stock (28,002 ) Other, net 1,888 7,135 Total cash flows from financing activities $ 16,770 $ (11,654 ) $ 37,083 31 Table of Contents In November 2005, we completed a 65.0 million private placement of debt at 5.54% pursuant to a Note Agreement. The Note Agreement is payable in seven equal annual installments, which commenced in November 2009. The proceeds were used to repay the outstanding amount under our credit facility and for general corporate purposes. The Note Agreement contains certain net worth and fixed charge coverage covenants and provides certain restrictions on our ability to borrow, incur liens, sell assets and pay dividends. We were in compliance with all covenants at the end of 2009. In December 2002, we completed a $60.0 million private placement of debt pursuant to a Note Agreement. The Series A Senior Notes, with a $21.0 million principal amount at 5.57% were paid in full by the end of 2008. The Series B Senior notes, with a $39.0 million principal amount at 6.42%, are payable in four equal annual installments, which commenced in December 2009. The proceeds were used to repay the outstanding amount under our credit facility and for general corporate purposes. The Note Agreement contains certain net worth and fixed charge coverage covenants and provides certain restrictions on our ability to borrow, incur liens, sell assets and pay dividends. We were in compliance with all covenants at the end of 2009. In April 1999, we completed a $100.0 million private placement of debt pursuant to a Note Agreement. The Series A Senior Notes, with a $60.0 million principal amount at 7.14%, were paid in full by the end of 2006. The Series B Senior Notes, with a $40.0 million principal amount at 7.66%, were paid in full by the end of 2009. We maintain a $90 million, multi year revolving credit facility, which provides an unsecured revolving line of credit for working capital purposes. Interest is payable at a rate based on prime or LIBOR plus a spread that varies depending on the net worth ratios maintained. The agreement contains certain net worth, current ratio and fixed charge coverage covenants and provides certain restrictions on our ability to borrow, incur liens, sell assets and pay dividends. The current agreement expires on May 31, 2013. As of the end of 2009, we had no outstanding borrowings under this agreement and were in compliance with all covenants. Contractual Obligations, Commitments and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements The following table represents a summary of our contractual obligations and commercial commitments, excluding interest, at the end of 2009, except short term purchase order commitments arising in the ordinary course of business. Payments due by period (In thousands) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 and thereafter Total Long term debt obligations $ 24,765 $ 25,338 $ 24,765 $ 15,015 $ 15,015 $ 15,015 $ 119,913 Capital lease obligations 249 250 108 607 Operating lease obligations 25,504 23,041 20,573 17,677 15,143 60,195 162,133 Purchase obligations 15,592 6,067 5,644 5,597 2,797 10,665 46,362 Uncertain tax positions 314 3,226 3,059 6,599 Total $ 66,110 $ 55,010 $ 54,316 $ 41,348 $ 32,955 $ 85,875 $ 335,614 The effects of inflation on our business during 2009, 2008 and 2007 were not significant. 32 Table of Contents Recent Accounting Pronouncements In September 2009, Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 09 13, Revenue Recognition (Topic 605) Multiple Deliverable Revenue Arrangements, was issued, which will require an entity to apply the relative selling price allocation method in order to estimate selling price for all units of accounting, including delivered items, when vendor specific objective evidence (VSOE) or acceptable third party evidence (TPE) does not exist and expands the disclosure requirements to require an entity to provide both qualitative and quantitative information about the significant judgments made in applying the guidance in ASU 09 13 and subsequent changes in those judgments that may significantly affect the timing or amount of revenue recognition. ASU 09 13 is effective for revenue arrangements entered into or materially modified in fiscal years beginning on or after June 15, 2010 and shall be applied on a prospective basis. Earlier application is permitted. We are assessing the potential impact of ASU 09 13 on our financial position and results of operations. In September 2009, ASU 09 14, Software (Topic 985) Certain Revenue Arrangements that Include Software Elements, was issued, which requires the exclusion from the scope of ASC 985 of all tangible products containing both software and non software components that function together to deliver the products essential functionality. ASU 09 14 is effective for revenue arrangements entered into or materially modified in fiscal years beginning on or after June 15, 2010 and shall be applied on a prospective basis. Earlier application is permitted. We are assessing the impact of ASU 09 14 on our financial position and results of operations. In December 2009, ASU 09 16, Accounting for Transfers of Financial Assets, was issued, which among other things creates more stringent conditions for reporting a transfer of a portion of a financial asset as a sale. ASU 09 16 is effective for financial asset transfers as of the beginning of fiscal years that begin after November 15, 2009. Earlier adoption is prohibited. We are assessing the impact of ASU 09 16 on our financial position and results of operations. Critical Accounting Policies We believe that there are several accounting policies that are critical to understanding our historical and future performance, as these policies affect the reported amount of revenue and other significant areas involving our judgments and estimates. These significant accounting policies relate to revenue recognition, software development, potential impairments of goodwill and income taxes. These policies and our procedures related to these policies are described in detail below and under specific areas within this MDA. In addition, Note (1) to the consolidated financial statements expands upon discussion of our accounting policies. Revenue Recognition We recognize revenue within our multiple element arrangements, including software and software related services, using the residual method under ASC 985 605, Software Revenue Recognition. Key factors in our revenue recognition model are our assessments that installation services are essential to the functionality of our software whereas implementation services are not; and the length of time it takes for us to achieve the delivery and installation milestones for our licensed software. If our business model were to change such that implementation services are deemed to be essential to the functionality of our software, the period of time over which our licensed software revenue would be recognized would lengthen. We generally recognize revenue from the sale of our licensed software over two key milestones, delivery and installation, based on percentages that reflect the underlying effort from planning to installation. Generally, both milestones are achieved in the quarter the contracts are executed. If the period of time to achieve our delivery and installation milestones for our licensed software were to lengthen, our milestones would be adjusted and the timing of revenue recognition for our licensed software could materially change. We also recognize revenue for certain projects using the percentage of completion method pursuant to ASC 605 35, Revenue Recognition Construction Type and Production Type Contracts, as prescribed by ASC 985 605. Our revenue recognition is dependent upon our ability to reliably estimate the direct labor hours to complete a project which generally can span several years. We utilize our historical project experience and detailed planning process 33 Table of Contents as a basis for our future estimates to complete current projects. Significant delays in completion of the projects, unforeseen cost increases or penalties could result in significant reductions to revenue and margins on these contracts. The actual project results can be significantly different from the estimated results. When adjustments are indentified near or at the end of a project, the full impact of the change in estimate is recognized in that period. This can result in a material impact on our results for a single reporting period. Software Development Costs Costs incurred internally in creating computer software solutions and enhancements to those solutions are expensed until completion of a detailed program design, which is when we determine that technological feasibility has been established. Thereafter, all software development costs are capitalized until such time as the software solutions and enhancements are available for general release, and the capitalized costs subsequently are reported at the lower of amortized cost or net realizable value. Net realizable value is computed as the estimated gross future revenues from each software solution less the amount of estimated future costs of completing and disposing of that product. Because the development of projected net future revenues related to our software solutions used in our net realizable value computation is based on estimates, a significant reduction in our future revenues could impact the recovery of our capitalized software development costs. We historically have not experienced significant inaccuracies in computing the net realizable value of our software solutions and the difference between the net realizable value and the unamortized cost has grown over the past three years. We expect that trend to continue in the future. If we missed our estimates of net future revenues by up to 10%, the amount of our capitalized software development costs would not be impaired. Capitalized costs are amortized based on current and expected net future revenue for each software solution with minimum annual amortization equal to the straight line amortization over the estimated economic life of the software solution. We are amortizing capitalized costs over five years. The five year period over which capitalized software development costs are amortized is an estimate based upon our forecast of a reasonable useful life for the capitalized costs. Historically, use of our software programs by our clients has exceeded five years and is capable of being used a decade or more. We expect that major software information systems companies, large information technology consulting service providers and systems integrators and others specializing in the healthcare industry may offer competitive products or services. The pace of change in the HIT market is rapid and there are frequent new product introductions, product enhancements and evolving industry standards and requirements. As a result, the capitalized software solutions may become less valuable or obsolete and could be subject to impairment. Fair Value Measurements We determine fair value measurements used in our consolidated financial statements based upon the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. The fair value hierarchy distinguishes between (1) market participant assumptions developed based on market data obtained from independent sources (observable inputs) and (2) an entitys own assumptions about market participant assumptions developed based on the best information available in the circumstances (unobservable inputs). The fair value hierarchy consists of three broad levels, which gives the highest priority to unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (Level 1) and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs (Level 3). The three levels of the fair value hierarchy are described below: Level 1 Valuations based on quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that the entity has the ability to access. Level 2 Valuations based on quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities, quoted prices in markets that are not active, or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities. 34 Table of Contents Level 3 Valuations based on inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities. As of the end of 2009, we held investments in money market funds, time deposits, commercial paper, government and corporate bonds and auction rate securities. Auction rate securities are debt instruments with long term nominal maturities, for which the interest rates regularly reset every 7 35 days under an auction system. Due to the lack of availability of observable market quotes on our investment portfolio of auction rate securities, we utilize valuation models that are based on discounted cash flow streams, including assessments of counterparty credit quality, default risk underlying the security, discount rates and overall capital market liquidity. The valuation is subject to uncertainties that are difficult to predict. If different assumptions were used for the various inputs to the valuation, including, but not limited to, assumptions involving the estimated holding periods for the auction rate securities, the estimated cash flows over those estimated lives, and the estimated discount rates, including the liquidity discount rate, applied to those cash flows, the estimated fair value of these investments could be significantly higher or lower than the fair value we determined. A considerable amount of judgment and estimation is applied in the valuation of auction rate securities. In addition, we also apply judgment in determining whether the marketable securities are other than temporarily impaired. We typically consider the severity and duration of the decline, future prospects of the issuer and our ability and intent to hold the security to recovery. Goodwill We account for goodwill under the provisions of ASC 350, Intangibles Goodwill and Other. As a result, goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives are not amortized but are evaluated for impairment annually or whenever there is an impairment indicator. All goodwill is assigned to a reporting unit, where it is subject to an annual impairment test based on fair value. We assess goodwill for impairment in the second quarter of each fiscal year and evaluate impairment indicators at each quarter end. We assessed our goodwill for impairment in the second quarters of 2009 and 2008 and concluded that goodwill was not impaired. In each respective year, the fair values of each of our reporting units exceeded their carrying amounts by a significant margin. We used a discounted cash flow analysis utilizing Level 3 inputs, to determine the fair value of the reporting units for all periods. Goodwill amounted to $151.5 million and $146.7 million at the end of 2009 and 2008, respectively. If future, anticipated cash flows from our reporting units that recognized goodwill do not materialize as expected, our goodwill could be impaired, which could result in significant charges to earnings. Income Taxes We account for income taxes under the provisions of ASC 740, Income Taxes. We make a number of assumptions and estimates in determining the appropriate amount of expense to record for income taxes. These assumptions and estimates consider the taxing jurisdictions in which we operate as well as current tax regulations. Accruals are established for estimates of tax effects for certain transactions, business structures and future projected profitability of our businesses based on our interpretation of existing facts and circumstances. If these assumptions and estimates were to change as a result of new evidence or changes in circumstances, the change in estimate could result in a material adjustment to the consolidated financial statements. We have discussed the development and selection of these critical accounting estimates with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors and the Audit Committee has reviewed our disclosure contained herein. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk We use a foreign currency denominated debt instrument to reduce our foreign currency exposure in the U.K. As of the end of 2009, we designated all of our Great Britain Pound (GBP) denominated long term debt (55.7 million GBP) as a net investment hedge of our U.K. operations. Because the borrowing is denominated in pounds, we are exposed to movements in the foreign currency exchange rate between the U.S. dollar (USD) and the GPB. We 35 Table of Contents estimate that a hypothetical 10% change in the foreign currency exchange rate between the USD and GBP would have impacted the unrealized loss, net of related income tax effects, of the net investment hedge recognized in other comprehensive income by approximately $6.6 million. Please refer to Notes (9) and (10) to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a more detailed discussion of the foreign currency denominated debt instrument. 
 
