Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations below and in Note (18) to the consolidated financial statements. Executive Officers of the Registrant The following table sets forth the names, ages, positions and certain other information regarding the Companys executive officers as of February 9, 2012. Officers are elected annually and serve at the discretion of the Board of Directors. Name Age Positions Neal L. Patterson 62 Chairman of the Board of Directors, Chief Executive Officer and President Clifford W. Illig 61 Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors Marc G. Naughton 56 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Michael R. Nill 47 Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer Randy D. Sims 51 Senior Vice President, Chief Legal Officer and Secretary Jeffrey A. Townsend 48 Executive Vice President and Chief of Staff Julia M. Wilson 49 Senior Vice President and Chief People Officer Zane M. Burke 46 Executive Vice President Client Organization Neal L. Patterson has been Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer of the Company for more than five years. Mr. Patterson has served as President of the Company since July 2010, which position he also held from March of 1999 until August of 1999. 7 Clifford W. Illig has been a Director of the Company for more than five years. He previously served as Chief Operating Officer of the Company until October 1998 and as President of the Company until March of 1999. Mr. Illig was appointed Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors in March of 1999. Marc G. Naughton joined the Company in November 1992 as Manager of Taxes. In November 1995 he was named Chief Financial Officer and in February 1996 he was promoted to Vice President. He was promoted to Senior Vice President in March 2002 and promoted to Executive Vice President in March 2010. Michael R. Nill joined the Company in November 1996. Since that time he has held several positions in the Technology, Intellectual Property and CernerWorks Client Hosting Organizations. He was promoted to Vice President in January 2000, promoted to Senior Vice President in April 2006 and promoted to Executive Vice President and named Chief Engineering Officer in February 2009. Mr. Nill was appointed Chief Operating Officer in May 2011. Randy D. Sims joined the Company in March 1997 as Vice President and Chief Legal Officer and was promoted to Senior Vice President in March 2011. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Sims worked at Farmland Industries, Inc. for three years where he last served as Associate General Counsel. Prior to Farmland, Mr. Sims was in house legal counsel at The Marley Company for seven years, holding the position of Assistant General Counsel when he left to join Farmland. Jeffrey A. Townsend joined the Company in June 1985. Since that time he has held several positions in the Intellectual Property Organization and was promoted to Vice President in February 1997. He was appointed Chief Engineering Officer in March 1998, promoted to Senior Vice President in March 2001, named Chief of Staff in July 2003 and promoted to Executive Vice President in March 2005. Julia M. Wilson joined the Company in November 1995. Since that time, she has held several positions in the Functional Group Organization. She was promoted to Vice President and Chief People Officer in August 2003 and to Senior Vice President in March 2007. Zane Burke joined the Company in September 1996. Since that time, he has held a variety of client facing sales, implementation and support roles, including Corporate Controller and Vice President of Finance. He was promoted to President of the Companys West region in 2002 and U.S. General Manager for client relationships in 2007. He was further promoted to Executive Vice President Client Organization in May 2011. 8 Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Cerner Corporation We may incur substantial costs related to product related liabilities. Many of our software solutions, health care devices or services (including life sciences/research services) are intended for use in collecting, storing and displaying clinical and health care related information used in the diagnosis and treatment of patients and in related health care settings such as admissions, billing, etc. We attempt to limit by contract our liability; however, the limitations of liability set forth in the contracts may not be enforceable or may not otherwise protect us from liability for damages. We may also be subject to claims that are not covered by contract, such as a claim directly by a patient. Although we maintain liability insurance coverage in an amount that we believe is sufficient for our business, there can be no assurance that such coverage will cover any particular claim that has been brought or that may be brought in the future, prove to be adequate or that such coverage will continue to remain available on acceptable terms, if at all. A successful material claim or series of claims brought against us, if uninsured or under insured, could materially harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Product related claims, even if not successful, could damage our reputation, cause us to lose existing clients, limit our ability to obtain new clients, divert managements attention from operations, result in significant revenue loss, create potential liabilities for our clients and us and increase insurance and other operational costs. We may be subject to claims for system errors and warranties. Our software solutions and health care devices are very complex and may contain design, coding or other errors, especially when first introduced. It is not uncommon for HCIT providers to discover errors in software solutions and or health care devices after their introduction. Our software solutions and health care devices are intended for use in collecting, storing, and displaying clinical and health care related information used in the diagnosis and treatment of patients and in related health care settings such as admissions, billing, etc. Therefore, users of our software solutions and health care devices have a greater sensitivity to errors than the market for software products and devices generally. Our client agreements typically provide warranties concerning material errors and other matters. Should a clients Cerner software solution and or health care device fail to meet these warranties or lead to faulty clinical decisions or injury to patients, it could 1) constitute a material breach under the client agreement, allowing the client to terminate the agreement and possibly obtain a refund and or damages, or might require us to incur additional expense in order to make the software solution or health care device meet these criteria or 2) subject us to claims or litigation by our clients or clinicians or directly by the patient. Additionally, such failures could damage our reputation and could negatively affect future sales. Our client agreements generally limit our liability arising from such claims but such limits may not be enforceable in certain jurisdictions or circumstances. Although we maintain liability insurance coverage in an amount that we believe is sufficient for our business, there can be no assurance that such coverage will cover any particular claim that has been brought or that may be brought in the future, prove to be adequate or that such coverage will continue to remain available on acceptable terms, if at all. A successful material claim or series of claims brought against us, if uninsured or under insured, could materially harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may experience interruption at our data centers or client support facilities. We perform data center and or hosting services for certain clients, including the storage of critical patient and administrative data. In addition, we provide support services to our clients through various client support facilities. We have invested in reliability features such as multiple power feeds, multiple backup generators and redundant telecommunications lines, as well as technical (such as multiple overlapping security applications, access control and other countermeasures) and physical security safeguards, and structured our operations to reduce the likelihood of disruptions. Periodic risk assessments are conducted to ensure additional risks are identified and appropriately mitigated. However, complete failure of all local public power and backup generators, impairment of all telecommunications lines, a concerted denial of service cyber attack, a significant data breach, damage (environmental, accidental, intentional or pandemic) to the buildings, the equipment inside the buildings housing our data centers, the client data contained therein and or the personnel trained to operate such facilities could cause a disruption in operations and negatively impact clients who depend on us for data center and system support services. We offer our clients disaster recovery services for additional fees to protect clients from isolated data center failures, leveraging our multiple data center facilities, however only a small percentage of our hosted clients choose to contract for these services. Any interruption in operations at our data centers and or client support facilities could damage ourreputation, cause us to lose existing clients, hurt our ability to obtain new clients, result in significant revenue loss, create potential liabilities for our clients and us and increase insurance and other operating costs. 9 Our proprietary technology may be subject to claims for infringement or misappropriation of intellectual property rights of others, or may be infringed or misappropriated by others. We rely upon a combination of license agreements, confidentiality policies and procedures, employee nondisclosure agreements, confidentiality agreements with third parties and technical security measures to maintain the confidentiality, exclusivity and trade secrecy of our proprietary information. We also rely on trademark and copyright laws to protect our intellectual property rights in the United States and abroad. We continue to develop our patent portfolio of United States and global patents, but these patents do not provide comprehensive protection for the wide range of solutions and services offered by us. Despite our protective measures and intellectual property rights, we may not be able to adequately protect against theft, copying, reverse engineering, misappropriation, infringement or unauthorized use or disclosure of our intellectual property, which could have an adverse effect on our competitive position. In addition, we are routinely involved in intellectual property infringement or misappropriation claims and we expect this activity to continue or even increase as the number of competitors, patents and patent enforcement organizations in the HCIT market increases, the functionality of our software solutions and services expands, the use of open source software increases and we enter new geographies and new markets such as health care device innovation, health care transactions and life sciences. These claims, even if not meritorious, are expensive to defend and are often times incapable of prompt resolution. If we become liable to third parties for infringing or misappropriating their intellectual property rights, we could be required to pay a substantial damage award, develop alternative technology, obtain a license and or cease using, selling, offering for sale, licensing, importing, implementing and supporting the solutions, devices and services that violate the intellectual property rights. We may become subject to legal proceedings that could have a material adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations. From time to time and in the ordinary course of our business, we and certain of our subsidiaries may become involved in various legal proceedings. All such legal proceedings are inherently unpredictable and the outcome can result in excessive verdicts and or injunctive relief that may affect how we operate our business or we may enter into settlements of claims for monetary damages. Future court decisions and legislative activity may increase our exposure to litigation and regulatory investigations. In some cases, substantial non economic remedies or punitive damages may be sought. We are subject to risks associated with our non U.S. operations. We market, sell and service our solutions, devices and services globally. We have established offices around the world, including in the Americas, Europe, the Middle East and the Asia Pacific region. We will continue to expand our non U.S. operations and enter new global markets. This expansion will require significant management attention and financial resources to develop successful direct and indirect non U.S. sales and support channels. Our business is generally transacted in the local functional currency. In some countries, our success will depend in part on our ability to form relationships with local partners. There is a risk that we may sometimes choose the wrong partner. For these reasons, we may not be able to maintain or increase non U.S. market demand for our solutions, devices and services. Non U.S. operations are subject to inherent risks, and our future results could be adversely affected by a variety of uncontrollable and changing factors. These include, but are not limited to: Greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable and longer collection periods Difficulties and costs of staffing and managing non U.S. operations The impact of global economic conditions Effects of sovereign debt conditions, including budgetary constraints Unfavorable or volatile foreign currency exchange rates Legal compliance costs and or business risks associated with our global operations where: i) local laws and customs differ from those in the United States or ii) risk is heightened with respect to laws prohibiting improper payments and bribery, including without limitation the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar regulations in foreign jurisdictions Certification, licensing or regulatory requirements 10 Unexpected changes in regulatory requirements Changes to or reduced protection of intellectual property rights in some countries Inability to obtain necessary financing on reasonable terms to adequately support non U.S. operations and expansion Potentially adverse tax consequences and difficulties associated with repatriating cash generated or held abroad in a tax efficient manner Different or additional functionality requirements or preferences Trade protection measures Export control regulations Service provider and government spending patterns Natural disasters, war or terrorist acts Labor disruptions that may occur in a country Poor selection of a partner in a country Political conditions which may impact sales or threaten the safety of associates or our continued presence in these countries Our failure to effectively hedge exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could unfavorably affect our performance. We currently utilize a non derivative instrument to hedge our exposure to fluctuations in certain foreign currency exchange rates. This instrument may involve elements of market risk in excess of the amounts recognized in the Consolidated Financial Statements. For additional information about risk on financial instruments, see Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk. Further, our financial results from non U.S. operations may be negatively affected if we fail to execute or improperly hedge our exposure to currency fluctuations. We are subject to tax legislation in numerous countries; tax legislation initiatives or challenges to our tax positions could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We are a global corporation with a presence in more than 25 countries. As such, we are, or in the future could be, subject to tax laws, regulations and policies of the United States federal, state and local governments and of other country jurisdictions. From time to time, various legislative initiatives may be proposed that could adversely affect our tax positions and or our tax liabilities. There can be no assurance that our effective tax rate or tax payments will not be adversely affected by these initiatives. In addition, United States federal, state and local, as well as other countries tax laws and regulations, are extremely complex and subject to varying interpretations. There can be no assurance that our tax positions will not be challenged by relevant tax authorities or that we would be successful in any such challenge, which could result in double taxation, penalties and interest payments. Our success depends upon the recruitment and retention of key personnel. To remain competitive in our industries, we must attract, motivate and retain highly skilled managerial, sales, marketing, consulting and technical personnel, including executives, consultants, programmers and systems architects skilled in the HCIT, health care devices, health care transactions and life sciences industries and the technical environments in which our solutions, devices and services are needed. Competition for such personnel in our industries is intense in both the United States and abroad. Our failure to attract additional qualified personnel to meet our needs could have a material adverse effect on our prospects for long term growth. Our success is dependent to a significant degree on the continued contributions of key management, sales, marketing, consulting and technical personnel. The unexpected loss of key personnel could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations, and could potentially inhibit development and delivery of our solutions, devices and services and market share advances. We depend on third party suppliers and our revenue and gross margin could suffer if we fail to manage suppliers properly. We license or purchase intellectual property and technology (such as software, hardware and content) from third parties, including some competitors, and incorporate such third party software, hardware and or content into or sell or license it in conjunction with our solutions, devices and services. We depend on some of the third party software, hardware and or content in the operation and delivery of our solutions, devices and services. For instance, we currently depend on Microsoft and IBM technologies for portions of the operational capabilities of our Millennium solutions. Our remote hosting business also relies on a single or a limited number of suppliers for certain functions of this business, such as Oracle database technologies, CITRIX technologies and Cisco networking technologies. Additionally, we rely on Hewlett Packard and IBM for our hardware technology platforms. 11 Most of the third party software licenses we have expire within one to five years, can be renewed only by mutual consent and may be terminated if we breach the terms of the license and fail to cure the breach within a specified period of time. Most of these third party software licenses are non exclusive; therefore, our competitors may obtain the right to use any of the technology covered by these licenses and use the technology to compete directly with us. If any of the third party suppliers were to change product offerings, cease actively supporting the technologies, fail to update and enhance the technologies to keep pace with changing industry standards, encounter technical difficulties in the continuing development of these technologies, significantly increase prices, terminate our licenses or supply contracts, suffer significant capacity constraints or suffer significant disruptions, we would need to seek alternative suppliers and incur additional internal or external development costs to ensure continued performance of our solutions, devices and services. Such alternatives may not be available on attractive terms, or may not be as widely accepted or as effective as the intellectual property or technology provided by our existing suppliers. If the cost of licensing, purchasing or maintaining the third party intellectual property or technology significantly increases, our gross margin levels could significantly decrease. In addition, interruption in functionality of our solutions, devices and services as a result of changes in third party suppliers could adversely affect our commitments to customers, future sales of solutions, devices and services, and negatively affect our revenue and gross margins. We intend to continue strategic business acquisitions, which are subject to inherent risks. In order to expand our solutions, device offerings and services and grow our market and client base, we may continue to seek and complete strategic business acquisitions that we believe are complementary to our business. Acquisitions have inherent risks which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results or prospects, including, but not limited to: 1) failure to successfully integrate the business and financial operations, services, intellectual property, solutions or personnel of an acquired business and to maintain uniform standard controls, policies and procedures; 2) diversion of managements attention from other business concerns; 3) entry into markets in which we have little or no direct prior experience; 4) failure to achieve projected synergies and performance targets; 5) loss of clients or key personnel; 6) incurrence of debt and or assumption of known and unknown liabilities; 7) write off of software development costs, goodwill, client lists and amortization of expenses related to intangible assets; 8) dilutive issuances of equity securities; and, 9) accounting deficiencies that could arise in connection with, or as a result of, the acquisition of an acquired company, including issues related to internal control over financial reporting and the time and cost associated with remedying such deficiencies. If we fail to successfully integrate acquired businesses or fail to implement our business strategies with respect to these acquisitions, we may not be able to achieve projected results or support the amount of consideration paid for such acquired businesses. We could suffer losses due to asset impairment charges. We test our goodwill for impairment during the second quarter every year, and on an interim date should events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of goodwill may not be recoverable in accordance with provisions of ASC 350, Intangibles Goodwill and Other. Declines in business performance or other factors could cause the fair value of a reporting unit to be revised downward and could result in a non cash impairment charge. This could materially affect our reported net earnings. The ongoing uncertainty in global economic conditions could negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Although certain indices and economic data have shown signs of stabilization in the United States and certain global markets, there can be no assurance that these improvements will be broad based or sustainable, nor is it clear how, if at all, they will affect the markets relevant to us. As a result, our operating results may be impacted by the health of the global economy. Continued adverse economic conditions may lead to slowdowns or declines in client spending which could adversely affect our business and financial performance. Our business and financial performance, including new business bookings and collection of our accounts receivable, may be adversely affected by current and future economic conditions (including a reduction in the 12 availability of credit, higher energy costs, rising interest rates, financial market volatility and lower than expected economic growth) that cause a slowdown or decline in client spending. Reduced purchases by our clients or changes in payment terms could adversely affect our revenue growth and cause a decrease in our cash flow from operations. Bankruptcies or similar events affecting clients may cause us to incur bad debt expense at levels higher than historically experienced. Further, an ongoing global financial crisis may also limit our ability to access the capital markets at a time when we would like, or need, to raise capital, which could have an impact on our ability to react to changing economic and business conditions. Accordingly, if the global financial crisis and current economic downturn continues or worsens, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Risks Related to the Health Care Information Technology, Health Care Device and Health Care Transaction Industry The health care industry is subject to changing political, economic and regulatory influences. For example, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (as modified by The Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act (HITECH) provisions of the ARRA) (HIPAA) continues to have a direct impact on the health care industry by requiring national provider identifiers and standardized transactions/code sets and necessary security and privacy measures in order to ensure the appropriate level of privacy of protected health information. These regulatory factors affect the purchasing practices and operation of health care organizations. Many health care providers are consolidating to create integrated health care delivery systems with greater market power. These providers may try to use their market power to negotiate price reductions for our solutions and services. As the health care industry consolidates, our client base could be eroded, competition for clients could become more intense and the importance of landing new client relationships becomes greater. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, which was amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, became law in 2010. This comprehensive health care reform legislation included provisions to control health care costs, improve health care quality, and expand access to affordable health insurance. This health care reform legislation could include changes in Medicare and Medicaid payment policies and other health care delivery administrative reforms that could potentially negatively impact our business and the business of our clients. Because the administrative rules implementing health care reform under the legislation have not yet been finalized, the impact of the health care reform legislation on our business is unknown, but there can be no assurances that health care reform legislation will not adversely impact either our operational results or the manner in which we operate our business. Health care industry participants may respond by reducing their investments or postponing investment decisions, including investments in our solutions and services. The health care industry is highly regulated at the local, state and federal level. The impact of this regulation on us is direct, to the extent that we are ourselves subject to these laws and regulations, and is also indirect because, in a number of situations, even though we may not be directly regulated by specific health care laws and regulations, our solutions and services must be capable of being used by our clients in a way that complies with those laws and regulations. There is a significant and wide ranging number of regulations both within the United States and abroad, such as regulations in the areas of health care fraud, e prescribing, claims processing and transmission, medical devices, the security and privacy of patient data and interoperability standards, that may be directly or indirectly applicable to our operations and relationships or the business practices of our clients. Health Care Fraud. Federal and state governments continue to enhance regulation of and increase their scrutiny over practices involving health care fraud affecting health care providers whose services are reimbursed by Medicare, Medicaid and other government health care programs. Our health care provider clients are subject to laws and regulations on fraud and abuse which, among other things, prohibit the direct or indirect payment or receipt of any remuneration for patient referrals, or arranging for or recommending referrals or other business paid for in whole or in part by these federal or state health care programs. Federal enforcement personnel have substantial funding, powers and remedies to pursue suspected or perceived fraud and abuse. The effect of this government regulation on our clients is difficult to predict. Many of the regulations applicable to our clients and that may be applicable to us, including those relating to marketing incentives offered in connection with medical device sales, are vague or indefinite and have not been interpreted by the courts. They may be interpreted or 13 applied by a prosecutorial, regulatory or judicial authority in a manner that could broaden their applicability to us or require our clients to make changes in their operations or the way in which they deal with us. If such laws and regulations are determined to be applicable to us and if we fail to comply with any applicable laws and regulations, we could be subject to civil and criminal penalties, sanctions or other liability, including exclusion from government health programs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. E Prescribing. The use of our solutions by physicians for electronic prescribing, electronic routing of prescriptions to pharmacies and dispensing is governed by federal and state laws. States have differing prescription format requirements, which we have programmed into our solutions. In addition, in November 2005, the Department of Health and Human Services announced regulations by Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) related to E Prescribing and the Prescription Drug Program (E Prescribing Regulations). These E Prescribing Regulations were mandated by the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003. The E Prescribing Regulations set forth standards for the transmission of electronic prescriptions. These standards are detailed and significant, and cover not only transactions between prescribers and dispensers for prescriptions but also electronic eligibility, benefits inquiries, drug formulary and benefit coverage information. Our efforts to provide solutions that enable our clients to comply with these regulations could be time consuming and expensive. Claims Transmissions. Our solutions are capable of electronically transmitting claims for services and items rendered by a physician to many patients payers for approval and reimbursement, which claims are governed by federal and state laws. Federal law provides civil liability to any person that knowingly submits a claim to a payer, including Medicare, Medicaid and private health plans, seeking payment for any services or items that have not been provided to the patient. Federal law may also impose criminal penalties for intentionally submitting such false claims. We have policies and procedures in place that we believe result in the accurate and complete transmission of claims, provided that the information given to us by our clients is also accurate and complete. The HIPAA security, privacy and transaction standards, as discussed below, also have a potentially significant effect on our claims transmission services, since those services must be structured and provided in a way that supports our clients HIPAA compliance obligations. In connection with these laws, we may be subjected to federal or state government investigations and possible penalties may be imposed upon us, false claims actions may have to be defended, private payers may file claims against us and we may be excluded from Medicare, Medicaid or other government funded health care programs. Any investigation or proceeding related to these laws may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. Regulation of Medical Devices. The United States Food and Drug Administration (the FDA) has determined that certain of our solutions are medical devices that are actively regulated under the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act (Act) and amendments to the Act. Other countries have similar regulations in place related to medical devices, that now or may in the future apply to certain of our solutions. If other of our solutions are deemed to be actively regulated medical devices by the FDA or similar regulatory agencies in countries where we do business, we could be subject to extensive requirements governing pre and post marketing activities including pre market notification clearance. Complying with these medical device regulations on a global perspective is time consuming and expensive, and could be subject to unanticipated and significant delays. Further, it is possible that these regulatory agencies may become more active in regulating software and medical devices that are used in health care. If we are unable to obtain the required regulatory approvals for any such solutions or medical devices, our short to long term business plans for these solutions and or medical devices could be delayed or canceled. There have been ten FDA inspections at various Cerner sites since 1998. Inspections conducted at our world headquarters in 1999 and 2010, and our prior Houston, Texas facility in 2002, each resulted in the issuance of an FDA Form 483 observation to which we responded promptly. The FDA has taken no further action with respect to the Form 483 observations that were issued in 1999, 2002 and 2010. The remaining seven FDA inspections, including inspections at our world headquarters in 2006 and 2007, resulted in no issuance of a Form 483. We remain subject to periodic FDA inspections and we could be required to undertake additional actions to comply with the Act and any other applicable regulatory requirements. Our failure to comply with the Act and any other applicable regulatory requirements could have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue to manufacture and distribute our solutions and devices. The FDA has many enforcement tools including recalls, product corrections, seizures, injunctions, refusal to grant pre market clearance of products, civil fines and or criminal prosecutions. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 14 Security and Privacy of Patient Information. Federal, state, local and foreign laws regulate the confidentiality of patient records and the circumstances under which those records may be released. These regulations govern both the disclosure and use of confidential patient medical record information and require the users of such information to implement specified security and privacy measures. United States regulations currently in place governing electronic health data transmissions continue to evolve and are often unclear and difficult to apply. Laws in non U.S. jurisdictions may have similar or even stricter requirements related to the treatment of patient information. In the United States, HIPAA regulations require national standards for some types of electronic health information transactions and the data elements used in those transactions, security standards to ensure the integrity and confidentiality of health information and standards to protect the privacy of individually identifiable health information. Covered entities under HIPAA, which include health care organizations such as our clients, our employer clinic business model and our claims transmission services, are required to comply with the privacy standards, the transaction regulations and the security regulations. Moreover, the recently enacted HITECH provisions of ARRA, and associated regulatory requirements, extend many of the HIPAA obligations, formerly imposed only upon covered entities, to business associates as well. As a business associate of our clients who are covered entities, we were in most instances already contractually required to ensure compliance with the HIPAA regulations as they pertain to handling of covered client data. However, the extension of these HIPAA obligations to business associates by law has created additional liability risks related to the privacy and security of individually identifiable health information. Evolving HIPAA and HITECH related laws or regulations in the U.S. and data privacy and security laws or regulations in non U.S. jurisdictions could restrict the ability of our clients to obtain, use or disseminate patient information. This could adversely affect demand for our solutions if they are not re designed in a timely manner in order to meet the requirements of any new interpretations or regulations that seek to protect the privacy and security of patient data or enable our clients to execute new or modified health care transactions. We may need to expend additional capital, software development and other resources to modify our solutions and devices to address these evolving data security and privacy issues. Furthermore, our failure to maintain confidentiality of sensitive personal information in accordance with the applicable regulatory requirements could damage our reputation and expose us to breach of contract claims (although we contractually limit liability, when possible and where permitted), fines and penalties. Interoperability Standards. Our clients are concerned with and often require that our software solutions and health care devices be interoperable with other third party HCIT suppliers. Market forces or governmental/regulatory authorities could create software interoperability standards that would apply to our solutions, and if our software solutions and or health care devices are not consistent with those standards, we could be forced to incur substantial additional development costs to conform. The Certification Commission for Healthcare Information Technology (CCHIT) has developed a comprehensive set of criteria for the functionality, interoperability and security of various software modules in the HCIT industry. CCHIT, however, continues to modify and refine those standards. Achieving CCHIT certification is becoming a competitive requirement, resulting in increased software development and administrative expense to conform to these requirements. ARRA Meaningful Use Program. Various federal, state and non U.S. government agencies are also developing standards that could become mandatory for systems purchased by these agencies. For example, ARRA requires meaningful use of certified electronic health record technology by health care providers in order to receive incentive payments. Regulations have been issued that identify initial standards and implementation specifications and establish the certification standards for qualifying electronic health record technology. Nevertheless, these standards and specifications are subject to interpretation by the entities designated to certify such technology. While a combination of our solutions have been certified as meeting the initial standards for certified health record technology, the regulatory standards to achieve certification will continue to evolve over time. We may incur increased development costs and delays in delivering solutions if we need to upgrade our 15 software and health care devices to be in compliance with these varying and evolving standards. In addition, delays in interpreting these standards may result in postponement or cancellation of our clients decisions to purchase our solutions. If our software solutions and health care devices are not compliant with these evolving standards, our market position and sales could be impaired and we may have to invest significantly in changes to our software solutions and health care devices, although we do not expect such costs to be significant in relation to the overall development costs for our solutions. We operate in intensely competitive and dynamic industries, and our ability to successfully compete and continue to grow our business depends on our ability to respond quickly to market changes and changing technologies and to bring competitive new solutions, devices, features and services to market in a timely fashion. The market for health care information systems, health care devices and services to the health care industry is intensely competitive, dynamically evolving and subject to rapid technological and innovative changes. Development of new proprietary technology or services is complex, entails significant time and expense and may not be successful. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to introduce new solutions, devices or services on schedule, or at all, nor can we guarantee that errors will not be found in our new solution releases, devices or services before or after commercial release, which could result in solution, device or service delivery redevelopment costs and loss of, or delay in, market acceptance. Certain of our competitors have greater financial, technical, product development, marketing and other resources than us and some of our competitors offer software solutions that we do not offer. Our principal existing competitors are set forth above under Part I, Item 1 Competition. In addition, we expect that major software information systems companies, large information technology consulting service providers and system integrators, start up companies and others specializing in the health care industry may offer competitive software solutions, devices or services. We face strong competition and often face downward price pressure, which could adversely affect our results of operations or liquidity. Additionally, the pace of change in the health care information systems market is rapid and there are frequent new software solution introductions, software solution enhancements, device introductions, device enhancements and evolving industry standards and requirements. There are a limited number of hospitals and other health care providers in the United States HCIT market and in recent years, the health care industry has been subject to increasing consolidation. As the industry consolidates, costs fall, technology improves, and market factors continue to compel investment by health care organizations in solutions and services like ours, market saturation in the United States may change the competitive landscape in favor of larger, more diversified competitors with greater scale. If we are unable to recognize these changes in a timely manner, or we are too inflexible to rapidly adjust our business models, our growth ambitions and financial results could be negatively affected materially. Risks Related to Our Stock Our quarterly operating results may vary, which could adversely affect our stock price. Our quarterly operating results have varied in the past and may continue to vary in future periods, including: variations from guidance, expectations or historical results or trends. Quarterly operating results may vary for a number of reasons including demand for our solutions, devices and services, the financial condition of our current and potential clients, our long sales cycle, potentially long installation and implementation cycles for larger, more complex and higher priced systems, accounting policy changes and other factors described in this section and elsewhere in this report. As a result of health care industry trends and the market for our Cerner Millennium solutions, a large percentage of our revenues are generated by the sale and installation of larger, more complex and higher priced systems. The sales process for these systems is lengthy and involves a significant technical evaluation and commitment of capital and other resources by the client. Sales may be subject to delays due to changes in clients internal budgets, procedures for approving large capital expenditures, competing needs for other capital expenditures, additions or amendments to governing federal, state or local regulations, availability of personnel resources and by actions taken by competitors. Delays in the expected sale, installation or implementation of these large systems may have a significant impact on our anticipated quarterly revenues and consequently our earnings, since a significant percentage of our expenses are relatively fixed. 16 Revenue recognized in any quarter may depend upon our and our clients abilities to meet project milestones. Delays in meeting these milestone conditions or modification of the project plan could result in a shift of revenue recognition from one quarter to another and could have a material adverse effect on results of operations for a particular quarter. Our revenues from system sales historically have been lower in the first quarter of the year and greater in the fourth quarter of the year, primarily as a result of clients year end efforts to make all final capital expenditures for the then current year. Our sales forecasts may vary from actual sales in a particular quarter. We use a pipeline system, a common industry practice, to forecast sales and trends in our business. Our sales associates monitor the status of all sales opportunities, such as the date when they estimate that a client will make a purchase decision and the potential dollar amount of the sale. These estimates are aggregated periodically to generate a sales pipeline. We compare this pipeline at various points in time to evaluate trends in our business. This analysis provides guidance in business planning and forecasting, but these pipeline estimates are by their nature speculative. Our pipeline estimates are not necessarily reliable predictors of revenues in a particular quarter or over a longer period of time, partially because of changes in the pipeline and in conversion rates of the pipeline into contracts that can be very difficult to estimate. A negative variation in the expected conversion rate or timing of the pipeline into contracts, or in the pipeline itself, could cause our plan or forecast to be inaccurate and thereby adversely affect business results. For example, a slowdown in information technology spending, adverse economic conditions, new federal, state or local regulations directly related to our industry or a variety of other factors can cause purchasing decisions to be delayed, reduced in amount or cancelled, which would reduce the overall pipeline conversion rate in a particular period of time. Because a substantial portion of our contracts are completed in the latter part of a quarter, we may not be able to adjust our cost structure quickly enough in response to a revenue shortfall resulting from a decrease in our pipeline conversion rate in any given fiscal quarter. The trading price of our common stock may be volatile. The market for our common stock may experience significant price and volume fluctuations in response to a number of factors including actual or anticipated variations in operating results, rumors about our performance or solutions, devices and services, announcements of technological innovations or new services or products by our competitors or us, changes in expectations of future financial performance or estimates of securities analysts, governmental regulatory action, health care reform measures, client relationship developments, economic conditions and changes occurring in the securities markets in general and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. For instance, our quarterly operating results have varied in the past and may continue to vary in future periods, due to a number of reasons including demand for our solutions, devices and services, the financial condition of our current and potential clients, our long sales cycle, potentially long installation and implementation cycles for larger, more complex and higher priced systems, accounting policy changes and other factors described herein. As a matter of policy, we do not generally comment on our stock price or rumors. Furthermore, the stock market in general, and the markets for software, health care devices, other health care solutions and services and information technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock, regardless of actual operating performance. Our Directors have authority to issue preferred stock and our corporate governance documents contain anti takeover provisions. Our Board of Directors has the authority to issue up to 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the preferences, rights and privileges of those shares without any further vote or action by the shareholders. The rights of the holders of common stock may be harmed by rights granted to the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. In addition, some provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws could make it more difficult for a potential acquirer to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. These include provisions that provide for a classified board of directors, prohibit shareholders from taking action by written consent and restrict the ability of shareholders to call special meetings. We are also subject to provisions of Delaware law that prohibit us from engaging in any business combination with any interested shareholder for a period of three years from the date the person became an interested shareholder, unless certain conditions are met, which could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control. 17 Factors that May Affect Future Results of Operations, Financial Condition or Business Statements made in this report, the Annual Report to Shareholders of which this report is made a part, other reports and proxy statements filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), communications to shareholders, press releases and oral statements made by representatives of the Company that are not historical in nature, or that state the Companys or managements intentions, hopes, beliefs, expectations, plans, goals or predictions of future events or performance, may constitute forward looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). Forward looking statements can often be identified by the use of forward looking terminology, such as could, should, will, intended, continue, believe, may, expect, hope, anticipate, goal, forecast, plan, guidance or estimate or the negative of these words, variations thereof or similar expressions. Forward looking statements are not guarantees of future performance or results. They involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. It is important to note that any such performance and actual results, financial condition or business, could differ materially from those expressed in such forward looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in this Item 1A. Risk Factors and elsewhere herein or in other reports filed with the SEC. Other unforeseen factors not identified herein could also have such an effect. We undertake no obligation to update or revise forward looking statements to reflect changed assumptions, the occurrence of unanticipated events or changes in future operating results, financial condition or business over time. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 2. Properties Our properties consist mainly of owned and leased office and data center facilities. Our United States corporate world headquarters are located in a Company owned office park (the Headquarters Campus) in North Kansas City, Missouri. The Headquarters Campus and three other nearby locations, collectively contain approximately 2.22 million gross square feet of useable space situated on 278 acres of land. The Headquarters Campus and the nearby properties primarily house office space, but also include space for other business needs, such as our Healthe Clinic and our Headquarters Campus data centers. Company owned office space, known as the Innovation Campus, houses associates from our intellectual property organization and consists of 790,000 gross square feet of useable space located in Kansas City, Missouri. Our Cerner operated data center facilities, which are used to provide remote hosting, disaster recovery and other services to our clients, are located at the Headquarters Campus and a leased facility in Lees Summit, Missouri. As of the end of 2011, we leased additional office space in Beverly Hills and Garden Grove, California; Denver, Colorado; Jacksonville, Florida; Lenexa, Kansas; Waltham, Massachusetts; Minneapolis and Rochester, Minnesota; Columbia, Lees Summit and Kansas City, Missouri; Durham, North Carolina; Concord, Ohio; and Vienna and Falls Church, Virginia. Globally, we also leased office space in: Brisbane, Sydney and Melbourne, Australia; Toronto, Canada; Santiago, Chile; Cairo, Egypt; London, England; Paris, France; Herzogenrath and Idstein, Germany; Bangalore, India; Dublin, Ireland; Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia; Riyadh, Saudi Arabia; Singapore; Madrid, Spain; Doha, Qatar; and Abu Dhabi and Dubai, United Arab Emirates. 18 Item 3. Legal Proceedings We are not a party to and none of our property is subject to any material pending legal proceedings, other than ordinary routine litigation incidental to our business. Item 4. Removed and Reserved 19 PART II Item 5. Market for the Registrants Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Our common stock trades on The NASDAQ Global Select MarketSM under the symbol CERN. The following table sets forth the high, low and last sales prices for the fiscal quarters of 2011 and 2010 as reported by The Nasdaq Stock Market&reg;. $0000000 $0000000 $0000000 $0000000 $0000000 $0000000 2011 (a) 2010 (a) High Low Last High Low Last First Quarter $ 56.45 $ 47.18 $ 56.45 $ 45.36 $ 37.83 $ 42.87 Second Quarter 62.54 54.46 62.54 45.79 37.50 38.05 Third Quarter 72.88 54.93 68.52 42.52 36.43 42.52 Fourth Quarter 69.97 55.75 61.25 48.08 42.36 47.37 (a) Sales prices have been retroactively adjusted to give effect to the stock split, as further described in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements. At February 9, 2012, there were approximately 992 owners of record. To date, we have paid no cash dividends and we do not intend to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We believe it is in the shareholders best interest for us to reinvest funds in the operation of the business. In March 2008, our Board of Directors authorized a stock repurchase program for $45 million of our Common Stock. As of December 31, 2011, $17 million remains available under the authorized program. There were no shares purchased by us under the program during the quarter or the year ended December 31, 2011. The following table provides information with respect to Common Stock purchases by the Company during the fourth fiscal quarter of 2011: Period Total Numberof SharesPurchased (a) Average PricePaid per Share Total Number ofSharesPurchased asPart of PubliclyAnnounced Plansor Programs ApproximateDollar Value ofShares That MayYet Be PurchasedUnder the Plansor Programs October 2, 2011 October 29, 2011 2,356 $ 69.32 October 30, 2011 November 26, 2011 November 27, 2011 December 31, 2011 Total 2,356 $ 69.32 (a) All of the shares presented on the table above were originally granted to employees as restricted stock pursuant to our Long Term Incentive Plan F. The Long Term Incentive Plan F provides for the withholding of shares to satisfy minimum tax obligations due upon the vesting of restricted stock, and pursuant to the Long Term Incentive Plan F, the shares reflected above were relinquished by employees in exchange for our agreement to pay federal and state withholding obligations resulting from the vesting of the Companys restricted stock. See Part III, Item 12 for information relating to securities authorized for issuance under our equity compensation plans. 20 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 0000000000 0000000000 0000000000 0000000000 0000000000 (In thousands, except per share data) 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 (1) (1)(2) (1)(2) (1)(2)(3) (1)(2)(4)(5)(6) Statement of Earnings Data: Revenues $ 2,203,153 $ 1,850,222 $ 1,671,864 $ 1,676,028 $ 1,519,877 Operating earnings 459,798 359,333 292,006 278,885 204,083 Earnings before income taxes 469,694 362,212 292,681 281,431 203,967 Net earnings 306,627 237,272 193,465 188,658 127,125 Earnings per share: Basic 1.82 1.44 1.19 1.17 0.80 Diluted 1.76 1.39 1.15 1.13 0.76 Weighted average shares outstanding: Basic 168,634 164,916 161,963 161,097 158,790 Diluted 173,867 170,847 167,764 166,869 166,435 Balance Sheet Data: Working capital $ 1,063,593 $ 840,129 $ 788,232 $ 517,650 $ 530,441 Total assets 3,000,358 2,422,790 2,148,567 1,880,988 1,689,956 Long term debt, excl. current installments 86,821 67,923 95,506 111,370 177,606 Cerner Corporation stockholders equity 2,310,681 1,905,297 1,580,678 1,311,009 1,132,428 (1) Includes share based compensation expense recognized. The impact of including this expense is as follows: (In thousands except share data) 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Total stock based compensation expense $ 29,479 $ 24,903 $ 16,842 $ 15,144 $ 16,189 Amount of related income tax benefit (11,256) (9,329) (6,274) (5,641) (6,030) Net impact on earnings $ 18,223 $ 15,574 $ 10,568 $ 9,503 $ 10,159 Decrease to diluted earnings per share (2) $ 0.11 $ 0.09 $ 0.06 $ 0.06 $ 0.06 (2) All share and per share data have been retroactively adjusted to give effect to the stock split, as further described in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements. (3) Includes expense related to a settlement with a third party provider of software related to the use of the third partys software in our remote hosting business. The settlement included compensation for the use of the software for periods prior to 2008 as well as compensation for licenses of the software for future use for existing and additional clients through January 2009. Of the total settlement amount, we determined that $5.0 million should have been recorded in prior periods, primarily 2005 through 2007. Based on this valuation, 2008 results include an increase of $8.0 million to sales and client service expense, a decrease of $5.0 million to net earnings, and a decrease of $0.03 to diluted earnings per share that are attributable to prior periods. (4) Includes a $3.1 million tax benefit recorded in 2007 related to periods prior to 2007. The tax benefit relates to the over expensing of state income taxes, which resulted in an increase to diluted earnings per share of $0.02 in the year ended December 29, 2007. (5) Includes a research and development write off related to the RxStation&reg; medication dispensing devices. In connection with production and delivery of the RxStation medication dispensing devices, we reviewed the accounting treatment for the RxStation line of devices and determined that $8.6 million of research and development activities for the RxStation medication dispensing devices that should have been expensed was incorrectly capitalized. The impact of this charge is a $5.4 million decrease, net of a $3.2 million tax benefit, in net earnings and a decrease to diluted earnings per share of $0.03 in the year ended December 29, 2007. $2.1 million of this $5.4 million after tax amount recorded in 2007 related to periods prior to 2007. (6) Includes an adjustment to correct the amounts previously reported for the second quarter of 2007 for a previously disclosed out of period tax item relating to foreign net operating losses. The effect of this adjustment increases tax expense for the year ended December 29, 2007, by $4.2 million and increases January 1, 2005 retained earnings (Shareholders Equity) by the same amount. 21 Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following Management Discussion and Analysis (MD&A) is intended to help the reader understand our results of operations and financial condition. This MD&A is provided as a supplement to, and should be read in conjunction with, our financial statements and the accompanying notes to the financial statements (Notes). Our fiscal year ends on the Saturday closest to December 31. Fiscal years 2011, 2010 and 2009 consisted of 52 weeks and ended on December 31, 2011, January 1, 2011 and January 2, 2010, respectively. All references to years in this MD&A represent fiscal years unless otherwise noted. Management Overview Our revenues are primarily derived by selling, implementing and supporting software solutions, clinical content, hardware, devices and services that give health care providers secure access to clinical, administrative and financial data in real time, allowing them to improve quality, safety and efficiency in the delivery of health care. Our fundamental strategy centers on creating organic growth by investing in research and development (R&D) to create solutions and services for the health care industry. This strategy has driven strong growth over the long term, as reflected in five and ten year compound annual revenue growth rates of 10% or more. This growth has also created an important strategic footprint in health care, with Cerner&reg; solutions licensed by approximately 9,300 facilities around the world, including more than 2,650 hospitals; 3,750 physician practices; 40,000 physicians; 500 ambulatory facilities, such as laboratories, ambulatory centers, cardiac facilities, radiology clinics and surgery centers; 800 home health facilities; 40 employer sites and 1,600 retail pharmacies. Selling additional solutions back into this client base is an important element of our future revenue growth. We are also focused on driving growth through market share expansion by strategically aligning with health care providers that have not yet selected a supplier and by displacing competitors in health care settings that are looking to replace their current supplier. We expect to drive growth through new initiatives and services that reflect our ongoing ability to innovate and expand our reach into health care. Examples of these include our CareAware&reg; health care device architecture and devices, Cerner Healthe employer services, Cerner ITWorksSM services, Cerner RevWorksSM services, and solutions on our Healthe Intent platform. Finally, we believe there is significant opportunity for growth outside of the United States, with many non U.S. markets focused on HCIT as part of their strategy to improve the quality and lower the cost of health care. Beyond our strategy for driving revenue growth, we are also focused on earnings growth. Similar to our history of growing revenue, our net earnings have increased at compound annual rates of more than 20% over the most recent five and ten year periods. We expect to drive continued earnings growth through ongoing revenue growth coupled with margin expansion, which we expect to achieve through efficiencies in our implementation and operational processes and by leveraging R&D investments and controlling general and administrative expenses. We are also focused on continuing to deliver strong levels of cash flow, which we expect to do by continuing to grow earnings and prudently managing capital expenditures. Results Overview The Company delivered strong levels of bookings, revenues, earnings and cash flows in 2011. New business bookings revenue in 2011, which reflects the value of executed contracts for software, hardware, professional services and managed services, was $2.7 billion, which is an increase of 37% compared to $2.0 billion in 2010. Our 2011 revenues increased 19% to $2.2 billion compared to $1.9 billion in 2010. The year over year increase in revenue reflects improved economic conditions and demand driven by the stimulus incentives. As discussed in the Health Care and Health Care IT Industry under Part 1, Item 1, we believe the HITECH incentives and the nations focus on improving the efficiency and quality of health care will create a period of increased HCIT demand in the United States. 22 Our 2011 net earnings increased 29% to $306.6 million compared to $237.3 million in 2010. Diluted earnings per share increased 27% to $1.76 compared to $1.39 in 2010. The 2011 and 2010 net earnings and diluted earnings per share reflect the impact of stock based compensation expense. The effect of these expenses reduced the 2011 net earnings and diluted earnings per share by $18.2 million and $0.11, and the 2010 earnings and diluted earnings per share by $15.6 million and $0.09, respectively. The growth in net earnings and diluted earnings per share was driven primarily by strong revenue growth and continued progress with our margin expansion initiatives, including efficiencies in our implementation and operational processes, leveraging R&D investments and controlling general and administrative expenses. With our full year 2011 operating margin at 20.9%, we achieved our long term goal of 20% operating margins in 2011. We had cash collections of receivables of $2.2 billion in 2011 compared to $1.9 billion in 2010. Days sales outstanding decreased to 83 days for the 2011 fourth quarter compared to 87 days for the 2011 third quarter and the 2010 fourth quarter, reflecting an improvement in cash collections. Operating cash flows for 2011 were strong at $546.3 million compared to $456.4 million in 2010, with the growth driven by cash collections from clients. Health Care Information Technology Market Outlook We have provided a detailed assessment of the health care information technology market under Health Care and Health Care IT Industry in Part I, Item 1. 23 Results of Operations Fiscal Year 2011 Compared to Fiscal Year 2010 (In thousands) 2011 % ofRevenue 2010 % ofRevenue % Change Revenues System sales $ 706,714 32% $ 550,792 30% 28% Support and maintenance 550,554 25% 517,494 28% 6% Services 901,193 41% 749,483 40% 20% Reimbursed travel 44,692 2% 32,453 2% 38% Total revenues 2,203,153 100% 1,850,222 100% 19% Costs of revenue Costs of revenue 441,672 20% 320,356 17% 38% Total margin 1,761,481 80% 1,529,866 83% 15% Operating expenses Sales and client 869,962 39% 767,152 42% 13% Software development 286,801 13% 272,851 15% 5% General and administrative 144,920 7% 130,530 7% 11% Total operating expenses 1,301,683 59% 1,170,533 64% 11% Total costs and expenses 1,743,355 79% 1,490,889 81% 17% Operating earnings 459,798 21% 359,333 19% 28% Interest income (expense), net 9,850 3,439 Other income (expense), net 46 (560 ) Income taxes (163,067 ) (124,940 ) Net earnings $ 306,627 $ 237,272 29% Revenues & Backlog Revenues increased 19% to $2.2 billion in 2011, as compared to $1.9 billion in 2010. System sales, which include revenues from the sale of licensed software, software as a service, technology resale (hardware, devices and sublicensed software), deployment period licensed software upgrade rights, installation fees, transaction processing, and subscriptions, increased 28% to $706.7 million in 2011 from $550.8 million in 2010. The increase in system sales was driven by strong increases in licensed software, technology resale, and subscriptions. Support and maintenance revenues increased 6% to $550.6 million in 2011 compared to $517.5 million in 2010. This increase is attributable to continued success at selling Cerner Millennium applications and implementing them at client sites. We expect support and maintenance revenues will continue to grow as the base of installed Cerner Millennium systems grow. Services revenue, which includes professional services, excluding installation, and managed services, increased 20% to $901.2 million in 2011 compared to $749.5 million in 2010. This increase was driven by growth in CernerWorksSM managed services as a result of continued demand for our hosting services and an increase in professional services due to increased implementation activities and growth in Cerner ITWorks services. 24 Contract backlog, which reflects new business bookings that have not yet been recognized as revenue, increased 26% in 2011 compared to 2010. This increase was driven by growth in new business bookings during the past four quarters, including continued strong levels of managed services and ITWorks bookings that typically have longer contract terms. A summary of our total backlog for 2011 and 2010 follows: (In thousands) 2011 2010 Contract backlog $ 5,401,427 $ 4,285,267 Support and maintenance backlog 705,744 654,913 Total backlog $ 6,107,171 $ 4,940,180 Costs of Revenue Cost of revenues was 20% of total revenues in 2011, as compared to 17% of total revenues in 2010. The higher cost of revenues as a percent of revenue was primarily driven by a higher mix of technology resale, which carries a higher cost of revenue, and a slightly higher level of third party consulting costs. The cost of revenues includes the cost of reimbursed travel expense, sales commissions, third party consulting services and subscription content, and computer hardware, devices and sublicensed software purchased from manufacturers for delivery to clients. It also includes the cost of hardware maintenance and sublicensed software support subcontracted to the manufacturers. Such costs, as a percent of revenues, typically have varied as the mix of revenue (software, hardware, devices, maintenance, support, services and reimbursed travel) carrying different margin rates changes from period to period. Costs of revenues does not include the costs of our client service personnel who are responsible for delivering our service offerings or any other internal costs of revenue; rather, such costs are included in sales and client service expense. Operating Expenses Total operating expenses increased 11% in 2011 to $1.3 billion as compared to $1.2 billion in 2010. Sales and client service expenses as a percent of total revenues were 39% in 2011, as compared to 42% in 2010. These expenses increased 13% to $870.0 million in 2011, from $767.2 million in 2010. Sales and client service expenses include salaries of sales and client service personnel, depreciation and other expenses associated with our CernerWorks managed service business, communications expenses, unreimbursed travel expenses, expense for share based payments, sales and marketing salaries and trade show and advertising costs. The increase in these expenses was primarily attributable to growth in the managed services business and a higher level of professional services expenses. The decrease as a percent of revenue reflects ongoing efficiencies in our implementation and operational processes. Software development expenses as a percent of revenue were 13% in 2011, as compared to 15% in 2010. These expenses increased 5% in 2011 to $286.8 million, from $272.9 million in 2010. Expenditures for software development in 2011 reflect continued development and enhancement of the Cerner Millennium platform and software solutions and investments in new growth initiatives. Although these expenses increased in 2011, the reduction as a percent of revenue reflects our ongoing efforts to control spending relative to revenue growth. Because of the strong platform we have built, we are able to continue advancing our solutions and investing in new solutions without large increases in spending. A summary of our total software development expense in 2011 and 2010 is as follows: 25 For the Years Ended (In thousands) 2011 2010 Software development costs $ 290,645 $ 284,836 Capitalized software costs (81,417 ) (79,631 ) Capitalized costs related to share based payments (1,525 ) (1,348 ) Amortization of capitalized software costs 79,098 68,994 Total software development expense $ 286,801 $ 272,851 General and administrative expenses as a percent of total revenues were 7% in 2011 and 2010. These expenses increased 11% to $144.9 million in 2011 from $130.5 million in 2010. General and administrative expenses include salaries for corporate, financial and administrative staff, utilities, communications expenses, professional fees, the transaction gains or losses on foreign currency and expense for share based payments. An increase in corporate personnel costs accounted for the majority of the overall increase in general and administrative expenses, as we have increased such personnel to support our overall revenue growth. Non Operating Items Net interest income was $9.9 million in 2011, compared with net interest income of $3.4 million in 2010. Interest income increased to $15.2 million in 2011 from $10.3 million in 2010, due primarily to growth in investments and related increase in investment returns. Interest expense decreased to $5.3 million in 2011 from $6.9 million in 2010, due to payments on our long term debt. Our effective tax rate was 35% in 2011, as compared to 34% in 2010. The increase is attributable to the mix of domestic and foreign earnings. Operations by Segment We have two operating segments, Domestic and Global. The Domestic segment includes revenue contributions and expenditures associated with business activity in the United States. The Global segment includes revenue contributions and expenditures linked to business activity in Argentina, Aruba, Australia, Austria, Canada, Cayman Islands, Chile, China (Hong Kong), Egypt, England, France, Germany, Guam, India, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Malaysia, Morocco, Puerto Rico, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland and the United Arab Emirates. 26 The following table presents a summary of our operating segment information for the years ended 2011 and 2010: (In thousands) 2011 % ofRevenue 2010 % ofRevenue % Change Domestic Segment Revenues $ 1,894,454 100% $ 1,562,563 100% 21% Costs of revenue 387,466 20% 272,385 17% 42% Operating expenses 439,465 23% 417,181 27% 5% Total costs and expenses 826,931 44% 689,566 44% 20% Domestic operating earnings 1,067,523 56% 872,997 56% 22% Global Segment Revenues 308,699 100% 287,659 100% 7% Costs of revenue 54,206 18% 47,971 17% 13% Operating expenses 126,997 41% 124,546 43% 2% Total costs and expenses 181,203 59% 172,517 60% 5% Global operating earnings 127,496 41% 115,142 40% 11% Other, net (735,221 ) (628,806 ) 17% Consolidated operating earnings $ 459,798 $ 359,333 28% Domestic Segment Revenues increased 21% to $1.9 billion in 2011 from $1.6 billion in 2010. This increase was driven by growth across all business models, with particular strength in licensed software, technology resale, professional services and managed services. Cost of revenues increased to 20% of revenues in 2011, compared to 17% in 2010. The higher cost of revenues as a percent of revenue was primarily driven by a higher mix of technology resale, which carries a high cost of revenue, and an increase in third party consulting costs. Operating expenses increased 5% to $439.5 million in 2011, from $417.2 million in 2010, due primarily to growth in managed services and professional services expense. Global Segment Revenues increased 7% to $308.7 million in 2011 from $287.7 million in 2010. Global revenues increased due to an increase in licensed software and managed services revenue, which was partially offset by a decrease in professional services and technology resale revenue. The global comparisons were also impacted by a change in certain contract accounting estimates during the first quarter of 2010. Cost of revenues was 18% and 17% of revenues in 2011 and 2010, respectively. The higher cost of revenues in 2011 was primarily driven by an increase in third party professional services costs. Operating expenses increased 2% to $127.0 million in 2011, from $124.5 million in 2010, primarily to support our revenue growth. 27 Other, net Operating results not attributed to an operating segment include expenses, such as software development, marketing, general and administrative, stock based compensation and depreciation. These expenses increased 17% to $735.2 million in 2011 from $628.8 million in 2010. This increase was primarily due to increased costs in software development, increased corporate and development personnel costs, increased stock compensation costs, and growth in other professional services. Fiscal Year 2010 Compared to Fiscal Year 2009 (In thousands) 2010 % ofRevenue 2009 % ofRevenue % Change Revenues System sales $ 550,792 30% $ 504,561 30% 9% Support and maintenance 517,494 28% 493,193 29% 5% Services 749,483 40% 643,678 39% 16% Reimbursed travel 32,453 2% 30,432 2% 7% Total revenues 1,850,222 100% 1,671,864 100% 11% Costs of revenue Costs of revenue 320,356 17% 281,198 17% 14% Total margin 1,529,866 83% 1,390,666 83% 10% Operating expenses Sales and client 767,152 42% 700,639 42% 9% Software development 272,851 15% 271,051 16% 1% General and administrative 130,530 7% 126,970 8% 3% Total operating expenses 1,170,533 64% 1,098,660 66% 7% Total costs and expenses 1,490,889 81% 1,379,858 83% 8% Operating earnings 359,333 19% 292,006 17% 23% Interest income (expense), net 3,439 308 Other income (expense), net (560) 367 Income taxes (124,940) (99,216) Net earnings $ 237,272 $ 193,465 23% Revenues & Backlog Revenues increased 11% to $1.9 billion in 2010, compared to $1.7 billion in 2009. System sales increased 9% to $550.8 million in 2010 from $504.6 million in 2009. The increase in system sales was driven by a strong increase in licensed software and technology resale. Support and maintenance revenues increased 5% to $517.5 million in 2010 compared to $493.2 million in 2009. This increase was attributable to continued success at selling Cerner Millennium applications and implementing them at client sites. Services revenue increased 16% to $749.5 million in 2010 compared to $643.7 million in 2009. This increase was driven by growth in CernerWorksSM managed services as a result of continued demand for our hosting services and an increase in professional services due to increased implementation activities. 28 Contract backlog increased 19% in 2010 compared to 2009. This increase was driven by growth in new business bookings during 2010, including continued strong levels of managed services bookings that typically have longer contract terms. A summary of our total backlog for 2010 and 2009 follows: (In thousands) 2010 2009 Contract backlog $ 4,285,267 $ 3,591,026 Support and maintenance backlog 654,913 620,616 Total backlog $ 4,940,180 $ 4,211,642 Costs of Revenue Cost of revenues remained flat at 17% of total revenues in 2010 and 2009. Operating Expenses Total operating expenses increased 7% in 2010 to $1.2 billion as compared to $1.1 billion in 2009. Sales and client service expenses as a percent of total revenues were 42% in 2010 and 2009. These expenses increased 9% to $767.2 million in 2010, from $700.6 million in 2009. The increase was primarily attributable to growth in the managed services business, a higher level of professional services expenses and an increase in bad debt expense. Software development expenses as a percent of revenue were 15% in 2010, as compared to 16% in 2009. These expenses increased 1% in 2010 to $272.9 million, from $271.1 million in 2009. Expenditures for software development in 2010 reflect continued development and enhancement of the Cerner Millennium platform and software solutions and investments in new growth initiatives. Although these expenses increased in 2010, the reduction as a percent of revenue reflects our ongoing efforts to control spending relative to revenue growth. A summary of our total software development expense in 2010 and 2009 is as follows: 0000000000 0000000000 For the Years Ended (In thousands) 2010 2009 Software development costs $ 284,836 $ 285,187 Capitalized software costs (79,631 ) (76,876 ) Capitalized costs related to share based payments (1,348 ) (871 ) Amortization of capitalized software costs 68,994 63,611 Total software development expense $ 272,851 $ 271,051 General and administrative expenses as a percent of total revenues were 7% in 2010, as compared to 8% in 2009. These expenses increased 3% to $130.5 million in 2010 from $127.0 million in 2009. The overall increase in general and administrative expenses was driven by a net transaction loss on foreign currency of $0.9 million in 2010 compared to a gain of $4.0 million in 2009. Additionally, increased corporate personnel costs were offset by a decrease in amortization expense driven by certain intangible assets being fully amortized at the end of 2009. Non Operating Items Net interest income was $3.4 million in 2010, compared with net interest income of $0.3 million in 2009. Interest income increased to $10.3 million in 2010 from $8.8 million in 2009, due primarily to growth in investments and an increase in investment returns. Interest expense decreased to $6.9 million in 2010 from $8.5 million in 2009, due to payments on our long term debt. 29 Our effective tax rate was 34% in 2010 and 2009. There were no material changes impacting the effective tax rate between 2010 and 2009. Operations by Segment We have two operating segments, Domestic and Global. The Domestic segment includes revenue contributions and expenditures associated with business activity in the United States. The Global segment includes revenue contributions and expenditures linked to business activity in Aruba, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Cayman Islands, Chile, China (Hong Kong), Egypt, England, France, Germany, India, Ireland, Malaysia, Puerto Rico, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland and the United Arab Emirates. The following table presents a summary of our operating segment information for the years ended 2010 and 2009: (In thousands) 2010 % ofRevenue 2009 % ofRevenue % Change Domestic Segment Revenues $ 1,562,563 100% $ 1,398,715 100% 12% Costs of revenue 272,385 17% 240,847 17% 13% Operating expenses 417,181 27% 372,370 27% 12% Total costs and expenses 689,566 44% 613,217 44% 12% Domestic operating earnings 872,997 56% 785,498 56% 11% Global Segment Revenues 287,659 100% 273,149 100% 5% Costs of revenue 47,971 17% 40,351 15% 19% Operating expenses 124,546 43% 130,256 48% 4% Total costs and expenses 172,517 60% 170,607 62% 1% Global operating earnings 115,142 40% 102,542 38% 12% Other, net (628,806) (596,034) 5% Consolidated operating earnings $ 359,333 $ 292,006 23% Domestic Segment Revenues increased 12% to $1.6 billion in 2010 from $1.4 billion in 2009. This increase was driven by growth across all lines of business with the strongest growth in licensed software, managed services and professional services. Cost of revenues remained flat at 17% of revenues in both 2010 and 2009. Operating expenses increased 12% to $417.2 million in 2010, from $372.4 million in 2009, due primarily to growth in managed services expense, professional services expense and bad debt expense. 30 Global Segment Revenues increased 5% to $287.7 million in 2010 from $273.1 million in 2009. This increase was driven by improved licensed software, technology resale and support revenue, mostly from United Kingdom and the Middle East region, slightly offset by a decline from France. A change in estimates for certain contracts that rely on estimates as part of contract accounting also contributed to the increase. Cost of revenues was 17% and 15% of revenues in 2010 and 2009, respectively. The higher cost of revenues in 2010 was driven by the increase in technology resale, which carries a higher cost of revenue. Operating expenses decreased 4% to $124.5 million in 2010, from $130.3 million in 2009, primarily due to a decrease in personnel related professional services expense, partially offset by an increase in bad debt expense. Other, net Operating results not attributed to an operating segment include expenses, such as software development, marketing, general and administrative, stock based compensation and depreciation. These expenses increased 5% to $628.8 million in 2010 from $596.0 million in 2009. This increase was primarily due to growth in corporate and development personnel costs, stock compensation cost and foreign currency transaction gains and losses. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our liquidity is influenced by many factors, including the amount and timing of our revenues, our cash collections from our clients, and the amount we invest in software development, acquisitions and capital expenditures. Our principal sources of liquidity are our cash, cash equivalents, which consist of money market funds, time deposits and bonds with original maturities of less than 90 days and short term investments. At the end of 2011, we had cash and cash equivalents of $243.1 million and short term investments of $531.6 million, as compared to cash and cash equivalents of $214.5 million and short term investments of $356.5 million at the end of 2010. Approximately 19% of our aggregate cash, cash equivalents, and short term investments at December 31, 2011, were held outside of the United States. As a part of our business strategy, we plan to indefinitely reinvest the earnings of our foreign operations; however, should the earnings of our foreign operations be repatriated, we would accrue and pay tax on such earnings, which may be material. Additionally, we maintain a multi year revolving credit facility, which provides an unsecured revolving line of credit for working capital purposes. Interest is payable at a rate based on prime or LIBOR plus a spread that varies depending on the net worth ratios maintained. The agreement provides certain restrictions on our ability to borrow, incur liens, sell assets and pay dividends and contains certain net worth, current ratio and fixed charge coverage covenants, which as of the end of 2011, we were in compliance with. As of the end of 2011, we had no outstanding borrowings under this agreement; however, we had $16.8 million of outstanding letters of credit, which reduced our available borrowing capacity to $73.2 million. We believe that our present cash position, together with cash generated from operations, short term investments and, if necessary, our available line of credit, will be sufficient to meet anticipated cash requirements during 2012. 31 The following table provides details about our cash flows in 2011, 2010 and 2009: 000000000 000000000 000000000 For the Years Ended (In thousands) 2011 2010 2009 Cash flows from operating activities $ 546,294 $ 456,444 $ 347,291 Cash flows from investing activities (565,091) (520,896) (394,321) Cash flows from financing activities 48,853 34,841 16,770 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash (1,421) 2,399 1,489 Total change in cash and cash equivalents 28,635 (27,212) (28,771) Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 214,511 241,723 270,494 Cash and cash equivalents at end of period $ 243,146 $ 214,511 $ 241,723 Free cash flow (non GAAP) $ 358,557 $ 273,154 $ 138,279 Cash Flows from Operating Activities ,00000000 ,00000000 ,00000000 For the Years Ended (In thousands) 2011 2010 2009 Cash collections from clients $ 2,211,361 $ 1,900,145 $ 1,780,127 Cash paid to employees and suppliers and other (1,543,414) (1,315,077) (1,377,139) Cash paid for interest (5,786) (6,887) (8,583) Cash paid for taxes, net of refund (115,867) (121,737) (47,114) Total cash from operations $ 546,294 $ 456,444 $ 347,291 Cash flows from operations increased $89.9 million in 2011 compared to 2010 and $109.2 million in 2010 compared to 2009 primarily due to increased cash collections from clients. During 2011, 2010 and 2009, we received total client cash collections of $2.21 billion, $1.90 billion and $1.78 billion, respectively, of which approximately 3%, 4% and 3%, respectively, were received from third party client financing arrangements and non recourse payment assignments. Days sales outstanding decreased to 83 days for the 2011 fourth quarter compared to 87 days for the 2011 third quarter and the 2010 fourth quarter, reflecting our improved cash collections. Revenues provided under support and maintenance agreements represent recurring cash flows. Support and maintenance revenues increased 6% in 2011 and 5% in 2010, and we expect these revenues to continue to grow as the base of installed Cerner Millennium systems grows. Cash Flows from Investing Activities 000000000 000000000 000000000 For the Years Ended (In thousands) 2011 2010 2009 Capital purchases $ (104,795) $ (102,311) $ (131,265) Capitalized software development costs (82,942) (80,979) (77,747) Purchases of investments, net of maturities (291,393) (312,340) (169,295) Other, net (85,961) (25,266) (16,014) Total cash flows from investing activities $ (565,091) $ (520,896) $ (394,321) Cash flows from investing activities consist primarily of capital spending and our short term investment activities. Capital spending consists of capitalized equipment purchases primarily to support growth in our CernerWorks managed services business, building and improvement purchases to support our facilities requirements and capitalized spending to support our ongoing software development initiatives. Capital spending in 2012 is expected to increase from our 2011 levels; however, we still expect strong levels of free cash flow. 32 Short term investment activity consists of the investment of cash generated by our business in excess of what is necessary to fund operations. We expect to continue such short term investment activity in 2012 as we expect strong levels of free cash flow. In addition, during 2011 we completed our acquisitions of Resource Systems, Inc. and Clairvia, Inc. for approximately $28.1 million and $37.2 million, net of cash acquired, respectively. During 2010, we completed our acquisition of IMC Health Care, Inc. for approximately $14.5 million, net of cash acquired. We expect to continue seeking and completing strategic business acquisitions that are complementary to our business. Cash Flows from Financing Activities 000000000 000000000 000000000 For the Years Ended (In thousands) 2011 2010 2009 Repayment of long term debt $ (25,701) $ (27,625) $ (32,352) Cash from option exercises (incl. excess tax benefits) 75,333 60,950 47,234 Other, net (779) 1,516 1,888 Total cash flows from financing activities $ 48,853 $ 34,841 $ 16,770 Our primary financing obligations are long term debt repayments. In the fourth quarter of 2009, we commenced payment on the first of seven equal annual installments on our 5.54% Great Britain Pound denominated Note Agreement, as well as on the first of four equal annual installments on our 6.42% Series B Senior Notes. Based on debts currently outstanding and current exchange rates, we expect our debt repayments to equal $24.3 million in 2012 and $14.4 million per year from 2013 through 2015. Cash inflows from stock option exercises are dependent on a number of factors, including the price of our common stock, grant activity under our stock option and equity plans, and overall market volatility. We expect cash inflows from stock option exercises to continue in 2012 based on the number of exercisable options at the end of 2011 and our current stock price. Free Cash Flow ,000000000 ,000000000 ,000000000 For the Years Ended (In thousands) 2011 2010 2009 Cash flows from operating activities (GAAP) $ 546,294 $ 456,444 $ 347,291 Capital purchases (104,795) (102,311) (131,265) Capitalized software development costs (82,942) (80,979) (77,747) Free cash flow (non GAAP) $ 358,557 $ 273,154 $ 138,279 Free Cash Flow increased $85.4 million in 2011 as compared to 2010, which we believe reflects continued strengthening of our earnings quality. Free Cash Flow is a non GAAP financial measure used by management along with GAAP results to analyze our earnings quality and overall cash generation of the business. The presentation of Free Cash Flow is not meant to be considered in isolation, as a substitute for, or superior to, GAAP results and investors should be aware that non GAAP measures have inherent limitations and should be read only in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. Free Cash Flow may also be different from similar non GAAP financial measures used by other companies and may not be comparable to similarly titled captions of other companies due to potential inconsistencies in the method of calculation. We believe Free Cash Flow is important to enable investors to better understand and evaluate our ongoing operating results and allows for greater transparency in the review of our overall financial, operational and economic performance because free cash flow takes into account the capital expenditures necessary to operate our business. 33 Contractual Obligations, Commitments and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements The following table represents a summary of our contractual obligations and commercial commitments at the end of 2011, except short term purchase order commitments arising in the ordinary course of business. Payments due by period (In thousands) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 andthereafter Total Balance sheet obligations(a): Long term debt obligations $ 24,286 $ 14,421 $ 14,421 $ 14,420 $ $ $ 67,548 Interest on long term debt obligations 3,822 2,397 1,598 798 8,615 Capital lease obligations 15,436 12,742 11,829 11,858 7,130 58,995 Interest on capital lease obligations 1,787 1,363 936 720 555 5,361 Off balance sheet obligations: Operating lease obligations 23,807 22,141 18,701 12,896 8,249 46,232 132,026 Purchase obligations 16,167 19,010 7,513 3,411 198 8,299 54,598 Total $ 85,305 $ 72,074 $ 54,998 $ 44,103 $ 16,132 $ 54,531 $ 327,143 (a) At the end of 2011, liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits were $14.6 million. It is reasonably possible that these unrecognized tax benefits will decrease by $9.0 million to $12.0 million in the next 12 months as the result of the settlement of ongoing tax audits. We have no off balance sheet arrangements as defined in Regulation S K. The effects of inflation on our business during 2011, 2010 and 2009 were not significant. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Refer to Note (1) of the notes to consolidated financial statements for information regarding recently issued accounting pronouncements. Critical Accounting Policies We believe that there are several accounting policies that are critical to understanding our historical and future performance, as these policies affect the reported amount of revenue and other significant areas involving our judgments and estimates. These significant accounting policies relate to revenue recognition, software development, potential impairments of goodwill, and income taxes. These policies and our procedures related to these policies are described in detail below and under specific areas within this MD&A. In addition, Note (1) to the consolidated financial statements expands upon discussion of our accounting policies. Revenue Recognition We recognize revenue within our multiple element arrangements, including software and software related services, using the residual method. Key factors in our revenue recognition model are our assessments that installation services are essential to the functionality of our software whereas implementation services are not; and the length of time it takes for us to achieve the delivery and installation milestones for our licensed software. If our business model were to change such that implementation services are deemed to be essential to the functionality of our software, the period of time over which our licensed software revenue would be recognized would lengthen. We generally recognize revenue from the sale of our licensed software over two key milestones, delivery and installation, based on percentages that reflect the underlying effort from planning to installation. 34 Generally, both milestones are achieved in the quarter the contracts are executed. If the period of time to achieve our delivery and installation milestones for our licensed software were to lengthen, our milestones would be adjusted and the timing of revenue recognition for our licensed software could materially change. We also recognize revenue for certain projects using the percentage of completion method. Our revenue recognition is dependent upon our ability to reliably estimate the direct labor hours to complete a project which generally can span several years. We utilize our historical project experience and detailed planning process as a basis for our future estimates to complete current projects. Significant delays in completion of the projects, unforeseen cost increases or penalties could result in significant reductions to revenue and margins on these contracts. The actual project results can be significantly different from the estimated results. When adjustments are identified near or at the end of a project, the full impact of the change in estimate is recognized in that period. This can result in a material impact on our results for a single reporting period. Software Development Costs Costs incurred internally in creating computer software solutions and enhancements to those solutions are expensed until completion of a detailed program design, which is when we determine that technological feasibility has been established. Thereafter, all software development costs are capitalized until such time as the software solutions and enhancements are available for general release, and the capitalized costs subsequently are reported at the lower of amortized cost or net realizable value. Net realizable value is computed as the estimated gross future revenues from each software solution less the amount of estimated future costs of completing and disposing of that product. Because the development of projected net future revenues related to our software solutions used in our net realizable value computation is based on estimates, a significant reduction in our future revenues could impact the recovery of our capitalized software development costs. We historically have not experienced significant inaccuracies in computing the net realizable value of our software solutions and the difference between the net realizable value and the unamortized cost has grown over the past three years. We expect this trend to continue in the future. If we missed our estimates of net future revenues by up to 10%, the amount of our capitalized software development costs would not be impaired. Capitalized costs are amortized based on current and expected net future revenue for each software solution with minimum annual amortization equal to the straight line amortization over the estimated economic life of the software solution. We are amortizing capitalized costs over five years. The five year period over which capitalized software development costs are amortized is an estimate based upon our forecast of a reasonable useful life for the capitalized costs. Historically, use of our software programs by our clients has exceeded five years and is capable of being used a decade or more. We expect that major software information systems companies, large information technology consulting service providers and systems integrators and others specializing in the health care industry may offer competitive products or services. The pace of change in the HCIT market is rapid and there are frequent new product introductions, product enhancements and evolving industry standards and requirements. As a result, the capitalized software solutions may become less valuable or obsolete and could be subject to impairment. Goodwill Goodwill is not amortized but is evaluated for impairment annually or whenever there is an impairment indicator. All goodwill is assigned to a reporting unit, where it is subject to an annual impairment test based on fair value. We assess goodwill for impairment in the second quarter of each fiscal year and evaluate impairment indicators at each quarter end. We assessed our goodwill for impairment in the second quarters of 2011 and 2010 and concluded that goodwill was not impaired. In each respective year, the fair values of each of our reporting units exceeded their carrying amounts by a significant margin. We used a discounted cash flow analysis utilizing Level 3 inputs, to determine the fair value of the reporting units for all periods. Goodwill amounted to $211.8 million and $161.4 million at the end of 2011 and 2010, respectively. If future anticipated cash flows from our reporting units that recognized goodwill do not materialize as expected, our goodwill could be impaired, which could result in significant charges to earnings. 35 Income Taxes We make a number of assumptions and estimates in determining the appropriate amount of expense to record for income taxes. These assumptions and estimates consider the taxing jurisdictions in which we operate as well as current tax regulations. Accruals are established for estimates of tax effects for certain transactions, business structures and future projected profitability of our businesses based on our interpretation of existing facts and circumstances. If these assumptions and estimates were to change as a result of new evidence or changes in circumstances, the change in estimate could result in a material adjustment to the consolidated financial statements. We have discussed the development and selection of these critical accounting estimates with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors and the Audit Committee has reviewed our disclosure contained herein. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk We use a foreign currency denominated debt instrument to reduce our foreign currency exposure in the U.K. As of the end of 2011, we designated all of our Great Britain Pound (GBP) denominated long term debt (37.1 million GBP) as a net investment hedge of our U.K. operations. Because the borrowing is denominated in pounds, we are exposed to movements in the foreign currency exchange rate between the U.S. dollar (USD) and the GPB. We estimate that a hypothetical 10% change in the foreign currency exchange rate between the USD and GBP would have impacted the unrealized loss, net of related income tax effects, of the net investment hedge recognized in other comprehensive income in 2011 by approximately $3.6 million. Please refer to Notes (9) and (10) to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a more detailed discussion of the foreign currency denominated debt instrument. 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following Management Discussion and Analysis (MD&A) is intended to help the reader understand our results of operations and financial condition. This MD&A is provided as a supplement to, and should be read in conjunction with, our financial statements and the accompanying notes to the financial statements (Notes). Our fiscal year ends on the Saturday closest to December 31. Fiscal years 2011, 2010 and 2009 consisted of 52 weeks and ended on December 31, 2011, January 1, 2011 and January 2, 2010, respectively. All references to years in this MD&A represent fiscal years unless otherwise noted. Management Overview Our revenues are primarily derived by selling, implementing and supporting software solutions, clinical content, hardware, devices and services that give health care providers secure access to clinical, administrative and financial data in real time, allowing them to improve quality, safety and efficiency in the delivery of health care. Our fundamental strategy centers on creating organic growth by investing in research and development (R&D) to create solutions and services for the health care industry. This strategy has driven strong growth over the long term, as reflected in five and ten year compound annual revenue growth rates of 10% or more. This growth has also created an important strategic footprint in health care, with Cerner&reg; solutions licensed by approximately 9,300 facilities around the world, including more than 2,650 hospitals; 3,750 physician practices; 40,000 physicians; 500 ambulatory facilities, such as laboratories, ambulatory centers, cardiac facilities, radiology clinics and surgery centers; 800 home health facilities; 40 employer sites and 1,600 retail pharmacies. Selling additional solutions back into this client base is an important element of our future revenue growth. We are also focused on driving growth through market share expansion by strategically aligning with health care providers that have not yet selected a supplier and by displacing competitors in health care settings that are looking to replace their current supplier. We expect to drive growth through new initiatives and services that reflect our ongoing ability to innovate and expand our reach into health care. Examples of these include our CareAware&reg; health care device architecture and devices, Cerner Healthe employer services, Cerner ITWorksSM services, Cerner RevWorksSM services, and solutions on our Healthe Intent platform. Finally, we believe there is significant opportunity for growth outside of the United States, with many non U.S. markets focused on HCIT as part of their strategy to improve the quality and lower the cost of health care. Beyond our strategy for driving revenue growth, we are also focused on earnings growth. Similar to our history of growing revenue, our net earnings have increased at compound annual rates of more than 20% over the most recent five and ten year periods. We expect to drive continued earnings growth through ongoing revenue growth coupled with margin expansion, which we expect to achieve through efficiencies in our implementation and operational processes and by leveraging R&D investments and controlling general and administrative expenses. We are also focused on continuing to deliver strong levels of cash flow, which we expect to do by continuing to grow earnings and prudently managing capital expenditures. Results Overview The Company delivered strong levels of bookings, revenues, earnings and cash flows in 2011. New business bookings revenue in 2011, which reflects the value of executed contracts for software, hardware, professional services and managed services, was $2.7 billion, which is an increase of 37% compared to $2.0 billion in 2010. Our 2011 revenues increased 19% to $2.2 billion compared to $1.9 billion in 2010. The year over year increase in revenue reflects improved economic conditions and demand driven by the stimulus incentives. As discussed in the Health Care and Health Care IT Industry under Part 1, Item 1, we believe the HITECH incentives and the nations focus on improving the efficiency and quality of health care will create a period of increased HCIT demand in the United States. 22 Our 2011 net earnings increased 29% to $306.6 million compared to $237.3 million in 2010. Diluted earnings per share increased 27% to $1.76 compared to $1.39 in 2010. The 2011 and 2010 net earnings and diluted earnings per share reflect the impact of stock based compensation expense. The effect of these expenses reduced the 2011 net earnings and diluted earnings per share by $18.2 million and $0.11, and the 2010 earnings and diluted earnings per share by $15.6 million and $0.09, respectively. The growth in net earnings and diluted earnings per share was driven primarily by strong revenue growth and continued progress with our margin expansion initiatives, including efficiencies in our implementation and operational processes, leveraging R&D investments and controlling general and administrative expenses. With our full year 2011 operating margin at 20.9%, we achieved our long term goal of 20% operating margins in 2011. We had cash collections of receivables of $2.2 billion in 2011 compared to $1.9 billion in 2010. Days sales outstanding decreased to 83 days for the 2011 fourth quarter compared to 87 days for the 2011 third quarter and the 2010 fourth quarter, reflecting an improvement in cash collections. Operating cash flows for 2011 were strong at $546.3 million compared to $456.4 million in 2010, with the growth driven by cash collections from clients. Health Care Information Technology Market Outlook We have provided a detailed assessment of the health care information technology market under Health Care and Health Care IT Industry in Part I, Item 1. 23 Results of Operations Fiscal Year 2011 Compared to Fiscal Year 2010 (In thousands) 2011 % ofRevenue 2010 % ofRevenue % Change Revenues System sales $ 706,714 32% $ 550,792 30% 28% Support and maintenance 550,554 25% 517,494 28% 6% Services 901,193 41% 749,483 40% 20% Reimbursed travel 44,692 2% 32,453 2% 38% Total revenues 2,203,153 100% 1,850,222 100% 19% Costs of revenue Costs of revenue 441,672 20% 320,356 17% 38% Total margin 1,761,481 80% 1,529,866 83% 15% Operating expenses Sales and client 869,962 39% 767,152 42% 13% Software development 286,801 13% 272,851 15% 5% General and administrative 144,920 7% 130,530 7% 11% Total operating expenses 1,301,683 59% 1,170,533 64% 11% Total costs and expenses 1,743,355 79% 1,490,889 81% 17% Operating earnings 459,798 21% 359,333 19% 28% Interest income (expense), net 9,850 3,439 Other income (expense), net 46 (560 ) Income taxes (163,067 ) (124,940 ) Net earnings $ 306,627 $ 237,272 29% Revenues & Backlog Revenues increased 19% to $2.2 billion in 2011, as compared to $1.9 billion in 2010. System sales, which include revenues from the sale of licensed software, software as a service, technology resale (hardware, devices and sublicensed software), deployment period licensed software upgrade rights, installation fees, transaction processing, and subscriptions, increased 28% to $706.7 million in 2011 from $550.8 million in 2010. The increase in system sales was driven by strong increases in licensed software, technology resale, and subscriptions. Support and maintenance revenues increased 6% to $550.6 million in 2011 compared to $517.5 million in 2010. This increase is attributable to continued success at selling Cerner Millennium applications and implementing them at client sites. We expect support and maintenance revenues will continue to grow as the base of installed Cerner Millennium systems grow. Services revenue, which includes professional services, excluding installation, and managed services, increased 20% to $901.2 million in 2011 compared to $749.5 million in 2010. This increase was driven by growth in CernerWorksSM managed services as a result of continued demand for our hosting services and an increase in professional services due to increased implementation activities and growth in Cerner ITWorks services. 24 Contract backlog, which reflects new business bookings that have not yet been recognized as revenue, increased 26% in 2011 compared to 2010. This increase was driven by growth in new business bookings during the past four quarters, including continued strong levels of managed services and ITWorks bookings that typically have longer contract terms. A summary of our total backlog for 2011 and 2010 follows: (In thousands) 2011 2010 Contract backlog $ 5,401,427 $ 4,285,267 Support and maintenance backlog 705,744 654,913 Total backlog $ 6,107,171 $ 4,940,180 Costs of Revenue Cost of revenues was 20% of total revenues in 2011, as compared to 17% of total revenues in 2010. The higher cost of revenues as a percent of revenue was primarily driven by a higher mix of technology resale, which carries a higher cost of revenue, and a slightly higher level of third party consulting costs. The cost of revenues includes the cost of reimbursed travel expense, sales commissions, third party consulting services and subscription content, and computer hardware, devices and sublicensed software purchased from manufacturers for delivery to clients. It also includes the cost of hardware maintenance and sublicensed software support subcontracted to the manufacturers. Such costs, as a percent of revenues, typically have varied as the mix of revenue (software, hardware, devices, maintenance, support, services and reimbursed travel) carrying different margin rates changes from period to period. Costs of revenues does not include the costs of our client service personnel who are responsible for delivering our service offerings or any other internal costs of revenue; rather, such costs are included in sales and client service expense. Operating Expenses Total operating expenses increased 11% in 2011 to $1.3 billion as compared to $1.2 billion in 2010. Sales and client service expenses as a percent of total revenues were 39% in 2011, as compared to 42% in 2010. These expenses increased 13% to $870.0 million in 2011, from $767.2 million in 2010. Sales and client service expenses include salaries of sales and client service personnel, depreciation and other expenses associated with our CernerWorks managed service business, communications expenses, unreimbursed travel expenses, expense for share based payments, sales and marketing salaries and trade show and advertising costs. The increase in these expenses was primarily attributable to growth in the managed services business and a higher level of professional services expenses. The decrease as a percent of revenue reflects ongoing efficiencies in our implementation and operational processes. Software development expenses as a percent of revenue were 13% in 2011, as compared to 15% in 2010. These expenses increased 5% in 2011 to $286.8 million, from $272.9 million in 2010. Expenditures for software development in 2011 reflect continued development and enhancement of the Cerner Millennium platform and software solutions and investments in new growth initiatives. Although these expenses increased in 2011, the reduction as a percent of revenue reflects our ongoing efforts to control spending relative to revenue growth. Because of the strong platform we have built, we are able to continue advancing our solutions and investing in new solutions without large increases in spending. A summary of our total software development expense in 2011 and 2010 is as follows: 25 For the Years Ended (In thousands) 2011 2010 Software development costs $ 290,645 $ 284,836 Capitalized software costs (81,417 ) (79,631 ) Capitalized costs related to share based payments (1,525 ) (1,348 ) Amortization of capitalized software costs 79,098 68,994 Total software development expense $ 286,801 $ 272,851 General and administrative expenses as a percent of total revenues were 7% in 2011 and 2010. These expenses increased 11% to $144.9 million in 2011 from $130.5 million in 2010. General and administrative expenses include salaries for corporate, financial and administrative staff, utilities, communications expenses, professional fees, the transaction gains or losses on foreign currency and expense for share based payments. An increase in corporate personnel costs accounted for the majority of the overall increase in general and administrative expenses, as we have increased such personnel to support our overall revenue growth. Non Operating Items Net interest income was $9.9 million in 2011, compared with net interest income of $3.4 million in 2010. Interest income increased to $15.2 million in 2011 from $10.3 million in 2010, due primarily to growth in investments and related increase in investment returns. Interest expense decreased to $5.3 million in 2011 from $6.9 million in 2010, due to payments on our long term debt. Our effective tax rate was 35% in 2011, as compared to 34% in 2010. The increase is attributable to the mix of domestic and foreign earnings. Operations by Segment We have two operating segments, Domestic and Global. The Domestic segment includes revenue contributions and expenditures associated with business activity in the United States. The Global segment includes revenue contributions and expenditures linked to business activity in Argentina, Aruba, Australia, Austria, Canada, Cayman Islands, Chile, China (Hong Kong), Egypt, England, France, Germany, Guam, India, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Malaysia, Morocco, Puerto Rico, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland and the United Arab Emirates. 26 The following table presents a summary of our operating segment information for the years ended 2011 and 2010: (In thousands) 2011 % ofRevenue 2010 % ofRevenue % Change Domestic Segment Revenues $ 1,894,454 100% $ 1,562,563 100% 21% Costs of revenue 387,466 20% 272,385 17% 42% Operating expenses 439,465 23% 417,181 27% 5% Total costs and expenses 826,931 44% 689,566 44% 20% Domestic operating earnings 1,067,523 56% 872,997 56% 22% Global Segment Revenues 308,699 100% 287,659 100% 7% Costs of revenue 54,206 18% 47,971 17% 13% Operating expenses 126,997 41% 124,546 43% 2% Total costs and expenses 181,203 59% 172,517 60% 5% Global operating earnings 127,496 41% 115,142 40% 11% Other, net (735,221 ) (628,806 ) 17% Consolidated operating earnings $ 459,798 $ 359,333 28% Domestic Segment Revenues increased 21% to $1.9 billion in 2011 from $1.6 billion in 2010. This increase was driven by growth across all business models, with particular strength in licensed software, technology resale, professional services and managed services. Cost of revenues increased to 20% of revenues in 2011, compared to 17% in 2010. The higher cost of revenues as a percent of revenue was primarily driven by a higher mix of technology resale, which carries a high cost of revenue, and an increase in third party consulting costs. Operating expenses increased 5% to $439.5 million in 2011, from $417.2 million in 2010, due primarily to growth in managed services and professional services expense. Global Segment Revenues increased 7% to $308.7 million in 2011 from $287.7 million in 2010. Global revenues increased due to an increase in licensed software and managed services revenue, which was partially offset by a decrease in professional services and technology resale revenue. The global comparisons were also impacted by a change in certain contract accounting estimates during the first quarter of 2010. Cost of revenues was 18% and 17% of revenues in 2011 and 2010, respectively. The higher cost of revenues in 2011 was primarily driven by an increase in third party professional services costs. Operating expenses increased 2% to $127.0 million in 2011, from $124.5 million in 2010, primarily to support our revenue growth. 27 Other, net Operating results not attributed to an operating segment include expenses, such as software development, marketing, general and administrative, stock based compensation and depreciation. These expenses increased 17% to $735.2 million in 2011 from $628.8 million in 2010. This increase was primarily due to increased costs in software development, increased corporate and development personnel costs, increased stock compensation costs, and growth in other professional services. Fiscal Year 2010 Compared to Fiscal Year 2009 (In thousands) 2010 % ofRevenue 2009 % ofRevenue % Change Revenues System sales $ 550,792 30% $ 504,561 30% 9% Support and maintenance 517,494 28% 493,193 29% 5% Services 749,483 40% 643,678 39% 16% Reimbursed travel 32,453 2% 30,432 2% 7% Total revenues 1,850,222 100% 1,671,864 100% 11% Costs of revenue Costs of revenue 320,356 17% 281,198 17% 14% Total margin 1,529,866 83% 1,390,666 83% 10% Operating expenses Sales and client 767,152 42% 700,639 42% 9% Software development 272,851 15% 271,051 16% 1% General and administrative 130,530 7% 126,970 8% 3% Total operating expenses 1,170,533 64% 1,098,660 66% 7% Total costs and expenses 1,490,889 81% 1,379,858 83% 8% Operating earnings 359,333 19% 292,006 17% 23% Interest income (expense), net 3,439 308 Other income (expense), net (560) 367 Income taxes (124,940) (99,216) Net earnings $ 237,272 $ 193,465 23% Revenues & Backlog Revenues increased 11% to $1.9 billion in 2010, compared to $1.7 billion in 2009. System sales increased 9% to $550.8 million in 2010 from $504.6 million in 2009. The increase in system sales was driven by a strong increase in licensed software and technology resale. Support and maintenance revenues increased 5% to $517.5 million in 2010 compared to $493.2 million in 2009. This increase was attributable to continued success at selling Cerner Millennium applications and implementing them at client sites. Services revenue increased 16% to $749.5 million in 2010 compared to $643.7 million in 2009. This increase was driven by growth in CernerWorksSM managed services as a result of continued demand for our hosting services and an increase in professional services due to increased implementation activities. 28 Contract backlog increased 19% in 2010 compared to 2009. This increase was driven by growth in new business bookings during 2010, including continued strong levels of managed services bookings that typically have longer contract terms. A summary of our total backlog for 2010 and 2009 follows: (In thousands) 2010 2009 Contract backlog $ 4,285,267 $ 3,591,026 Support and maintenance backlog 654,913 620,616 Total backlog $ 4,940,180 $ 4,211,642 Costs of Revenue Cost of revenues remained flat at 17% of total revenues in 2010 and 2009. Operating Expenses Total operating expenses increased 7% in 2010 to $1.2 billion as compared to $1.1 billion in 2009. Sales and client service expenses as a percent of total revenues were 42% in 2010 and 2009. These expenses increased 9% to $767.2 million in 2010, from $700.6 million in 2009. The increase was primarily attributable to growth in the managed services business, a higher level of professional services expenses and an increase in bad debt expense. Software development expenses as a percent of revenue were 15% in 2010, as compared to 16% in 2009. These expenses increased 1% in 2010 to $272.9 million, from $271.1 million in 2009. Expenditures for software development in 2010 reflect continued development and enhancement of the Cerner Millennium platform and software solutions and investments in new growth initiatives. Although these expenses increased in 2010, the reduction as a percent of revenue reflects our ongoing efforts to control spending relative to revenue growth. A summary of our total software development expense in 2010 and 2009 is as follows: 0000000000 0000000000 For the Years Ended (In thousands) 2010 2009 Software development costs $ 284,836 $ 285,187 Capitalized software costs (79,631 ) (76,876 ) Capitalized costs related to share based payments (1,348 ) (871 ) Amortization of capitalized software costs 68,994 63,611 Total software development expense $ 272,851 $ 271,051 General and administrative expenses as a percent of total revenues were 7% in 2010, as compared to 8% in 2009. These expenses increased 3% to $130.5 million in 2010 from $127.0 million in 2009. The overall increase in general and administrative expenses was driven by a net transaction loss on foreign currency of $0.9 million in 2010 compared to a gain of $4.0 million in 2009. Additionally, increased corporate personnel costs were offset by a decrease in amortization expense driven by certain intangible assets being fully amortized at the end of 2009. Non Operating Items Net interest income was $3.4 million in 2010, compared with net interest income of $0.3 million in 2009. Interest income increased to $10.3 million in 2010 from $8.8 million in 2009, due primarily to growth in investments and an increase in investment returns. Interest expense decreased to $6.9 million in 2010 from $8.5 million in 2009, due to payments on our long term debt. 29 Our effective tax rate was 34% in 2010 and 2009. There were no material changes impacting the effective tax rate between 2010 and 2009. Operations by Segment We have two operating segments, Domestic and Global. The Domestic segment includes revenue contributions and expenditures associated with business activity in the United States. The Global segment includes revenue contributions and expenditures linked to business activity in Aruba, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Cayman Islands, Chile, China (Hong Kong), Egypt, England, France, Germany, India, Ireland, Malaysia, Puerto Rico, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland and the United Arab Emirates. The following table presents a summary of our operating segment information for the years ended 2010 and 2009: (In thousands) 2010 % ofRevenue 2009 % ofRevenue % Change Domestic Segment Revenues $ 1,562,563 100% $ 1,398,715 100% 12% Costs of revenue 272,385 17% 240,847 17% 13% Operating expenses 417,181 27% 372,370 27% 12% Total costs and expenses 689,566 44% 613,217 44% 12% Domestic operating earnings 872,997 56% 785,498 56% 11% Global Segment Revenues 287,659 100% 273,149 100% 5% Costs of revenue 47,971 17% 40,351 15% 19% Operating expenses 124,546 43% 130,256 48% 4% Total costs and expenses 172,517 60% 170,607 62% 1% Global operating earnings 115,142 40% 102,542 38% 12% Other, net (628,806) (596,034) 5% Consolidated operating earnings $ 359,333 $ 292,006 23% Domestic Segment Revenues increased 12% to $1.6 billion in 2010 from $1.4 billion in 2009. This increase was driven by growth across all lines of business with the strongest growth in licensed software, managed services and professional services. Cost of revenues remained flat at 17% of revenues in both 2010 and 2009. Operating expenses increased 12% to $417.2 million in 2010, from $372.4 million in 2009, due primarily to growth in managed services expense, professional services expense and bad debt expense. 30 Global Segment Revenues increased 5% to $287.7 million in 2010 from $273.1 million in 2009. This increase was driven by improved licensed software, technology resale and support revenue, mostly from United Kingdom and the Middle East region, slightly offset by a decline from France. A change in estimates for certain contracts that rely on estimates as part of contract accounting also contributed to the increase. Cost of revenues was 17% and 15% of revenues in 2010 and 2009, respectively. The higher cost of revenues in 2010 was driven by the increase in technology resale, which carries a higher cost of revenue. Operating expenses decreased 4% to $124.5 million in 2010, from $130.3 million in 2009, primarily due to a decrease in personnel related professional services expense, partially offset by an increase in bad debt expense. Other, net Operating results not attributed to an operating segment include expenses, such as software development, marketing, general and administrative, stock based compensation and depreciation. These expenses increased 5% to $628.8 million in 2010 from $596.0 million in 2009. This increase was primarily due to growth in corporate and development personnel costs, stock compensation cost and foreign currency transaction gains and losses. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our liquidity is influenced by many factors, including the amount and timing of our revenues, our cash collections from our clients, and the amount we invest in software development, acquisitions and capital expenditures. Our principal sources of liquidity are our cash, cash equivalents, which consist of money market funds, time deposits and bonds with original maturities of less than 90 days and short term investments. At the end of 2011, we had cash and cash equivalents of $243.1 million and short term investments of $531.6 million, as compared to cash and cash equivalents of $214.5 million and short term investments of $356.5 million at the end of 2010. Approximately 19% of our aggregate cash, cash equivalents, and short term investments at December 31, 2011, were held outside of the United States. As a part of our business strategy, we plan to indefinitely reinvest the earnings of our foreign operations; however, should the earnings of our foreign operations be repatriated, we would accrue and pay tax on such earnings, which may be material. Additionally, we maintain a multi year revolving credit facility, which provides an unsecured revolving line of credit for working capital purposes. Interest is payable at a rate based on prime or LIBOR plus a spread that varies depending on the net worth ratios maintained. The agreement provides certain restrictions on our ability to borrow, incur liens, sell assets and pay dividends and contains certain net worth, current ratio and fixed charge coverage covenants, which as of the end of 2011, we were in compliance with. As of the end of 2011, we had no outstanding borrowings under this agreement; however, we had $16.8 million of outstanding letters of credit, which reduced our available borrowing capacity to $73.2 million. We believe that our present cash position, together with cash generated from operations, short term investments and, if necessary, our available line of credit, will be sufficient to meet anticipated cash requirements during 2012. 31 The following table provides details about our cash flows in 2011, 2010 and 2009: 000000000 000000000 000000000 For the Years Ended (In thousands) 2011 2010 2009 Cash flows from operating activities $ 546,294 $ 456,444 $ 347,291 Cash flows from investing activities (565,091) (520,896) (394,321) Cash flows from financing activities 48,853 34,841 16,770 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash (1,421) 2,399 1,489 Total change in cash and cash equivalents 28,635 (27,212) (28,771) Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 214,511 241,723 270,494 Cash and cash equivalents at end of period $ 243,146 $ 214,511 $ 241,723 Free cash flow (non GAAP) $ 358,557 $ 273,154 $ 138,279 Cash Flows from Operating Activities ,00000000 ,00000000 ,00000000 For the Years Ended (In thousands) 2011 2010 2009 Cash collections from clients $ 2,211,361 $ 1,900,145 $ 1,780,127 Cash paid to employees and suppliers and other (1,543,414) (1,315,077) (1,377,139) Cash paid for interest (5,786) (6,887) (8,583) Cash paid for taxes, net of refund (115,867) (121,737) (47,114) Total cash from operations $ 546,294 $ 456,444 $ 347,291 Cash flows from operations increased $89.9 million in 2011 compared to 2010 and $109.2 million in 2010 compared to 2009 primarily due to increased cash collections from clients. During 2011, 2010 and 2009, we received total client cash collections of $2.21 billion, $1.90 billion and $1.78 billion, respectively, of which approximately 3%, 4% and 3%, respectively, were received from third party client financing arrangements and non recourse payment assignments. Days sales outstanding decreased to 83 days for the 2011 fourth quarter compared to 87 days for the 2011 third quarter and the 2010 fourth quarter, reflecting our improved cash collections. Revenues provided under support and maintenance agreements represent recurring cash flows. Support and maintenance revenues increased 6% in 2011 and 5% in 2010, and we expect these revenues to continue to grow as the base of installed Cerner Millennium systems grows. Cash Flows from Investing Activities 000000000 000000000 000000000 For the Years Ended (In thousands) 2011 2010 2009 Capital purchases $ (104,795) $ (102,311) $ (131,265) Capitalized software development costs (82,942) (80,979) (77,747) Purchases of investments, net of maturities (291,393) (312,340) (169,295) Other, net (85,961) (25,266) (16,014) Total cash flows from investing activities $ (565,091) $ (520,896) $ (394,321) Cash flows from investing activities consist primarily of capital spending and our short term investment activities. Capital spending consists of capitalized equipment purchases primarily to support growth in our CernerWorks managed services business, building and improvement purchases to support our facilities requirements and capitalized spending to support our ongoing software development initiatives. Capital spending in 2012 is expected to increase from our 2011 levels; however, we still expect strong levels of free cash flow. 32 Short term investment activity consists of the investment of cash generated by our business in excess of what is necessary to fund operations. We expect to continue such short term investment activity in 2012 as we expect strong levels of free cash flow. In addition, during 2011 we completed our acquisitions of Resource Systems, Inc. and Clairvia, Inc. for approximately $28.1 million and $37.2 million, net of cash acquired, respectively. During 2010, we completed our acquisition of IMC Health Care, Inc. for approximately $14.5 million, net of cash acquired. We expect to continue seeking and completing strategic business acquisitions that are complementary to our business. Cash Flows from Financing Activities 000000000 000000000 000000000 For the Years Ended (In thousands) 2011 2010 2009 Repayment of long term debt $ (25,701) $ (27,625) $ (32,352) Cash from option exercises (incl. excess tax benefits) 75,333 60,950 47,234 Other, net (779) 1,516 1,888 Total cash flows from financing activities $ 48,853 $ 34,841 $ 16,770 Our primary financing obligations are long term debt repayments. In the fourth quarter of 2009, we commenced payment on the first of seven equal annual installments on our 5.54% Great Britain Pound denominated Note Agreement, as well as on the first of four equal annual installments on our 6.42% Series B Senior Notes. Based on debts currently outstanding and current exchange rates, we expect our debt repayments to equal $24.3 million in 2012 and $14.4 million per year from 2013 through 2015. Cash inflows from stock option exercises are dependent on a number of factors, including the price of our common stock, grant activity under our stock option and equity plans, and overall market volatility. We expect cash inflows from stock option exercises to continue in 2012 based on the number of exercisable options at the end of 2011 and our current stock price. Free Cash Flow ,000000000 ,000000000 ,000000000 For the Years Ended (In thousands) 2011 2010 2009 Cash flows from operating activities (GAAP) $ 546,294 $ 456,444 $ 347,291 Capital purchases (104,795) (102,311) (131,265) Capitalized software development costs (82,942) (80,979) (77,747) Free cash flow (non GAAP) $ 358,557 $ 273,154 $ 138,279 Free Cash Flow increased $85.4 million in 2011 as compared to 2010, which we believe reflects continued strengthening of our earnings quality. Free Cash Flow is a non GAAP financial measure used by management along with GAAP results to analyze our earnings quality and overall cash generation of the business. The presentation of Free Cash Flow is not meant to be considered in isolation, as a substitute for, or superior to, GAAP results and investors should be aware that non GAAP measures have inherent limitations and should be read only in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. Free Cash Flow may also be different from similar non GAAP financial measures used by other companies and may not be comparable to similarly titled captions of other companies due to potential inconsistencies in the method of calculation. We believe Free Cash Flow is important to enable investors to better understand and evaluate our ongoing operating results and allows for greater transparency in the review of our overall financial, operational and economic performance because free cash flow takes into account the capital expenditures necessary to operate our business. 33 Contractual Obligations, Commitments and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements The following table represents a summary of our contractual obligations and commercial commitments at the end of 2011, except short term purchase order commitments arising in the ordinary course of business. Payments due by period (In thousands) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 andthereafter Total Balance sheet obligations(a): Long term debt obligations $ 24,286 $ 14,421 $ 14,421 $ 14,420 $ $ $ 67,548 Interest on long term debt obligations 3,822 2,397 1,598 798 8,615 Capital lease obligations 15,436 12,742 11,829 11,858 7,130 58,995 Interest on capital lease obligations 1,787 1,363 936 720 555 5,361 Off balance sheet obligations: Operating lease obligations 23,807 22,141 18,701 12,896 8,249 46,232 132,026 Purchase obligations 16,167 19,010 7,513 3,411 198 8,299 54,598 Total $ 85,305 $ 72,074 $ 54,998 $ 44,103 $ 16,132 $ 54,531 $ 327,143 (a) At the end of 2011, liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits were $14.6 million. It is reasonably possible that these unrecognized tax benefits will decrease by $9.0 million to $12.0 million in the next 12 months as the result of the settlement of ongoing tax audits. We have no off balance sheet arrangements as defined in Regulation S K. The effects of inflation on our business during 2011, 2010 and 2009 were not significant. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Refer to Note (1) of the notes to consolidated financial statements for information regarding recently issued accounting pronouncements. Critical Accounting Policies We believe that there are several accounting policies that are critical to understanding our historical and future performance, as these policies affect the reported amount of revenue and other significant areas involving our judgments and estimates. These significant accounting policies relate to revenue recognition, software development, potential impairments of goodwill, and income taxes. These policies and our procedures related to these policies are described in detail below and under specific areas within this MD&A. In addition, Note (1) to the consolidated financial statements expands upon discussion of our accounting policies. Revenue Recognition We recognize revenue within our multiple element arrangements, including software and software related services, using the residual method. Key factors in our revenue recognition model are our assessments that installation services are essential to the functionality of our software whereas implementation services are not; and the length of time it takes for us to achieve the delivery and installation milestones for our licensed software. If our business model were to change such that implementation services are deemed to be essential to the functionality of our software, the period of time over which our licensed software revenue would be recognized would lengthen. We generally recognize revenue from the sale of our licensed software over two key milestones, delivery and installation, based on percentages that reflect the underlying effort from planning to installation. 34 Generally, both milestones are achieved in the quarter the contracts are executed. If the period of time to achieve our delivery and installation milestones for our licensed software were to lengthen, our milestones would be adjusted and the timing of revenue recognition for our licensed software could materially change. We also recognize revenue for certain projects using the percentage of completion method. Our revenue recognition is dependent upon our ability to reliably estimate the direct labor hours to complete a project which generally can span several years. We utilize our historical project experience and detailed planning process as a basis for our future estimates to complete current projects. Significant delays in completion of the projects, unforeseen cost increases or penalties could result in significant reductions to revenue and margins on these contracts. The actual project results can be significantly different from the estimated results. When adjustments are identified near or at the end of a project, the full impact of the change in estimate is recognized in that period. This can result in a material impact on our results for a single reporting period. Software Development Costs Costs incurred internally in creating computer software solutions and enhancements to those solutions are expensed until completion of a detailed program design, which is when we determine that technological feasibility has been established. Thereafter, all software development costs are capitalized until such time as the software solutions and enhancements are available for general release, and the capitalized costs subsequently are reported at the lower of amortized cost or net realizable value. Net realizable value is computed as the estimated gross future revenues from each software solution less the amount of estimated future costs of completing and disposing of that product. Because the development of projected net future revenues related to our software solutions used in our net realizable value computation is based on estimates, a significant reduction in our future revenues could impact the recovery of our capitalized software development costs. We historically have not experienced significant inaccuracies in computing the net realizable value of our software solutions and the difference between the net realizable value and the unamortized cost has grown over the past three years. We expect this trend to continue in the future. If we missed our estimates of net future revenues by up to 10%, the amount of our capitalized software development costs would not be impaired. Capitalized costs are amortized based on current and expected net future revenue for each software solution with minimum annual amortization equal to the straight line amortization over the estimated economic life of the software solution. We are amortizing capitalized costs over five years. The five year period over which capitalized software development costs are amortized is an estimate based upon our forecast of a reasonable useful life for the capitalized costs. Historically, use of our software programs by our clients has exceeded five years and is capable of being used a decade or more. We expect that major software information systems companies, large information technology consulting service providers and systems integrators and others specializing in the health care industry may offer competitive products or services. The pace of change in the HCIT market is rapid and there are frequent new product introductions, product enhancements and evolving industry standards and requirements. As a result, the capitalized software solutions may become less valuable or obsolete and could be subject to impairment. Goodwill Goodwill is not amortized but is evaluated for impairment annually or whenever there is an impairment indicator. All goodwill is assigned to a reporting unit, where it is subject to an annual impairment test based on fair value. We assess goodwill for impairment in the second quarter of each fiscal year and evaluate impairment indicators at each quarter end. We assessed our goodwill for impairment in the second quarters of 2011 and 2010 and concluded that goodwill was not impaired. In each respective year, the fair values of each of our reporting units exceeded their carrying amounts by a significant margin. We used a discounted cash flow analysis utilizing Level 3 inputs, to determine the fair value of the reporting units for all periods. Goodwill amounted to $211.8 million and $161.4 million at the end of 2011 and 2010, respectively. If future anticipated cash flows from our reporting units that recognized goodwill do not materialize as expected, our goodwill could be impaired, which could result in significant charges to earnings. 35 Income Taxes We make a number of assumptions and estimates in determining the appropriate amount of expense to record for income taxes. These assumptions and estimates consider the taxing jurisdictions in which we operate as well as current tax regulations. Accruals are established for estimates of tax effects for certain transactions, business structures and future projected profitability of our businesses based on our interpretation of existing facts and circumstances. If these assumptions and estimates were to change as a result of new evidence or changes in circumstances, the change in estimate could result in a material adjustment to the consolidated financial statements. We have discussed the development and selection of these critical accounting estimates with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors and the Audit Committee has reviewed our disclosure contained herein. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk We use a foreign currency denominated debt instrument to reduce our foreign currency exposure in the U.K. As of the end of 2011, we designated all of our Great Britain Pound (GBP) denominated long term debt (37.1 million GBP) as a net investment hedge of our U.K. operations. Because the borrowing is denominated in pounds, we are exposed to movements in the foreign currency exchange rate between the U.S. dollar (USD) and the GPB. We estimate that a hypothetical 10% change in the foreign currency exchange rate between the USD and GBP would have impacted the unrealized loss, net of related income tax effects, of the net investment hedge recognized in other comprehensive income in 2011 by approximately $3.6 million. Please refer to Notes (9) and (10) to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a more detailed discussion of the foreign currency denominated debt instrument. 
 
