FILE:CSC/CSC-8K-20030214165717.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 5.    OTHER EVENTS.
 
On October 23, 2001, Computer Sciences Corporation (the "Company") filed a Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-72034) with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission"), relating to the registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, of up to an initial aggregate offering price of $1,500,000,000 of debt securities, preferred stock, and common stock (the "Securities"). The Registration Statement was declared effective on November 7, 2001.
 
On February 11, 2003, the Company entered into an Underwriting Agreement (filed herewith as Exhibit 1.1) with Goldman, Sachs & Co., Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, Credit Suisse First Boston LLC, J.P. Morgan Securities, Inc., Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated, Salomon Smith Barney Inc., Scotia Capital (USA) Inc., Banc One Capital Markets, Inc., BNY Capital Markets, Inc., Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein Securities LLC, ING Financial Markets LLC, McDonald Investments Inc., a KeyCorp Company, U.S. Bancorp Piper Jaffray Inc., UBS Warburg LLC, Wachovia Securities, Inc., and Wells Fargo Brokerage Services, LLC (collectively, the "Underwriters"), pursuant to which the Company agreed to issue and sell and the Underwriters agreed, subject to certain conditions, to purchase $300,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 5.00% Notes due February 15, 2013 (the "Notes") registered under the Registration Statement at an initial public offering price of 98.746% of par for the Notes, less underwriting discounts and commissions (the "Offering").
 
The issuance and sale of the Notes was completed on February 14, 2003. The Notes were issued pursuant to an Indenture (the "Base Indenture") by and between the Company and Citibank, N.A., as trustee, dated as of February 10, 2003 (filed herewith as Exhibit 4.1), as supplemented and amended by the First Supplemental Indenture (the "Supplemental Indenture" (filed herewith as Exhibit 4.2) and, together with the Base Indenture, the "Indenture"), dated as of February 14, 2003. A specimen of the Global Note issued in connection with the Offering and pursuant to the Indenture setting forth the terms thereof is filed herewith as Exhibit 4.3.
 
 
ITEM 7.    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, PRO FORMA FINANCIAL INFORMATION AND EXHIBITS.
 
(c)  Exhibits.
 
The following exhibits are filed with this report on Form 8-K:
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 1.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SCHEDULES
Schedule A     - -         List of Underwriters
Schedule B     - -         Pricing Information
Schedule C     - -         Jurisdictions of Qualification of Designated Subsidiaries
EXHIBITS
Exhibit A        - -         Form of Opinion of Company's Inside Counsel
Exhibit B        -         Form of Opinion of Company's Outside Counsel
 
 
 
 
 
February 11, 2003
 
Goldman, Sachs & Co.
Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated
Credit Suisse First Boston LLC
J.P. Morgan Securities, Inc.
Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated
Salomon Smith Barney Inc.
Scotia Capital (USA) Inc.
Banc One Capital Markets, Inc.
BNY Capital Markets, Inc.
Deutsche Bank Securities Inc.
Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein Securities LLC
ING Financial Markets LLC
McDonald Investments Inc., a KeyCorp Company
U.S. Bancorp Piper Jaffray Inc.
UBS Warburg LLC
Wachovia Securities, Inc.
Wells Fargo Brokerage Services, LLC
 
One New York Plaza
New York, New York 10004
 
Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated
4 World Financial Center
New York, New York 10080
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
 
Computer Sciences Corporation, a Nevada corporation (the ""), confirms its agreement with Goldman, Sachs & Co., Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated and each of the other Underwriters named in hereto (collectively, the ""; which term shall also include any underwriter substituted as provided in hereof), for whom Goldman, Sachs & Co. and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated are acting as representatives (in such capacity, the ""), with respect to the issue and sale by the Company and the purchase by the Underwriters, acting severally and not jointly, of
Company
Schedule A
Underwriters
Section 10
Representatives
 
the respective principal amounts set forth in said of $300,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 5.00% Notes due February 15, 2013 (the ""). The Securities are to be issued pursuant to an indenture for the unsubordinated debt securities described therein, dated as of February 10, 2003 (the ""), between the Company and Citibank, N.A., a national banking association, as trustee (the ""), to be supplemented by a supplemental indenture to be executed at the Closing Time between the Company and the Trustee (the "" and the Unsubordinated Indenture, as supplemented by the Supplemental Indenture, the "").
Schedule A
Securities
Unsubordinated Indenture
Trustee
Supplemental Indenture
Indenture
 
The Company understands that the Underwriters propose to make a public offering of the Securities as soon as the Representatives deem advisable after this Agreement has been executed and delivered and the Indenture has been qualified under the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended (the "").
1939 Act
 
The Company has filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "") a registration statement on Form S-3 (No. 333-72034) covering the registration of debt and equity securities of the Company, including the Securities (the ""), under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ""), and the offering thereof from time to time in accordance with Rule 415 of the rules and regulations of the Commission under the 1933 Act (the ""). Such registration statement has been declared effective by the Commission and, at the Closing Time, the Indenture will be duly qualified under the 1939 Act. Such registration statement, as amended at the time it became effective, or, if a post-effective amendment is filed with respect thereto, as amended thereby at the time of such post-effective amendment's effectiveness, including, in each case, the information, if any, deemed to be a part thereof at the time of its effectiveness pursuant to Rule 430A of the 1933 Act Regulations (the "") or Rule 434 of the 1933 Act Regulations (the ""), is referred to herein as the ""; and the prospectus constituting a part of the Registration Statement, as supplemented by each prospectus supplement relating to the offering of the Securities (whether or not such prospectus supplement is required to be filed with the Commission pursuant to Rule 434 of the 1933 Act Regulations), in the forms first furnished to the Underwriters by the Company to confirm sales of the Securities, including any such prospectus supplement filed pursuant to Rule 424(b) (the ""), are collectively referred to herein as the ""; , , that all references to the "Registration Statement" and the "Prospectus" or any amendments or supplements thereto shall also be deemed to include all documents incorporated therein by reference pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the ""), prior to the execution hereof; , , that the Prospectus Supplement shall be deemed to have supplemented the Prospectus only with respect to the offering of the Shelf Securities to which it relates. If the Company files a registration statement with the Commission pursuant to Rule 462(b) of the 1933 Act Regulations (the ""), then, after such filing, all references to "Registration Statement" shall also be deemed to include the Rule 462(b) Registration Statement; that, if the Company elects to rely upon Rule 434 of the 1933 Act Regulations, then all references to "Prospectus" shall also be deemed to include the prospectus and the applicable term sheet or abbreviated term sheet (the ""), as the case may be, in the forms first furnished to the Underwriters by the Company in reliance upon Rule 434 of the 1933 Act Regulations, and all references to the date of the Prospectus shall mean the date of the Term Sheet. A "preliminary prospectus supplement" shall
Commission
Shelf Securities
1933 Act
1933 Act Regulations
Rule 430A Information
Rule 434 Information
Registration Statement
Prospectus Supplement
Prospectus
provided
however
1934 Act
provided
further
Rule 462(b) Registration Statement
provided
Term Sheet
 
be deemed to refer to each prospectus supplement relating to the Securities filed by the Company pursuant to the 1933 Act containing a "Subject to Completion" legend as described in paragraph 10 of Item 501 of Regulation S-K of the 1933 Act Regulations. For purposes of this Agreement, all references to the Registration Statement, any preliminary prospectus, preliminary prospectus supplement, the Prospectus or any Term Sheet or any amendment or supplement to any of the foregoing shall be deemed to include the copy filed with the Commission pursuant to its Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis and Retrieval system ("").
EDGAR
 
All references in this Agreement to financial statements and schedules and other information which is "contained," "included" or "stated" (or other references of like import) in the Registration Statement, any preliminary prospectus, preliminary prospectus supplement or the Prospectus shall be deemed to mean and include all such financial statements and schedules and other information which is incorporated by reference therein, as of the effective date of the Registration Statement, or as of the date of any preliminary prospectus, preliminary prospectus supplement or the Prospectus, as the case may be.
 
SECTION 1.    
Representations and Warranties.
 
(a)    The Company represents and warrants to each Underwriter as of the date hereof and as of the Closing Time referred to in hereof and agrees with each Underwriter, as follows:
  Representations and Warranties by Company.
Section 2(b)
 
        (1)      The Company meets the requirements for use of Form S-3 under the 1933 Act. The Registration Statement has become effective under the 1933 Act and no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement has been issued under the 1933 Act and no proceedings for that purpose have been instituted or, to the knowledge of the Company, are threatened by the Commission, and any request on the part of the Commission for additional information has been complied with.
Compliance with Registration Requirements.
 
As of the applicable effective date of the Registration Statement and any amendment or supplement thereto and at the Closing Time, the Registration Statement (as amended or supplemented) complied or will comply, as the case may be, in all material respects with the requirements of the 1933 Act and the 1933 Act Regulations and did not, as of the applicable effective date of the Registration Statement and any amendment or supplement thereto, contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading. The Registration Statement, as of the date hereof and at the Closing Time, complies and will comply in all material respects with the 1939 Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder (the ""). The Prospectus (taking into account any amendments or any applicable prospectus supplement contained therein), at the time the Prospectus or any such amendment or supplement was issued and at the Closing Time, did not and will not contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the representations and warranties contained in this subsection shall not apply to (i) that part of the Registration Statement which constitutes the Statement of Eligibility and Qualification (Form T-1) of the Trustee under the 1939 Act, and (ii) statements or omissions in the Registration Statement or the Prospectus made in reliance upon and in conformity with information relating to any Underwriter furnished to the
1939 Act Regulations
 
Company in writing by such Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use therein. The prospectus filed as part of the Registration Statement as originally filed or as part of any amendment thereto complied or will comply, as the case may be, in all material respects with the 1933 Act Regulations when so filed. If the Company elects to rely upon Rule 434 of the 1933 Act Regulations, the Company will comply with the requirements of Rule 434. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the representations and warranties in this subsection shall not apply to statements in or omissions from the Registration Statement or the Prospectus made in reliance upon and in conformity with information furnished to the Company in writing by any Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use in the Registration Statement or the Prospectus.
 
        (2)      The documents incorporated or deemed to be incorporated by reference in the Prospectus at the time they were or hereafter are filed with the Commission complied and will comply in all material respects with the requirements of the 1933 Act or the 1934 Act, as applicable, and, when read together with the other information in the Prospectus, at the date of the Prospectus and at the Closing Date, do not and will not include an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; that this representation, warranty and agreement shall not apply to pricing information omitted in the preliminary prospectus or preliminary prospectus supplement or to statements in or omissions from the Prospectus made in reliance upon and in conformity with information furnished to the Company in writing by any Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use in the Prospectus.
Incorporated Documents.
provided
 
        (3)      The accountants who certified the financial statements and supporting schedules included in the Registration Statement and the Prospectus (including any financial statements and supporting schedules incorporated by reference therein) are independent certified public accountants with respect to the Company, within the meaning of Regulation S-X under the 1933 Act and the 1934 Act.
Independent Accountants.
 
        (4)      The financial statements, together with the related schedules and notes, included or incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement and the Prospectus present fairly (i) the financial position of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries at the dates indicated, (ii) the statement of operations of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries for the periods specified, and (iii) stockholders' equity and cash flows of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries for the periods specified; said financial statements have been prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles ("") applied on a consistent basis throughout the periods involved. The supporting schedules, if any, included in or incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement and the Prospectus present fairly in accordance with GAAP the information required to be stated therein. The selected financial information included in the Registration Statement and the Prospectus present fairly the information shown therein and has been compiled on a basis consistent with that of the audited financial statements included in the Registration Statement and the Prospectus.
Financial Statements.
GAAP
 
        (5)      Since the respective dates as of which information is given in the Registration Statement and the Prospectus, except as otherwise described therein, (i) there has been no material adverse change, or any development involving a
No Material Adverse Change in Business.
 
prospective material adverse change, in the condition, financial or otherwise, or in the earnings, assets, properties or business affairs of the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole, whether or not arising in the ordinary course of business (a ""), (ii) there has been no material change in the capital stock of the Company or the long-term debt of the Company and its subsidiaries and (iii) there has been no dividend or distribution of any kind declared, paid or made by the Company on any class of its capital stock.
Material Adverse Effect
 
        (6)      The Company has been duly organized and is validly existing as a corporation in good standing under the laws of the State of Nevada and has corporate power and authority to own, lease and operate its properties and to conduct its business as described in the Prospectus and to enter into and perform its obligations under this Agreement. The Company is duly qualified as a foreign corporation to transact business in all 50 states of the United States (except for the state of its incorporation) and is in good standing in all 50 states of the United States.
Good Standing of Company.
 
        (7)  .
Good Standing of Designated Subsidiaries
 
(i)  CSC Consulting, Inc., CSC Credit Services, Inc., CSC Healthcare, Inc., Mynd Corporation and Computer Sciences UK Limited shall hereinafter each be referred to as a "" and collectively as the "." Each of the Designated Subsidiaries, other than Computer Sciences UK Limited, has been duly organized and is validly existing as a corporation in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation, has corporate power and authority to own, lease and operate its properties and to conduct its business as described in the Prospectus and is duly qualified as a foreign corporation to transact business and is in good standing in each jurisdiction in which such qualification is required, whether by reason of the ownership or leasing of property or the conduct of business, except where the failure so to qualify or to be in good standing would not result in a Material Adverse Effect (all such jurisdictions are listed on hereto). Except as otherwise disclosed in the Prospectus, all of the issued and outstanding capital stock of each such Designated Subsidiary (other than Computer Sciences UK Limited) has been duly authorized and validly issued, is fully paid and non-assessable and is owned by the Company, directly or through subsidiaries, free and clear of any security interest, mortgage, pledge, lien, encumbrance, claim or equity. None of the outstanding shares of capital stock of any Designated Subsidiary (other than Computer Sciences UK Limited) was issued in violation of any preemptive or similar rights arising by operation of law, or under the charter or bylaws of any Designated Subsidiary (other than Computer Sciences UK Limited) or under any agreement to which the Company or any Designated Subsidiary (other than Computer Sciences UK Limited) is a party. The Company has no "significant subsidiaries" (as such term is defined in Rule 1-02 of Regulation S-X promulgated under the 1933 Act ("")) other than the Designated Subsidiaries; , , that the Company makes no representation that any Designated Subsidiary is a "significant subsidiary" (as such term is defined in Rule 1-02).
Designated Subsidiary
Designated Subsidiaries
Schedule C
Rule 1-02
provided
however
 
(ii)  Computer Sciences UK Limited has been duly incorporated under the laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation, has power and authority to own, lease and operate its properties and to conduct its business as described in the Prospectus. Except as otherwise disclosed in the Prospectus, all of the issued and outstanding shares of Computer Sciences UK Limited have been duly authorized and validly issued, are fully paid and non-assessable and are owned by the
 
Company, directly or through subsidiaries, free and clear of any security interest, mortgage, pledge, lien, encumbrance, claim or equity. None of the outstanding shares of Computer Sciences UK Limited were issued in violation of any preemptive or similar rights arising by operation of law, or under its memorandum and articles of association or under an agreement to which the Company or Computer Sciences UK Limited is a party.
 
        (8)      The authorized, issued and outstanding capital stock of the Company is as set forth in the Prospectus in the column entitled "Actual" under the caption "Capitalization" (except for subsequent issuances or subsequent repurchases, if any, pursuant to employee benefit or option plans referred to in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended March 29, 2002 or subsequent repurchases or cancellations, if any, of restricted stock awards that do not vest upon termination of employment).
Capitalization.
 
        (9)      This Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company.
Authorization of Agreement.
 
        (10)      The Indenture has been duly authorized and, at the Closing Time, will be duly qualified under the 1939 Act and, when duly executed and delivered by the Company at the Closing Time, will constitute a legally valid and binding agreement of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms, except as the enforcement thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency (including, without limitation, all laws relating to fraudulent transfers), reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws relating to or affecting enforcement of creditors' rights generally, or by general principles of equity (regardless of whether enforcement is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law).
Authorization of Indenture.
 
        (11)      The Securities have been duly authorized and, at the Closing Time, will have been duly executed by the Company and, when authenticated in the manner provided for in the Indenture and delivered against payment of the purchase price therefor, will constitute legally valid and binding obligations of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms, except as the enforcement thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency (including, without limitation, all laws relating to fraudulent transfers), reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws relating to or affecting enforcement of creditors' rights generally, or by general principles of equity (regardless of whether enforcement is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law), and will be in the form contemplated by, and entitled to the benefits of, the Indenture.
Authorization of Securities.
 
        (12)      The Indenture and the Securities will conform in all material respects to the respective statements relating thereto contained in the preliminary prospectus supplement and the Prospectus. The Securities will be in substantially the form previously delivered to the Underwriters; , , that the preliminary prospectus supplement excludes certain pricing information.
Description of Securities and Indenture.
provided
however
 
        (13)      Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries is in violation of its charter or bylaws or in default in the performance or observance of any obligation, agreement, covenant or condition contained in any contract, indenture, mortgage, deed of trust, loan or credit agreement, note, lease or other agreement or instrument to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is a party or by which any of them may be bound,
Absence of Defaults and Conflicts.
 
or to which any of the property or assets of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is subject (collectively, the ""), except for such defaults that would not result in a Material Adverse Effect. The execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement, the Indenture, the Securities and any other agreement or instrument entered into or issued or to be entered into or issued by the Company in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby or by the Prospectus Supplement and the consummation of the transactions contemplated herein and in the Prospectus Supplement (including the issuance and sale of the Securities and the use of the proceeds from the sale of the Securities as described in the Prospectus Supplement under the caption "Use of Proceeds") and compliance by the Company with its obligations hereunder and under the Indenture and the Securities have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action and do not and will not, whether with or without the giving of notice or passage of time or both, conflict with or constitute a breach of, or default or a Repayment Event (as defined below) under, or result in the creation or imposition of any lien, charge or encumbrance upon any property or assets of the Company or any of its subsidiaries pursuant to, the Agreements and Instruments except for such conflicts, breaches or defaults or liens, charges or encumbrances that, individually or in the aggregate, would not result in a Material Adverse Effect, nor will such action result in any violation of the provisions of the charter, bylaws or the memorandum and articles of association, as applicable, or other organizational documents of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or any applicable law, statute, rule, regulation, judgment, order, writ or decree of any government, government instrumentality or court, domestic or foreign, having jurisdiction over the Company or any of its subsidiaries or any of their assets or properties. As used herein, a "" means any event or condition which gives the holder of any note, debenture or other evidence of indebtedness (or any person acting on such holder's behalf) the right to require the repurchase, redemption or repayment of all or a portion of such indebtedness by the Company or any of its subsidiaries prior to its scheduled maturity. No consent, approval, authorization, order, license, registration or qualification of or with any such government instrumentality or court is required for the issue and sale of the Securities or the consummation by the Company of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement or the Indenture, except such consents, approvals, authorizations, orders, licenses, registrations or qualifications as have been obtained under the 1933 Act, the 1939 Act and as may be required under state securities or "blue sky" laws in connection with the purchase and distribution of the Securities by the Underwriters.
Agreements and Instruments
Repayment Event
 
        (14)      No labor dispute with the employees of the Company or any of its subsidiaries exists or, to the knowledge of the Company, is imminent, and the Company is not aware of any existing or imminent labor disturbance by the employees of any of its or any subsidiary's principal suppliers, manufacturers, customers or contractors, which, in either case, would result in a Material Adverse Effect.
Absence of Labor Dispute.
 
        (15)      To the knowledge of the Company, there are no actions, suits, proceedings, inquiries or investigations before or brought by any court or governmental agency or body, domestic or foreign, now pending or threatened, against or applicable to the Company or any of its subsidiaries which (i) could reasonably be expected, either individually or in the aggregate, to result in a Material Adverse Effect, or (ii) would materially and adversely affect the consummation of the transactions contemplated in this Agreement or the performance by the Company of its obligations hereunder. There are no contracts or other documents that are required to be filed as exhibits to the Registration
Absence of Proceedings.
 
Statement which are not, or will not be, as of the business day on which the Closing Time occurs, filed as exhibits thereto or incorporated by reference therein as permitted by the 1933 Act Regulations.
 
        (16)      The Company and its subsidiaries own or have the right to use adequate patents, patent rights, licenses, inventions, copyrights, know-how (including trade secrets and other unpatented and/or unpatentable proprietary or confidential information, systems or procedures), trademarks, service marks, trade names or other intellectual property (collectively, "") necessary to carry on the business now operated by them, and neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries has received any notice or is otherwise aware of any infringement of or conflict with asserted rights of others with respect to any Intellectual Property or of any facts or circumstances which would render any Intellectual Property invalid or inadequate to protect the interest of the Company or any of its subsidiaries therein, and which infringement or conflict (if the subject of any unfavorable decision, ruling or finding) or invalidity or inadequacy, individually or in the aggregate, would result in a Material Adverse Effect.
Possession of Intellectual Property.
Intellectual Property
 
        (17)      The Company and its subsidiaries possess such permits, licenses, approvals, consents and other authorizations (collectively, "") issued by the appropriate federal, state, local or foreign regulatory agencies or bodies necessary to conduct the business now operated by them, except where the failure to have any such Governmental License would not, either individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect. The Company and its subsidiaries are in compliance with the terms and conditions of all such Governmental Licenses, except where the failure to comply would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect. All of the Governmental Licenses are valid and in full force and effect, except when the invalidity of such Governmental Licenses or the failure of such Governmental Licenses to be in full force and effect would not have a Material Adverse Effect. Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries has received any notice of proceedings relating to the revocation or modification of any such Governmental Licenses which, individually or in the aggregate, if the subject of an unfavorable decision, ruling or finding, would result in a Material Adverse Effect.
Possession of Licenses and Permits.
Governmental Licenses
 
        (18)      The Company and its subsidiaries have good title to all real property owned by the Company and its subsidiaries, as the case may be, and good title to all other properties owned by them, in each case, free and clear of all mortgages, pledges, liens, security interests, claims, restrictions or encumbrances of any kind except such as (i) are described in the Prospectus or (ii) do not, individually or in the aggregate, interfere with the use made and proposed to be made of such property by the Company or any of its subsidiaries, except where such interferences, either individually or in the aggregate, would not have a Material Adverse Effect. All of the leases and subleases to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is a party and under which the Company or any of its subsidiaries holds properties described in the Prospectus, are in full force and effect, except where the failure to be in full force and effect would not, either individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect. Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries has received any notice of any claim of any sort that has been asserted by anyone adverse to the rights of the Company or any of its subsidiaries under any such leases or subleases, or affecting or questioning the rights of the Company or any of its subsidiaries to the continued possession of the leased or subleased
Title to Property.
 
premises under any such lease or sublease, except where such claim, either individually or in the aggregate, would not have a Material Adverse Effect.
 
        (19)      The Company and its subsidiaries have filed all federal, state, local and foreign tax returns that are required to be filed or have duly requested extensions thereof and have paid all taxes required to be paid by any of them and any related assessments, fines or penalties, except for any such tax, assessment, fine or penalty that is being contested in good faith and by appropriate proceedings, and except where the failure to have made such filings, paid such taxes or requested such extensions would not, either individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect. Adequate charges, accruals and reserves have been provided for in the financial statements referred to in above in respect of all federal, state, local and foreign taxes for all periods as to which the tax liability of the Company or any of its subsidiaries has not been finally determined or remains open to examination by applicable taxing authorities, except where the failure to provide for such adequate charges, accruals and reserves would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect.
Tax Returns.
Section 1(a)(4)
 
        (20)      Except as described in the Prospectus and except as would not, individually or in the aggregate, result in a Material Adverse Effect, (i) neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries is in violation of any federal, state, local or foreign statute, law, rule, regulation, ordinance, code, policy or rule of common law or any judicial or administrative interpretation thereof, including any judicial or administrative order, consent, decree or judgment, relating to pollution or protection of human health, the environment (including, without limitation, ambient air, surface water, groundwater, land surface or subsurface strata) or wildlife, including, without limitation, laws and regulations relating to the release or threatened release of chemicals, pollutants, contaminants, wastes, toxic substances, hazardous substances, petroleum or petroleum products (collectively, "") or to the manufacture, processing, distribution, use, treatment, storage, disposal, transport or handling of Hazardous Materials (collectively, ""), (ii) the Company and its subsidiaries have all permits, authorizations and approvals required under any applicable Environmental Laws and are each in compliance with their requirements, (iii) there are no pending or threatened administrative, regulatory or judicial actions, suits, demands, demand letters, claims, liens, notices of noncompliance or violation, investigation or proceedings relating to any Environmental Laws against the Company or any of its subsidiaries and (iv) there are no events or circumstances that might reasonably be expected to form the basis of an order for clean-up or remediation, or an action, suit or proceeding by any private party or governmental body or agency, against or affecting the Company or any of its subsidiaries relating to Hazardous Materials or Environmental Laws.
Environmental Laws.
Hazardous Materials
Environmental Laws
 
        (21)      The Company is not, and upon the issuance and sale of the Securities as herein contemplated and the application of the net proceeds therefrom as described in the Prospectus will not be, an "investment company" or an entity "controlled" by an "investment company" as such terms are defined in the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the "").
Investment Company Act.
Investment Company Act
 
        (22)      The Company is not aware of any relationship, direct or indirect, between or among the Company or any of its subsidiaries on the one hand, and
Related Transactions.
 
the directors and officers of the Company or any of its subsidiaries on the other hand, which is required by the 1933 Act to be described in the Registration Statement and the Prospectus and which is not so described.
 
(b).    Any certificate signed by any officer of the Company or any of its subsidiaries delivered to the Representatives or to counsel for the Underwriters shall be deemed a representation and warranty by the Company to each Underwriter as to the matters covered thereby.
  Officer's Certificates
 
SECTION 2.    
Sale and Delivery to Underwriters; Closing
 
(a)    On the basis of the representations and warranties herein contained and subject to the terms and conditions herein set forth, the Company agrees to sell to each Underwriter and each Underwriter, severally and not jointly, agrees to purchase from the Company, at the price set forth in , the aggregate principal amount of Securities set forth in opposite the name of such Underwriter, plus any additional principal amount of Securities which such Underwriter may become obligated to purchase pursuant to the provisions of hereof.
  Securities.
Schedule B
Schedule A
Section 10
 
(b)    Payment for the Securities shall be made against delivery to the nominee of The Depository Trust Company for the account of the Underwriters of one or more global notes representing the Securities (collectively, the ""), with transfer taxes payable in connection with the transfer to the Underwriters of the Securities duly paid by the Company on the third (fourth, if the pricing occurs after 4:30 P.M. (Eastern time) on any given day) business day after the date hereof, or such other time not later than ten business days after such date as shall be agreed upon by the Representatives and the Company (such time and date of payment and delivery being herein called the ""). Goldman, Sachs & Co. and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated each individually and not as a representative of the Underwriters, may (but shall not be obligated to) make payment of the purchase price for the Securities to be purchased by any Underwriter whose funds have not been received by the Closing Time, but such payment shall not relieve such Underwriter from its obligations hereunder.
  Payment.
Global Note
Closing Time
 
Payment shall be made to the Company by wire transfer of immediately available funds to a bank account designated by the Company, against delivery of the Global Note as described above.
 
(c)    The Global Note will be made available for examination by the Representatives in The City of New York not later than 11:00 A.M. (Eastern time) on the business day prior to the Closing Time.
  Examination of Global Note.
 
SECTION 3.        The Company covenants with each Underwriter as follows:
Covenants of Company.
 
(a)    The Company, subject to , will comply with the requirements of Rule 430A or Rule 434, if applicable, and will notify the Representatives promptly, and confirm the notice in writing, (i) when any post-effective amendment to the Registration Statement shall become effective, or
  Compliance with Securities Regulations and Commission Requests.
Section 3(b)
 
any supplement to the Prospectus or any amended Prospectus shall have been filed, (ii) of the receipt of any comments from the Commission, (iii) of any request by the Commission for any amendment to the Registration Statement or any amendment or supplement to the Prospectus or for additional information and (iv) of the issuance by the Commission of any stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement or of any order preventing or suspending the use of any preliminary prospectus or preliminary prospectus supplement, or of the suspension of the qualification of the Securities for offering or sale in any jurisdiction, or of the initiation or threatening of any proceedings for any of such purposes. The Company will promptly effect the filings necessary pursuant to Rule 424(b) and will take such steps as it deems necessary to ascertain promptly whether the form of Prospectus transmitted for filing under Rule 424(b) was received for filing by the Commission and, in the event that it was not, it will promptly file such Prospectus. The Company will make every reasonable effort to prevent the issuance of any stop order and, if any stop order is issued, to obtain the lifting thereof at the earliest possible moment.
 
(b)      The Company will give the Representatives notice of its intention to file or prepare any amendment to the Registration Statement, any Term Sheet or any amendment, supplement or revision to either the prospectus included in the Registration Statement at the time it became effective or to the Prospectus, whether pursuant to the 1933 Act, the 1934 Act or otherwise, will furnish the Representatives with copies of any such documents a reasonable amount of time prior to such proposed filing or use, as the case may be, and will not file or use any such document to which the Representatives or counsel for the Underwriters shall reasonably object.
Filing of Amendments.
 
(c)      The Company has furnished or will deliver to the Representatives and counsel for the Underwriters, without charge, conformed copies of the Registration Statement as originally filed and of each amendment thereto (including exhibits filed therewith or incorporated by reference therein and documents incorporated or deemed to be incorporated by reference therein) and conformed copies of all consents and certificates of experts, and will also deliver to the Representatives, without charge, a conformed copy of the Registration Statement as originally filed and of each amendment thereto (without exhibits) for each of the Underwriters. The copies of the Registration Statement and each amendment thereto furnished to the Underwriters will be identical to the electronically transmitted copies thereof filed with the Commission pursuant to EDGAR, except to the extent permitted by Regulation S-T or by Rule 424(b).
Delivery of Registration Statements.
 
(d)      The Company has delivered to each Underwriter, without charge, as many copies of the preliminary prospectus supplement as such Underwriter reasonably requested, and the Company hereby consents to the use of such copies for purposes permitted by the 1933 Act. The Company will furnish to each Underwriter, without charge, during the period when the Prospectus is required to be delivered under the 1933 Act or the 1934 Act, such number of copies of the Prospectus (as amended or supplemented) as such Underwriter may reasonably request. The Prospectus and any amendments or supplements thereto furnished to the Underwriters will be identical to the electronically transmitted copies thereof filed with the Commission pursuant to EDGAR, except to the extent permitted by Regulation S-T or by Rule 424(b).
Delivery of Prospectuses.
 
 
(e)      The Company will comply with the 1933 Act and the 1933 Act Regulations, the 1934 Act and the 1934 Act Regulations and the 1939 Act and the 1939 Act Regulations so as to permit the completion of the distribution of the Securities as contemplated in this Agreement and in the Prospectus. If at any time when a prospectus is required by the 1933 Act to be delivered in connection with sales of the Securities, any event shall occur or condition shall exist as a result of which it is necessary, in the opinion of counsel for the Underwriters or for the Company, to amend the Registration Statement or amend or supplement the Prospectus in order that the Prospectus will not include any untrue statements of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein not misleading in the light of the circumstances existing at the time it is delivered to a purchaser, or if it shall be necessary, in the opinion of such counsel, at any such time to amend the Registration Statement or amend or supplement the Prospectus in order to comply with the requirements of the 1933 Act or the 1933 Act Regulations, the Company will promptly prepare and file with the Commission, subject to , such amendment or supplement as may be necessary to correct such statement or omission or to make the Registration Statement or the Prospectus comply with such requirements, and the Company will furnish to the Underwriters, without charge, such number of copies of such amendment or supplement as the Underwriters may reasonably request.
Continued Compliance with Securities Laws.
Section 3(b)
 
(f)      The Company will use its commercially reasonable best efforts, in cooperation with the Underwriters, to qualify the Securities for offering and sale under the applicable securities laws of such states and other jurisdictions as the Representatives may designate and to maintain such qualifications in effect for as long as may be necessary to complete the distribution of the Securities; , that the Company shall not be obligated to file any general consent to service of process or to qualify as a foreign corporation or as a dealer in securities in any jurisdiction in which it is not so qualified or to subject itself to taxation in respect of doing business in any jurisdiction in which it is not otherwise so subject. In each jurisdiction in which the Securities have been so qualified, the Company will file such statements and reports as may be required by the laws of such jurisdiction to continue such qualification in effect for as long as may be necessary to complete the distribution of the Securities. The Company will also supply the Underwriters with such information as is necessary for the determination of the legality of the Securities for investment under the laws of such jurisdictions as the Underwriters may request.
Blue Sky Qualifications.
provided, however
 
(g)      The Company will timely file such reports pursuant to the 1934 Act as are necessary in order to make generally available to its securityholders as soon as practicable an earnings statement for the purposes of, and to provide the benefits contemplated by, the last paragraph of Section 11(a) of the 1933 Act.
Rule 158.
 
(h)      The Company will use the net proceeds received by it from the sale of the Securities in the manner specified in the Prospectus under "Use of Proceeds".
Use of Proceeds.
 
(i)      During the period from the date hereof to and including the business day following the Closing Time, the Company will not, without first obtaining the written consent of the Representatives, sell or transfer any of its debt securities which are substantially similar to the Securities. Specifically, the Company will not, directly or indirectly: (1) issue, sell, offer or contract to sell any of its debt securities which are
Restriction on Sale of Securities.
 
substantially similar to the Securities; (2) grant any option for the sale of any of its debt securities which are substantially similar to the Securities; or (3) otherwise transfer or dispose of any of its debt securities which are substantially similar to the Securities.
 
The preceding lockup provision applies to (1) the Company's debt securities which are substantially similar to the Securities and (2) to any of the Company's securities convertible into or exercisable or exchangeable for its debt securities which are substantially similar to the Securities.
 
(j)      The Company, during the period when the Prospectus is required to be delivered under the 1933 Act or the 1934 Act, will file all documents required to be filed with the Commission pursuant to the 1934 Act within the time periods required by the 1934 Act and the 1934 Act Regulations.
Reporting Requirements.
 
SECTION 4.    .
Payment of Expenses
 
(a)      The Company will pay all expenses incident to the performance of its obligations under this Agreement, including (i) the preparation, printing and filing of the Registration Statement (including financial statements and exhibits) as originally filed and of each amendment thereto, (ii) the preparation, printing and delivery to the Underwriters of this Agreement, any agreement among the Underwriters, the Indenture and such other documents as may be required in connection with the offering, purchase, sale, issuance or delivery of the Securities, (iii) the preparation, issuance and delivery of the certificates for the Securities to the Underwriters, (iv) the fees and disbursements of the Company's counsel, accountants and other advisors, (v) the qualification of the Securities under securities laws in accordance with the provisions of hereof, including filing fees and the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel for the Underwriters in connection therewith and in connection with the preparation of the Blue Sky Survey and any supplement thereto, (vi) the printing and delivery to the Underwriters of copies of each preliminary prospectus and preliminary prospectus supplement, any Term Sheets and of the Prospectus and any amendments or supplements thereto, (vii) printing and delivery to the Underwriters of copies of any Blue Sky Survey relating to the Securities and any supplement thereto, (viii) the fees and expenses of the Trustee, including the fees and disbursements of counsel for the Trustee in connection with the Indenture and the Securities, and (ix) any fees payable in connection with the rating of the Securities; , that the Underwriters will pay all expenses of their counsel incident to the performance of their obligations under this Agreement and any agreement among the Underwriters (other than fees and disbursements of Latham & Watkins LLP associated with state securities or blue sky laws relating to the Securities).
Expenses.
Section 3(f)
provided, however
 
(b)      If this Agreement is terminated by the Representatives in accordance with the provisions of or hereof, the Company shall reimburse the Underwriters for all of their out-of-pocket expenses, including the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel for the Underwriters.
Termination of Agreement.
Section 5
Section 9(a)(i)
 
SECTION 5.    .    The obligations of the several Underwriters hereunder are subject to the accuracy of the representations and warranties of the Company contained in hereof or in certificates of any officer of the Company or any
Conditions of Underwriters' Obligations
Section 1
 
subsidiary of the Company delivered pursuant to the provisions hereof, to the performance by the Company of its covenants and other obligations hereunder, and to the following further conditions:
 
(a)      The Registration Statement has become effective and at the Closing Time no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement shall have been issued under the 1933 Act or proceedings therefor initiated or threatened by the Commission, and any request on the part of the Commission for additional information shall have been complied with to the reasonable satisfaction of counsel to the Underwriters. The Prospectus shall have been filed with the Commission in accordance with Rule 424(b) or, if the Company has elected to rely upon Rule 434, a Term Sheet shall have been filed with the Commission in accordance with Rule 424(b).
Effectiveness of Registration Statement.
 
(b)      At the Closing Time, the Representatives shall have received the favorable opinions, dated as of the Closing Time, of (i) Hayward D. Fisk, the Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of the Company, in the form attached hereto as and (ii) Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP, counsel for the Company, in the form attached hereto as . In giving such opinion, Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP may rely, as to all matters governed by the laws of jurisdictions other than the law of the State of New York and the federal law of the United States, upon the opinions of counsel satisfactory to the Representatives and counsel to the Underwriters. Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP may also state that, insofar as their opinion involves factual matters, they have relied, to the extent they deem proper, upon certificates of officers of the Company and its subsidiaries and certificates of public officials.
Opinions of Inside and Outside Counsel for Company.
Exhibit A
Exhibit B
 
(c)      At the Closing Time, the Representatives shall have received the favorable opinion, dated as of the Closing Time, of Latham & Watkins LLP, counsel for the Underwriters with respect to the validity of the Indenture and the Securities, the Registration Statement, the Prospectus and other related matters as the Representatives may reasonably request, and such counsel shall have received such papers and information as they may reasonably request to enable them to pass upon such matters.
Opinion of Counsel for Underwriters.
 
(d)      At the Closing Time, other than as described in the Prospectus, there shall not have been, since the date hereof or since the respective dates as of which information is given in the Prospectus, other than as described in the Prospectus, any material adverse change in the condition, financial or otherwise, or in the earnings, business affairs or business prospects of the Company and its subsidiaries considered as one enterprise, whether or not arising in the ordinary course of business, and the Representatives shall have received a certificate of the President or a Vice President of the Company and of the chief financial or chief accounting officer of the Company, dated as of the Closing Time, to the effect that (i) there has been no such material adverse change, (ii) the representations and warranties in hereof are true and correct with the same force and effect as though expressly made at and as of the Closing Time, (iii) the Company has complied with all agreements and satisfied all conditions on its part to be performed or satisfied at or prior to the Closing Time and (iv) no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement has been issued and, to the knowledge of such officer, no proceedings for that purpose have been instituted or are pending or are contemplated by the Commission.
Officers' Certificate.
Section 1(a)
 
 
(e)      At the time of the execution of this Agreement the Representatives shall have received from Deloitte and Touche LLP a letter dated such date, in form and substance satisfactory to the Representatives containing statements and information of the type ordinarily included in accountants' "comfort letters" to underwriters with respect to the financial statements and certain financial information contained in the Registration Statement and the Prospectus.
Accountant's Comfort Letter.
 
(f)      At the Closing Time, the Representatives shall have received from Deloitte and Touche LLP a letter, dated as of the Closing Time, to the effect that they reaffirm the statements made in the letter furnished pursuant to , except that the specified date referred to shall be a date not more than three business days prior to the Closing Time.
Bring-down Comfort Letter.
Section 5(e)
 
(g)      At the Closing Time, the Securities shall be rated at least "A2" by Moody's Investors Service Inc., "A" by Standard & Poor's Ratings Group, a division of McGraw-Hill, Inc., and "A" from Fitch, Inc. Since the date of this Agreement, there shall not have occurred a downgrading in the rating assigned to the Securities or any of the Company's other debt securities by any "nationally recognized statistical rating agency," as that term is defined by the Commission for purposes of Rule 436(g)(2) under the 1933 Act, and no such organization shall have publicly announced that it has under review, with negative implications, its rating of the Securities or any of the Company's other debt securities.
Maintenance of Rating.
 
(h)      At the Closing Time, counsel for the Underwriters shall have been furnished with such documents and opinions as they may require for the purpose of enabling them to pass upon the issuance and sale of the Securities as herein contemplated, or in order to evidence the accuracy of any of the representations or warranties, or the fulfillment of any of the conditions, herein contained; and all proceedings taken by the Company in connection with the issuance and sale of the Securities as herein contemplated shall be satisfactory in form and substance to the Representatives and counsel for the Underwriters.
Additional Documents.
 
(i)      If any condition specified in this shall not have been fulfilled when and as required to be fulfilled, this Agreement may be terminated by the Representatives by notice to the Company at any time at or prior to the Closing Time, and such termination shall be without liability of any party to any other party except as provided in and except that , , and shall survive any such termination and remain in full force and effect.
Termination of Agreement.
Section 5
Section 4
Sections 1
6
7
8
 
SECTION 6.    .
Indemnification
 
(a)      The Company agrees to indemnify and hold harmless each Underwriter and each person, if any, who controls any Underwriter within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act against any and all loss, liability, claim, damage and expense (including, without limitation, any legal fees and expenses incurred in connection with any suit, action or proceeding or any claim asserted and any amounts paid in settlement) whatsoever, as incurred, arising out of any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the Registration Statement (or any amendment thereto), including the Rule 430A Information and the Rule 434 Information, if applicable, or the
Indemnification of Underwriters.
 
omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading or arising out of any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any preliminary prospectus supplement or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto), or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading;
 
, that this indemnity agreement shall not apply to any loss, liability, claim, damage or expense to the extent arising out of any untrue statement or omission or alleged untrue statement or omission made in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use in the Registration Statement (or any amendment thereto), including the Rule 430A Information and the Rule 434 Information, if applicable, or any preliminary prospectus supplement or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto); and , that the indemnity agreement provided in this with respect to any preliminary prospectus supplement shall not inure to the benefit of any Underwriter (or to the benefit of any person controlling such Underwriter) if (i) the person asserting any such loss, claim, damage or expense does so based upon an untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of material fact or the omission or alleged omission thereof in such preliminary prospectus supplement which is eliminated or remedied in the Prospectus (as amended or supplemented if the Company shall have furnished any amendments or supplements thereto); and (ii) such Prospectus (as amended or supplemented and exclusive of any documents incorporated by reference therein) had not been sent or given to such person within the time required by the 1933 Act and the Company has satisfied its obligation pursuant to hereof to furnish such Underwriter with copies of the Prospectus (as amended or supplemented) prior to the confirmation of the sale of the Securities.
provided, however
provided, further
Section 6
Section 3(d)
 
(b)      Each Underwriter severally agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Company, its directors, each of its officers who signed the Registration Statement and each person, if any, who controls the Company within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act against any and all loss, liability, claim, damage and expense described in the indemnity contained in above, as incurred, but only with respect to untrue statements or omissions, or alleged untrue statements or omissions, made in the Registration Statement (or any amendment thereto), including the Rule 430A Information and the Rule 434 Information, if applicable, or any preliminary prospectus supplement or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto) in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by such Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use in the Registration Statement (or any amendment thereto) or any preliminary prospectus supplement or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto).
Indemnification of Company, Directors and Officers.
Section 6(a)
 
(c)      Each indemnified party shall give notice as promptly as reasonably practicable to each indemnifying party of any action commenced against it in respect of which indemnity may be sought hereunder, but failure to so notify an indemnifying party shall not relieve such indemnifying party from any liability under this to the extent it is not materially prejudiced as a result thereof and in any event shall not relieve it from any liability which it may have otherwise than on account of this indemnity agreement. In the case of parties indemnified pursuant to above, counsel to the
Actions Against Parties; Notification.
Section 6
Section 6(a)
 
indemnified parties shall be selected by the Representatives, and, in the case of parties indemnified pursuant to above, counsel to the indemnified parties shall be selected by the Company. An indemnifying party may participate at its own expense in the defense of any such action; , , that counsel to the indemnifying party shall not (except with the consent of the indemnified party) also be counsel to the indemnified party. In no event shall the indemnifying parties be liable for fees and expenses of more than one counsel (in addition to any local counsel) separate from their own counsel for all indemnified parties in connection with any one action or separate but similar or related actions in the same jurisdiction arising out of the same general allegations or circumstances. No indemnifying party shall, without the prior written consent of the indemnified parties, settle or compromise or consent to the entry of any judgment with respect to any litigation, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened, or any claim whatsoever in respect of which indemnification or contribution could be sought under this or hereof (whether or not the indemnified parties are actual or potential parties thereto), unless such settlement, compromise or consent (i) includes an unconditional release of each indemnified party from all liability arising out of such litigation, investigation, proceeding or claim and (ii) does not include a statement as to or an admission of fault, culpability or a failure to act by or on behalf of any indemnified party.
Section 6(b)
provided
however
Section 6
Section 7
 
(d)      If at any time an indemnified party shall have requested an indemnifying party to reimburse the indemnified party for fees and expenses of counsel, such indemnifying party agrees that it shall be liable for any settlement effected without its written consent if (i) such settlement is entered into more than 45 days after receipt by such indemnifying party of the aforesaid request and (ii) such indemnifying party shall not have reimbursed such indemnified party in accordance with such request prior to the date of such settlement; , that the indemnifying party shall not be liable for any settlement of any proceeding effected without its written consent if (x) such indemnifying party reimburses such indemnified party in accordance with such aforesaid request to the extent the indemnifying party in good faith considers such request to be reasonable and (y) such indemnifying party provides written notice to the indemnified party stating that in good faith the indemnifying party believes the unpaid balance to be unreasonable and substantiating the reasons therefor, in each case prior to the date of such settlement.
Settlement without Consent if Failure to Reimburse.
provided, however
 
SECTION 7.    .    If the indemnification provided for in hereof is for any reason unavailable to or insufficient to hold harmless an indemnified party in respect of any losses, liabilities, claims, damages or expenses referred to therein, then each indemnifying party shall contribute to the aggregate amount of such losses, liabilities, claims, damages and expenses incurred by such indemnified party, as incurred, (i) in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by the Company on the one hand and the Underwriters on the other hand from the offering of the Securities pursuant to this Agreement or (ii) if the allocation provided by clause (i) is not permitted by applicable law, in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only the relative benefits referred to in clause (i) above but also the relative fault of the Company on the one hand and of the Underwriters on the other hand in connection with the statements or omissions which resulted in such losses, liabilities, claims, damages or expenses, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations.
Contribution
Section 6
 
 
The relative benefits received by the Company on the one hand and the Underwriters on the other hand in connection with the offering of the Securities pursuant to this Agreement shall be deemed to be in the same respective proportions as the total net proceeds from the offering of the Securities pursuant to this Agreement (before deducting expenses) received by the Company and the total underwriting discounts and commissions received by the Underwriters, in each case as set forth on the cover of the Prospectus, or, if Rule 434 is used, the corresponding location on the Term Sheet, bear to the aggregate initial public offering price of the Securities as set forth on such cover.
 
The relative fault of the Company on the one hand and the Underwriters on the other hand shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether any such untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Company or by the Underwriters and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission.
 
The Company and the Underwriters agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this were determined by pro rata allocation (even if the Underwriters were treated as one entity for such purpose) or by any other method of allocation which does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to above in this . The aggregate amount of losses, liabilities, claims, damages and expenses incurred by an indemnified party and referred to above in this shall be deemed to include any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by such indemnified party in investigating, preparing or defending against any litigation, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened, or any claim whatsoever based upon any such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission.
Section 7
Section 7
Section 7
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of this , no Underwriter shall be required to contribute any amount in excess of the amount by which the total price at which the Securities underwritten by it and distributed to the public were offered to the public exceeds the amount of any damages which such Underwriter has otherwise been required to pay by reason of any such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission.
Section 7
 
No person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the 1933 Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation.
 
For purposes of this , each person, if any, who controls an Underwriter within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act shall have the same rights to contribution as such Underwriter, and each director of the Company, each officer of the Company who signed the Registration Statement, and each person, if any, who controls the Company within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act shall have the same rights to contribution as the Company.
Section 7
 
SECTION 8.    .    All representations, warranties and agreements contained in this Agreement or in certificates of officers of the Company or any of its subsidiaries submitted pursuant hereto, shall remain
Representations, Warranties and Agreements to Survive Delivery
 
operative and in full force and effect, regardless of any investigation made by or on behalf of any Underwriter or controlling person, or by or on behalf of the Company, and shall survive delivery of the Securities to the Underwriters.
 
SECTION 9.    .
Termination of Agreement
 
(a)      The Representatives may terminate this Agreement, by notice to the Company, at any time at or prior to the Closing Time (i) if there has been, since the time of execution of this Agreement or since the respective dates as of which information is given in the Prospectus, any material adverse change in the condition, financial or otherwise, or in the earnings, business affairs or business prospects of the Company and its subsidiaries considered as one enterprise, whether or not arising in the ordinary course of business, the effect of which, in the judgment of the Representatives makes it impracticable or inadvisable to proceed with the public offering or delivery of the Securities at the Closing Time on the terms and in the manner contemplated in the Prospectus, or (ii) if there has occurred any material adverse change in the financial markets in the United States or the international financial markets, any outbreak of hostilities or escalation thereof involving the United States or the declaration by the United States of a national emergency or war or other calamity or crisis or any change or development involving a prospective change in national or international political, financial or economic conditions in the United States or elsewhere, in each case the effect of which is such as to make it, in the judgment of the Representatives, impracticable or inadvisable to proceed with the public offering or the delivery of the Securities on the terms and in the manner contemplated in the Prospectus as first amended or supplemented relating to the Securities, or (iii) if trading in any securities of the Company has been suspended or materially limited by the Commission or the New York Stock Exchange, or if trading generally on the American Stock Exchange or the New York Stock Exchange or in the Nasdaq National Market has been suspended or materially limited, or minimum or maximum prices for trading have been fixed, or maximum ranges for prices have been required, by any of said exchanges or by such system or by order of the Commission, the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. or any other governmental authority, or (iv) if a banking moratorium has been declared by either Federal or New York authorities or if there has been, since the time of execution of this Agreement, a material disruption in commercial banking or securities settlement or clearance services in the United States.
Termination; General.
 
(b)      If this Agreement is terminated pursuant to this , such termination shall be without liability of any party to any other party except as provided in hereof, and provided further that , , and shall survive such termination and remain in full force and effect.
Liabilities.
Section 9
Section 4
Sections 1
6
7
8
 
SECTION 10.    . If one or more of the Underwriters shall fail at the Closing Time to purchase the Securities which it or they are obligated to purchase under this Agreement (the ""), the Representatives shall have the right, within 24 hours thereafter, to make arrangements for one or more of the non-defaulting Underwriters, or any other underwriters, to purchase all, but not less than all, of the Defaulted Securities in such amounts as may be agreed upon and upon the terms herein set forth; if, however, the Representatives shall not have completed such arrangements within such 24-hour period, then:
Default by One or More of Underwriters
Defaulted Securities
 
 
(i)  if the number of Defaulted Securities does not exceed 10% of the aggregate principal amount of the Securities to be purchased hereunder, each of the non-defaulting Underwriters shall be obligated, severally and not jointly, to purchase the full amount thereof in the proportions that their respective underwriting obligations hereunder bear to the underwriting obligations of all non-defaulting Underwriters, or
 
(ii)  if the number of Defaulted Securities exceeds 10% of the aggregate principal amount of the Securities to be purchased hereunder, this Agreement shall terminate without liability on the part of any non-defaulting Underwriter or the Company.
 
No action taken pursuant to this shall relieve any defaulting Underwriter from liability in respect of its default.
Section 10
 
In the event of any such default which does not result in a termination of this Agreement, either the Representatives or the Company shall have the right to postpone the Closing Time for a period not exceeding seven days in order to effect any required changes in the Registration Statement or Prospectus or in any other documents or arrangements. As used herein, the term "" includes any person substituted for an Underwriter under this .
Underwriter
Section 10
 
SECTION 11.    .    All notices and other communications hereunder shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given if mailed or transmitted by any standard form of telecommunication. Notices to the Underwriters shall be directed to the Underwriters at Goldman, Sachs & Co., 1 Liberty Plaza, 7
Notices
th
Floor, New York, New York 10006, attention of Don Hansen and at Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, 3075B Hansen Way, Palo Alto, California 94304, attention of Matthew Pendo; and notices to the Company shall be directed to it at 2100 East Grand Avenue, El Segundo, California 90245, attention of Hayward D. Fisk, Esq. and Stephen E. Johnson, Esq.
 
SECTION 12.        This Agreement shall each inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the Underwriters and the Company and their respective successors. Nothing expressed or mentioned in this Agreement is intended or shall be construed to give any person, firm or corporation, other than the Underwriters and the Company and their respective successors and the controlling persons and officers and directors referred to in and and their heirs and legal representatives, any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or in respect of this Agreement or any provision herein contained. This Agreement and all conditions and provisions hereof are intended to be for the sole and exclusive benefit of the Underwriters and the Company and their respective successors, and said controlling persons and officers and directors and their heirs and legal representatives, and for the benefit of no other person, firm or corporation. No purchaser of Securities from any Underwriter shall be deemed to be a successor by reason merely of such purchase.
Parties.
Sections 6
7
 
SECTION 13.    .    THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK WITHOUT GIVING EFFECT TO THE CONFLICTS OF LAWS PROVISIONS THEREOF. EXCEPT AS OTHERWISE SET FORTH HEREIN, SPECIFIED TIMES OF DAY REFER TO NEW YORK CITY TIME.
GOVERNING LAW AND TIME
 
SECTION 14. . The Article and Section headings herein and the Table of Contents are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof.
Effect of Headings
 
 
If the foregoing is in accordance with your understanding of our agreement, please sign and return to the Company a counterpart hereof, whereupon this Agreement, along with all counterparts, will become a binding agreement between the Underwriters and the Company in accordance with its terms.
 
 
CONFIRMED AND ACCEPTED,
as of the date first above written:
 
GOLDMAN, SACHS & CO.
MERRILL LYNCH, PIERCE, FENNER & SMITH INCORPORATED
Credit Suisse First Boston LLC
J.P. Morgan Securities, Inc.
Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated
Salomon Smith Barney Inc.
Scotia Capital (USA) Inc.
Banc One Capital Markets, Inc.
BNY Capital Markets, Inc.
Deutsche Bank Securities Inc.
Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein Securities LLC
ING Financial Markets LLC
McDonald Investments Inc., a KeyCorp Company
U.S. Bancorp Piper Jaffray Inc.
UBS Warburg LLC
Wachovia Securities, Inc.
Wells Fargo Brokerage Services, LLC
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.    The initial public offering price of the Securities shall be 98.746% of the principal amount thereof, plus accrued interest, if any, from the date of issuance.
 
2.    The purchase price to be paid by the Underwriters for the Securities shall be 98.096% of the principal amount thereof.
 
3.    The interest rate on the Securities shall be 5.00% per annum.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.    The Company is a Nevada corporation duly qualified as a foreign corporation to transact business in each of the other 49 states of the United States and is in good standing in all 50 states.
 
2.    The authorized, issued and outstanding capital stock of the Company is as set forth in the Prospectus in the column entitled "Actual" under the caption "Capitalization" (except for subsequent issuances or subsequent repurchases, if any, pursuant to employee benefit or option plans referred to in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended March 29, 2002 or subsequent repurchases or cancellations, if any, of restricted stock awards that do not vest upon termination of employment).
 
3.    Each Designated Subsidiary other than Computer Sciences UK Limited ("CSC UK") has been duly organized and is validly existing as a corporation, in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation, has power and authority to own, lease and operate its properties and to conduct its business as described in the Prospectus and is duly qualified as a foreign corporation to transact business and is ingood standing in each jurisdiction in which such qualification is required, whether by reason of the ownership or leasing of property or the conduct of business, except where the failure so to qualify or to be ingood standing would not result in a Material Adverse Effect (all such jurisdictions are listed on Schedule I hereto); except as otherwise disclosed in the Prospectus, all of the issued and outstanding capital stock of each such Designated Subsidiary (other than CSC UK) has been duly authorized and validly issued, is fully paid and non-assessable and is owned by the Company, directly or through subsidiaries, free and clear of any security interest, mortgage, pledge, lien, encumbrance, claim or equity; none of the outstanding shares of capital stock of any Designated Subsidiary (other than CSC UK) was issued in violation of any preemptive or similar rights arising by operation of law, or under the charter or by-laws of any Designated Subsidiary (other than CSC UK) or under an agreement to which the Company or any Designated Subsidiary (other than CSC UK) is a party.
 
CSC UK has been duly incorporated under the laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation, has power and authority to own, lease and operate its properties and to conduct its business as described in the Prospectus. Except as otherwise disclosed in the Prospectus, all of the issued and outstanding shares of CSC UK have been duly authorized and validly issued, are fully paid and non-assessable and are owned by the Company, directly or through subsidiaries, free and clear of any security interest, mortgage, pledge, lien, encumbrance, claim or equity; none of the outstanding shares of CSC UK were issued in violation of any preemptive or similar rights arising by operation of law, or under its memorandum and articles of association or under an agreement to which the Company or CSC UK is a party.
 
 
4.    The execution, delivery and performance of the Underwriting Agreement, the Indenture and the Securities, and the consummation of the transactions contemplated in the Underwriting Agreement and in the Prospectus (including the issuance and sale of the Securities and the use of the proceeds from the sale of the Securities as described in the Prospectus under the caption "Use of Proceeds"), and compliance by the Company with its obligations under the Underwriting Agreement, the Indenture and the Securities, do not and will not, whether with or without the giving of notice or lapse of time or both, conflict with or constitute a breach of, or default or repayment event under or result in the creation or imposition of any lien, charge or encumbrance upon any property or assets of the Company or any of its subsidiaries pursuant to any contract, indenture, mortgage, deed of trust, loan or credit agreement, note, lease or any other agreement or instrument, known to me, to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is a party or by which it or any of them may be bound, or to which any of the property or assets of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is subject (except for such conflicts, breaches or defaults or liens, charges or encumbrances that would not have a Material Adverse Effect), nor will such action result in any violation of the provisions of the applicable organizational documents, charter or bylaws or, if applicable, the memorandum and articles of association of any of the subsidiaries of the Company. No consent, approval, authorization, order, license, registration or qualification of or with any such government instrumentality or court is required for the issue and sale of the Securities or the consummation by the Company of the transactions contemplated by the Underwriting Agreement or the Indenture, except such consents, approvals, authorizations, orders, licenses, registrations or qualifications as have been obtained under the 1933 Act, the 1939 Act and as may be required under state securities or "blue sky" laws in connection with the purchase and distribution of the Securities by the Underwriters.
 
5.    The documents incorporated by reference in the Prospectus (other than the financial statements and supporting schedules included therein or omitted therefrom, as to which I express no opinion), when they became effective or were filed with the Commission, as the case may be, complied as to form in all material respects with the requirements of the Securities Act or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as applicable, and the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder.
 
6.    To my knowledge, there are no actions, suits, proceedings, inquiries or investigations before or brought by any court or governmental agency or body, domestic or foreign, now pending or threatened, against or applicable to the Company or any of its subsidiaries which (i) could reasonably be expected, either individually or in the aggregate, to result in a Material Adverse Effect, or (ii) would materially and adversely affect the consummation of the transactions contemplated in the Underwriting Agreement or the performance by the Company of its obligations thereunder.
 
7.    There are no franchises, contracts, indentures, mortgages, loan agreements, notes, leases or other instruments required to be described or referred to in the Prospectus or to be filed as exhibits thereto other than those described or referred to therein or filed or incorporated by reference as exhibits thereto, and the descriptions thereof or references thereto are correct in all material respects.
 
8.    The Company and its subsidiaries possess such Governmental Licenses issued by the appropriate federal, state, local or foreign regulatory agencies or bodies necessary
 
to conduct the business now operated by them, except where the failure to have any such Governmental License would not, either individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect; the Company and its subsidiaries are in compliance with the terms and conditions of all such Governmental Licenses, except where the failure so to comply would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect; all of the Governmental Licenses are valid and in full force and effect, except where the invalidity of such Governmental Licenses or the failure of such Governmental Licenses to be in full force and effect would not have a Material Adverse Effect; and neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries has received any notice of proceedings relating to the revocation or modification of any such Governmental Licenses which, individually or in the aggregate, if the subject of an unfavorable decision, ruling or finding, would result in a Material Adverse Effect.
 
I have participated in conferences with officers and representatives of the Company, representatives of the independent public accountants for the Company and the Representatives and their counsel at which the contents of the Registration Statement and Prospectus and related matters were discussed. Except as set forth in paragraph 2, I have not undertaken to determine independently the accuracy, completeness or fairness of the statements contained in the Registration Statement or Prospectus (including, without limitation, the financial statements, notes thereto, financial statement schedules, other financial or accounting data included or incorporated by reference therein or omitted therein or information derived therefrom, as to which I make no comment) and because of the limitations inherent in the examination made by me and knowledge available to me and the nature and extent of my participation in such conferences, except as set forth in paragraph 2, I am not passing upon and am unable to assume, explicitly or implicitly, and, except as set forth in paragraph 2, I do not assume, any responsibility for the accuracy, completeness or fairness of such statements and I can give no assurance that such examination, knowledge and participation in such conferences would necessarily reveal matters of significance with respect to the items discussed in the remainder of this paragraph. However, based on and subject to the foregoing, nothing has come to my attention that would lead me to believe that the Registration Statement (except for financial statements, notes thereto, financial statement schedules, other financial or accounting data included or incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement or omitted therefrom or information derived therefrom, as to which I make no statement), at the time it became effective, contained an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading or that the Prospectus (except for financial statements, notes thereto, financial statement schedules, other financial or accounting data included or incorporated by reference therein or omitted therefrom or information derived therefrom, as to which I make no statement), as of the date of the Prospectus or at the Closing Time, contained an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted or omits to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading (it being understood that I make no statement and express no belief with respect to that part of the Registration Statement that constitutes the Form T-1).
 
 
 
1.    The Company has been duly incorporated and is validly existing and in good standing as a corporation under the laws of the State of Nevada.
 
2.    The Company has corporate power and authority to own, lease and operate its properties and to conduct its business as described in the Prospectus and to enter into and perform its obligations under the Underwriting Agreement.
 
3.    The Underwriting Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company.
 
4.    The Indenture has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company and (assuming the due authorization, execution and delivery thereof by the Trustee) constitutes a legally valid and binding agreement of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms. The Indenture has been duly qualified under the Trust Indenture Act.
 
5.    The Securities are in the form contemplated by the Indenture, have been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company and, assuming that the Securities have been duly authenticated by the Trustee in the manner described in the authentication order delivered to the Trustee by the Company on the date hereof upon payment therefor, the Securities have been duly issued and delivered by the Company and constitute legally valid and binding obligations of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms and will be entitled to the benefits of the Indenture.
 
6.    The Securities and the Indenture conform in all material respects to the descriptions thereof contained in the Prospectus.
 
7.    The statements set forth in the Registration Statement under the heading "Indemnification of Directors and Officers" and in the Prospectus under the heading "Description of Debt Securities," in each case insofar as such statements constitute a summary of legal matters, documents or proceedings referred to therein, fairly present the information called for with respect to such legal matters, documents or proceedings.
 
8.    No filing with, or authorization, approval, consent, license, order, registration, qualification or decree of, any court or governmental authority or agency, other than under the blue sky laws of the various states and/or foreign jurisdictions (as to which we render no opinion), is necessary or required in connection with the due authorization, execution and delivery of the Underwriting Agreement or the due execution, delivery or performance of the Indenture by the Company or for the offering, issuance, sale or delivery of the Securities, except such authorization, approval, consent, license, order, registration, qualification or decree as have been obtained under the Securities Act and the Trust Indenture Act.
 
 
9.    The execution, delivery and performance of the Underwriting Agreement, the Indenture and the Securities and the consummation of the transactions contemplated in the Underwriting Agreement and compliance by the Company with its obligations under the Underwriting Agreement, the Indenture and the Securities do not and will not, whether with or without the giving of notice or lapse of time or both, conflict with, constitute a breach of or result in any violation of, the provisions of the charter or by-laws of the Company, or any applicable law, statute, rule, regulation, judgment, order, writ or decree, known to us, of any government, government instrumentality or court having jurisdiction over the Company or any of its subsidiaries or any of its properties, assets or operations.
 
10.    The Company is not an "investment company", as such term is defined in the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended.
 
11.    The Registration Statement, including the Rule 430A Information and the Rule 434 Information, as applicable, and the Prospectus, in each case including the exhibits attached to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Commission as of the date hereof, but otherwise excluding the documents incorporated by reference therein, and each amendment or supplement to the Registration Statement and Prospectus, in each case including the exhibits attached to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Commission as of the date hereof, but otherwise excluding the documents incorporated by reference therein, as of their respective effective or issue dates (other than the financial statements, supporting schedules and other financial or accounting data included therein or omitted therefrom, and the Form T-1, as to which we express no opinion) complied as to form in all material respects with the requirements of the Securities Act and the 1933 Act Regulations.
 
We have participated in conferences with officers and representatives of the Company, representatives of the independent public accountants for the Company and the Representatives and their counsel at which the contents of the Registration Statement and Prospectus and related matters were discussed. Except as set forth in paragraph 7, we have not undertaken to determine independently the accuracy, completeness or fairness of the statements contained in the Registration Statement or Prospectus (including, without limitation, the financial statements, notes thereto, financial statement schedules, valuation of contracts or other financial, statistical or accounting data included or incorporated by reference therein or omitted therein or information derived therefrom, as to which we make no comment) and because of the limitations inherent in the examination made by us and knowledge available to us and the nature and extent of our participation in such conferences, except as set forth in paragraph 7, we are not passing upon and are unable to assume, explicitly or implicitly, and, except as set forth in paragraph 7, we do not assume, any responsibility for the accuracy, completeness or fairness of such statements and we can give no assurance that such examination, knowledge and participation in such conferences would necessarily reveal matters of significance with respect to the items discussed in the remainder of this paragraph. However, based on and subject to the foregoing, nothing has come to our attention that would lead us to believe that the Registration Statement (except for financial statements, notes thereto, financial statement schedules, other financial, statistical or accounting data, including, without limitation, valuations of contracts, included or incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement or omitted therefrom or information
 
derived therefrom, as to which we make no statement), at the time it became effective, contained an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact required to be stated therein, or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading or that the Prospectus (except for financial statements, notes thereto, financial statement schedules, financial, statistical or accounting data, including, without limitation, valuations of contracts, included or incorporated by reference therein or omitted therefrom or information derived therefrom, as to which we make no statement), as of the date of the Prospectus or at the Closing Time, contained an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted or omits to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading (it being understood that we make no statement and express no belief with respect to that part of the Registration Statement that constitutes the Form T-1).
 

Exhibit 4.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INDENTURE, dated as of February 10, 2003, between Computer Sciences Corporation, a Nevada corporation (the ""), and Citibank, N.A., a national banking association, as trustee (the ""):
Company
Trustee
 
WHEREAS, this Indenture provides for the issuance of unsecured debt securities (hereinafter referred to as the ""), in an unlimited aggregate principal amount to be issued from time to time in one or more series as in this Indenture provided, to be authenticated by the certificate of the Trustee;
Securities
 
WHEREAS, this Indenture is subject to the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act that are deemed to be incorporated into this Indenture and shall, to the extent applicable, be governed by such provisions; and
 
WHEREAS, all things necessary to make this Indenture a valid agreement of the Company, in accordance with its terms, have been done.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and the purchase of the Securities by the holders thereof, it is mutually covenanted and agreed as follows for the equal and ratable benefit of the holders of Securities:
 
 
 
Section 1.01    .
Definitions of Terms
 
The terms defined in this Section 1.01 (except as in this Indenture otherwise expressly provided or unless the context otherwise requires) for all purposes of this Indenture and of any indenture supplemental hereto shall have the respective meanings specified in this Section 1.01 and shall include the plural as well as the singular. All other terms used in this Indenture that are defined in the Trust Indenture Act or that are by reference in the Trust Indenture Act defined in the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "") (except as herein otherwise expressly provided or unless the context otherwise requires), shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in said Trust Indenture Act and in said Securities Act as in force at the date of the execution of this instrument.
Securities Act
 
"" means, with respect to any series of Securities, one or more Global Securities bearing the Private Placement Legend that will be issued in an aggregate amount of denominations equal in total to the outstanding principal amount of the Securities of such series sold in global form in reliance on Rule 144A.
144A Global Security
 
"" means (a) any Person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with the Company or any other obligor upon the Securities, (b) any spouse, immediate family member or other relative who has the same principal residence of any Person described in (a) above, (c) any trust in which any such Persons described in clause (a) or (b) above has a beneficial interest and (d) any corporation or other organization of which any such Persons described in clause (a), (b) or (c) above collectively own
Affiliate
 
 
more than 50% of the equity of such entity. For purposes of this definition, beneficial ownership of 10% or more of the voting common equity (on a fully diluted basis) or warrants to purchase such equity (whether or not currently exercisable) of a Person shall be deemed to be control of such Person.
 
"" means, with respect to any transfer or exchange of or for beneficial interests in any Global Security for a series of Securities, the rules and procedures of the Depositary, Euroclear and Clearstream that apply to such transfer or exchange at the relevant time.
Applicable Procedures
 
"" means an authenticating agent with respect to all or any of the series of Securities appointed with respect to all or any series of the Securities by the Trustee pursuant to Section 2.10.
Authenticating Agent
 
"" means Title 11, U.S. Code, or any similar federal or state law for the relief of debtors.
Bankruptcy Law
 
"" means the Board of Directors of the Company or any duly authorized committee of such Board of Directors.
Board of Directors
 
"" means a copy of a resolution certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company to have been duly adopted by the Board of Directors and to be in full force and effect on the date of such certification.
Board Resolution
 
"" means, with respect to any series of Securities, any day other than a day on which Federal or State banking institutions in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, or in the city where the office or agency for payment on the Securities is maintained pursuant to Section 4.02 are authorized or obligated by law, executive order or regulation to close.
Business Day
 
"" means any and all shares, interests, participations or other equivalents (however designated) of corporate stock or partnership interests.
Capital Stock
 
"" shall mean Clearstream Banking S.A., or its successors.
Clearstream
 
"" means the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Commission
 
"" means Computer Sciences Corporation, a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Nevada, and, subject to the provisions of Article Ten, shall also include its successors and assigns.
Company
 
"" means the office of the Trustee at which, at any particular time, its corporate trust business shall be principally administered, which office at the date hereof is located at 111 Wall Street, 5th Floor, New York, New York 10005.
Corporate Trust Office
 
"" means Dollars or Foreign Currency.
Currency
 
 
"" means any receiver, trustee, assignee, liquidator, or similar official under any Bankruptcy Law.
Custodian
 
"" means any event, act or condition that with notice or lapse of time, or both, would constitute an Event of Default.
Default
 
"" means a certificated Security registered in the name of the Securityholder thereof and issued in accordance with Section 2.05 hereof.
Definitive Security
 
"" means, with respect to Securities of any series which the Company shall determine will be issued in whole or in part as a Global Security, The Depository Trust Company (""), New York, New York, another clearing agency, or any successor registered as a clearing agency under the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the ""), and any other applicable U.S. or foreign statute or regulation, which, in each case, shall be designated by the Company pursuant to Section 2.01.
Depositary
DTC
Exchange Act
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.15.
Designated Currency
 
"" means the 40-day restricted period as defined in Rule 903(b)(3) under the Securities Act.
Distribution Compliance Period
 
"" or "" means such currency of the United States as at the time of payment is legal tender for the payment of public and private debts.
Dollar
$
 
"" means, with respect to any monetary amount in a Foreign Currency, at any time for the determination thereof, the amount of Dollars obtained by converting such Foreign Currency involved in such computation into Dollars at the spot rate for the purchase of Dollars with the applicable Foreign Currency as quoted by J.P. Morgan Chase Bank (unless another comparable financial institution is designated by the Company) in New York, New York, at approximately 11:00 a.m. (New York time) on the date two business days prior to such determination.
Dollar Equivalent
 
"" shall mean Euroclear Bank S.A./N.V., or its successor, as operator of the Euroclear System.
Euroclear
 
"" means, with respect to Securities of a particular series any event specified in Section 6.01, continued for the period of time, if any, therein designated.
Event of Default
 
"" means a currency issued by the government of any country other than the United States or a composite currency the value of which is determined by reference to the values of the currencies of any group of countries, including "European Currency Units" as determined by the Council of the European Communities from time to time.
Foreign Currency
 
"" means, with respect to any series of Securities, a Security executed by the Company and delivered by the Trustee to the Depositary or pursuant to the Depositary's instruction, all in accordance with the Indenture, which shall be registered in the name of the Depositary or its nominee.
Global Security
 
 
"" means securities that are (i) direct obligations of the United States of America for the payment of which its full faith and credit is pledged or (ii) obligations of a Person controlled or supervised by and acting as an agency or instrumentality of the United States of America, the payment of which is unconditionally guaranteed as a full faith and credit obligation by the United States of America that, in either case, are not callable or redeemable at the option of the issuer thereof, and shall also include a depositary receipt issued by a bank (as defined in Section 3(a)(2) of the Securities Act) as custodian with respect to any such Governmental Obligation or a specific payment of principal of or interest on any such Governmental Obligation held by such custodian for the account of the holder of such depositary receipt; provided, however, that (except as required by law) such custodian is not authorized to make any deduction from the amount payable to the holder of such depositary receipt from any amount received by the custodian in respect of the Governmental Obligation or the specific payment of principal of or interest on the Governmental Obligation evidenced by such depositary receipt.
Governmental Obligations
 
"," "" and "," and other words of similar import, refer to this Indenture as a whole and not to any particular Article, Section or other subdivision.
herein
hereof
hereunder
 
"" means this instrument as originally executed or as it may from time to time be supplemented or amended by one or more indentures supplemental hereto entered into in accordance with the terms hereof.
Indenture
 
"" means any entity that, with respect to DTC, clears through or maintains a direct or indirect, custodial relationship with a Participant.
Indirect Participant
 
"" means an institution that is an "accredited investor" as defined in Rule 501(a)(1), (2), (3) or (7) under the Securities Act, who is not also a QIB.
Institutional Accredited Investor
 
"" when used with respect to any installment of interest on a Security of a particular series, means the date specified herein, in such Security or in a Board Resolution or in an indenture supplemental hereto with respect to such series as the fixed date on which an installment of interest with respect to Securities of that series is due and payable.
Interest Payment Date,
 
"" means the President, the Treasurer, any Assistant Treasurer, Controller, Secretary or any Vice-President of the Company.
Officer
 
"" means a certificate signed by two Officers that is delivered to the Trustee in accordance with the terms hereof. Each such certificate shall include the statements provided for in Section 13.06, if and to the extent required by the provisions thereof.
Officers'
Certificate
 
"" means an opinion in writing of legal counsel, who may be an employee of or counsel for the Company that is delivered to the Trustee in accordance with the terms hereof. Each such opinion shall include the statements provided for in Section 13.06, if and to the extent required by the provisions thereof.
Opinion of Counsel
 
"" when used with reference to Securities of any series, means, subject to the provisions of Section 8.04, as of any particular time, all Securities of that series theretofore authenticated and delivered by the Trustee under this Indenture, except (a) Securities theretofore
Outstanding,
 
 
canceled by the Trustee or any paying agent, or delivered to the Trustee or any paying agent for cancellation or that have previously been canceled; (b) Securities or portions thereof for the payment or redemption of which moneys or Governmental Obligations in the necessary amount shall have been deposited in trust with the Trustee or with any paying agent (other than the Company) or shall have been set aside and segregated in trust by the Company (if the Company shall act as its own paying agent); provided, however, that if such Securities or portions of such Securities are to be redeemed prior to the maturity thereof, notice of such redemption shall have been given as in Article Three provided, or provision satisfactory to the Trustee shall have been made for giving such notice; and (c) Securities in lieu of or in substitution for which other Securities shall have been authenticated and delivered pursuant to the terms of Section 2.07. In determining whether the holders of the requisite principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series have given any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver hereunder, the principal amount of a Security denominated in one or more foreign currencies or currency units that shall be deemed to be Outstanding for such purposes shall be the Dollar Equivalent on the date of original issuance of such Security, of the principal amount of such Security.
 
"" means, with respect to the Depositary, Euroclear or Clearstream, a Person who has an account with the Depositary, Euroclear or Clearstream, respectively (and, with respect to DTC, shall include Euroclear and Clearstream).
Participant
 
"" means any individual, corporation, partnership, joint venture, joint-stock company, unincorporated organization or government or any agency or political subdivision thereof.
Person
 
"" of any particular Security means every previous Security evidencing all or a portion of the same debt as that evidenced by such particular Security; and, for the purposes of this definition, any Security authenticated and delivered under Section 2.07 in lieu of a lost, destroyed or stolen Security shall be deemed to evidence the same debt as the lost, destroyed or stolen Security.
Predecessor Security
 
"" means the legend set forth in Section 2.02(b) to be placed on all Restricted Securities issued under this Indenture or pursuant to a Board Resolution or an indenture supplemental hereto with respect to a series of Securities, except where specifically stated otherwise by the provisions of this Indenture, such Board Resolution or such supplemental indenture.
Private Placement Legend
 
"" means a "qualified institutional buyer" as defined in Rule 144A.
QIB
 
"" means, with respect to any series of Securities, a Reg S Temporary Global Security of such series or a Reg S Permanent Global Security of such series, as the case may be.
Reg S Global Security
 
"" means, with respect to any series of Securities, one or more permanent Global Securities bearing the Private Placement Legend, that will be issued in an aggregate amount of denominations equal in total to the outstanding principal amount of
Reg S Permanent Global Security
 
 
the Reg S Temporary Global Security of such series upon expiration of the Distribution Compliance Period with respect to such series.
 
"" means, with respect to any series of Securities, one or more temporary Global Securities bearing the Private Placement Legend and the Reg S Temporary Global Security Legend, issued in an aggregate amount of denominations equal in total to the outstanding principal amount of the Securities of such series initially sold in reliance on Rule 903 of Regulation S.
Reg S Temporary Global Security
 
"" means the legend set forth in Section 2.02(d), which is required to be placed on all Reg S Temporary Global Securities issued under this Indenture.
Reg S Temporary Global Security Legend
 
"" means Regulation S promulgated under the Securities Act, as it may be amended from time to time, and any successor provision thereto.
Regulation S
 
"" means any officer within the Corporate Trust Office including any Vice President, Assistant Vice President, Senior Trust Officer, Assistant Trust Officer or any other officer of the Trustee customarily performing functions similar to those performed by any of the above designated officers and also, with respect to a particular matter, any other officer to whom such matter is referred because of such officer's knowledge and familiarity with the particular subject.
Responsible Officer
 
"" means, with respect to any series of Securities, one or more Definitive Securities of such series bearing the Private Placement Legend, issued under this Indenture.
Restricted Definitive Security
 
"" means, with respect to any series of Securities, one or more Global Securities of such series bearing the Private Placement Legend, issued under this Indenture.
Restricted Global Security
 
"" means, with respect to any series of Securities, a Security of such series, unless or until it has been (i) effectively registered under the Securities Act and disposed of in accordance with a registration statement with respect to such series or (ii) distributed to the public pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act (or any similar provision then in force).
Restricted Security
 
"" means Rule 144A promulgated under the Securities Act, as it may be amended from time to time, and any successor provision thereto.
Rule 144A
 
"" means the debt securities authenticated and delivered under this Indenture.
Securities
 
"" "" "" "" or other similar term, means the Person or Persons in whose name or names a particular Security shall be registered on the books of the Company kept for that purpose in accordance with the terms of this Indenture.
Securityholder,
Holder,
holder of Securities,
registered holder,
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.05(a) hereof.
Security Register
 
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.05(a) hereof.
Security Registrar
 
"" means, with respect to any Security, the date specified in such security as the fixed date on which the payment of principal of such security is due and payable, including pursuant to any mandatory redemption provision (but excluding any provision providing for the repurchase of such security at the option of the holder thereof upon the happening of any contingency beyond the control of the issuer unless such contingency has occurred).
Stated Maturity
 
"" means (a) a corporation a majority of whose Capital Stock with voting power, under ordinary circumstances, to elect directors is at the time directly or indirectly owned by the Company or by the Company and a Subsidiary or Subsidiaries of the Company or by a Subsidiary or Subsidiaries of the Company or (b) any other Person (other than a corporation) in which the Company or the Company and a Subsidiary or Subsidiaries of the Company or a Subsidiary or Subsidiaries of the Company directly or indirectly at the date of determination thereof has at least a majority ownership interest.
Subsidiary
 
"" means Citibank, N.A. and, subject to the provisions of Article Seven, shall also include its successors and assigns, and, if at any time there is more than one Person acting in such capacity hereunder, "Trustee" shall mean each such Person. The term "Trustee" as used with respect to a particular series of the Securities shall mean the trustee with respect to that series.
Trustee
 
"" means the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended, as in effect at the date of execution of this instrument subject to the provisions of Sections 9.01, 9.02, and 10.01.
Trust Indenture Act
 
"" means, with respect to any series of Securities, one or more Definitive Securities representing such series of Securities that do not bear and are not required to bear the Private Placement Legend, issued under this Indenture.
Unrestricted Definitive Security
 
"" means, with respect to any series of Securities, one or more permanent Global Securities representing such series of Securities that do not bear and are not required to bear the Private Placement Legend, issued under this Indenture.
Unrestricted Global Security
 
"" mean, with respect to any series of Securities, a Security (i) effectively registered under the Securities Act and disposed of in accordance with a registration statement with respect to such series or (ii) distributed to the public pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act (or any similar provision then in force).
Unrestricted Securities
 
 
 
 
Section 2.01    .
Designation and Terms of Securities
 
(a)    The aggregate principal amount of Securities that may be authenticated and delivered under this Indenture is unlimited. The Securities may be issued in one or more series up to the aggregate principal amount of Securities of that series from time to time authorized by or pursuant to a Board Resolution of the Company or pursuant to one or more indentures supplemental hereto. Prior to the initial issuance of Securities of any series, there shall be established in or pursuant to a Board Resolution of the Company, and set forth in an Officers' Certificate of the Company, or established in one or more indentures supplemental hereto, with respect to the Securities of the series:
 
(1)    the title of the Security of the series (which shall distinguish the Securities of the series from all other Securities);
 
(2)    any limit upon the aggregate principal amount of the Securities of that series that may be authenticated and delivered under this Indenture (except for Securities authenticated and delivered upon registration of transfer of, or in exchange for, or in lieu of, other Securities of that series);
 
(3)    the date or dates on which the principal and premium, if any, of the Securities of the series is payable;
 
(4)    the rate or rates (which may be fixed or variable) at which the Securities of the series shall bear interest or the manner of calculation of such rate or rates, if any (including any procedures to vary or reset such rate or rates), and the basis upon which interest will be calculated if other than that of a 360 day year of twelve 30-day months;
 
(5)    the date or dates from which such interest shall accrue, the Interest Payment Dates on which such interest will be payable or the manner of determination of such Interest Payment Dates, and the record date for the determination of holders to whom interest is payable on any such Interest Payment Dates;
 
(6)    any trustees, authenticating agents or paying agents with respect to such series, if different from those set forth in this Indenture;
 
(7)    the right, if any, to extend the interest payment periods or defer the payment of interest and the duration of such extension or deferral;
 
(8)    the period or periods within which, the price or prices at which and the terms and conditions upon which, Securities of the series may be redeemed, in whole or in part, at the option of the Company;
 
(9)    the obligation, if any, of the Company to redeem, purchase or repay
 
 
Securities of the series pursuant to any sinking fund or analogous provisions (including payments made in cash in participation of future sinking fund obligations) or at the option of a holder thereof and the period or periods within which, the price or prices at which, and the terms and conditions upon which, Securities of the series shall be redeemed, purchased or repaid, in whole or in part, pursuant to such obligation;
 
(10)    the form of the Securities of the series including the form of the Trustee's certificate of authentication for such series;
 
(11)    if other than denominations of One Thousand U.S. Dollars ($1,000) or any integral multiple thereof, the denominations in which the Securities of the series shall be issuable;
 
(12)    the Currency or Currencies (including any composite currency) in which payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on, Securities of the series shall be payable;
 
(13)    if the principal amount payable at the Stated Maturity of Securities of the series will not be determinable as of any one or more dates prior to such Stated Maturity, the amount which will be deemed to be such principal amount as of any such date for any purpose, including the principal amount thereof which will be due and payable upon any maturity other than the Stated Maturity or which will be deemed to be Outstanding as of any such date (or, in any such case, the manner in which such deemed principal amount is to be determined);
 
(14)    the terms of any repurchase or remarketing rights;
 
(15)    if the Securities of the series shall be issued in whole or in part in the form of a Global Security or Securities, the type of Global Security to be issued; the terms and conditions, if different from those contained in this Indenture, upon which such Global Security or Securities may be exchanged in whole or in part for other individual Securities in definitive registered form; the Depositary for such Global Security or Securities; and the form of any legend or legends to be borne by any such Global Security or Securities in addition to or in lieu of the legends referred to in Section 2.02;
 
(16)    whether the Securities of the series will be convertible into or exchangeable for other Securities, shares of common stock or other securities of any kind of the Company or another obligor, and, if so, the terms and conditions upon which such Securities will be so convertible or exchangeable, including the initial conversion or exchange price or rate or the method of calculation, how and when the conversion price or exchange ratio may be adjusted, whether conversion or exchange is mandatory, at the option of the holder or at our option, the conversion or exchange period, and any other provision in addition to or in lieu of those described herein;
 
(17)    if other than the principal amount thereof, the portion of the principal amount of Securities of the series which shall be payable upon declaration of acceleration of the maturity thereof pursuant to Section 6.01;
 
(18)    any additional or different Events of Default or restrictive covenants
 
 
provided for with respect to the Securities of the series;
 
(19)    any provisions granting special rights to holders when a specified event occurs;
 
(20)    if the amount of principal or any premium or interest on Securities of a series may be determined with reference to an index or pursuant to a formula, the manner in which such amounts will be determined;
 
(21)    any special tax implications of the Securities, including provisions for original issue discount securities, if offered;
 
(22)    whether and upon what terms Securities of a series may be defeased if different from the provisions set forth in this Indenture;
 
(23)    with regard to the Securities of any series that do not bear interest, the dates for certain required reports to the Trustee;
 
(24)    whether the Securities of the series will be issued as Unrestricted Securities or Restricted Securities, and, if issued as Restricted Securities, the rule or regulation promulgated under the Securities Act in reliance on which they will be sold; and
 
(25)    any and all other terms with respect to such series, including any terms which may be required by or advisable under United States laws or regulations (including, without limitation, the Securities Act and all rules and regulations promulgated thereunder) or advisable in connection with the marketing of Securities of that series.
 
(b)    All Securities of any one series shall be substantially identical except as to denomination and except as may otherwise be provided in or pursuant to any such Board Resolution or in any indentures supplemental hereto. If any of the terms of the series are established by action taken pursuant to a Board Resolution of the Company, a copy of an appropriate record of such action shall be certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company and delivered to the Trustee at or prior to the delivery of the Officers' Certificate of the Company setting forth the terms of the series.
 
Securities of any particular series may be issued at various times, with different dates on which the principal or any installment of principal is payable, with different rates of interest, if any, or different methods by which rates of interest may be determined, with different dates on which such interest may be payable and with different redemption dates.
 
Section 2.02    .
Form of Securities and Trustee's Certificate
 
(a)    The Securities of any series and the Trustee's certificate of authentication to be borne by such Securities shall be substantially of the tenor and purport as set forth in one or more indentures supplemental hereto or as provided in a Board Resolution of the Company and as set forth in an Officers' Certificate of the Company and may have such letters, numbers or other marks of identification or designation and such legends or endorsements printed, lithographed or engraved thereon as the Company may deem appropriate and as are not inconsistent with the
 
 
provisions of this Indenture, any Board Resolution or any indenture supplemental hereto, or as may be required to comply with any law or with any rule or regulation made pursuant thereto or with any rule or regulation of any stock exchange on which Securities of that series may be listed, or to conform to usage.
 
(b)    Each Restricted Security (and all Restricted Securities issued in exchange therefor or substitution thereof) shall bear a Private Placement Legend in substantially the following form:
 
"THIS SECURITY (OR ITS PREDECESSOR) WAS ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN A TRANSACTION EXEMPT FROM REGISTRATION UNDER THE UNITED STATES SECURITIES ACT OF 1933 (THE "SECURITIES ACT"), AND THIS SECURITY MAY NOT BE OFFERED, SOLD OR OTHERWISE TRANSFERRED IN THE ABSENCE OF SUCH REGISTRATION OR AN APPLICABLE EXEMPTION THEREFROM. EACH PURCHASER OF THIS SECURITY IS HEREBY NOTIFIED THAT THE SELLER OF THIS SECURITY MAY BE RELYING ON THE EXEMPTION FROM THE PROVISIONS OF SECTION 5 OF THE SECURITIES ACT PROVIDED BY RULE 144A THEREUNDER.
 
THE HOLDER OF THIS SECURITY AGREES FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE COMPANY THAT (A) THIS SECURITY MAY BE OFFERED, RESOLD, PLEDGED OR OTHERWISE TRANSFERRED, ONLY (I) IN THE UNITED STATES TO A PERSON WHOM THE SELLER REASONABLY BELIEVES IS A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER (AS DEFINED IN RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT) IN A TRANSACTION MEETING THE REQUIREMENTS OF RULE 144A, (II) OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES IN AN OFFSHORE TRANSACTION IN ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 904 UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, (III) PURSUANT TO AN EXEMPTION FROM REGISTRATION UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT PROVIDED BY RULE 144 THEREUNDER (IF AVAILABLE), (IV) TO AN INSTITUTIONAL ACCREDITED INVESTOR (AS DEFINED IN RULE 501(a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
 
(c)    To the extent required by the Depositary for particular series of Securities, each Global Security of such series shall bear legends in substantially the following forms:
 
 
"THIS GLOBAL SECURITY IS HELD BY THE DEPOSITARY (AS DEFINED IN THE INDENTURE GOVERNING THIS SECURITY) OR ITS NOMINEE IN CUSTODY FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE BENEFICIAL OWNERS HEREOF, AND IS NOT TRANSFERABLE TO ANY PERSON UNDER ANY CIRCUMSTANCES EXCEPT THAT (I) THE TRUSTEE MAY MAKE ANY SUCH NOTATIONS HEREON AS MAY BE REQUIRED PURSUANT TO THE INDENTURE, (II) THIS GLOBAL SECURITY MAY BE EXCHANGED IN WHOLE BUT NOT IN PART PURSUANT TO SECTION 2.05(C) OF THE INDENTURE, (III) THIS GLOBAL SECURITY MAY BE DELIVERED TO THE TRUSTEE FOR CANCELLATION PURSUANT TO THE INDENTURE AND (IV) THIS GLOBAL SECURITY MAY BE TRANSFERRED TO A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY WITH THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF THE COMPANY."
 
"UNLESS AND UNTIL IT IS EXCHANGED IN WHOLE OR IN PART FOR SECURITIES IN DEFINITIVE FORM, THIS SECURITY MAY NOT BE TRANSFERRED EXCEPT AS A WHOLE BY THE DEPOSITARY TO A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY OR BY A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY TO THE DEPOSITARY OR TO ANOTHER NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY OR BY THE DEPOSITARY OR ANY SUCH NOMINEE TO A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE OF SUCH SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY. UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITARY TO THE COMPANY OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF ANY ENTITY AS MAY BE REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITARY (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO SUCH ENTITY AS MAY BE REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITARY), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN."
 
(d)    To the extent required by the Depositary, each Reg S Temporary Global Security shall bear a legend in substantially the following form:
 
"THE RIGHTS ATTACHING TO THIS REG S TEMPORARY GLOBAL SECURITY, AND THE CONDITIONS AND PROCEDURES GOVERNING ITS EXCHANGE FOR DEFINITIVE SECURITIES, ARE AS SPECIFIED IN THE INDENTURE (AS DEFINED HEREIN). NEITHER THE HOLDER NOR THE BENEFICIAL OWNERS OF THIS REG S TEMPORARY SECURITY SHALL BE ENTITLED TO RECEIVE CASH PAYMENTS OF INTEREST DURING THE PERIOD WHICH SUCH HOLDER HOLDS THIS SECURITY. NOTHING IN THIS LEGEND SHALL BE DEEMED TO PREVENT INTEREST FROM ACCRUING ON THIS SECURITY."
 
Section 2.03    .
Denominations; Provisions for Payment
 
The Securities shall be issuable as registered Securities and in the denominations of One Thousand U.S. Dollars ($1,000) or any integral multiple thereof, subject to Section 2.01(a)(11). The Securities of a particular series shall bear interest payable on the dates and at the rate specified as provided in Section 2.01 with respect to that series. The principal of and the interest on the Securities of any series, as well as any premium thereon in case of redemption thereof prior to maturity, shall be payable in Dollars except as otherwise specified pursuant to Section 2.01(a)(12), at the office or agency of the Company maintained for that purpose pursuant to Section 4.02. Each Security shall be dated the date of its authentication. Unless otherwise specified with respect to a series of Securities in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.01(a)(4), interest on the Securities shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year composed of twelve 30-day months.
 
The interest installment on any Security that is payable, and is punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date for Securities of that series shall be paid to the Person in whose name said Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the regular record date for such interest installment. In the event that any Security of a particular series or portion thereof is called for redemption and the redemption date is subsequent to a regular record date with respect to any Interest Payment Date and prior to such Interest Payment Date, interest on such Security will be paid upon presentation and surrender of such Security as provided in Section 3.03.
 
Unless otherwise set forth in a Board Resolution of the Company or one or more indentures supplemental hereto establishing the terms of any series of any Securities pursuant to Section 2.01 hereof, the term "regular record date" as used in this Section with respect to a series of Securities shall mean a date fifteen days immediately preceding any Interest Payment Date. Subject to the provisions of this Section, each Security of a series delivered under this Indenture upon transfer of or in exchange for or in lieu of any other Security of such series shall carry the rights to interest accrued and unpaid, and to accrue, that were carried by such other Security.
 
Unless otherwise specified with respect to a series of Securities in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.01, any interest on any Security that is payable, but is not punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date for Securities of the same series (herein called "") shall forthwith cease to be payable to the registered holder on the relevant regular record date and such Defaulted Interest shall be paid by the Company, at its election, as provided in clause (1) or clause (2) below.
Defaulted Interest
 
(1)    The Company may make payment of any Defaulted Interest on Securities to the Persons in whose names such Securities (or their respective Predecessor Securities) are registered at the close of business on a special record date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest, which shall be fixed in the following manner: the Company shall notify the Trustee in writing of the amount of Defaulted Interest proposed to be paid on each such Security and the date of the proposed payment, and at the same time the Company shall deposit with the Trustee an amount of money equal to the aggregate amount proposed to be paid in respect of such Defaulted Interest or shall make arrangements satisfactory to the Trustee for such deposit prior to the date of the proposed
 
 
payment, such money when deposited to be held in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled to such Defaulted Interest as in this clause (1) provided. Thereupon the Trustee shall fix a special record date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest which shall not be more than 15 nor less than 10 days prior to the date of the proposed payment and not less than 10 days after the receipt by the Trustee of the notice of the proposed payment. The Trustee shall promptly notify the Company of such special record date and, in the name and at the expense of the Company, shall cause notice of the proposed payment of such Defaulted Interest and the special record date therefor to be mailed, first class postage prepaid, to each Securityholder at his or her address as it appears in the Security Register (as hereinafter defined), not less than 10 days prior to such special record date. Notice of the proposed payment of such Defaulted Interest and the special record date therefor having been mailed as aforesaid, such Defaulted Interest shall be paid to the Persons in whose names such Securities (or their respective Predecessor Securities) are registered on such special record date and shall not be payable pursuant to the following clause (2).
 
(2)    The Company may make payment of any Defaulted Interest on any Securities in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which such Securities may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange.
 
Section 2.04    .
Execution and Authentications
 
The Securities shall be signed on behalf of the Company by two Officers. Signatures may be in the form of a manual or facsimile signature. The Company may use the facsimile signature of any Person who shall have been an Officer, notwithstanding the fact that at the time the Securities shall be authenticated and delivered or disposed of such Person shall have ceased to be an Officer of the Company. In the case of Definitive Securities of any series, such signatures may be imprinted or otherwise reproduced on such Securities. The Securities may contain such notations, legends or endorsements required by law, stock exchange rule or usage. Each Security shall be dated the date of its authentication by the Trustee.
 
A Security shall not be valid until authenticated manually by an authorized signatory of the Trustee or by an Authenticating Agent. Such signature shall be conclusive evidence that the Security so authenticated has been duly authenticated and delivered hereunder and that the holder is entitled to the benefits of this Indenture. At any time and from time to time after the execution and delivery of this Indenture, the Company may deliver Securities of any series executed by the Company to the Trustee for authentication, together with a written order of the Company for the authentication and delivery of such Securities, signed by an Officer (an ""), and the Trustee in accordance with such written order shall authenticate and deliver such Securities.
Authentication Order
 
Section 2.05    .
Transfer and Exchange
 
(a)    .    The Company shall keep, or cause to be kept, at its office or agency designated for such purpose as provided in Section 4.02, a register or registers (herein referred to as the "") in which, subject to such reasonable
Registration of Transfer and Exchange
Security Register
 
 
regulations as it may prescribe, the Company shall register the Securities and the transfers of Securities as in this Article II provided and which at all reasonable times shall be open for inspection by the Trustee. The registrar for the purpose of registering Securities and the transfer of Securities as herein provided shall be appointed as authorized by Board Resolution (the ""). If the Company fails to appoint or maintain another entity as Security Registrar, the Trustee shall act as such. The Company or any of its Subsidiaries may act as Security Registrar.
Security Registrar
 
To permit registrations of transfers and exchanges, the Company shall execute and deliver and the Trustee shall authenticate a new Security or Securities of the same series as the Security presented for a like aggregate principal amount and in authorized denominations upon receipt of an Authentication Order. The Trustee shall not be required to register the transfer of or exchange any Security selected for redemption in whole or in part, except the unredeemed portion of any Security being redeemed in part.
 
All Securities issued upon any registration of transfer or exchange of Securities shall be the valid obligations of the Company, evidencing the same indebtedness, and entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture, as the Securities surrendered upon such registration of transfer or exchange. Prior to such due presentment for the registration of a transfer of any Security, the Trustee, the Company, any paying agent and the Security Registrar may deem and treat the Person in whose name any Security is registered as the absolute owner of such Security for the purpose of receiving payment of principal of and interest on such Securities and for all other purposes, and none of the Trustee, the Company, the paying agent or the Security Registrar shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
 
All certifications, certificates and opinions of counsel required to be submitted to the Trustee pursuant to this Section 2.05 to effect a registration of transfer or exchange may be submitted by facsimile.
 
(b)    .    No service charge shall be made to a holder of a beneficial interest in a Global Security or to a Holder of a Definitive Security for any exchange or registration of transfer of Securities, or issue of new Securities in case of partial redemption of any series, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge in relation thereto (other than any such taxes or other governmental charge payable upon exchange or transfer pursuant to Sections 2.06, 3.03(b) and 9.04 hereof).
Service Charge
 
(c)    .    A Global Security may not be transferred except as a whole by the Depositary for a series of the Securities to a nominee of such Depositary, by a nominee of such Depositary to such Depositary or to another nominee of such Depositary, or by such Depositary or any such nominee to a successor Depositary for a series of the Securities or a nominee of such successor Depositary. If at any time the Depositary for a series of the Securities notifies the Company that it is unwilling or unable to continue as Depositary for such series or if at any time the Depositary for such series shall no longer be registered or in good standing under the Exchange Act, or other applicable statute or regulation, and a successor Depositary for such series is not appointed by the Company within 90 days after the Company receives such notice or becomes aware of such condition, as the case may be, the provisions of Section 2.11 shall no longer be applicable to the Securities of such series and the
Transfer and Exchange of Global Securities
 
 
Company will execute, and subject to this Section 2.05, the Trustee will authenticate and deliver the Definitive Securities of such series, in authorized denominations, and in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of the Global Security of such series in exchange for such Global Security; provided, that in no event shall the Reg S Temporary Global Security be exchanged by the Company for Definitive Securities prior to (y) the expiration of the Distribution Compliance Period with respect to such Security and (z) the receipt by the Trustee of any certificate identified by the Company and its counsel to be required pursuant to Rule 903 or Rule 904 under the Securities Act. In addition, the Company may at any time determine that the Securities of any series shall no longer be represented by a Global Security and that the provisions of Section 2.11 shall no longer apply to the Securities of such series. In such event the Company will execute and subject to this Section 2.05, the Trustee, upon receipt of an Officers' Certificate evidencing such determination by the Company, will authenticate and deliver the Definitive Securities of such series, in authorized denominations, and in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of the Global Security of such series in exchange for such Global Security. Upon the exchange of the Global Security of such series for such Definitive Securities of such series, in authorized denominations, the Global Security shall be canceled by the Trustee. Such Definitive Securities of such series issued in exchange for the Global Security pursuant to this Section 2.05(c) shall be registered in such names and in such authorized denominations as the Depositary, pursuant to instructions from its Participants or Indirect Participants or otherwise, shall instruct the Trustee. The Trustee shall deliver such Securities to the Depositary for delivery to the Persons in whose names such Securities are so registered.
 
Global Securities may also be exchanged, in whole or in part, as provided in Sections 2.06 and 2.07 hereof. A Global Security may not be exchanged for another Security other than as provided in this Section 2.05(c); however, beneficial interests in a Global Security may be transferred and exchanged as provided in Section 2.05(d) or (e) hereof. The provisions of this Section 2.05(c) are subject to Section 2.11 hereof.
 
(d)    .    The transfer and exchange of beneficial interests in the Global Securities of a series shall be effected through the Depositary, in accordance with the provisions of this Indenture, any Board Resolution and any one or more indentures supplemental hereto, and the Applicable Procedures. Beneficial interests in the Restricted Global Securities of a series shall be subject to restrictions on transfer comparable to those set forth herein to the extent required by the Securities Act. Transfers of beneficial interests in the Global Securities also shall require compliance with either subparagraph (1) or (2) below, as applicable, as well as one or more of the other following subparagraphs, as applicable:
Transfer and Exchange of Beneficial Interests in the Global Securities
 
(1)    .    Beneficial interests in any Restricted Global Security of a series may be transferred to Persons who take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in the same Restricted Global Security in accordance with the transfer restrictions set forth in the Private Placement Legend; provided, however, that prior to the expiration of the Distribution Compliance Period with respect to a series involving Reg S Temporary Global Securities, transfers of beneficial interests in the Reg S Temporary Global Security of such series may not be made to a U.S. person (as such is defined in Regulation S) or for the account or benefit of a U.S. person (other than an initial purchaser of such Reg S Temporary Global Security).
Transfer of Beneficial Interests in the Same Global Security
 
 
Beneficial interests in any Unrestricted Global Security of a series may be transferred to Persons who take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security of such series. No written orders or instructions shall be required to be delivered to the Security Registrar to effect the transfers described in this Section 2.05(d)(1).
 
(2)    .    In connection with all transfers and exchanges of beneficial interests that are not subject to Section 2.05(d)(1) above, the transferor of such beneficial interest must deliver to the Security Registrar either (A)(1) an order from a Participant or an Indirect Participant given to the Depositary in accordance with the relevant Applicable Procedures directing the Depositary to credit or cause to be credited a beneficial interest in another Global Security of such series in an amount equal to the beneficial interest to be transferred or exchanged and (2) instructions given in accordance with the relevant Applicable Procedures containing information regarding the Participant account to be credited with such increase or (B)(1) an order from a Participant or an Indirect Participant given to the Depositary in accordance with the relevant Applicable Procedures directing the Depositary to cause to be issued a Definitive Security of such series in an amount equal to the beneficial interest to be transferred or exchanged and (2) instructions given by the Depositary to the Security Registrar containing information regarding the Person in whose name such Definitive Security shall be registered to effect the transfer or exchange referred to in (B)(1) above; provided, that in no event shall Definitive Securities of a series be issued upon the transfer or exchange of beneficial interests in the Reg S Temporary Global Security of such series prior to (y) the expiration of the relevant Distribution Compliance Period and (z) the receipt by the Security Registrar of any certificates identified by the Company or its counsel to be required pursuant to Rule 903 and Rule 904 under the Securities Act. Upon satisfaction of all the requirements for transfer and exchange of beneficial interests in Global Securities of a series contained in this Indenture, any Board Resolution, or one or more indentures supplemental hereto and the Securities of such series or otherwise applicable under the Securities Act, the Trustee shall adjust the principal amount of the relevant Global Security or Securities of such series pursuant to Section 2.05(h) hereof.
All Other Transfers and Exchanges of Beneficial Interests in Global Securities
 
(3)    .    A beneficial interest in any Restricted Global Security of a series may be transferred to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in another Restricted Global Security of the same series if the transfer complies with the requirements of Section 2.05(d)(2) above and the Security Registrar receives the following:
Transfer of Beneficial Interests to Another Restricted Global Security
 
(A)    if the transferee will take delivery in the form of a beneficial interest in a 144A Global Security of such series, then the transferor must deliver a certificate in the form of Exhibit A hereto, including the certifications in item (1) thereof; and
 
(B)    if the transferee will take delivery in the form of a beneficial interest in a Reg S Temporary Global Security or the Reg S Permanent Global Security of
 
 
such series, then the transferor must deliver a certificate in the form of Exhibit A hereto, including the certifications in item (2) thereof.
 
(4)    Transfer and Exchange of Beneficial Interests in a Restricted Global Security for Beneficial Interests in an Unrestricted Global Security. A beneficial interest in any Restricted Global Security of any series may be exchanged by any holder thereof for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security of such series or transferred to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security of such series if the exchange or transfer complies with the requirements of Section 2.05(d)(2) above and the Security Registrar receives the following: (1) if the holder of such beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security of such series proposes to exchange such beneficial interest for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security of such series, a certificate from such holder in the form of Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (1)(a) thereof; or (2) if the holder of such beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security of such series proposes to transfer such beneficial interest to a Person who shall take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security of such series, a certificate from such holder in the form of Exhibit A hereto, including the certifications in item (4) thereof; and, in each case set forth in this paragraph, an opinion of counsel in form, and from legal counsel, reasonably acceptable to the Security Registrar and the Company to the effect that such exchange or transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act and that the restrictions on transfer contained herein and in the Private Placement Legend are no longer required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act.
 
If any such transfer is effected at a time when an Unrestricted Global Security of such series has not yet been issued, the Company shall issue and, upon receipt of an Authentication Order in accordance with Section 2.04 hereof, the Trustee shall authenticate one or more Unrestricted Global Securities of such series in an aggregate principal amount equal to the aggregate principal amount of beneficial interests so transferred. Beneficial interests in an Unrestricted Global Security of a series cannot be exchanged for, or transferred to Persons who take delivery thereof in the form of, a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security of such series.
 
(e)    .
Transfer or Exchange of Beneficial Interests for Definitive Securities
 
(1)    .    If any holder of a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security of a series proposes to exchange such beneficial interest for a Restricted Definitive Security of such series or to transfer such beneficial interest to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a Restricted Definitive Security of such series, then, upon receipt by the Security Registrar of the following documentation:
Beneficial Interests in Restricted Global Securities to Restricted Definitive Securities
 
(A)    if the holder of such beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security of such series proposes to exchange such beneficial interest for a Restricted Definitive Security of such series, a certificate from such holder in the form of Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (2)(a) thereof;
 
 
(B)    if such beneficial interest is being transferred to a QIB in accordance with Rule 144A under the Securities Act, a certificate to that effect set forth in Exhibit A hereto, including the certifications in item (1) thereof;
 
(C)    if such beneficial interest is being transferred to a non-U.S. person in an offshore transaction in accordance with Rule 903 or 904 under the Securities Act, a certificate to that effect set forth in Exhibit A hereto, including the certifications in item (2) thereof;
 
(D)    if such beneficial interest is being transferred pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act in accordance with Rule 144 under the Securities Act, a certificate to that effect set forth in Exhibit A hereto, including the certifications in item (3)(a) thereof;
 
(E)    if such beneficial interest is being transferred to an Institutional Accredited Investor in reliance on an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act other than those listed in subparagraphs (B) through (D) above, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit A hereto, including the certifications, certificates and opinions of counsel required by item (3) thereof, if applicable;
 
(F)    if such beneficial interest is being transferred to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, a certificate to that effect set forth in Exhibit A hereto, including the certifications in item (3)(b) thereof; or
 
(G)    if such beneficial interest is being transferred pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act, a certificate to that effect set forth in Exhibit A hereto, including the certifications in item (3)(c) thereof,
 
the Trustee shall cause the aggregate principal amount of the applicable Restricted Global Security of such series to be reduced accordingly pursuant to Section 2.05(h) hereof, and the Company shall execute and, upon receipt of an Authentication Order pursuant to Section 2.04, the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Person designated in the instructions a Restricted Definitive Security of such series in the appropriate principal amount. Any Restricted Definitive Security of such series issued in exchange for a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security of such series pursuant to this Section 2.05(e) shall be registered in such name or names and in such authorized denomination or denominations as the holder of such beneficial interest shall instruct the Security Registrar through instructions from the Depositary for such series and the Participant or Indirect Participant. The Trustee shall deliver such Restricted Definitive Securities of such series to the Persons in whose names such Securities are so registered. Any Restricted Definitive Security of such series issued in exchange for a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security of such series pursuant to this Section 2.05(e)(1) shall bear the Private Placement Legend and shall be subject to all restrictions on transfer contained therein.
 
 
(2)    .    A holder of a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security of a series may exchange such beneficial interest for an Unrestricted Definitive Security of such series or may transfer such beneficial interest to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of an Unrestricted Definitive Security of such series only if the Security Registrar receives the following: (1) if the holder of such beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security of a series proposes to exchange such beneficial interest for a Definitive Security of such series that does not bear the Private Placement Legend, a certificate from such holder in the form of Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (1)(b) thereof; or (2) if the holder of such beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security of such series proposes to transfer such beneficial interest to a Person who shall take delivery thereof in the form of a Definitive Security of such series that does not bear the Private Placement Legend, a certificate from such holder in the form of Exhibit A hereto, including the certifications in item (4) thereof; and, in such case set forth in this paragraph, an opinion of counsel in form, and from legal counsel, reasonably acceptable to the Security Registrar and the Company to the effect that such exchange or transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act and that the restrictions on transfer contained herein and in the Private Placement Legend are no longer required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act.
Beneficial Interests in Restricted Global Securities to Unrestricted Definitive Securities
 
(3)    .    If any holder of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security of a series proposes to exchange such beneficial interest for an Unrestricted Definitive Security of such series or to transfer such beneficial interest to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of an Unrestricted Definitive Security of such series, then, upon satisfaction of the conditions set forth in Section 2.05(d)(2) hereof, the Trustee shall cause the aggregate principal amount of the applicable Unrestricted Global Security of such series to be reduced accordingly pursuant to Section 2.05(h) hereof, and the Company shall execute and, upon receipt of an Authentication Order in accordance with Section 2.04, the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Person designated in the instructions an Unrestricted Definitive Security of such series in the appropriate principal amount. Any Unrestricted Definitive Security issued in exchange for a beneficial interest pursuant to this Section 2.05(e)(3) shall be registered in such name or names and in such authorized denomination or denominations as the holder of such beneficial interest shall instruct the Security Registrar through instructions from the Depositary for such series and the Participant or Indirect Participant. The Trustee shall deliver such Unrestricted Definitive Securities to the Persons in whose names such Securities are so registered. Any Unrestricted Definitive Security issued in exchange for a beneficial interest pursuant to this Section 2.05(e)(3) shall not bear the Private Placement Legend.
Beneficial Interests in Unrestricted Global Securities to Unrestricted Definitive Securities
 
(4)    .    Notwithstanding the other provisions of this Section 2.05, a beneficial interest in the Reg S Temporary Global Security of a series may not be (A) exchanged for a Definitive Security of such series prior to (y) the expiration of the Distribution Compliance Period with respect to such series (unless such exchange is effected by the Company, does not require an investment decision on the part of the Holder thereof and does not violate the provisions of Regulation S) and (z) the receipt by the Security Registrar of any
Transfer or Exchange of Reg S Temporary Global Securities
 
 
certificates identified by the Company or its counsel to be required pursuant to Rule 903(b)(3)(ii)(B) under the Securities Act or (B) transferred to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a Definitive Security of such series prior to the events set forth in clause (A) above or unless the transfer is pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act other than Rule 903 or 904.
 
(f)    
Transfer and Exchange of Definitive Securities for Beneficial Interests
.
 
(1)    .    If any Holder of a Restricted Definitive Security of a series proposes to exchange such Security for a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security of such series or to transfer such Restricted Definitive Securities of such series to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security of such series, then, upon receipt by the Trustee of the following documentation:
Restricted Definitive Securities to Beneficial Interests in Restricted Global Securities
 
(A)    if the Holder of such Restricted Definitive Security of such series proposes to exchange such Security for a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security of such series, a certificate from such holder in the form of Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (2)(b) thereof;
 
(B)    if such Restricted Definitive Note is being transferred to a QIB in accordance with Rule 144A under the Securities Act, a certificate to that effect set forth in Exhibit A hereto, including the certifications in item (1) thereof; or
 
(C)    if such Restricted Definitive Security of such series is being transferred to a non-U.S. person in an offshore transaction in accordance with Rule 903 or 904 under the Securities Act, a certificate to that effect set forth in Exhibit A hereto, including the certifications in item (2) thereof,
 
the Trustee shall cancel the Restricted Definitive Security of such series, increase or cause to be increased the aggregate principal amount of, in the case of clause (A) above, the appropriate Restricted Global Security of such series, in the case of clause (B) above, the 144A Global Security of such series, and in the case of clause (C) above, the Reg S Global Security of such series.
 
(2)    .    A Holder of a Restricted Definitive Security of a series may exchange such Security for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security of such series or transfer such Restricted Definitive Security of such series to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security of such series only if the Security Registrar receives the following: (1) if the Holder of such Restricted Definitive Securities of a series proposes to exchange such Securities for a beneficial interest in the Unrestricted Global Security of such series, a certificate from such Holder in the form of Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (1)(c) thereof; or (2) if the Holder of such Restricted Definitive Securities of such series proposes to transfer such Securities to a Person who shall take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in the Unrestricted Global Security of such series, a
Restricted Definitive Securities to Beneficial Interests in Unrestricted Global Securities
 
 
certificate from such Holder in the form of Exhibit A hereto, including the certifications in item (4) thereof; and, in such case set forth in this paragraph, an opinion of counsel in form, and from legal counsel, reasonably acceptable to the Security Registrar and the Company to the effect that such exchange or transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act and that the restrictions on transfer contained herein and in the Private Placement Legend are no longer required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act. Upon satisfaction of the conditions of any of the subparagraphs in this Section 2.05(f)(2), the Trustee shall cancel the Restricted Definitive Securities of such series so transferred or exchanged and increase or cause to be increased the aggregate principal amount of the Unrestricted Global Security of such series.
 
(3)    .    A Holder of an Unrestricted Definitive Security of a series may exchange such Security for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security of such series or transfer such Definitive Securities of such series to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security of such series at any time. Upon receipt of a request for such an exchange or transfer, the Trustee shall cancel the applicable Unrestricted Definitive Security and increase or cause or be increased the aggregate principal amount of one of the Unrestricted Global Securities of such series. If any such exchange or transfer from a Definitive Security of a series to a beneficial interest is effected pursuant to subparagraphs (2) or (3) of this Section 2.05(f) at a time when an Unrestricted Global Security of such series has not yet been issued, the Company shall issue and, upon receipt of an Authentication Order in accordance with Section 2.04 hereof, the Trustee shall authenticate one or more Unrestricted Global Securities of such series in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of Definitive Securities of such series so transferred.
Unrestricted Definitive Securities to Beneficial Interests in Unrestricted Global Securities
 
(g)    .    Upon request by a Holder of Definitive Securities of a series and such Holder's compliance with the provisions of this Section 2.05(g), the Trustee shall register the transfer or exchange of Definitive Securities of such series pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.05(a). In addition to the requirements set forth in Section 2.05(a), the requesting Holder shall provide any additional certifications, documents, and information, as applicable, required pursuant to the following provisions of this Section 2.05(g).
Transfer and Exchange of Definitive Securities for Definitive Securities
 
(1)    .    Any Restricted Definitive Security of a series may be transferred to and registered in the name of Persons who take delivery thereof in the form of a Restricted Definitive Security of such series if the Trustee receives the following:
Restricted Definitive Securities to Restricted Definitive Securities
 
(A)    if the transfer will be made pursuant to Rule 144A under the Securities Act, then the transferor must deliver a certificate in the form of Exhibit A hereto, including the certifications in item (1) thereof;
 
(B)    if the transfer will be made pursuant to Rule 903 or Rule 904, then the transferor must deliver a certificate in the form of Exhibit A hereto, including the certifications in item (2) thereof; and
 
 
(C)    if the transfer will be made pursuant to any other exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act, then the transferor must deliver a certificate in the form of Exhibit A hereto, including the certifications, certificates and opinions of counsel required by item (3) thereof, if applicable.
 
(2)    .    Any Restricted Definitive Security of a series may be exchanged by the Holder thereof for an Unrestricted Definitive Security of such series or transferred to a Person or Persons who take delivery thereof in the form of an Unrestricted Definitive Security of such series if the Security Registrar receives the following: (1) if the Holder of such Restricted Definitive Securities of such series proposes to exchange such Securities for an Unrestricted Definitive Security of such series, a certificate from such Holder in the form of Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (1)(d) thereof; or (2) if the Holder of such Restricted Definitive Securities proposes to transfer such Securities to a Person who shall take delivery thereof in the form of an Unrestricted Definitive Security of such series, a certificate from such Holder in the form of Exhibit A hereto, including the certifications in item (4) thereof; and, in such case set forth in this paragraph, an opinion of counsel in form, and from legal counsel, reasonably acceptable to the Trustee and the Company to the effect that such exchange or transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act and that the restrictions on transfer contained herein and in the Private Placement Legend are no longer required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act.
Restricted Definitive Securities to Unrestricted Definitive Securities
 
(3)    .    A Holder of Unrestricted Definitive Securities of a series may transfer such Securities to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of an Unrestricted Definitive Security of such series in accordance with subsection (a) hereof. Upon receipt of a request to register such a transfer, the Security Registrar shall register the Unrestricted Definitive Securities of such series pursuant to the instructions from the Holder thereof.
Unrestricted Definitive Securities to Unrestricted Definitive Securities
 
(h)    .    At such time as all beneficial interests in a particular Global Security of a series have been exchanged for Definitive Securities of such series or a particular Global Security of a series has been redeemed, repurchased or cancelled in whole and not in part, each such Global Security of such series shall be returned to or retained and cancelled by the Trustee in accordance with Section 2.08 hereof. At any time prior to such cancellation, if any beneficial interest in a Global Security of such series is exchanged for or transferred to a Person who will take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in another Global Security of such series or for Definitive Securities of such series, the principal amount of Securities of such series represented by such Global Security shall be reduced accordingly and an endorsement may be made on such Global Security by the Trustee or by the Depositary at the direction of the Trustee to reflect such reduction; and if the beneficial interest is being exchanged for or transferred to a Person who will take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in another Global Security of such series, such other Global Security shall be increased accordingly and an endorsement may be made on such Global Security by the Trustee or by the Depositary at the direction of the Trustee to reflect such increase.
Cancellation and/or Adjustment of Global Securities
 
 
(i)    .    The Company shall not be required (i) to issue, exchange or register the transfer of any Securities during a period beginning at the opening of business 15 days before the day of the mailing of a notice of redemption of less than all the Outstanding Securities of the same series and ending at the close of business on the day of such mailing, (ii) to register the transfer of or exchange any Securities of any series or portions thereof called for redemption, nor (iii) to register the transfer of or exchange a Security of any series between the applicable record date pursuant to Section 2.01(a)(5) and the next succeeding Interest Payment Date.
No Exchange or Transfer
 
Section 2.06    .
Temporary Securities
 
Pending the preparation of definitive Securities of any series, the Company may execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, temporary Securities (printed, lithographed or typewritten) of any authorized denomination. Such temporary Securities shall be substantially in the form of the definitive Securities in lieu of which they are issued, but with such omissions, insertions and variations as may be appropriate for temporary Securities, all as may be determined by the Company. Every temporary Security of any series shall be executed by the Company and be authenticated by the Trustee upon the same conditions and in substantially the same manner, and with like effect, as the definitive Securities of such series. Without unnecessary delay the Company will execute and will furnish definitive Securities of such series and thereupon any or all temporary Securities of such series may be surrendered in exchange therefor (without charge to the holders), at the office or agency of the Company maintained pursuant to Section 4.02 for the purpose of exchanges of Securities of such series, and the Trustee shall authenticate and such office or agency shall deliver in exchange for such temporary Securities an equal aggregate principal amount of definitive Securities of such series, unless the Company advises the Trustee to the effect that definitive Securities need not be executed and furnished until further notice from the Company. Until so exchanged, temporary Securities of any series shall in all respects be entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture as definitive Securities of such series authenticated and delivered hereunder.
 
Section 2.07    .
Mutilated, Destroyed, Lost or Stolen Securities
 
In case any temporary or definitive Security shall become mutilated or be destroyed, lost or stolen, the Company (subject to the next succeeding sentence) shall execute, and upon the Company's request the Trustee (subject to the next succeeding sentence) shall authenticate and deliver, a new Security of the same series, bearing a number not contemporaneously outstanding in exchange and substitution for the mutilated Security, or in lieu of and in substitution for the Security so destroyed, lost or stolen. In every case the applicant for a substituted Security shall furnish to the Company and the Trustee such security or indemnity as may be required by them to save each of them harmless, and, in every case of destruction, loss or theft, the applicant shall also furnish to the Company and the Trustee evidence to their satisfaction of the destruction, loss or theft of the applicant's Security and of the ownership thereof. The Trustee may authenticate any such substituted Security and deliver the same upon the written request or authorization of any Officer. Upon the issuance of any substituted Security, the Company may require the payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in relation thereto and any other expenses (including the fees and expenses of the Trustee) connected therewith. In case any Security that has matured or is about to mature shall become
 
 
mutilated or be destroyed, lost or stolen, the Company may, instead of issuing a substitute Security, pay or authorize the payment of the same (without surrender thereof except in the case of a mutilated Security) if the applicant for such payment shall furnish to the Company and the Trustee such security or indemnity as they may require to save them harmless, and, in case of destruction, loss or theft, evidence to the satisfaction of the Company and the Trustee of the destruction, loss or theft of such Security and of the ownership thereof.
 
Every replacement Security issued pursuant to the provisions of this Section 2.07 shall constitute an additional contractual obligation of the Company whether or not the mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security shall be found at any time, or be enforceable by anyone, and shall be entitled to all the benefits of this Indenture equally and proportionately with any and all other Securities of the same series duly issued hereunder. All Securities shall be held and owned upon the express condition that the foregoing provisions are exclusive with respect to the replacement or payment of mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Securities, and shall preclude (to the extent lawful) any and all other rights or remedies, notwithstanding any law or statute existing or hereafter enacted to the contrary with respect to the replacement or payment of negotiable instruments or other securities without their surrender.
 
Section 2.08    .
Cancellation
 
All Securities surrendered for the purpose of payment, redemption, exchange or registration of transfer shall, if surrendered to the Company or any paying agent, be delivered to the Trustee for cancellation, or, if surrendered to the Trustee, shall be cancelled by it, and no Securities shall be issued in lieu thereof except as expressly required or permitted by any of the provisions of this Indenture. On written request of the Company at the time of such surrender, the Trustee shall deliver to the Company canceled Securities held by the Trustee. In the absence of such request the Trustee may dispose of canceled Securities in accordance with its standard procedures and deliver a certificate of disposition to the Company. If the Company shall otherwise acquire any of the Securities, however, such acquisition shall not operate as a redemption or satisfaction of the indebtedness represented by such Securities unless and until the same are delivered to the Trustee for cancellation.
 
Section 2.09    .
Benefits of Indenture
 
Nothing in this Indenture or in the Securities, express or implied, shall give or be construed to give to any Person, other than the parties hereto and the holders of the Securities, any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or in respect of this Indenture, or under any covenant, condition or provision herein contained; all such covenants, conditions and provisions being for the sole benefit of the parties hereto and of the holders of the Securities.
 
Section 2.10    .
Authenticating Agent
 
So long as any of the Securities of any series remain Outstanding there may be an Authenticating Agent for any or all such series of Securities which the Trustee shall have the right to appoint. Said Authenticating Agent shall be authorized to act on behalf of the Trustee to authenticate Securities of such series, including Securities issued upon exchange, transfer or partial redemption thereof, and Securities so authenticated shall be entitled to the benefits of this
 
 
Indenture and shall be valid and obligatory for all purposes as if authenticated by the Trustee hereunder. All references in this Indenture to the authentication of Securities by the Trustee shall be deemed to include authentication by an Authenticating Agent for such series. Each Authenticating Agent shall be acceptable to the Company and shall be a corporation that has a combined capital and surplus, as most recently reported or determined by it, sufficient under the laws of any jurisdiction under which it is organized or in which it is doing business to conduct a trust business, and that is otherwise authorized under such laws to conduct such business and is subject to supervision or examination by Federal or State authorities. If at any time any Authenticating Agent shall cease to be eligible in accordance with these provisions, it shall resign immediately. Any Authenticating Agent may at any time resign by giving written notice of resignation to the Trustee and to the Company. The Trustee may at any time (and upon request by the Company shall) terminate the agency of any Authenticating Agent by giving written notice of termination to such Authenticating Agent and to the Company. Upon resignation, termination or cessation of eligibility of any Authenticating Agent, the Trustee may appoint an eligible successor Authenticating Agent acceptable to the Company. Any successor Authenticating Agent, upon acceptance of its appointment hereunder, shall become vested with all the rights, powers and duties of its predecessor hereunder as if originally named as an Authenticating Agent pursuant hereto.
 
Section 2.11    .
Global Securities
 
(a)    .    If the Company shall establish pursuant to Section 2.01 that the Securities of a particular series are to be issued as a Global Security, then the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall, in accordance with Section 2.04, authenticate, a Global Security that (i) shall represent, and shall be denominated in an amount equal to the aggregate principal amount of, all of the Outstanding Securities of such series, (ii) shall be registered in the name of the Depositary or its nominee and (iii) shall be delivered to the Trustee as custodian for the Depositary or otherwise delivered pursuant to the Depositary's instructions. Global Securities may be issued in either temporary or permanent form.
General
 
(b)    .    The provisions of the "Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System" and the "Terms and Conditions Governing Use of Euroclear" and the "General Terms and Conditions of Clearstream Banking" and "Customer Handbook" of Clearstream, respectively, in effect at the relevant time shall be applicable to transfers of beneficial interests in the Reg S Global Securities of such series that are held by Participants through Euroclear or Clearstream.
Euroclear and Clearstream Procedures Applicable
 
Section 2.12    .
CUSIP Numbers
 
The Company in issuing the Securities of a series may use "CUSIP" numbers (if then generally in use), and, if so, the Trustee shall use "CUSIP" numbers in notices of redemption as a convenience to Securityholders; provided that any such notice may state that no representation is made as to the correctness of such numbers either as printed on the Securities or as contained in any notice of a redemption and that reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers printed on the Securities, and any such redemption shall not be affected by any defect in or omission of such numbers. The Company will promptly notify the Trustee of any change in the "CUSIP" numbers.
 
 
Section 2.13    .
Securities Denominated in Foreign Currencies
 
Except as otherwise specified pursuant to Section 2.01 for Securities of any series, payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on, Securities of such series denominated in any Currency will be made in Dollars.
 
For the purposes of calculating the principal amount of Securities of any series denominated in a Foreign Currency or in units of two or more Foreign Currencies (including European Currency Units) for any purpose under this Indenture, the principal amount of such Securities at any time Outstanding shall be deemed to be the Dollar Equivalent of such principal amount as of the date of any such calculation.
 
In the event any Foreign Currency or Currencies or units of two or more Currencies in which any payment with respect to any series of Securities may be made ceases to be a freely convertible Currency on United States Currency markets, for any date thereafter on which payment of principal of, or premium, if any, or interest on, the Securities of a series is due, the Company shall select the Currency of payment for use on such date, all as provided in the Securities of such series, in a Board Resolution or in one or more indentures supplemental hereto. In such event, the Company shall notify the Trustee of the Currency which it has selected to constitute the funds necessary to meet the Company's obligations on such payment date and of the amount of such Currency to be paid. Such amount shall be determined as provided in the Securities of such series, in a Board Resolution or in one or more indentures supplemental hereto. The payment with respect to such payment date shall be deposited with the Trustee by the Company solely in the Currency so selected.
 
Section 2.14    .
Wire Transfers
 
Notwithstanding any other provision to the contrary in this Indenture, the Company may make any payment of monies required to be deposited with the Trustee on account of principal of, or premium, if any, or interest on, the Securities (whether pursuant to optional or mandatory redemption payments, interest payments or otherwise) by wire transfer in immediately available funds to an account designated by the Trustee on or before the date such moneys are to be paid to the Holders of the Securities in accordance with the terms hereof.
 
Section 2.15    .
Designated Currency
 
The Company may provide pursuant to Section 2.01 for Securities of any series that (a) the obligation, if any, of the Company to pay the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on, the Securities of any series in a Foreign Currency or Dollars (the "") as may be specified pursuant to Section 2.01(a)(12) is of the essence and agree that, to the fullest extent possible under applicable law, judgments in respect of Securities of such series shall be given in the Designated Currency; (b) the obligation of the Company to make payments in the Designated Currency of the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on, such Securities shall, notwithstanding any payment in any other Currency (whether pursuant to a judgment or otherwise), be discharged only to the extent of the amount in the Designated Currency that the Securityholder receiving such payment may, in accordance with normal banking procedures, purchase with the sum paid in such other Currency (after any premium and cost of exchange) on
Designated Currency
 
 
the business day in the country of issue of the Designated Currency or in the international banking community (in the case of a composite currency) immediately following the day on which such Securityholder receives such payment; (c) if the amount in the Designated Currency that may be so purchased for any reason falls short of the amount originally due, the Company shall pay such additional amounts as may be necessary to compensate for such shortfall; and (d) any obligation of the Company not discharged by such payment shall be due as a separate and independent obligation and, until discharged as provided herein, shall continue in full force and effect.
 
 
 
Section 3.01    .
Redemption
 
The Company may redeem the Securities of any series issued hereunder on and after the dates and in accordance with the terms established for such series pursuant to Section 2.01 hereof.
 
Section 3.02    .
Notice of Redemption
 
(a)    If the Company desires to exercise such right to redeem all or, as the case may be, a portion of the Securities of any series, the Company shall, or shall cause the Trustee to, give notice of such redemption to holders of the Securities of such series to be redeemed by mailing, first class postage prepaid, a notice of such redemption not less than 30 days and not more than 90 days before the date fixed for redemption of that series to such holders at their last addresses as they shall appear upon the Security Register (unless a shorter period is specified in the Securities to be redeemed). Any notice that is mailed in the manner herein provided shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the registered holder receives the notice. In any case, failure duly to give such notice to the holder of any Security of any series designated for redemption in whole or in part, or any defect in the notice, shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other Securities of such series or any other series. In the case of any redemption of Securities prior to the expiration of any restriction on such redemption provided in the terms of such Securities or elsewhere in this Indenture, the Company shall furnish the Trustee with an Officers' Certificate evidencing compliance with any such restriction.
 
Each such notice of redemption shall specify the date fixed for redemption and the redemption price at which Securities of that series are to be redeemed, and shall state that payment of the redemption price of such Securities to be redeemed will be made at the office or agency of the Company maintained for such purpose, or, if none, at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee, upon presentation and surrender of such Securities, that interest accrued to the date fixed for redemption will be paid as specified in said notice, that from and after said date interest will cease to accrue, that the redemption is for a sinking fund, if such is the case. If less than all the Securities of a series are to be redeemed, the notice to the holders of Securities of that series to be redeemed in whole or in part shall specify the particular Securities to be so redeemed. In case any Security is to be redeemed in part only, the notice that relates to such Security shall
 
 
state the portion of the principal amount thereof to be redeemed, and shall state that on and after the redemption date, upon surrender of such Security, a new Security or Securities of such series in principal amount equal to the unredeemed portion thereof will be issued.
 
(b)    If less than all the Securities of a series are to be redeemed, the Company shall give the Trustee at least 45 days' notice in advance of the date fixed for redemption as to the aggregate principal amount of Securities of the series to be redeemed, and thereupon the Trustee shall select from Securities of such series Outstanding not previously called for redemption, in accordance with a method that it shall deem appropriate and fair (in such manner as complies with applicable legal and stock exchange requirements, if any) and that may provide for the selection of a portion or portions (equal to One Thousand U.S. Dollars ($1,000) or any integral multiple thereof) of the principal amount of such Securities of such series of a denomination larger than $1,000, the Securities of such series to be redeemed and shall thereafter promptly notify the Company in writing of the numbers of the Securities of such series to be redeemed, in whole or in part.
 
The Company may, if and whenever it shall so elect, by delivery of instructions signed on its behalf by any of its Officers, instruct the Trustee or any paying agent to call all or any part of the Securities of a particular series for redemption and to give notice of redemption in the manner set forth in this Section 3.02, such notice to be in the name of the Company or its own name, as the Trustee or such paying agent may deem advisable. In any case in which notice of redemption is to be given by the Trustee or any such paying agent, the Company shall deliver or cause to be delivered to, or permit to remain with, the Trustee or such paying agent, as the case may be, such Security Register, transfer books or other records, or suitable copies or extracts therefrom, sufficient to enable the Trustee or such paying agent to give any notice by mail that may be required under the provisions of this Section 3.02.
 
Section 3.03    .
Payment Upon Redemption
 
(a)    If the giving of notice of redemption shall have been completed as above provided, the Securities or portions of Securities of the series to be redeemed specified in such notice shall become due and payable on the date and at the place stated in such notice at the applicable redemption price, together with interest accrued to the date fixed for redemption, in each case as established pursuant to Section 2.01; interest on such Securities or portions of Securities shall cease to accrue on and after the date fixed for redemption, unless the Company shall default in the payment of such redemption price and accrued interest with respect to any such Security or portion thereof. On presentation and surrender of such Securities on or after the date fixed for redemption at the place of payment specified in the notice, said Securities shall be paid and redeemed at the applicable redemption price for such series, together with interest accrued thereon to the date fixed for redemption (but if the date fixed for redemption is an Interest Payment Date, the interest installment payable on such date shall be payable to the registered holder at the close of business on the applicable record date pursuant to Section 2.01).
 
(b)    Upon presentation of any Security of such series that is to be redeemed in part only, the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate, and the office or agency where the Security is presented shall deliver to the holder thereof, at the expense of the Company, a new Security of the same series and tenor of authorized denominations in principal
 
 
amount equal to the unredeemed portion of the Security so presented; except that if a Global Security is so surrendered, the Company shall execute, and, upon receipt of an Officers' Certificate requesting authentication and delivery, the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Depositary for such Global Security, without service charge, a new Global Security of like tenor in a denomination equal to and in exchange for the unredeemed portion of the principal of the Global Security so surrendered.
 
Section 3.04    .
Sinking Fund
 
The provisions of Sections 3.04, 3.05 and 3.06 shall be applicable to any sinking fund for the retirement of Securities of a series, except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 2.01 for Securities of such series.
 
The minimum amount of any sinking fund payment provided for by the terms of Securities of any series is herein referred to as a "mandatory sinking fund payment," and any payment in excess of such minimum amount provided for by the terms of Securities of any series is herein referred to as an "optional sinking fund payment." If provided for by the terms of Securities of any series, the cash amount of any sinking fund payment may be subject to reduction as provided in Section 3.05. Each sinking fund payment shall be applied to the redemption of Securities of any series as provided for by the terms of Securities of such series.
 
Section 3.05    .
Satisfaction of Sinking Fund Payments with Securities
 
The Company (i) may deliver Outstanding Securities of a series (other than any Securities previously called for redemption) and (ii) may apply as a credit Securities of a series that have been redeemed either at the election of the Company pursuant to the terms of such Securities or through the application of permitted optional sinking fund payments pursuant to the terms of such Securities, in each case in satisfaction of all or any part of any sinking fund payment with respect to the Securities of such series required to be made pursuant to the terms of such Securities, provided that such Securities have not been previously so credited. Such Securities shall be received and credited for such purpose by the Trustee at the redemption price specified in such Securities for redemption through operation of the sinking fund and the amount of such sinking fund payment shall be reduced accordingly.
 
Section 3.06    .
Redemption of Securities for Sinking Fund
 
Not less than 45 days prior to each sinking fund payment date for any series of Securities, the Company will deliver to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate specifying the amount of the next ensuing sinking fund payment for that series pursuant to the terms of the series, the portion thereof, if any, that is to be satisfied by payment of cash in the Currency in which the Securities of such series are denominated (except as provided pursuant to Section 2.01), the portion thereof, if any, that is to be satisfied by delivering and crediting Securities of that series pursuant to Section 3.05 and the basis for such credit and will, together with such Officers' Certificate, deliver to the Trustee any Securities to be so delivered. Not less than 30 days before each such sinking fund payment date the Trustee shall select the Securities to be redeemed upon such sinking fund payment date in the manner specified in Section 3.02 and cause notice of the redemption thereof to be given in the name of and at the expense of the Company in the manner
 
 
provided in Section 3.02. Such notice having been duly given, the redemption of such Securities shall be made upon the terms and in the manner stated in Section 3.03.
 
 
 
Section 4.01    .
Payment of Principal, Premium and Interest
 
The Company will duly and punctually pay or cause to be paid the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on the Securities of a series at the time and place and in the manner provided herein and established with respect to such Securities.
 
The Company shall pay interest on overdue principal at the rate specified therefore in the Securities and it shall pay interest on overdue installments of interest at the same rate to the extent lawful.
 
Section 4.02    .
Maintenance of Office or Agency
 
So long as any series of the Securities remain Outstanding, the Company will maintain for any series of Securities an office or agency where Securities of such series may be presented or surrendered for payment, where Securities of such series may be surrendered for transfer or exchange and where notices and demands to or upon the Company in respect of the Securities of such series and this Indenture may be given or served, such designation to continue with respect to each office or agency until the Company shall, by written notice signed by any Officer and delivered to the trustee, designate some other office or agency for such purposes or any of them. If at any time the Company shall fail to maintain any such required office or agency or shall fail to furnish the Trustee with the address thereof, such presentations, surrenders, notices and demands may be made or served at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee, and the Company hereby appoints the Trustee as its agent to receive all presentations, surrenders, notices and demands.
 
Section 4.03    .
Paying Agents
 
(a)    The Company may appoint one or more paying agents for all or any series of the Securities, other than the Trustee. If the Company fails to appoint or maintain another entity as paying agent, the Trustee shall act as such. The Company or any of its Subsidiaries may act as paying agent.
 
(b)    The Company shall require each paying agent other than the Trustee to agree in writing that the paying agent will hold in trust for the benefit of Securityholders or the Trustee all money held by the paying agent for the payment of principal or interest on the Securities, and will promptly notify the Trustee in writing of any default by the Company in making any such payment. While any such default continues, the Trustee may require a paying agent to pay all money held by it to the Trustee. The Company at any time may require a paying agent to pay all money held by it to the Trustee. Upon payment over to the Trustee, the paying agent (if other than the Company or a Subsidiary) shall have no further liability for the money. If the Company
 
 
or a Subsidiary acts as paying agent, it shall segregate and hold in a separate trust fund for the benefit of the Securityholders all money held by it as paying agent.
 
(c)    Notwithstanding anything in this Section to the contrary, (i) the agreement to hold sums in trust as provided in this Section 4.03 is subject to the provisions of Section 11.06, and (ii) the Company may at any time, for the purpose of obtaining the satisfaction and discharge or defeasance of this Indenture or for any other purpose, pay, or direct any paying agent to pay, to the Trustee all sums held in trust by the Company or such paying agent, such sums to be held by the Trustee upon the same terms and conditions as those upon which such sums were held by the Company or such paying agent; and, upon such payment by any paying agent to the Trustee, such paying agent shall be released from all further liability with respect to such money.
 
Section 4.04    .
Compliance with Laws, Taxes
 
The Company shall, and shall cause each of its Subsidiaries to, comply with all statutes, laws, ordinances, or government rules and regulations to which it is subject, noncompliance with which would materially adversely affect the business, earnings, properties, assets or financial condition of the Company and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole. The Company shall, and shall cause each of its Subsidiaries to, pay prior to delinquency all taxes, assessments, and governmental levies except as contested in good faith and by appropriate proceedings.
 
Section 4.05    .
Corporate Existence
 
Subject to Article Ten hereof, the Company will do or cause to be done all things necessary to preserve and keep in full force and effect its corporate existence in accordance with its organizational documents.
 
Section 4.06    .
Statement by Officers as to Default
 
The Company, so long as any Securities are Outstanding, will deliver to the Trustee, within 120 days after the end of each fiscal year of the Company ending after the date hereof, an Officers' Certificate signed by its principal executive officer, principal financial officer or principal accounting officer stating whether or not to the best knowledge of the signer thereof the Company is in default in the performance and observance of any of the terms, provisions and conditions of this Indenture, and if the Company shall be in default, specifying all such defaults and the nature and status thereof of which they may have knowledge.
 
The Company, so long as any Securities are Outstanding, shall promptly deliver to the Trustee, forthwith upon any Officer becoming aware of the occurrence of any Event of Default or an event which, with notice or the lapse of time or both, would constitute an Event of Default, an Officers' Certificate specifying such Event of Default or Default and the action which the Company proposes to make with respect thereto.
 
Section 4.07    .
Waiver of Certain Covenants
 
The Company may omit in any particular instance to comply with any term, provision or condition set forth in Sections 4.04 and 4.05 with respect to the Securities of any series if before or after the time for such compliance the Securityholders of at least a majority in principal
 
 
amount of all Outstanding Securities of such series, by act of such Securityholders, either waive such compliance in such instance or generally waive compliance with such covenant or condition, but no such waiver shall extend to or affect such covenant or condition except to the extent so expressly waived, and, until such waiver shall become effective, the obligations of the Company and the duties of the Trustee in respect of any such term, provision or condition shall remain in full force and effect.
 
Section 4.08    .
Appointment to Fill Vacancy in Office of Trustee
 
The Company, whenever necessary to avoid or to fill a vacancy in the office of Trustee, will appoint, in the manner provided in Section 7.10, a Trustee, so that there shall be at all times a Trustee hereunder.
 
 
 
Section 5.01    .
Company to Furnish Trustee Names and Addresses of Securityholders
 
The Company will furnish or cause to be furnished to the Trustee (a) semi-annually at least seven Business Days before each Interest Payment Date for a series of Securities (and in all events at intervals of not more than six months) a list, in such form as the Trustee may reasonably require, of the names and addresses of the holders of each series of Securities as of such date, provided that the Company shall not be obligated to furnish or cause to furnish such list at any time that the list shall not differ in any respect from the most recent list furnished to the Trustee by the Company and (b) at such other times as the Trustee may require in writing within 30 days after the receipt by the Company of any such request, a list of similar form and content as of a date not more than 15 days prior to the time such list is furnished; provided, however, that, in either case, no such list need be furnished for any series for which the Trustee shall be the Security Registrar.
 
Section 5.02    .
Preservation of Information; Communications with Securityholders
 
(a)    The Trustee shall preserve, in as current a form as is reasonably practicable, all information as to the names and addresses of the holders of Securities contained in the most recent list furnished to it as provided in Section 5.01 and as to the names and addresses of holders of Securities received by the Trustee in its capacity as Security Registrar (if acting in such capacity).
 
(b)      Securityholders may communicate as provided in Section 312(b) of the Trust Indenture Act with other Securityholders with respect to their rights under this Indenture or under the Securities.
 
Section 5.03    .
Reports by the Company
 
(a)    The Company covenants and agrees to file with the Trustee, within 15 days after the Company is required to file with the Commission, copies of the annual reports and of the
 
 
information, documents and other reports (or copies of such portions of any of the foregoing as the Commission may from time to time by rules and regulations prescribe) that the Company may be required to file with the Commission pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act; or, if the Company is not required to file information, documents or reports pursuant to either such Sections, then to file with the Trustee and the Commission, in accordance with the rules and regulations prescribed from time to time by the Commission, such of the supplementary and periodic information, documents and reports that may be required pursuant to Section 13 of the Exchange Act, in respect of a security listed and registered on a national securities exchange as may be prescribed from time to time in such rules and regulations.
 
(b)    The Company covenants and agrees to file with the Trustee and the Commission, in accordance with the rules and regulations prescribed from time to time by the Commission, such additional information, documents and reports with respect to compliance by the Company with the conditions and covenants provided for in this Indenture as may be required from time to time by such rules and regulations.
 
(c)    The Company covenants and agrees to transmit by mail, first class postage prepaid, or reputable overnight delivery service that provides for evidence of receipt, to the Securityholders, as their names and addresses appear upon the Security Register, within 30 days after the filing thereof with the Trustee, such summaries of any information, documents and reports required to be filed by the Company pursuant to the subsections (a) and (b) of this Section 5.03 as may be required by rules and regulations prescribed from time to time by the Commission.
 
(d)    Delivery of such reports, information and documents to the Trustee is for informational purposes only and the Trustee's receipt of such shall not constitute constructive notice of any information contained therein or determinable from information contained therein, including the Company's compliance with any of its covenants hereunder (as to which the Trustee is entitled to rely exclusively on Officers' Certificates).
 
(e)    For so long as any Restricted Securities remain outstanding, the Company shall make available (which shall include filings by EDGAR) to all Securityholders and to securities analysts and prospective investors, upon their request, the information required to be delivered pursuant to Rule 144A(d)(4) under the Securities Act.
 
Section 5.04    .
Reports by the Trustee
 
(a)    Within 60 days after each August 15 beginning with the August 15 following the date of this Indenture, the Trustee shall transmit by mail, first class postage prepaid, to the Securityholders, as their names and addresses appear upon the Security Register, a brief report dated as of the fifteenth day before the end of such fiscal year, if and to the extent required under Section 313(a) of the Trust Indenture Act. The Trustee shall comply with Section 313(b) and 313(c) of the Trust Indenture Act.
 
(b)    A copy of each such report shall, at the time of such transmission to Securityholders, be filed by the Trustee with the Company, with each stock exchange upon which any Securities are listed (if so listed) and also with the Commission. The Company agrees
 
 
to notify the Trustee when any Securities become listed on any stock exchange or delisted therefrom.
 
 
 
Section 6.01    .
Events of Default
 
(a)    Whenever used herein with respect to Securities of a particular series, "" means any one or more of the following events that has occurred and is continuing:
Event of Default
 
(1)    the Company defaults in the payment of any installment of interest upon any of the Securities of that series, as and when the same shall become due and payable, and continuance of such default for a period of 90 days; provided, however, that a valid extension of an interest payment period by the Company in accordance with the terms of any indenture supplemental hereto shall not constitute a default in the payment of interest for this purpose;
 
(2)    the Company defaults in the payment of the principal of (or premium, if any, on) any of the Securities of that series as and when the same shall become due and payable whether at maturity, upon redemption, by declaration or otherwise, or in any payment required by any sinking or analogous fund established with respect to that series; provided, however, that a valid extension of the maturity of such Securities in accordance with the terms of any indenture supplemental hereto shall not constitute a default in the payment of principal or premium, if any;
 
(3)    the Company fails to observe or perform any other of its covenants or agreements with respect to that series contained in this Indenture or otherwise established with respect to that series of Securities pursuant to Section 2.01 hereof (other than a covenant or agreement that has been expressly included in this Indenture solely for the benefit of one or more series of Securities other than such series) for a period of 90 days after the date on which written notice of such failure, requiring the same to be remedied and stating that such notice is a "" hereunder, shall have been given to the Company by the Trustee, by registered or certified mail, or to the Company and the Trustee by the holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the Securities of that series at the time Outstanding;
Notice of Default
 
(4)    the Company pursuant to or within the meaning of any Bankruptcy Law (i) commences a voluntary case, (ii) consents to the entry of an order for relief against it in an involuntary case, (iii) consents to the appointment of a Custodian of it or for all or substantially all of its property or (iv) makes a general assignment for the benefit of its creditors; or
 
(5)    a court of competent jurisdiction enters an order under any Bankruptcy Law that (i) is for relief against the Company in an involuntary case, (ii) appoints a Custodian of the Company for all or substantially all of the Company's properties, or (iii) orders the liquidation of the Company, and, in either of the above cases, the order or decree remains unstayed and in effect for 90 days.
 
 
(b)    In each and every such case, unless the principal of all the Securities of that series shall have already become due and payable, either the Trustee or the holders of not less than 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of that series then Outstanding hereunder, by notice in writing to the Company (and to the Trustee if given by such Securityholders), may declare the unpaid principal of all the Securities of that series to be due and payable immediately, and upon any such declaration the same shall become and shall be immediately due and payable, notwithstanding anything contained in this Indenture or in the Securities of that series or established with respect to that series pursuant to Section 2.01 to the contrary.
 
(c)    At any time after the principal of the Securities of that series shall have been so declared due and payable, and before any judgment or decree for the payment of the moneys due shall have been obtained or entered as hereinafter provided, the holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of that series then Outstanding hereunder, by written notice to the Company and the Trustee, may rescind and annul such declaration and its consequences if: (i) the Company has paid or deposited with the Trustee a sum sufficient to pay all matured installments of interest upon all the Securities of that series and the principal of (and premium, if any) on any and all Securities of that series that shall have become due otherwise than by acceleration (with interest upon such principal (and premium, if any) and, to the extent that such payment is enforceable under applicable law, upon overdue installments of interest, at the rate per annum expressed in the Securities of that series to the date of such payment or deposit), and (ii) any and all Events of Default under the Indenture with respect to such series, other than the nonpayment of principal on Securities of that series that shall not have become due by their terms, shall have been remedied or waived as provided in Section 6.06.
 
No such rescission and annulment shall extend to or shall affect any subsequent default or impair any right consequent thereon.
 
(d)    In case the Trustee shall have proceeded to enforce any right with respect to Securities of that series under this Indenture and such proceedings shall have been discontinued or abandoned because of such rescission or annulment or for any other reason or shall have been determined adversely to the Trustee, then and in every such case the Company and the Trustee shall be restored respectively to their former positions and rights hereunder, and all rights, remedies and powers of the Company and the Trustee shall continue as though no such proceedings had been taken.
 
Section 6.02    .
Collection of Indebtedness and Suits for Enforcement by Trustee
 
(a)    The Company covenants that (i) in case it shall default in the payment of any installment of interest on any of the Securities of a series, or any payment required by any sinking or analogous fund established with respect to that series as and when the same shall have become due and payable, and such default shall have continued for a period of 90 Business Days, or (ii) in case it shall default in the payment of the principal of (or premium, if any, on) any of the Securities of a series when the same shall have become due and payable, whether upon maturity of the Securities of a series or upon redemption or upon declaration or otherwise, then, upon demand of the Trustee, the Company will pay to the Trustee, for the benefit of the holders of the Securities of that series, the whole amount that then shall have been become due and payable on all such Securities for principal (and premium, if any) or interest, or both, as the case
 
 
may be, with interest upon the overdue principal (and premium, if any) and (to the extent that payment of such interest is enforceable under applicable law) upon overdue installments of interest at the rate per annum expressed in the Securities of that series; and, in addition thereto, such further amount as shall be sufficient to cover the costs and expenses of collection, and the amount payable to the Trustee under Section 7.06.
 
(b)    If the Company shall fail to pay such amounts forthwith upon such demand, the Trustee, in its own name and as trustee of an express trust, shall be entitled and empowered to institute any action or proceedings at law or in equity for the collection of the sums so due and unpaid, and may prosecute any such action or proceeding to judgment or final decree, and may enforce any such judgment or final decree against the Company and collect the moneys adjudged or decreed to be payable in the manner provided by law out of the property of the Company, wherever situated.
 
(c)    In case of any receivership, insolvency, liquidation, bankruptcy, reorganization, readjustment, arrangement, composition or judicial proceedings affected the Company, or its creditors or property, the Trustee shall have power to intervene in such proceedings and take any action therein that may be permitted by the court and shall (except as may be otherwise provided by law) be entitled to file such proofs of claim and other papers and documents as may be necessary or advisable in order to have the claims of the Trustee and of the holders of Securities of such series allowed for the entire amount due and payable by the Company under the Indenture at the date of institution of such proceedings and for any additional amount that may become due and payable by the Company after such date, and to collect and receive any moneys or other property payable or deliverable on any such claim, and to distribute the same in accordance with Section 6.03 hereof; and any receiver, assignee or trustee in bankruptcy or reorganization is hereby authorized by each of the holders of Securities of such series to make such payments to the Trustee, and, in the event that the Trustee shall consent to the making of such payments directly to such Securityholders, to pay to the Trustee any amount due it under Section 7.06.
 
(d)    All rights of action and of asserting claims under this Indenture, or under any of the terms established with respect to Securities of that series, may be enforced by the Trustee without the possession of any of such Securities, or the production thereof at any trial or other proceeding relative thereto, and any such suit or proceeding instituted by the Trustee shall be brought in its own name as trustee of an express trust, and any recovery of judgment shall, after provision for payment to the Trustee of any amounts due under Section 7.06, be for the ratable benefit of the holders of the Securities of such series.
 
In case of an Event of Default hereunder, the Trustee may in its discretion proceed to protect and enforce the rights vested in it by this Indenture by such appropriate judicial proceedings as the Trustee shall deem most effectual to protect and enforce any of such rights, either at law or in equity or in bankruptcy or otherwise, whether for the specific enforcement of any covenant or agreement contained in the Indenture or in aid of the exercise of any power granted in this Indenture, or to enforce any other legal or equitable right vested in the Trustee by this Indenture or by law.
 
 
Nothing contained herein shall be deemed to authorize the Trustee to authorize or consent to or accept or adopt on behalf of any Securityholder any plan of reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition affecting the Securities of that series or the rights of any holder thereof or to authorize the Trustee to vote in respect of the claim of any Securityholder in any such proceeding.
 
Section 6.03    .
Application of Moneys Collected
 
Any moneys collected by the Trustee pursuant to this Article VI with respect to a particular series of Securities shall be applied in the following order, at the date or dates fixed by the Trustee and, in case of the distribution of such moneys on account of principal (or premium, if any) or interest, upon presentation of the Securities of that series, and notation thereon the payment, if only partially paid, and upon surrender thereof if fully paid:
 
FIRST: To the payment of costs and expenses of collection and of all amounts payable to the Trustee under Section 7.06;
 
SECOND: To the payment of the amounts then due and unpaid upon Securities of such series for principal (and premium, if any) and interest, in respect of which or for the benefit of which such money has been collected, ratably, without preference or priority of any kind, according to the amounts due and payable on such Securities for principal (and premium, if any) and interest, respectively; and
 
THIRD: To the Company.
 
Section 6.04    .
Limitation on Suits
 
No holder of any Security of any series shall have any right by virtue or by availing himself or herself of any provision of this Indenture to institute any suit, action or proceeding in equity or at law upon or under or with respect to this Indenture or for the appointment of a receiver or trustee, or for any other remedy hereunder, unless (i) such holder previously shall have given to the Trustee written notice of an Event of Default and of the continuance thereof with respect to the Securities of such series specifying such Event of Default, as hereinbefore provided; (ii) the holders of not less than 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of such series then Outstanding shall have made written request upon the Trustee to institute such action, suit or proceeding in its own name as trustee hereunder; (iii) such holder or holders shall have offered to the Trustee such reasonable indemnity as it may require against the costs, expenses and liabilities to be incurred therein or thereby; (iv) the Trustee for 60 days after its receipt of such notice, request and offer of indemnity, shall have failed to institute any such action, suit or proceeding; and (v) during such 60 day period, the holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities of that series do not give the Trustee a direction inconsistent with the request.
 
Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, any other provisions of this Indenture, the right of any holder of any Security to receive payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on such Security, as therein provided, on or after the respective due dates expressed in such Security (or in the case of redemption, on the redemption date), or to institute suit for the enforcement of any such payment on or after such respective dates or
 
 
redemption date, shall not be impaired or affected without the consent of such holder and by accepting a Security hereunder it is expressly understood, intended and covenanted by the taker and holder of every Security of such series with every other such taker and holder and the Trustee, that no one or more holders of Securities of such series shall have any right in any manner whatsoever by virtue or by availing himself or herself of any provision of this Indenture to affect, disturb or prejudice the rights of the holders of any other of such Securities, or to obtain or seek to obtain priority over or preference to any other such holder, or to enforce any right under this Indenture, except in the manner herein provided and for the equal, ratable and common benefit of all holders of Securities of such series. For the protection and enforcement of the provisions of this Section 6.04, each and every Securityholder and the Trustee shall be entitled to such relief as can be given either at law or in equity.
 
Section 6.05    .
Rights and Remedies Cumulative; Delay or Omission not Waiver
 
(a)    Except as otherwise provided in Section 2.07, all powers and remedies given by this Article VI to the Trustee or to the Securityholders shall, to the extent permitted by law, be deemed cumulative and not exclusive of any other powers and remedies available to the Trustee or the holders of the Securities, by judicial proceedings or otherwise, to enforce the performance or observance of the covenants and agreements contained in this Indenture or otherwise established with respect to such Securities.
 
(b)    No delay or omission of the Trustee or of any holder of any of the Securities to exercise any right or power accruing upon any Event of Default occurring and continuing as aforesaid shall impair any such right or power, or shall be construed to be a waiver of any such default or on acquiescence therein; and, subject to the provisions of Section 6.04, every power and remedy given by this Article VI or by law to the Trustee or the Securityholders may be exercised from time to time, and as often as shall be deemed expedient, by the Trustee or by the Securityholders.
 
Section 6.06    .
Control by Securityholders
 
The holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of any series at the time Outstanding, determined in accordance with Section 8.04, shall have the right to direct the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee or exercising any trust or power conferred on the Trustee with respect to such series; provided, however, that such direction shall not be in conflict with any rule of law or with this Indenture or be unduly prejudicial to the rights of holders of Securities of any other series at the time Outstanding determined in accordance with Section 8.04. Subject to the provisions of Section 7.01, the Trustee shall have the right to decline to follow any such direction if the Trustee in good faith shall, by a Responsible Officer or Responsible Officers of the Trustee, determine that the proceeding so directed would involve the Trustee in personal liability. The holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of any series at the time Outstanding affected thereby, determined in accordance with Section 8.04, may on behalf of the holders of all of the Securities of such series waive any past default in the performance of any of the covenants contained herein or established pursuant to Section 2.01 with respect to such series and its consequences, except a default in the payment of the principal of, or premium, if any, or interest on, any of the Securities of that series as and when the same shall become due by the terms of
 
 
such Securities otherwise than by acceleration (unless such default has been cured and a sum sufficient to pay all matured installments of interest and principal and any premium has been deposited with the Trustee (in accordance with Section 6.01(c)). Upon any such waiver, the default covered thereby shall be deemed to be cured for all purposes of this Indenture and the Company, the Trustee and the holders of the Securities of such series shall be restored to their former positions and rights hereunder, respectively; but no such waiver shall extend to any subsequent or other default or impair any right consequent thereon.
 
Section 6.07      .
Undertaking to Pay Costs
 
All parties to this Indenture agree, and each holder of any Securities by such holder's acceptance thereof shall be deemed to have agreed, that any court may in its discretion require, in any suit for the enforcement of any right or remedy under this Indenture, or in any suit against the Trustee for any action taken or omitted by it as Trustee, the filing by any party litigant in such suit of an undertaking to pay the costs of such suit, and that such court may in its discretion assess reasonable costs, including reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses, against any party litigant in such suit, having due regard to the merits and good faith of the claims or defenses made by such party litigant; but the provisions of this Section 6.07 shall not apply to any suit instituted by the Trustee, to any suit instituted by any Securityholder, or group of Securityholders, holding more than 10% in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series, or to any suit instituted by any Securityholder for the enforcement of the payment of the principal of (or premium, if any) or interest on any Security of such series, on or after the respective due dates expressed in such Security or established pursuant to this Indenture.
 
Section 6.08    .
Waiver Of Usury, Stay Or Extension Laws
 
The Company covenants (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) that it will not at any time insist upon, or plead, or in any manner whatsoever claim or take the benefit or advantage of, any usury, stay or extension law wherever enacted, now or at any time hereafter in force, which may affect the covenants or the performance of this Indenture; and the Company (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) hereby expressly waives all benefit or advantage of any such law and covenants that it will not, by resort to any such law, hinder, delay or impede the execution of any power herein granted to the Trustee, but will suffer and permit the execution of every such power as though no such law had been enacted.
 
 
 
Section 7.01    .
Certain Duties and Responsibilities of Trustee
 
(a)    In case an Event of Default with respect to the Securities of a series has occurred (that has not been cured or waived), the Trustee shall exercise with respect to Securities of that series such of the rights and powers vested in it by this Indenture, and use the same degree of care and skill in their exercise, as a prudent man would exercise or use under the circumstances in the conduct of his own affairs.
 
 
(b)    No provision of this Indenture shall be construed to relieve the Trustee from liability for its own negligent action, its own negligent failure to act, or its own willful misconduct, except that:
 
(1)      prior to the occurrence of an Event of Default with respect to the Securities of a series and after the curing or waiving of all such Events of Default with respect to that series that may have occurred:
 
(i)    the duties and obligations of the Trustee shall with respect to the Securities of such series be determined solely by the express provisions of this Indenture, and the Trustee shall not be liable with respect to the Securities of such series except for the performance of such duties and obligations as are specifically set forth in this Indenture, and no implied covenants or obligations shall be read into this Indenture against the Trustee; and
 
(ii)    in the absence of bad faith on the part of the Trustee, the Trustee may with respect to the Securities of such series conclusively rely, as to the truth of the statements and the correctness of the opinions expressed therein, upon any certificates or opinions furnished to the Trustee and conforming to the requirements of this Indenture; but in the case of any such certificates or opinions that by any provision hereof are specifically required to be furnished to the Trustee, the Trustee shall be under a duty to examine the same to determine whether or not they conform to the requirements of this Indenture (but need not confirm or investigate the accuracy of mathematical computations or other facts stated therein);
 
(2)    the Trustee shall not be liable for any error of judgment made in good faith by a Responsible Officer or Responsible Officers of the Trustee, unless it shall be proved that the Trustee was negligent in ascertaining the pertinent facts;
 
(3)    the Trustee shall not be liable with respect to any action taken or omitted to be taken by it in good faith in accordance with the direction of the holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the Securities of any series at the time Outstanding relating to the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee, or exercising any trust or power conferred upon the Trustee under this Indenture with respect to the Securities of that series; and
 
(4)    none of the provisions contained in this Indenture shall require the Trustee to expend or risk its own funds or otherwise incur personal financial liability in the performance of any of its duties or in the exercise of any of its rights or powers, if there is reasonable ground for believing that the repayment of such funds or liability is not reasonably assured to it under the terms of this Indenture or adequate indemnity against such risk is not reasonably assured to it.
 
Section 7.02    .
Certain Rights of Trustee
 
Except as otherwise provided in Section 7.01:
 
 
(a)      the Trustee may conclusively rely and shall be fully protected in acting or refraining from acting upon any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, consent, order, approval, bond, security or other paper or document (whether in its original or facsimile form) believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or presented by the proper party or parties;
 
(b)    any request, direction, order or demand of the Company mentioned herein shall be sufficiently evidenced by a Board Resolution or an instrument signed in the name of the Company by an Officer (unless other evidence in respect thereof is specifically prescribed herein);
 
(c)      the Trustee may consult with counsel of its own selection and the advice of such counsel or any Opinion of Counsel shall be full and complete authorization and protection in respect of any action taken or suffered or omitted hereunder in good faith and in reliance thereon;
 
(d)    the Trustee shall be under no obligation to exercise any of the rights or powers vested in it by this Indenture at the request, order or direction of any of the Securityholders, pursuant to the provisions of this Indenture, unless such Securityholders shall have offered to the Trustee indemnity satisfactory to it against the costs, expenses and liabilities that may be incurred therein or thereby;
 
(e)    the Trustee shall not be liable for any action taken or omitted to be taken by it in good faith and believed by it to be authorized or within the discretion or rights or powers conferred upon it by this Indenture;
 
(f)    the Trustee shall not be bound to make any investigation into the facts or matters stated in any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, consent, order, approval, bond, security, or other papers or documents, unless requested in writing so to do by the holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of the particular series affected thereby (determined as provided in Section 8.04); provided, however, that if the payment within a reasonable time to the Trustee of the costs, expenses or liabilities likely to be incurred by it in the making of such investigation is, in the opinion of the Trustee, not reasonably assured to the Trustee by the security afforded to it by the terms of this Indenture, the Trustee may require reasonable indemnity against such costs, expenses or liabilities as a condition to so proceeding. The reasonable expense of every such examination shall be paid by the Company or, if paid by the Trustee, shall be repaid by the Company upon demand;
 
(g)    the Trustee shall not be deemed to have notice of any Event of Default unless a Responsible Officer of the Trustee has actual knowledge thereof or unless written notice of any event which is in fact such a default is received by the Trustee at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee; and
 
(h)    the Trustee may execute any of the trusts or powers hereunder or perform any duties hereunder either directly or by or through agents or attorneys and the Trustee shall not be responsible for any misconduct or negligence on the part of any agent or attorney appointed with due care by it hereunder.
 
 
Section 7.03    .
Trustee not Responsible for Recitals or Issuance of Securities
 
(a)    The recitals contained herein and in the Securities shall be taken as the statements of the Company, and the Trustee assumes no responsibility for the correctness of the same.
 
(b)    The Trustee makes no representations as to the validity or sufficiency of this Indenture or of the Securities.
 
(c)    The Trustee shall not be accountable for the use or application by the Company of any of the Securities or of the proceeds of such Securities, or for the use or application of any moneys paid over by the Trustee in accordance with any provision of this Indenture or established pursuant to Section 2.01, or for the use or application of any moneys received by any paying agent other than the Trustee.
 
Section 7.04    .
May Hold Securities
 
The Trustee or any paying agent or Security Registrar, in its individual or any other capacity, may become the owner or pledgee of Securities with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee, paying agent or Security Registrar. However, the Trustee is subject to Sections 7.09 and 7.13.
 
Section 7.05    .
Moneys Held in Trust
 
Subject to the provisions of Section 11.06, all moneys received by the Trustee shall, until used or applied as herein provided, be held in trust for the purposes for which they were received, but need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law. The Trustee shall be under no liability for interest on any moneys received by it hereunder except such as it may agree with the Company to pay thereon.
 
Section 7.06    .
Compensation and Reimbursement
 
(a)    The Company shall pay to the Trustee, and the Trustee shall be entitled to be paid, such reasonable compensation (which shall not be limited by any provision of law in regard to the compensation of a trustee of an express trust), as the Company and the Trustee may from time to time agree in writing, for all services rendered by it in the execution of the trusts hereby created and in the exercise and performance of any of the powers and duties hereunder of the Trustee, and, except as otherwise expressly provided herein, the Company will pay or reimburse the Trustee upon its request for all reasonable expenses and disbursements incurred or made by the Trustee in accordance with any of the provisions of this Indenture (including the reasonable compensation and the expenses and disbursements of its counsel and of all Persons not regularly in its employ) except any such expense or disbursement as may arise from its own negligence or bad faith. The Company shall also fully indemnify the Trustee (and its officers, agents, directors and employees) for, and shall also hold it harmless against, any and all loss, liability, claim, damage or expense incurred without negligence or bad faith on the part of the Trustee and arising out of or in connection with the acceptance or administration of this trust, including the costs and expenses of defending itself against any claim of liability.
 
 
(b)  The obligations of the Company under this Section 7.06 to compensate and indemnify the Trustee and to pay or reimburse the Trustee for expenses and disbursements shall: (i) be secured by a lien prior to that of the Securities upon all property and funds held or collected by the Trustee as such, except funds held in trust for the benefit of the holders of particular Securities; and (ii) survive the termination of this Indenture and resignation or removal of the Trustee.
 
Section 7.07    .
Reliance on Officers' Certificate
 
Except as otherwise provided in Section 7.01, whenever in the administration of the provisions of this Indenture the Trustee shall deem it necessary or desirable that a matter be proved or established prior to taking or suffering or omitting to take any action hereunder, such matter (unless other evidence in respect thereof be herein specifically prescribed) may, in the absence of negligence or bad faith on the part of the Trustee, be deemed to be conclusively proved and established by an Officers' Certificate delivered to the Trustee and such certificate, in the absence of negligence or bad faith on the part of the Trustee, shall be full warrant to the Trustee for any action taken, suffered or omitted to be taken by it under the provisions of this Indenture upon the faith thereof.
 
Section 7.08    .
Disqualification; Conflicting Interests
 
If the Trustee has or shall acquire any "conflicting interest" within the meaning of Section 310(b) of the Trust Indenture Act, the Trustee and the Company shall in all respects comply with the provisions of Section 310(b) of the Trust Indenture Act.
 
Section 7.09    .
Corporate Trustee Required; Eligibility
 
There shall at all times be a Trustee with respect to the Securities issued hereunder which shall at all times be a corporation organized and doing business under the laws of the United States of America or any State or Territory thereof or of the District of Columbia, or a corporation or other Person permitted to act as trustee by the Commission, authorized under such laws to exercise corporate trust powers, having a combined capital and surplus of at least 50 Million U.S. Dollars ($50,000,000), and subject to supervision or examination by Federal, State, Territorial, or District of Columbia authority. If such corporation publishes reports of condition at least annually, pursuant to law or to the requirements of the aforesaid supervising or examining authority, then for the purposes of this Section 7.09, the combined capital and surplus of such corporation shall be deemed to be its combined capital and surplus as set forth in its most recent report of condition so published. The Company may not, nor may any Person directly or indirectly controlling, controlled by, or under common control with the Company, serve as Trustee. In case at any time the Trustee shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of this Section 7.09, the Trustee shall resign immediately in the manner and with the effect specified in Section 7.10.
 
Section 7.10    .
Resignation and Removal; Appointment of Successor
 
(a)    The Trustee or any successor hereafter appointed may at any time resign with respect to the Securities of one or more series by giving written notice thereof to the Company and by transmitting notice of resignation by mail, first class postage prepaid, to the
 
 
Securityholders of such series, as their names and addresses appear upon the Security Register. Upon receiving such notice of resignation, the Company shall promptly appoint a successor trustee with respect to Securities of such series. If no successor trustee shall have been so appointed and have accepted appointment within 60 days after the retiring Trustee resigns, the retiring Trustee, at the expense of the Company, or the Company may petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor trustee with respect to Securities of such series, or any Securityholder of that series who has been a bona fide holder of a Security or Securities for at least six months may on behalf of himself and all others similarly situated, petition any such court for the appointment of a successor trustee. Such court may thereupon after such notice, if any, as it may deem proper and prescribe, appoint a successor trustee.
 
(b)    In case at any time any one of the following shall occur, the Company may remove the Trustee with respect to all or any series of Securities and appoint a successor trustee, or, unless the Trustee's duty to resign is stayed as provided herein, any Securityholder who has been a bona fide holder of a Security or Securities for at least six months may, on behalf of that holder and all others similarly situated, petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the removal of the Trustee and the appointment of a successor trustee. Such court may thereupon after such notice, if any, as it may deem proper and prescribe, remove the Trustee and appoint a successor trustee:
 
(1)    the Trustee shall fail to comply with the provisions of Section 7.08 after written request therefor by the Company or by any Securityholder who has been a bona fide holder of a Security or Securities for at least six months; or
 
(2)    the Trustee shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of Section 7.09 and shall fail to resign after written request therefor by the Company or by any such Securityholder; or
 
(3)    the Trustee shall become incapable of acting, or shall be adjudged a bankrupt or insolvent, or commence a voluntary bankruptcy proceeding, or a receiver of the Trustee or of its property shall be appointed or consented to, or any public officer shall take charge or control of the Trustee or of its property or affairs for the purpose of rehabilitation, conservation or liquidation.
 
(c)    The holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of any series at the time Outstanding may at any time remove the Trustee with respect to such series by so notifying the Trustee and the Company and may appoint a successor Trustee for such series with the consent of the Company.
 
(d)    Any resignation or removal of the Trustee and appointment of a successor trustee with respect to the Securities of a series pursuant to any of the provisions of this Section shall become effective upon acceptance of appointment by the successor trustee as provided in Section 7.11.
 
(e)    Any successor trustee appointed pursuant to this Section 7.10 may be appointed with respect to the Securities of one or more series or all of such series, and at any time there shall be only one Trustee with respect to the Securities of any particular series.
 
 
Section 7.11    .
Acceptance of Appointment By Successor
 
(a)    In case of the appointment hereunder of a successor trustee with respect to all Securities, every such successor trustee so appointed shall execute, acknowledge and deliver to the Company and to the retiring Trustee an instrument accepting such appointment, and thereupon the resignation or removal of the retiring Trustee shall become effective and such successor trustee, without any further act, deed or conveyance, shall become vested with all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee; but, on the request of the Company or the successor trustee, such retiring Trustee shall, upon payment of its charges, execute and deliver an instrument transferring to such successor trustee all the rights, powers, and trusts of the retiring Trustee and shall duly assign, transfer and deliver to such successor trustee all property and money held by such retiring Trustee hereunder.
 
(b)    In case of the appointment hereunder of a successor trustee with respect to the Securities of one or more (but not all) series, the Company, the retiring Trustee and each successor trustee with respect to the Securities of one or more series shall execute and deliver an indenture supplemental hereto wherein each successor trustee shall accept such appointment and which (i) shall contain such provisions as shall be necessary or desirable to transfer and confirm to, and to vest in, each successor trustee all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee with respect to the Securities of that or those series to which the appointment of such successor trustee relates, (ii) shall contain such provisions as shall be deemed necessary or desirable to confirm that all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee with respect to the Securities of that or those series as to which the retiring Trustee is not retiring shall continue to be vested in the retiring Trustee, and (iii) shall add to or change any of the provisions of this Indenture as shall be necessary to provide for or facilitate the administration of the trusts hereunder by more than one Trustee, it being understood that nothing herein or in such supplemental indenture shall constitute such Trustees co-trustees of the same trust, that each such Trustee shall be trustee of a trust or trusts hereunder separate and apart from any trust or trusts hereunder administered by any other such Trustee and that no Trustee shall be responsible for any act or failure to act on the part of any other Trustee hereunder; and upon the execution and delivery of such supplemental indenture the resignation or removal of the retiring Trustee shall become effective to the extent provided therein, such retiring Trustee shall with respect to the Securities of that or those series to which the appointment of such successor trustee relates have no further responsibility for the exercise of rights and powers or for the performance of the duties and obligations vested in the Trustee under this Indenture, and each such successor trustee, without any further act, deed or conveyance, shall become vested with all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee with respect to the Securities of that or those series to which the appointment of such successor trustee relates; but, on request of the Company or any successor trustee, such retiring Trustee shall duly assign, transfer and deliver to such successor trustee, to the extent contemplated by such supplemental indenture, the property and money held by such retiring Trustee hereunder with respect to the Securities of that or those series to which the appointment of such successor trustee relates.
 
(c)    Upon request of any such successor trustee, the Company may execute any and all instruments for more fully and certainly vesting in and confirming to such successor trustee all such rights, powers and trusts referred to in paragraph (a) or (b) of this Section 7.11, as the case may be.
 
 
(d)    No successor trustee shall accept its appointment unless at the time of such acceptance such successor trustee shall be qualified and eligible under this Article VII.
 
(e)    Upon acceptance of appointment by a successor trustee as provided in this Section 7.11, the successor trustee shall cause a notice of its succession to be transmitted to Securityholders.
 
Section 7.12    .
Merger, Conversion, Consolidation or Succession to Business
 
Any corporation into which the Trustee may be merged or converted or with which it may be consolidated, or any corporation resulting from any merger, conversion or consolidation to which the Trustee shall be a party, or any corporation succeeding to all or substantially all of the corporate trust business of the Trustee, shall be the successor of the Trustee hereunder, provided that such corporation shall be qualified under the provisions of Section 7.08 and eligible under the provisions of Section 7.09, without the execution or filing of any paper or any further act on the part of any of the parties hereto, anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding. In case any Securities shall have been authenticated, but not delivered, by the Trustee then in office, any successor by merger, conversion or consolidation to such authenticating Trustee may adopt such authentication and deliver the Securities so authenticated with the same effect as if such successor Trustee had itself authenticated such Securities.
 
Section 7.13    .
Preferential Collection of Claims Against the Company
 
The Trustee shall comply with Section 311(a) of the Trust Indenture Act, excluding any creditor relationship described in Section 311(b) of the Trust Indenture Act. A Trustee who has resigned or been removed shall be subject to Section 311(a) of the Trust Indenture Act to the extent included therein.
 
 
 
Section 8.01    .
Evidence of Action by Securityholders
 
Whenever in this Indenture it is provided that the holders of a majority or specified percentage in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of a particular series may take any action (including the making of any demand or request, the giving of any notice, consent or waiver or the taking of any other action), the fact that at the time of taking any such action the holders of such majority or specified percentage of that series have joined therein may be evidenced by any instrument or any number of instruments of similar tenor executed by such holders of Securities of that series in Person or by agent or proxy appointed in writing.
 
If the Company shall solicit from the Securityholders of any series any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action, the Company may, at its option, as evidenced by an Officers' Certificate, fix in advance a record date for such series for the determination of Securityholders entitled to give such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action, but the Company shall have no obligation to do so. If such a record date is fixed, such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent,
 
 
waiver or other action may be given before or after the record date, but only the Securityholders of record at the close of business on the record date shall be deemed to be Securityholders for the purposes of determining whether Securityholders of the requisite proportion of Outstanding Securities of that series have authorized or agreed or consented to such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action, and for that purpose the Outstanding Securities of that series shall be computed as of the record date; provided, however, that no such authorization, agreement or consent by such Securityholders on the record date shall be deemed effective unless it shall become effective pursuant to the provisions of this Indenture not later than six months after the record date.
 
Section 8.02    .
Proof of Execution by Securityholders
 
Subject to the provisions of Section 7.01, proof of the execution of any instrument by a Securityholder (such proof will not require notarization) or his agent or proxy and proof of the holding by any Person of any of the Securities shall be sufficient if made in the following manner:
 
(a)    The fact and date of the execution by any such Person of any instrument may be proved in any reasonable manner acceptable to the Trustee.
 
(b)    The ownership of Securities shall be proved by the Security Register of such Securities or by a certificate of the Security Registrar thereof.
 
(c)    The Trustee may require such additional proof of any matter referred to in this Section as it shall deem necessary.
 
Section 8.03    .
Who May be Deemed Owners
 
Prior to the due presentment for registration of transfer of any Security, the Company, the Trustee, any paying agent and any Security Registrar may deem and treat the Person in whose name such Security shall be registered upon the books of the Company as the absolute owner of such Security (whether or not such Security shall be overdue and notwithstanding any notice of ownership or writing thereon made by anyone other than the Security Registrar) for the purpose of receiving payment of or on account of the principal of, premium, if any, and (subject to Section 2.03) interest on such Security and for all other purposes; and neither the Company nor the Trustee nor any paying agent nor any Security Registrar shall be affected by any notice to the contrary.
 
None of the Company, the Trustee, any paying agent or the Security Registrar will have any responsibility or liability for any aspect of the records relating to or payments made on account of beneficial ownership interests in a Global Security or for maintaining, supervising or reviewing any records relating to such beneficial ownership interests.
 
Section 8.04    .
Certain Securities Owned by Company Disregarded
 
In determining whether the holders of the requisite aggregate principal amount of Securities of a particular series have concurred in any direction, consent of waiver under this Indenture, the Securities of that series that are owned by the Company or any other obligor on
 
 
the Securities of that series or by an Affiliate shall be disregarded and deemed not to be Outstanding for the purpose of any such determination, except that for the purpose of determining whether the Trustee shall be protected in relying on any such direction, consent or waiver, only Securities of such series that a Responsible Officer of the Trustee knows are so owned shall be so disregarded. The Securities so owned that have been pledged in good faith may be regarded as Outstanding for the purposes of this Section, if the pledgee shall establish to the satisfaction of the Trustee the pledgee's right so to act with respect to such Securities and that the pledgee is not an Affiliate. In case of a dispute as to such right, any decision by the Trustee taken upon the advice of counsel shall be full protection to the Trustee.
 
Section 8.05    .
Actions Binding on Future Securityholders
 
At any time prior to (but not after) the evidencing to the Trustee, as provided in Section 8.01, of the taking of any action by the holders of the majority or percentage in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of a particular series specified in this Indenture in connection with such action, any holder of a Security of that series that is shown by the evidence to be included in the Securities the holders of which have consented to such action may, by filing written notice with the Trustee, and upon proof of holding as provided in Section 8.02, revoke such action so far as concerns such Security. Except as aforesaid any such action taken by the holder of any Security shall be conclusive and binding upon such holder and upon all future holders and owners of such Security, and of any Security issued in exchange therefor, on registration of transfer thereof or in place thereof, irrespective of whether or not any notation in regard thereto is made upon such Security. Any action taken by the holders of the majority or percentage in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of a particular series specified in this Indenture in connection with such action shall be conclusively binding upon the Company, the Trustee and the holders of all the Securities of that series.
 
 
 
Section 9.01    .
Supplemental Indentures Without the Consent of Securityholders
 
In addition to any supplemental indenture otherwise authorized by this Indenture, the Company and the Trustee may from time to time and at any time enter into an indenture or indentures supplemental hereto (which shall conform to the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act as then in effect), without the consent of the Securityholders, for one or more of the following purposes:
 
(a)    to cure any ambiguity, defect, or inconsistency herein or in the Securities of any series, including making such changes as are required for this Indenture to comply with the Trust Indenture Act;
 
(b)    to comply with Article Ten;
 
(c)    to provide for uncertificated Securities in addition to or in place of certificated Securities;
 
 
(d)    to add to the covenants of the Company for the benefit of the holders of all or any series of Securities (and if such covenants are to be for the benefit of less than all series of Securities, stating that such covenants are expressly being included solely for the benefit of such series) or to surrender any right or power herein conferred upon the Company;
 
(e)    to add any additional Events of Default (and if such Events of Default are to be applicable to less than all series, stating that such Events of Default are expressly being included solely to be applicable to such series);
 
(f)    to change or eliminate any of the provisions of this Indenture, provided that any such change or elimination shall become effective only when there is no Security of any series created prior to the execution of such supplemental indenture which is entitled to the benefit of such provision and as to which such supplemental indenture would apply;
 
(g)    to secure the Securities or to provide that any of the Company's obligations under any series of the Securities or this Indenture shall be guaranteed and the terms and conditions for the release or substitution of such security or guarantee;
 
(h)    to make any change that does not adversely affect the rights of any Securityholder in any material respect;
 
(i)    to provide for the issuance of and establish the form and terms and conditions of the Securities of any series as provided in Section 2.01, to establish the form of any certifications required to be furnished pursuant to the terms of this Indenture or any series of Securities, or to add to the rights of the holders of any series of Securities; or
 
(j)    to evidence and provide for the acceptance of appointment hereunder by a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of one or more series and to add to or change any of the provision of this Indenture as shall be necessary to provide for or facilitate the administration of the trust hereunder by more than one Trustee.
 
Upon the request of the Company, accompanied by Board Resolutions authorizing the execution of any such supplemental indenture, and upon receipt by the Trustee of the documents described in Section 9.05 hereof, the Trustee shall join with the Company in the execution of any such supplemental indenture, and to make any further appropriate agreements and stipulations that may be therein contained, but the Trustee shall not be obligated to enter into any such supplemental indenture that affects the Trustee's own rights, duties or immunities under this Indenture or otherwise.
 
Any supplemental indenture authorized by the provisions of this Section 9.01 may be executed by the Company and the Trustee without the consent of the holders of any of the Securities at the time Outstanding, notwithstanding any of the provisions of Section 9.02.
 
Section 9.02    .
Supplemental Indentures with Consent of Securityholders
 
With the consent (evidenced as provided in Section 8.01) of the holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of each series affected by such supplemental indenture or indentures at the time Outstanding, the Company, when authorized by
 
 
Board Resolutions, and the Trustee may from time to time and at any time enter into an indenture or indentures supplemental hereto (which shall conform to the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act as then in effect) for the purpose of adding any provisions to or changing in any manner or eliminating any of the provisions of this Indenture or of any supplemental indenture or of modifying in any manner not covered by Section 9.01 the rights of the holders of the Securities of such series under this Indenture; provided, however, that no such supplemental indenture shall, without the consent of the holders of each Security then Outstanding and affected thereby, (i) extend a fixed maturity of or any installment of principal of any Securities of any series or reduce the principal amount thereof or reduce the amount of principal of any original issue discount security that would be due and payable upon declaration of acceleration of the maturity thereof; (ii) reduce the rate of or extend the time for payment of interest on any Security of any series; (iii) reduce the premium payable upon the redemption of any Security; (iv) make any Security payable in Currency other than that stated in the Security; (v) impair the right to institute suit for the enforcement of any payment on or after the fixed maturity thereof (or in the case or redemption, on or after the redemption date); or (vi) reduce the aforesaid percentage of Securities, the holders of which are required to consent to any such supplemental indenture or indentures.
 
A supplemental indenture which changes or eliminates any covenant or other provision of this Indenture which has been expressly included solely for the benefit of one or more particular series of Securities, if any, or which modifies the rights of the holders of Securities of such series with respect to such covenant or other provision, shall be deemed not to affect the rights under this Indenture of the holders of Securities, if any, of any other series.
 
It shall not be necessary for the consent of Securityholders of a series affected thereby under this Section 9.02 to approve the particular form of any proposed supplemental indenture, but it shall be sufficient if such consent shall approve the substance thereof.
 
Section 9.03    .
Effect of Supplemental Indentures
 
Upon the execution of any supplemental indenture pursuant to the provisions of this Article IX or Section 10.01, this Indenture shall, with respect to such series, be and be deemed to be modified and amended in accordance therewith and the respective rights, limitations of rights, obligations, duties and immunities under this Indenture of the Trustee, the Company and the holders of Securities of the series affected thereby shall thereafter be determined, exercised and enforced hereunder subject in all respects to such modifications and amendments, and all the terms and conditions of any such supplemental indenture shall be and be deemed to be part of the terms and conditions of this Indenture for any and all purposes.
 
Section 9.04    .
Securities Affected by Supplemental Indentures
 
Securities of any series affected by a supplemental indenture and authenticated and delivered after the execution of such supplemental indenture pursuant to the provisions of this Article or of Section 10.01, may bear a notation in form approved by the Company, provided such form meets the requirements of any exchange upon which such series may be listed, as to any matter provided for in such supplemental indenture. If the Securities of the Company shall so determine, new Securities of that series so modified as to conform, in the opinion of the Board of
 
 
Directors of the Company, to any modification of this Indenture contained in any such supplemental indenture may be prepared by the Company, authenticated by the Trustee and delivered in exchange for the Securities of that series then Outstanding.
 
Section 9.05    .
Execution of Supplemental Indentures
 
Upon the request of the Company, accompanied by its Board Resolutions authorizing the execution of any such supplemental indenture, and, if applicable, upon the filing with the Trustee of evidence of the consent of Securityholders required to consent thereto as aforesaid, the Trustee shall join with the Company in the execution of such supplemental indenture unless such supplemental indenture affects the Trustee's own rights, duties or immunities under this Indenture or otherwise, in which case the Trustee may in its discretion but shall not be obligated to enter into such supplemental indenture. The Trustee, subject to the provisions of Section 7.01, may receive an Opinion of Counsel as conclusive evidence that any supplemental indenture executed pursuant to this Article IX is authorized or permitted by, and conforms to, the terms of this Article IX and that it is proper for the Trustee under the provisions of this Article IX to join in the execution thereof; provided, however, that such Opinion of Counsel need not be provided in connection with the execution of a supplemental indenture that establishes the terms of a series of Securities pursuant to Section 2.01 hereof.
 
Promptly after the execution by the Company and the Trustee of any supplemental indenture pursuant to the provisions of this Section 9.05, the Trustee shall transmit by mail, first class postage prepaid, a notice, setting forth in general terms the substance of such supplemental indenture, to the Securityholders of all series affected thereby as their names and addresses appear upon the Security Register. Any failure of the Trustee to mail such notice, or any defect therein, shall not, however, in any way impair or affect the validity of any such supplemental indenture.
 
 
 
Section 10.01    .
Consolidation, Merger and Sale of Assets
 
The Company, without the consent of any Securityholder, may consolidate with, or merge into, or sell, transfer, lease or convey its assets substantially as an entirety to any domestic corporation, provided that:
 
(a)    the Person formed by or surviving any such consolidation or merger (if other than the Company), or to which such sale, transfer, lease or conveyance shall have been made, is a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the United States, any state thereof or the District of Columbia;
 
(b)    the corporation formed by or surviving any such consolidation or merger (if other than the Company), or to which such sale, lease, transfer or conveyance shall have been made, assumes by supplemental indenture in a form satisfactory to the Trustee all the obligations of the Company under the Securities and this Indenture; and
 
 
(c)    immediately before and after giving effect to the transaction, no Event of Default and no event which, after notice or lapse of time or both, would become an Event of Default, shall have occurred and be continuing.
 
The Company shall deliver to the Trustee prior to the consummation of the proposed transaction an Officers' Certificate to the foregoing effect and an Opinion of Counsel stating that the proposed transaction and such supplemental indenture comply with this Indenture.
 
To the extent that a Board Resolution or supplemental indenture pertaining to any series provides for different provisions relating to the subject matter of this Article X, the provisions in such Board Resolution or supplemental indenture shall govern for purposes of such series.
 
Section 10.02    .
Successor Corporation Substituted
 
Upon any consolidation or merger, or any sale, lease, conveyance or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company or any assignment of its obligations under this Indenture or the Securities of any series in accordance with Section 10.01, the successor corporation formed by such consolidation or into or with which the Company is merged or to which such sale, lease, conveyance or other disposition or assignment is made shall succeed to, and be substituted for, and may exercise every right and power of, the Company under this Indenture with the same effect as if such successor corporation has been named as the Company herein; provided, however, that the predecessor Company in the case of a sale, lease, conveyance or other disposition or assignment shall not be released from the obligation to pay the principal of and interest on the Securities of any series.
 
 
 
Section 11.01    .
Applicability of Article
 
If, pursuant to Section 2.01, provision is made for the defeasance of Securities of a series and if the Securities of such series are denominated and payable only in Dollars (except as provided pursuant to Section 2.01), then the provisions of this Article XI relating to defeasance of Securities shall be applicable except as otherwise specified pursuant to Section 2.01 for Securities of such series. Defeasance provisions, if any, for Securities denominated in a Foreign Currency may be specified pursuant to Section 2.01.
 
Section 11.02    .
Satisfaction and Discharge of Indenture
 
If at any time: (a) the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee for cancellation all Securities of a series theretofore authenticated (other than any Securities that shall have been destroyed, lost or stolen and that shall have been replaced or paid as provided in Section 2.07) and Securities for whose payment money or Governmental Obligations have theretofore been deposited in trust or segregated and held in trust by the Company (and thereupon repaid to the Company or discharged from such trust, as provided in Section 11.06); or (b) all such Securities of a particular series not theretofore delivered to the Trustee for cancellation shall have become due and payable or are by their terms to become due and payable within one year or are to be
 
 
called for redemption within one year under arrangements satisfactory to the Trustee for the giving of notice of redemption, and the Company shall deposit or cause to be deposited with the Trustee as trust funds the entire amount (in moneys or Governmental Obligations sufficient or a combination thereof) in Dollars (except as otherwise provided pursuant to Section 2.01) sufficient to pay at maturity or upon redemption all Securities of such series not theretofore delivered to the Trustee for cancellation, including principal (and premium, if any) and interest due or to become due on such date of maturity or redemption date, as the case may be, and if in either case the Company shall also pay or cause to be paid all other sums payable hereunder with respect to such series by the Company, then this Indenture shall cease to be of further effect with respect to such series except for the provisions of Sections 2.03, 2.05, 2.07, 4.01, 4.02, 4.03 and 7.10, that shall survive until the date of maturity or redemption date, as the case may be, and Sections 7.06 and 11.06, that shall survive to such date and thereafter, and the Trustee, on demand of the Company and at the cost and expense of the Company shall execute proper instruments acknowledging satisfaction of and discharging this Indenture with respect to such series.
 
Section 11.03    .
Defeasance and Discharge of Obligations; Covenant Defeasance
 
(a)    If at any time all such Securities of a particular series not heretofore delivered to the Trustee for cancellation or that have not become due and payable as described in Section 11.02 shall have been paid by the Company by depositing irrevocably with the Trustee as trust funds moneys or an amount of Governmental Obligations sufficient to pay at maturity or upon redemption all such Securities of that series not theretofore delivered to the Trustee for cancellation, including principal (and premium, if any) and interest due or to become due to such date of maturity or date fixed for redemption, as the case may be, and if the Company shall also pay or cause to be paid all other sums payable hereunder by the Company with respect to such series, then after the date such moneys or Governmental Obligations, as the case may be, are deposited with the Trustee the obligations of the Company under this Indenture with respect to such series shall cease to be of further effect except for the provisions of Sections 2.03, 2.05, 2.07, 4.01, 4.02, 4.03 and 7.10 hereof that shall survive until such Securities shall mature and be paid. Thereafter, Sections 7.06 and 11.06 shall survive such satisfaction and discharge.
 
(b)    In addition, the Company may, at its option and at any time, by written notice executed by an Officer delivered to the Trustee, elect to have its obligations under Sections 4.04, 4.05, 5.03 and any covenant contained in Article X, and any other covenant contained in the Board Resolution or supplemental indenture relating to such series pursuant to Section 2.01, discharged with respect to all Outstanding Securities of a series, this Indenture and any indentures supplemental to this Indenture insofar as such Securities are concerned (hereinafter, ""), such discharge to be effective on the date the conditions set forth in clauses (i) through (vi) of this Section 11.03(b) are satisfied, and such Securities shall thereafter be deemed to be not "Outstanding" for the purposes of any direction, waiver, consent or declaration of Securityholders (and the consequences of any thereof) in connection with such covenants, but shall continue to be "Outstanding" for all other purposes under this Indenture. For this purpose, such covenant defeasance means that, with respect to the Outstanding Securities of a series, the Company may omit to comply with and shall have no liability in respect of any term, condition or limitation set forth in any such covenant, whether directly or indirectly, by reason of any reference elsewhere herein to any such covenant or by reason of reference in any such
covenant defeasance
 
 
covenant to any other provision herein or in any other document and such omission to comply shall not constitute an Event of Default under Section 6.01(a)(3) or otherwise, but except as specified in this Section 11.03(b), the remainder of the Company's obligations under the Securities of such series, this Indenture, and any indentures supplemental to this Indenture with respect to such series shall be unaffected thereby.
 
The following shall be the conditions to the application of Section 11.03(b) to the Outstanding Securities of the applicable series:
 
(i)    the Company irrevocably deposits in trust with the Trustee or, at the option of the Trustee, with a trustee satisfactory to the Trustee and the Company under the terms of an irrevocable trust agreement in form and substance satisfactory to the Trustee, money or Governmental Obligations sufficient to pay principal and interest on the Outstanding Securities of such series to maturity or redemption, as the case may be, and to pay all other sums payable by it hereunder, provided that (A) the trustee of the irrevocable trust shall have been irrevocably instructed to pay such money or the proceeds of such Governmental Obligations to the Trustee and (B) the Trustee shall have been irrevocably instructed to apply such money or the proceeds of such Governmental Obligations to the payment of said principal and interest with respect to the Securities of such series;
 
(ii)    the Company delivers to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate stating that all conditions precedent specified herein relating to defeasance or covenant defeasance, as the case may be, have been complied with, and an Opinion of Counsel to the same effect;
 
(iii)    no Event of Default under clauses (1), (2), (4) or (5) of Section 6.01(a) shall have occurred and be continuing, and no event which with notice or lapse of time or both would become such an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, on the date of such deposit;
 
(iv)    the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel or a ruling received from the Internal Revenue Service to the effect that the holders of the Securities of such series will not recognize income, gain or loss for Federal income tax purposes as a result of the Company's exercise of either option under this Section 11.03 and will be subject to Federal income tax in the same amount and in the same manner and at the same times as would have been the case if such election had not been exercised;
 
(v)    such covenant defeasance shall not cause the Trustee to have a conflicting interest for purposes of the Trust Indenture Act with respect to any Securities; and
 
(vi)    notwithstanding any other provisions of this Section 11.03, such covenant defeasance shall be effected in compliance with any additional or substitute terms, conditions or limitations which may be imposed on the Company pursuant to Section 2.01.
 
 
After such irrevocable deposit made pursuant to this Section 11.03(b) and satisfaction of the other conditions set forth herein, the Trustee upon request shall acknowledge in writing the discharge of the Company's obligations pursuant to this Section 11.03(b).
 
Section 11.04    .
Deposited Moneys to be Held in Trust
 
All moneys or Governmental Obligations deposited with the Trustee pursuant to Sections 11.02 or 11.03 shall be held in trust and shall be available for payment as due, either directly or through any paying agent (including the Company acting as its own paying agent), to the holders of the particular series of Securities for the payment or redemption of which such moneys or Governmental Obligations have been deposited with the Trustee.
 
Section 11.05    .
Payment of Moneys Held by Paying Agents
 
In connection with the provisions of Section 11.02 or 11.03, all moneys or Governmental Obligations then held by any paying agent under the provisions of this Indenture shall, upon demand of the Company, be paid to the Trustee and thereupon such paying agent shall be released from all further liability with respect to such moneys or Governmental Obligations.
 
Section 11.06    .
Repayment to Company
 
Any moneys or Governmental Obligations deposited with any paying agent or the Trustee, or then held by the Company, in trust for payment of principal of or premium or interest on the Securities of a particular series that are not applied but remain unclaimed by the holders of such Securities for at least two years after the date upon which the principal of (and premium, if any) or interest on such Securities shall have respectively become due and payable, shall be repaid to the Company on the last Business Day of each fiscal year of the Company, or (if then held by the Company) shall be discharged from such trust; and thereafter, the paying agent and the Trustee shall be released from all further liability with respect to such moneys or Governmental Obligations, and the holder of any of the Securities entitled to receive such payment shall thereafter, as an unsecured general creditor, look only to the Company for the payment thereof. Anything in this Article XI to the contrary notwithstanding, subject to Section 7.06, the Trustee shall deliver or pay to the Company from time to time upon request by the Company any money or Governmental Obligations (or other property and any proceeds therefrom) held by it as provided in Sections 11.02 or 11.03 which, in the opinion of a nationally recognized firm of independent public accountants expressed in a written certification thereof delivered to the Trustee, are in excess of the amount thereof which would then be required to be deposited to effect a defeasance or covenant defeasance, as the case may be, in accordance with this Article XI. On the last business day of each fiscal year of the Company, or (if then held by the Company) shall be discharged from such trust, and thereafter.
 
Section 11.07    .
Reinstatement
 
If the Trustee or paying agent is unable to apply any money or Governmental Obligations in accordance with Section 11.02 or 11.03 by reason of any legal proceeding or by reason of any order or judgment of any court or governmental authority enjoining, restraining or otherwise prohibiting such application, the Company's obligations under this Indenture, any indentures supplemental to the Indenture with respect to the applicable series of Securities and the
 
 
Securities of such series shall be revived and reinstated as though no deposit had occurred pursuant to Section 11.02 or 11.03, as the case may be, until such time as the Trustee or paying agent is permitted to apply all such money or Governmental Obligations in accordance with Section 11.02 or 11.03, as the case may be; provided, however, that if the Company has made any payment of interest on or principal of any Securities of such series following the reinstatement of its obligations as aforesaid, the Company shall be subrogated to the rights of the holders of such Securities of such series to receive such payment from the money or Governmental Obligations held by the Trustee or paying agent.
 
 
 
Section 12.01    .
No Recourse
 
No recourse under or upon any obligation, covenant or agreement of this Indenture, or of any Security, or for any claim based thereon or otherwise in respect thereof, shall be had against any incorporator, stockholder, officer or director, past, present or future as such, of the Company or of any predecessor or successor corporation, either directly or through the Company or any such predecessor or successor corporation, whether by virtue of any constitution, statute or rule of law, or by the enforcement of any assessment or penalty or otherwise; it being expressly understood that this Indenture and the obligations issued hereunder are solely corporate obligations, and that no such personal liability whatever shall attach to, or is or shall be incurred by, the incorporators, stockholders, officers or directors as such, of the Company or of any predecessor or successor corporation, or any of them, because of the creation of the indebtedness hereby authorized, or under or by reason of the obligations, covenants or agreements contained in this Indenture or in any of the Securities or implied therefrom; and that any and all such personal liability of every name and nature, either at common law or in equity or by constitution or statute, of, and any and all such rights and claims against, every such incorporator, stockholder, officer or director as such, because of the creation of the indebtedness hereby authorized, or under or by reason of the obligations, covenants or agreements contained in this Indenture or in any of the Securities or implied therefrom, are hereby expressly waived and released as a condition of, and as a consideration for, the execution of this Indenture and the issuance of such Securities.
 
 
 
Section 13.01    .
Effect on Successors and Assigns
 
All the agreements of the Company in this Indenture or the Securities shall bind its successor whether so expressed or not. All agreements of the Trustee in this Indenture shall bind its successor whether so expressed or not.
 
 
Section 13.02    .
Actions by Successor
 
Any act or proceeding by any provision of this Indenture authorized or required to be done or performed by any board, committee or officer of the Company shall and may be done and performed with like force and effect by the corresponding board, committee or officer of any corporation that shall at the time be the lawful sole successor of the Company.
 
Section 13.03    .
Notices
 
Any notice or communication by the Company or the Trustee to the other is duly given if in writing and delivered in person or mailed by first-class mail (registered or certified, return receipt requested), telex, telecopier or overnight air courier guaranteeing next day delivery, to the other's address:
 
 
 
 
The Company or the Trustee by notice to the other may designate additional or different addresses for subsequent notices or communications.
 
All notices and communications (other than those sent to Securityholders) shall be deemed to have been duly given: at the time delivered by hand, if personally delivered; five Business Days after being deposited in the mail, postage prepaid, if mailed; when answered back, if telexed; when receipt acknowledged, if telecopied; and the next Business Day after timely delivery to the courier, if sent by overnight air courier guaranteeing next day delivery.
 
Any notice or communication to a Securityholder shall be mailed by first-class mail, certified or registered, return receipt requested, to his address shown on the Security Register. Failure to mail a notice or communication to a Securityholder or any defect in it shall not affect its sufficiency with respect to other Securityholders.
 
 
In the event of suspension of regular mail service or by reason of any other cause it shall be impracticable to give notice by mail, then such notification as shall be given with the approval of the Trustee shall constitute sufficient notice for every purpose hereunder.
 
If a notice or communication is mailed in the manner provided above within the time prescribed, it is conclusively presumed duly given, whether or not the addressee receives it.
 
Section 13.04    .
Governing Law
 
This Indenture and each Security shall be deemed to be a contract made under the internal laws of the State of New York, and for all purposes shall be construed in accordance with the laws of said State. This Indenture is subject to the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act that are required to be part of this Indenture and shall, to the extent applicable, be governed by such provisions.
 
Section 13.05    .
Treatment of Securities as Debt
 
It is intended that the Securities will be treated as indebtedness and not as equity for federal income tax purposes. The provisions of this Indenture shall be interpreted to further this intention.
 
Section 13.06    .
Compliance Certificates and Opinions
 
(a)    Upon any application or demand by the Company to the Trustee to take any action under any of the provisions of this Indenture, the Company shall furnish to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate stating that, in the opinion of the signers, all conditions precedent provided for in this Indenture relating to the proposed action have been complied with and an Opinion of Counsel stating that in the opinion of such counsel all such conditions precedent have been complied with, except that in the case of any such application or demand as to which the furnishing of such documents is specifically required by any provision of this Indenture relating to such particular application or demand, no additional certificate or opinion need be furnished.
 
(b)    Each certificate or opinion provided for in this Indenture and delivered to the Trustee with respect to compliance with a condition or covenant in this Indenture shall include (1) a statement that the Person making such certificate or opinion has read such covenant or condition; (2) a brief statement as to the nature and scope of the examination or investigation upon which the statements or opinions contained in such certificate or opinion are based; (3) a statement that, in the opinion of such Person, he has made such examination or investigation as is necessary to enable him to express an informed opinion as to whether or not such covenant or condition has been complied with; and (4) a statement as to whether or not, in the opinion of such Person, such condition or covenant has been complied with.
 
Section 13.07    .
Payments on Business Days
 
Except as provided pursuant to Section 2.01 pursuant to a Board Resolution, and as set forth in an Officers' Certificate or established in one or more indentures supplemental to this Indenture, in any case where the date of maturity of interest or principal of any Security or the date of redemption of any Security shall not be a Business Day, then payment of interest or
 
 
principal (and premium, if any) may be made on the next succeeding Business Day with the same force and effect as if made on the nominal date of maturity or redemption, and no interest shall accrue for the period after such nominal date.
 
Section 13.08    .
Conflict with Trust Indenture Act
 
If and to the extent that any provision of this Indenture limits, qualifies or conflicts with the duties imposed by Sections 310 to 317, inclusive, of the Trust Indenture Act, such imposed duties shall control.
 
Section 13.09    .
Counterparts
 
This Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be an original, but such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
 
Section 13.10    .
Separability
 
In case any one or more of the provisions contained in this Indenture or in the Securities of any series shall for any reason be held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect, such invalidity, illegality or unenforceability shall not affect any other provisions of this Indenture or of such Securities, but this Indenture and such Securities shall be construed as if such invalid or illegal or unenforceable provision had never been contained herein or therein.
 
Section 13.11    .
No Adverse Interpretation of Other Agreements
 
This Indenture may not be used to interpret another indenture, loan or debt agreement of the Company or a Subsidiary. Any such indenture, loan or debt agreement may not be used to interpret this Indenture.
 
Section 13.12    .
Table of Contents, Headings, Etc
 
The Table of Contents, Cross-Reference Table and Headings of the Articles and Sections of this Indenture have been inserted for convenience of reference only, are not to be considered a part hereof and shall in no way modify or restrict any of the terms or provisions hereof.
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Indenture to be duly executed all as of the day and year first above written.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Computer Sciences Corporation
2100 East Grand Avenue
El Segundo, California 90245
Attention: Hayward D. Fisk
 
[Address of Trustee]
 
Re: [insert description of Securities]
 
Ladies and Gentlemen,
 
Reference is hereby made to the Indenture, dated as of, , among Computer Sciences Corporation, as issuer (the "") and, a, as trustee (the ""), [as supplemented by that certain supplemental indenture dated as of ][and the Board Resolution adopted] (together, the ""). Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Indenture. (the "") owns and proposes to transfer the Security or Securities or interest[s] in such Security or Securities specified in Annex A hereto, in the principal amount of $ in such Security or Securities or interest[s] (the ""), to (the ""), as further specified in Annex A hereto. In connection with the Transfer, the Transferor hereby certifies that:
            
            
Company
            
            
Trustee
            
                    
Indenture
                    
Transferor
            
Transfer
            
Transferee
 
[CHECK ALL THAT APPLY]
 
1.    
    . The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 144A under the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ""), and, accordingly, the Transferor hereby further certifies that the beneficial interest or Definitive Security is being transferred to a Person that the Transferor reasonably believed and believes is purchasing the beneficial interest or Definitive Security for its own account, or for one or more accounts with respect to which such Person exercises sole investment discretion, and such Person and each such account is a "qualified institutional buyer" within the meaning of Rule 144A (a "") in a transaction meeting the requirements of Rule 144A and such Transfer is in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any State of the United States. Upon consummation of the proposed Transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Definitive Security will be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the 144A Global Security and/or the Definitive Security and in the Indenture and the Securities Act.
Check if Transferee will take delivery of a beneficial interest in the 144A Global Security or a Definitive Security Pursuant to Rule 144A
Securities Act
QIB
 
2.    
    . The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 903 or Rule 904 under the Securities Act and, accordingly, the Transferor hereby further certifies that (i) the Transfer is not being made to a
Check if Transferee will take delivery of a beneficial interest in the Reg S Global Security or a Definitive Security pursuant to Regulation S
 
 
person in the United States and (y) at the time the buy order was originated, the Transferee was outside the United States or such Transferor and any Person acting on its behalf reasonably believed and believes that the Transferee was outside the United States or (z) the transaction was executed in, on or through the facilities of a designated offshore securities market and neither such Transferor nor any Person acting on its behalf knows that the transaction was prearranged with a buyer in the United States, (ii) no directed selling efforts have been made in contravention of the requirements of Rule 903(b) or Rule 904 (b) of Regulation S under the Securities Act, (iii) the transaction is not part of a plan or scheme to evade the registration requirements of the Securities Act and (iv) if the proposed Transfer is being made prior to the expiration of the Distribution Compliance Period, the Transfer is not being made to a U.S. person (as such is defined in Regulation S) or for the account or benefit of a U.S. person (other than an initial purchaser of the Securities) and the interest transferred will be held immediately thereafter through Euroclear or Clearstream. Upon consummation of the proposed Transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Definitive Security will be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the Reg S Global Security and/or the Definitive Security and in the Indenture and the Securities Act.
 
3.    
    . The Transfer is being effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to beneficial interests in Restricted Global Securities and Restricted Definitive Securities and pursuant to and in accordance with the Securities Act and any applicable blue sky securities laws of any State of the United States, and accordingly the Transferor hereby further certifies that (check one):
Check and complete if Transferee will take delivery of a beneficial interest in a Definitive Security pursuant to any provision of the Securities Act other than Rule 144A or Regulation S
 
(a)
    
    Such Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 144 under the Securities Act; or
 
(b)
    
    Such Transfer is being effected to the Company or a subsidiary thereof; or
 
(c)
    
    Such Transfer is being effected pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act and in compliance with the prospectus delivery requirements of the Securities Act; or
 
(d)    
    Such Transfer is being effected to an Institutional Accredited Investor and pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act other than Rule 144A, Rule 144 or Rule 904, and the Transferor hereby further certifies that it has not engaged in any general solicitation within the meaning of Regulation D under the Securities Act and the Transfer complies with the transfer restrictions applicable to beneficial interests in a Restricted Global Security or Restricted Definitive Security and the requirements of the exemption claimed, which certification is supported by a certificate executed by the Transferee in the form attached as Exhibit C to the Indenture. Upon consummation of the proposed Transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the Definitive Security will be subject to the restrictions on transfer
 
 
enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the Definitive Security and in the Indenture and the Securities Act.
 
4.    
    
Check if Transferee will take delivery of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security or of an Unrestricted Definitive Security.
 
(a)
    
(i) The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 144 under the Securities Act and in compliance with the transfer restrictions contained in the Indenture and any applicable blue sky securities laws of any State of the United States and (ii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act. Upon consummation of the proposed Transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Definitive Security will no longer be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the Restricted Global Securities, on Restricted Definitive Securities and in the Indenture and the Securities Act.
    Check if Transfer is pursuant to Rule 144.
 
(b)
    
(i) The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 903 or Rule 904 under the Securities Act and in compliance with the transfer restrictions contained in the Indenture and any applicable blue sky securities laws of any State of the United States and (ii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act. Upon consummation of the proposed Transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Definitive Security will no longer be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the Restricted Global Securities, on Restricted Definitive Securities and in the Indenture and the Securities Act.
    Check if Transfer is Pursuant to Regulation S.
 
(c)
    
(i) The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in compliance with an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act other than Rule 144, Rule 903 or Rule 904 and in compliance with the transfer restrictions contained in the Indenture and any applicable blue sky securities laws of any State of the United States and (ii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act. Upon consummation of the proposed Transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Definitive Security will not be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the Restricted Global Securities or Restricted Definitive Securities and in the Indenture.
    Check if Transfer is Pursuant to Other Exemption.
 
 
This certificate and the statements contained herein are made for your benefit and the benefit of the Company.
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.    The Transferor owns and proposed to transfer the following:
 
[CHECK ONE OF (a) OR (b)]
 
(a)    
    a beneficial interest in the:
 
(i)    
    144A Global Security (CUSIP), or
            
 
(ii)    
    Reg S Global Security (CUSIP), or
            
 
(b)    
    a Restricted Definitive Security.
 
2.    After the transfer the Transferee will hold:
 
(a)    
    a beneficial interest in the:
 
(i)       
    144A Global Security (CUSIP), or
            
 
(ii)      
    Reg S Global Security (CUSIP), or
            
 
(iii)     
    Unrestricted Global Security (CUSIP); or
            
 
(b)    
    a Restricted Definitive Security; or
 
(c)    
    an Unrestricted Definitive Security,
 
in accordance with the terms of the Indenture.
 
 
 
 
 
Computer Sciences Corporation
2100 East Grand Avenue
El Segundo, California 90245
Attention: Hayward D. Fisk
 
[Address of Trustee]
 
Re: [insert description of the Securities]
 
Ladies and Gentlemen,
 
Reference is hereby made to the Indenture, dated as of ,, among Computer Sciences Corporation, as issuer (the "") and, a, as trustee (the "") [as supplemented by that certain supplemental indenture dated as of ][and the Board Resolution adopted] (together, the ""). Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Indenture.
            
            
Company
            
            
Trustee
            
                    
Indenture
 
, (the "") owns and proposes to transfer the Security or Securities or interest[s] in such Security or Securities specified herein, in the principal amount of $ in such Security or Securities or interest[s] (the ""). In connection with the Transfer, the Transferor hereby certifies that:
                        
Owner
                    
Exchange
 
1.    
Exchange of Restricted Definitive Securities or Beneficial Interests in a Restricted Global Security for Unrestricted Definitive Securities or Beneficial Interests in an Unrestricted Global Security.
 
(a)    
    . In connection with the Exchange of the Owner's beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security in an equal principal amount, the Owner hereby certifies (i) the beneficial interest is being acquired for the Owner's own account without transfer, (ii) such Exchange has been effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to the Global Securities and pursuant to and in accordance with the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ""), (iii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act and (iv) the beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security is being acquired in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any State of the United States.
Check if Exchange is from beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security to beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security
Securities Act
 
 
(b)
    
In connection with the Exchange of the Owner's beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security for an Unrestricted Definitive Security in an equal principal amount, the Owner hereby certifies (i) the Definitive Security is being acquired for the Owner's own account without transfer, (ii) such Exchange has been effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to the Restricted Global Securities and pursuant to and in accordance with the Securities Act, (iii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act and (iv) the Definitive Security is being acquired in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any State of the United States.
    Check if Exchange is from beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security to Unrestricted Definitive Security.
 
(c)
    
In connection with the Owner's Exchange of a Restricted Definitive Security for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security, the Owner hereby certifies (i) the beneficial interest is being acquired for the Owner's own account without transfer, (ii) such Exchange has been effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to Restricted Definitive Securities and pursuant to and in accordance with the Securities Act, (iii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act and (iv) the beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security is being acquired in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any State of the United States.
    Check if Exchange is from Restricted Definitive Security to beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security.
 
(d)
    
In connection with the Owner's Exchange of a Restricted Definitive Security for an Unrestricted Definitive Security, the Owner hereby certifies (i) the Unrestricted Definitive Security is being acquired for the Owner's own account without transfer, (ii) such Exchange has been effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to Restricted Definitive Securities and pursuant to and in accordance with the Securities Act, (iii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act and (iv) the Unrestricted Definitive Security is being acquired in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any State of the United States.
    Check if Exchange is from Restricted Definitive Security to Unrestricted Definitive Security.
 
2.    
Exchange of Restricted Definitive Securities or Beneficial Interests in Restricted Global Securities for Restricted Definitive Securities or Beneficial Interests in Restricted Global Securities.
 
(a)
    
In connection with the Exchange of the Owner's beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security for a Restricted Definitive Security with an equal principal amount, the Owner hereby certifies that the Restricted Definitive Security is being acquired for the Owner's own account without transfer. Upon consummation of the proposed Exchange in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the Restricted Definitive Security issued will continue to be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the
    Check if Exchange is from beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security to Restricted Definitive Security.
 
 
Private Placement Legend printed on the Restricted Definitive Security and in the Indenture and the Securities Act.
 
(b)
    
In connection with the Exchange of the Owner's Restricted Definitive Security for a beneficial interest in the: [CHECK ONE]
    Check if Exchange is from Restricted Definitive Security to beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security.
144A Global Security or
Reg S Global Security with an equal principal amount, the Owner hereby certifies (i) the beneficial interest is being acquired for the Owner's own account without transfer and (ii) such Exchange has been effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to Restricted Global Securities and pursuant to and in accordance with the Securities Act, and in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any State of the United States. Upon consummation of the proposed Exchange in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the beneficial interest issued will be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the relevant Restricted Global Security and in the Indenture and the Securities Act.
 
 
 
This certificate and the statements contained herein are made for your benefit and the benefit of the Company.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Computer Sciences Corporation
2100 East Grand Avenue
El Segundo, California 90245
Attention: Hayward D. Fisk
 
[Address of Trustee]
 
Re: [insert description of the Securities]
 
Ladies and Gentlemen,
 
Reference is hereby made to the Indenture, dated as of , , among Computer Sciences Corporation, as issuer (the "") and , a , as trustee (the "") [as supplemented by that certain supplemental indenture dated as of ][and the Board Resolution adopted ] (together, the ""). Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Indenture.
                    
            
Company
                            
                            
Trustee
                        
                  
Indenture
 
In connection with our proposed purchase of $ aggregate principal amount of: (a) a beneficial interest in a Global Security, or (b) a Definitive Security, we confirm that:
                  
 
1.    We understand that any subsequent transfer of the Securities or any interest therein is subject to certain restrictions and conditions set forth in the Indenture and the undersigned agrees to be bound by, and no to resell, pledge or otherwise transfer the Securities or any interest therein except in compliance with, such restrictions and conditions and the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "").
Securities Act
 
2.    We understand that the offer and sale of the Securities have not been registered under the Securities Act, and that the Securities and any interest therein may not be offered or sold except as permitted in the following sentence. We agree, on our own behalf and on behalf of any accounts for which we are acting as hereinafter stated, that if we should sell the Securities or any interest therein, we will do so only (1) in the United States to a person whom the seller reasonably believes is a "qualified institutional buyer" (as defined in Rule 144A under the Securities Act) in a transaction meeting the requirements of Rule 144A, (2) outside the United States in an offshore transaction in accordance with Rule 904 under the Securities Act, (3) pursuant to an exemption from registration under the Securities Act provided by Rule 144 thereunder (if available) or (4) pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act, in each of cases (1) through (4) in accordance with any applicable securities laws of any state of the United States, and we further agree to notify any purchaser of the Securities from us of the resale restrictions referred to above.
 
 
3.    We understand that, on any proposed resale of the Securities or beneficial interest therein, we will be required to furnish to you and the Company such certifications, legal opinions and other information as you and the Company may reasonably require to confirm that the proposed sale complies with the foregoing restrictions. We further understand that any subsequent transfer by us of the Securities or beneficial interest therein acquired by us must be effected through one of the initial purchasers of the Securities.
 
4.    We are an institutional "accredited investor" (as defined in Rule 501(a)(1), (2), (3) or (7) of Regulation D under the Securities Act) and have such knowledge and experience in financial and business matters as to be capable of evaluating the merits and risks of our investment in the Securities, and we and any accounts for which we are acting are each able to bear the economic risk of our or its investment.
 
5.    We are acquiring the Securities or beneficial interest therein purchased by us for our own account or for one or more accounts (each of which is an institutional "accredited investor") as to each of which we exercise sole investment discretion.
 
 
 
You and the Company are entitled to rely upon this letter and are irrevocably authorized to produce this letter or a copy hereof to any interested party in any administrative or legal proceedings or official inquiry with respect to the matters covered hereby.
 
Dated:,
                                                                                                              
                                             
            
[Insert Name of Accredited Investor]
 
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 4.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
THIS FIRST SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE, dated as of February 14, 2003, is entered into by and between Computer Sciences Corporation, a Nevada corporation (the "Issuer"), and Citibank, N.A., a national banking association, as trustee (the "Trustee").
 
 
WHEREAS, the Issuer and the Trustee executed and delivered an Indenture dated as of February 10, 2003 (the "Base Indenture," and, as supplemented by this First Supplemental Indenture, the "Indenture"), to provide for the issuance by the Issuer from time to time of unsubordinated debt securities evidencing its unsecured indebtedness;
 
WHEREAS, pursuant to Board Resolutions, the Issuer has authorized the issuance of $300,000,000 principal amount of 5.00% Notes due February 15, 2013 (hereinafter referred to as the "Offered Securities");
 
WHEREAS, the entry into this First Supplemental Indenture by the parties hereto is in all respects authorized by the provisions of the Base Indenture;
 
WHEREAS, the Issuer desires to enter into this First Supplemental Indenture pursuant to Section 9.01 of the Base Indenture to establish the terms of the Offered Securities in accordance with Section 2.01 of the Base Indenture and to establish the form of the Offered Securities in accordance with Section 2.02 of the Base Indenture; and
 
WHEREAS, all things necessary to make this First Supplemental Indenture a valid indenture and agreement according to its terms have been done.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, for and in consideration of the foregoing premises, the Issuer and the Trustee mutually covenant and agree for the equal and proportionate benefit of the respective holders from time to time of the Offered Securities as follows:
 
 
.    The following terms relating to the Offered Securities are hereby established:
Section 1.1.    
Terms of Offered Securities
 
(1)    The Offered Securities shall constitute a series of securities having the title "5.00% Notes due February 15, 2013".
 
(2)    The aggregate principal amount of the Offered Securities that may be authenticated and delivered under the Indenture (except for Offered Securities authenticated and delivered upon registration of, transfer of, or in exchange for, or in lieu of, other Offered Securities pursuant to Sections 2.05, 2.06, 2.07, 2.11, or 3.03) shall be $300,000,000.
 
(3)    The entire Outstanding principal of the Offered Securities shall be payable on February 15, 2013.
 
(4)    The rate at which the Offered Securities shall bear interest shall be 5.00% per annum; the date from which interest shall accrue on the Offered Securities shall be February 14, 2003, or the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or provided for; the Interest Payment Dates for the Offered Securities shall be February 15 and August 15 of each year, beginning August 15, 2003; interest shall be payable on each Interest Payment Date to the holders of record at the close of business on the date fifteen days prior to such Interest Payment Date (a "regular record date"); and the basis upon which interest shall be calculated shall be that of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months.
 
(5)    The Offered Securities shall be issuable in whole in the registered form of one or more Global Securities (without coupons), and the Depository for such Global Securities shall be The Depository Trust Company, New York, New York. The Offered Securities shall be substantially in the form attached hereto as Exhibit A.
 
(6)    (A) The Offered Securities will be subject to redemption at the option of the Issuer on any date (the "Redemption Date") prior to the maturity date, in whole or from time to time in part, in $1,000 increments ( that any remaining principal amount thereof shall be at least the minimum authorized denomination thereof), at a redemption price equal to the greater of (a) 100% of the principal amount of the Offered Securities to be redeemed and (b) the sum of the present values of the Remaining Scheduled Payments of principal and interest on such Offered Securities to be redeemed (not including any portion of such payments of interest accrued as of the Redemption Date) discounted to the Redemption Date, on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months), at the Treasury Rate plus 20 basis points (such greater amount is referred to herein as the "Redemption Price"), plus, in either the case of clause (a) or clause (b), accrued and unpaid interest thereon to the Redemption Date.
provided
 
(B)    As used herein:
 
"Comparable Treasury Issue" means the United States Treasury security selected by the Independent Investment Banker as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term of the Offered Securities to be redeemed that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in
 
 
accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of such Offered Securities.
 
"Comparable Treasury Price" means, with respect to any Redemption Date:
 
(a)    the average of the Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such Redemption Date, after excluding the highest and lowest such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, or
 
(b)    if the Trustee obtains fewer than four such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations.
 
"Independent Investment Banker" means an independent investment institution of national standing selected by the Issuer and appointed by the Trustee.
 
"Reference Treasury Dealer" means each of (a) Goldman, Sachs & Co., Merrill Lynch Government Securities Inc., J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., and Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated and their successors; , , that if any of the foregoing shall cease to be a primary U.S. Government Securities dealer in New York City (a "Primary Treasury Dealer"), the Issuer shall substitute therefor another Primary Treasury Dealer; and (b) any other Primary Treasury Dealer selected by the Issuer.
provided
however
 
"Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations" means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any Redemption Date, the average, as determined by the Trustee, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Trustee by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 3:30 p.m., New York City time, on the third Business Day preceding such Redemption Date.
 
"Remaining Scheduled Payments" means the remaining scheduled payments of the principal thereof to be redeemed and interest thereon that would be due after the related Redemption Date but for such redemption; , , that, if such Redemption Date is not an Interest Payment Date (as set forth on the face of the Offered Securities) with respect to such Offered Securities, the amount of the next succeeding scheduled interest payment thereon will be reduced by the amount of interest accrued thereon to such Redemption Date.
provided
however
 
"Treasury Rate" means, with respect to any Redemption Date, the rate per annum equal to the semi-annual equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, assuming a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such Redemption Date.
 
(7)    The Offered Securities shall not be redeemable at the option of any holder thereof, upon the occurrence of any particular circumstances or otherwise. The Offered Securities will not have the benefit of any sinking fund.
 
(8)    The holders of the Offered Securities shall have no special rights in addition to those provided in the Base Indenture upon the occurrence of any particular events.
 
 
(9)    The Offered Securities shall constitute general unsecured and unsubordinated obligations of the Issuer and will be ranked equally among themselves.
 
(10)    The Offered Securities are not convertible into shares of common stock or other securities of the Issuer.
 
.    The following additional covenants shall apply with respect to the Offered Securities so long as any of the Offered Securities remain Outstanding (and not with respect to any other series of securities issuable pursuant to the Base Indenture unless a supplemental indenture relating thereto expressly so provides):
Section 1.2.    
Additional Covenants
 
(1)    .
Limitation on Liens
 
Other than as provided in subsection (3) below, so long as any of the Offered Securities are Outstanding, neither the Issuer nor any Subsidiary shall create, incur, assume or suffer to exist any Lien upon any of its assets to secure any Indebtedness, except for:
 
        (a)    Liens existing on the date hereof;
 
        (b)    any extension, renewal or replacement (or successive extensions, renewals or replacements) of any Lien existing on the date of the Indenture;
 
        (c)    Liens on property that are in existence at the time the Issuer or any Subsidiary acquires such property, that such Liens (i) are not incurred in connection with, or in contemplation of the acquisition of the property acquired and (ii) do not extend to or cover any property or assets of the Issuer or any Subsidiary other than the property so acquired;
provided
 
        (d)    Liens on any property of a Person existing at the time such Person becomes a Subsidiary or is merged into or consolidated with the Issuer or a Subsidiary or at the time of a sale, lease or other disposition of the properties of such Person as an entirety or substantially as an entirety to the Issuer or a Subsidiary; that such Liens (i) are not incurred in connection with or in contemplation of such Person becoming a Subsidiary or merging or consolidating with the Issuer or a Subsidiary or are not incurred in connection with or in contemplation of the sale, lease or other disposition of the properties of such Person and (ii) do not extend to or cover any property or assets of the Issuer or any of its Subsidiaries, other than the property of such Person; and
provided
 
        (e)    purchase money Liens upon or in any real or personal property (including fixtures and other equipment) acquired or held by the Issuer or any Subsidiary to secure the purchase price of such property or to secure Indebtedness incurred solely for the purpose of financing or refinancing the acquisition or improvement of such property and incurred within 180 days after completion of such acquisition or improvement, that no such Lien shall extend to or cover any property other than the property being acquired or improved.
provided
 
 
(2)    .
Limitation on Sale/Leaseback Transactions
 
Other than as provided in subsection (3) below, neither the Issuer nor any of its Subsidiaries may enter into any Sale/Leaseback Transaction unless the Issuer or such Subsidiary would be entitled, pursuant to subsection (1) above, to create, incur, assume or suffer to exist a Lien on the property subject to such Sale/Leaseback Transaction.
 
(3)    .
Permitted Liens and Permitted Sale/Leaseback Transactions
 
Notwithstanding the restrictions set forth in subsections (1) and (2) above, the Issuer or any of its Subsidiaries may create, incur, assume or suffer to exist any Lien or enter into any Sale/Leaseback Transactions not otherwise permitted in subsections (1) and (2) above; that at the time of such event, and after giving effect thereto, the aggregate amount of all Indebtedness secured by Liens permitted by this subsection (3) (excluding the Liens permitted pursuant to subsection (1) above) and the aggregate amount of all Attributable Debt in respect of Sale/Leaseback Transactions permitted by this subsection (3) (excluding the Sale/Leaseback Transactions permitted pursuant to subsection (2) above), measured, in each case, at the time any such Lien is incurred or any such Sale/Leaseback Transaction is entered into, by the Issuer or any Subsidiary does not exceed 20% of the Consolidated Net Tangible Assets.
provided
 
.    The following additional event shall be established and shall constitute an "Event of Default" under Section 6.01(a) of the Base Indenture with respect to the Offered Securities so long as any of the Offered Securities remain Outstanding (and not with respect to any other series of securities issuable pursuant to the Base Indenture unless a supplemental indenture relating thereto expressly so provides):
Section 1.3    
Additional Event of Default
 
(6)    any of the Issuer's Indebtedness in the aggregate Outstanding principal amount of $100 million or more either (i) becomes due and payable prior to the due date for payment thereof by reason of acceleration thereof following default by the Issuer or (ii) is not repaid at, and remains unpaid after, maturity as extended by the period of grace, if any, applicable thereto, or any guarantee given by the Issuer in respect of Indebtedness of any other Person in the aggregate Outstanding principal amount of $100 million or more is not honored when, and remains dishonored after, becoming due.
 
.    As used herein, the following defined terms shall have the following meanings with respect to the Offered Securities only (and not with respect to any other series of securities issuable pursuant to the Base Indenture unless a supplemental indenture relating thereto expressly so provides):
Section 1.4    
Additional Defined Terms
 
"" with respect to any Sale/Leaseback Transaction means the present value of the minimum rental payments called for during the term of the lease (including any period for which such lease has been extended), determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, discounted at a rate that, at the inception of the lease, the lessee would have incurred to borrow over a similar term the funds necessary to purchase the leased assets.
Attributable Debt
 
 
"" means, any day other than a day on which Federal or State banking institutions in the Borough of Manhattan, the City of New York, or in the city where the office or agency for payment on the notes is maintained pursuant to the Base Indenture are authorized or obligated by law, regulation or executive order to close.
Business Day
 
"" means, at the time any determination thereof is to be made, any lease of property, real or personal, in respect of which the present value of the minimum rental commitment would be capitalized on a balance sheet of the lessee in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
Capital Lease
 
"" means, at the time any determination thereof is to be made, the amount of the liability in respect of a Capital Lease which would at such time be so required to be capitalized on such balance sheet in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
Capital Lease Obligation
 
"" means, as of any particular time, the aggregate amount of assets of the Issuer and its Subsidiaries (in each case, less applicable reserves and other properly deductible items) after deducting therefrom: (a) all current liabilities other than (i) notes and loans payable, (ii) current maturities of long-term debt and (iii) current maturities of Capital Lease Obligations and (b) intangible assets, to the extent included in such aggregate assets, all as set forth on the Issuer's and the Issuer's Subsidiaries' then most recent consolidated balance sheet and computed in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
Consolidated Net Tangible Assets
 
"" means, with respect to any Person, and without duplication:
Indebtedness
 
(a)    any liability of such Person (i) for borrowed money, or (ii) for any letter of credit for the account of such Person supporting obligations of such Person or other Persons, or (iii) evidenced by a bond, note, debenture or similar instrument (including a purchase money obligation) given in connection with the acquisition of any businesses, properties or assets of any kind (other than a trade payable or a current liability arising in the ordinary course of business), or (iv) for the payment of money relating to a capitalized lease;
 
(b)    any liability of others described in the preceding clause (a) that the Person has guaranteed or that is otherwise its legal liability; and
 
(c)    any amendment, supplement, modification, deferral, renewal, extension or refunding of any liability of the types referred to in clauses (a) and (b) above.
 
"" means any lien, security interest, charge, mortgage, pledge or other encumbrance of any kind (including any conditional sale or other title retention agreement, any lease in the nature thereof, and any agreement to give any security interest other than an agreement to secure Indebtedness equally and ratably upon the incurrence of other secured Indebtedness).
Lien
 
"" means any arrangement with any Person (other than the Issuer or any Subsidiary) providing for a Capital Lease by the Issuer or any Subsidiary of any property which has been or is to be sold or transferred by the Issuer or any Subsidiary to such
Sale/Leaseback Transaction
 
 
Person or to any Person (other than the Issuer or any Subsidiary) by whom funds have been or are to be advanced on the security of the leased property.
 
 
 
.    Capitalized terms used but not defined in this First Supplemental Indenture shall have the meanings ascribed thereto in the Base Indenture.
Section 2.1.    
Definitions
 
.    The Base Indenture, as supplemented and amended by this First Supplemental Indenture, is in all respects ratified and confirmed, and the Base Indenture, this First Supplemental Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto shall be read, taken and construed as one and the same instrument.
Section 2.2.    
Confirmation of Indenture
 
.    In carrying out the Trustee's responsibilities hereunder, the Trustee shall have all of the rights, protections and immunities which it possesses under the Indenture. The recitals contained herein and in the Offered Securities, except the Trustee's certificate of authentication, shall be taken as the statements of the Issuer, and the Trustee assumes no responsibility for their correctness. The Trustee makes no representations as to the validity or sufficiency of this First Supplemental Indenture or of the Offered Securities. The Trustee shall not be accountable for the use or application by the Issuer of the Offered Securities or the proceeds thereof.
Section 2.3.    
Concerning the Trustee
 
.    The Indenture and the Offered Securities shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York. The Indenture is subject to the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act that are required to be part of the Indenture and shall, to the extent applicable, be governed by such provisions.
Section 2.4.    
Governing Law
 
.    In case any provision in this First Supplemental Indenture shall for any reason be held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
Section 2.5.    
Separability
 
.    This First Supplemental Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts each of which shall be an original, but such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
Section 2.6.    
Counterparts
 
.    Nothing in this First Supplemental Indenture, express or implied, shall give to any Person other than the parties hereto and their successors or assigns, and the holders of the Offered Securities, any benefit or legal or equitable rights, remedy or claim under this First Supplemental Indenture or the Base Indenture.
Section 2.7    
No Benefit
 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Supplemental Indenture has been duly executed by the Issuer and the Trustee as of the day and year first written above.
 
ISSUER: COMPUTER SCIENCES
CORPORATION
 
By:   /s/    L J. L
EON
EVEL    
                                                                                                                                           
        Name:  Leon J. Level
        Title:    Vice President and Chief Financial
                      Officer
 
By:   /s/    H D. Fisk
AYWARD
                                                                                                                                           
        Name:  Hayward D. Fisk
        Title:    Vice President, General Counsel and
                     Secretary
 
TRUSTEE: CITIBANK, N.A.
 
By:   /s/    W O
AFAA
RFY
                                                                                                                                           
        Name: Wafaa Orfy
        Title: Vice President
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT A
 
 
THIS GLOBAL SECURITY IS HELD BY THE DEPOSITARY (AS DEFINED IN THE INDENTURE GOVERNING THIS SECURITY) OR ITS NOMINEE IN CUSTODY FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE BENEFICIAL OWNERS HEREOF, AND IS NOT TRANSFERABLE TO ANY PERSON UNDER ANY CIRCUMSTANCES EXCEPT THAT (I) THE TRUSTEE MAY MAKE ANY SUCH NOTATIONS HEREON AS MAY BE REQUIRED PURSUANT TO THE INDENTURE, (II) THIS GLOBAL SECURITY MAY BE EXCHANGED IN WHOLE BUT NOT IN PART PURSUANT TO SECTION 2.05(c) OF THE INDENTURE, (III) THIS GLOBAL SECURITY MAY BE DELIVERED TO THE TRUSTEE FOR CANCELLATION PURSUANT TO THE INDENTURE AND (IV) THIS GLOBAL SECURITY MAY BE TRANSFERRED TO A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY WITH THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF THE COMPANY.
 
 
UNLESS AND UNTIL IT IS EXCHANGED IN WHOLE OR IN PART FOR SECURITIES IN DEFINITIVE FORM, THIS SECURITY MAY NOT BE TRANSFERRED EXCEPT AS A WHOLE BY THE DEPOSITARY TO A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY OR BY A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY TO THE DEPOSITARY OR TO ANOTHER NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY OR BY THE DEPOSITARY OR ANY SUCH NOMINEE TO A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE OF SUCH SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY. UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITARY TO THE COMPANY OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF ANY ENTITY AS MAY BE REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITARY (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO SUCH ENTITY AS MAY BE REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITARY), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.
 
 
 
 
 
promises to pay to Cede & Co. or registered assigns, the principal sum of Three Hundred Million Dollars on February 15, 2013.
 
Interest Payment Dates: February 15 and August 15
Record Dates: The close of business on the date fifteen days prior to each interest payment date.
 
Each Securityholder hereof, by accepting the same, agrees to and shall be bound by the provisions hereof and of the Indenture described herein, and authorizes and directs the Trustee described herein on his or her behalf to be bound by such provisions. Each Securityholder hereof, by his or her acceptance hereof, hereby waives all notice of the acceptance of the provisions contained herein and in the Indenture and waives reliance by each such Securityholder upon said provisions.
 
This Security shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture hereinafter referred to, or be valid or become obligatory for any purpose until the Certificate of Authentication hereon shall have been signed by or on behalf of the Trustee. The provisions of this Security are continued on the reverse side hereof and such continued provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as though fully set forth at this place.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed under its corporate seal.
(SEAL)
 
 
 
This is one of the Securities (as defined below) of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
 
CITIBANK, N.A., as Trustee
 
By:
                                                         
Authorized Signature
 
Dated:
                                                 
 
 
 
 
This security is one of a duly authorized series of debt securities of Computer Sciences Corporation, a Nevada corporation (the "Company") issued or to be issued in one or more series under and pursuant to an Indenture for the Company's unsubordinated debt securities, dated as of February 10, 2003 (the "Base Indenture"), duly executed and delivered by and between the Company and Citibank, N.A. (the "Trustee"), as supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of February 14, 2003 (the "First Supplemental Indenture"), by and between the Company and the Trustee. The Base Indenture as supplemented and amended by the First Supplemental Indenture shall be referred to herein as the "Indenture." By the terms of the Base Indenture, the debt securities issuable thereunder are issuable in series that may vary as to amount, date of maturity, rate of interest and in other respects as provided in the Base Indenture. This security is one of the series designated on the face hereof (individually, a "Security," and collectively, the "Securities"), and reference is hereby made to the Indenture for a description of the rights, limitations of rights, obligations, duties and immunities of the Trustee, the Company and the holders of the Securities ("Securityholders"). Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined shall have the meanings given them in the Base Indenture or the First Supplemental Indenture, as applicable.
 
1.   The Company promises to pay interest on the principal amount of this Security at a rate per annum of 5.00%. The Company will pay interest semi-annually on February 15 and August 15 of each year (each such day, an "Interest Payment Date"). If any Interest Payment Date, redemption date or maturity date of this Security is not a Business Day, then payment of interest or principal (and premium, if any) shall be made on the next succeeding Business Day with the same force and effect as if made on the date such payment was due, and no interest shall accrue for the period after such date to the next succeeding Business Day. Interest on the Securities will accrue from the most recent date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for or, if no interest has been paid, from the date of issuance; provided that, if there is no existing Default in the payment of interest, and if this Security is authenticated between a regular record date referred to on the face hereof and the next succeeding Interest Payment Date, interest shall accrue from such next succeeding Interest Payment Date; and , , that the first Interest Payment Date shall be August 15, 2003. Interest will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.
Interest.
provided
further
 
2.   The Company will pay interest on the Securities (except defaulted interest), if any, to the persons in whose name such Securities are registered at the close of business on the regular record date referred to on the facing page of this Security for such interest installment. In the event that the Securities or a portion thereof are called for redemption and the Redemption Date is subsequent to a regular record date with respect to any Interest Payment Date and prior to such Interest Payment Date, interest on such Securities will be paid upon presentation and surrender of such Securities as provided in the Indenture. The principal of and the interest on the Securities shall be payable in the coin or currency of the United States of America that at the time is legal tender for public and private debt, at the office or agency of the Company maintained for that purpose in accordance with the Indenture.
Method of Payment.
 
1. .    Initially, Citibank, N.A., the Trustee, will act as paying agent and Security Registrar. The Company may change or appoint any paying agent or Security Registrar without notice to any Securityholder. The Company may act in any such capacity.
Paying Agent and Registrar
 
2.     The terms of the Securities include those stated in the Indenture and those made part of the Indenture by reference to the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 ("TIA") as in effect on the date the Indenture is qualified. The Securities are subject to all such terms, and Securityholders are referred to the Indenture and TIA for a statement of such terms. The Securities are unsecured general obligations of the Company and constitute the series designated on the face hereof as the "5.00% Notes due February 15, 2013", limited to $300,000,000 in aggregate principal amount.
Indenture.
 
The Company will furnish to any Securityholder upon written request and without charge a copy of the Base Indenture and the First Supplemental Indenture. Requests may be made to: Computer Sciences Corporation, 2100 East Grand Avenue, El Segundo, California 90245, Attention: Corporate Secretary.
 
5.     The Securities will be subject to redemption at the option of the Company on any date prior to the maturity date, in whole or from time to time in part, in $1,000 increments ( that any remaining principal amount thereof shall be at least the minimum authorized denomination thereof), on written notice given to the Securityholders thereof not less than 30 days nor more than 90 days prior to the date fixed for redemption in such notice (the "Redemption Date"), at a redemption price equal to the greater of (i) 100% of the principal amount of such Securities to be redeemed and (ii) the sum of the present values of the Remaining Scheduled Payments of principal and interest thereon (not including any portion of such payments of interest accrued as of the Redemption Date) discounted to the Redemption Date, on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months), at the Treasury Rate plus 20 basis points (such greater amount is referred to herein as the "Redemption Price"), plus, in either the case of clause (i) or clause (ii), accrued and unpaid interest thereon to the Redemption Date.
Optional Redemption.
provided
 
If the giving of the notice of redemption is completed as provided in the Indenture, interest on such Securities or portions of Securities shall cease to accrue on and after the Redemption Date, unless the Company shall default in the payment of such redemption price and accrued interest with respect to any such Security or portion thereof.
 
The Company shall not be required to make mandatory redemption or sinking fund payments with respect to the Securities.
 
6.     The Securities are in registered form without coupons in the denominations of $1,000 or any integral multiple of $1,000. The transfer of Securities may be registered and Securities may be exchanged as provided in the Indenture. The Securities may be presented for exchange or for registration of transfer (duly endorsed or with the form of transfer endorsed thereon duly executed if so required by the Company or the Security Registrar) at the office of the Security Registrar or at the office of any transfer agent designated by the Company for such purpose. No service charge will be made for any
Denominations, Transfer, Exchange.
 
registration of transfer or exchange, but a Securityholder may be required to pay any applicable taxes or other governmental charges. If the Securities are to be redeemed, the Company will not be required to: (i) issue, register the transfer of, or exchange any Security during a period beginning at the opening of business 15 days before the day of mailing of a notice of redemption of less than all of the outstanding Securities of the same series and ending at the close of business on the day of such mailing; (ii) register the transfer of or exchange any Security of any series or portions thereof selected for redemption, in whole or in part, except the unredeemed portion of any such Security being redeemed in part; nor (iii) register the transfer of or exchange a Security of any series between the applicable record date and the next succeeding Interest Payment Date.
 
7.     The registered Securityholder of a Security may be treated as its owner for all purposes.
Persons Deemed Owners.
 
8.     The Base Indenture contains provisions permitting the Company and the Trustee, with the consent of the holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding debt securities of each series affected by such supplemental indenture or indentures (including the Securities, if applicable) to execute supplemental indentures for the purpose of adding or eliminating any provisions to the Base Indenture or of modifying in any manner the rights of the holders of the securities of such series; , , that no such supplemental indenture shall, without the consent of each holder of Outstanding securities affected thereby: (i) extend a fixed maturity of or any installment of principal of any securities of any series or reduce the principal amount thereof, or reduce the amount of principal of any original issue discount security that would be due and payable upon declaration of acceleration of the maturity thereof; (ii) reduce the rate of or extend the time for payment of interest of any Security of any series; (iii) reduce the premium payable upon the redemption of any Security; (iv) make any Security payable in Currency other than that stated in the Security; (v) impair the right to institute suit for the enforcement of any payment on or after the fixed maturity thereof (or in the case or redemption, on or after the redemption date); or (vi) reduce the percentage in principal amount of the Outstanding debt securities of any series issued pursuant to the Base Indenture, the holders of which are required to consent to any such supplemental indenture or indentures. The Base Indenture also contains provisions permitting the holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding debt securities of each series affected thereby, on behalf of all of the holders of the securities of such series, to waive any past Default under the Base Indenture, and its consequences, except a Default in the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, or interest on any security of such series or a Default in respect of a covenant or provision of the Base Indenture which cannot be modified or amended without the consent of the holder of each Outstanding security of such affected series. Any such consent or waiver by the registered holder of this Security shall be conclusive and binding upon such holder and upon all future holders and owners of this Security and of any Security issued in exchange for this Security or in place hereof (whether by registration of transfer or otherwise), irrespective of whether or not any notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Security.
Amendments, Supplements and Waivers.
provided
however
 
9.     Events of Default under the Indenture include, with respect to the debt securities of any series issued pursuant to the Base Indenture (including the Securities): (i) failure to pay interest when due and such failure continues for 90 days and the time for payment has not been extended or deferred; (ii) failure to pay the principal (or
Defaults and Remedies.
 
premium, if any) when due; (iii) failure to observe or perform any other covenant contained herein or in the Indenture with respect to the series of debt securities, and such failure continues for 90 days after the Company has received notice from the Trustee or the holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding securities of the series; and (iv) certain events of bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization of the Company. If an Event of Default with respect to the debt securities of a series issued pursuant to the Base Indenture occurs and is continuing, the Trustee or the holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding securities of such series, by notice in writing to the Company (and to the Trustee if notice is given by such holders), may declare the unpaid principal of, premium, if any, and accrued interest, if any, due and payable immediately. Subject to the terms of the Indenture, if an Event of Default under the Indenture shall occur and be continuing, the Trustee will be under no obligation to exercise any of its rights or powers under the Indenture at the request or direction of any of the holders, unless such holders have offered the Trustee indemnity satisfactory to it. Upon satisfaction of certain conditions set forth in the Indenture, the holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding debt securities of a series issued pursuant to the Base Indenture will have the right to direct the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee, or exercising any trust or power conferred on the Trustee, with respect to the securities of such series.
 
10.     No recourse under or upon any obligation, covenant or agreement of the Indenture, or of any Security, or for any claim based thereon or otherwise in respect hereof or thereof, shall be had against any incorporator, stockholder, officer or director, past, present or future as such, of the Company or of any predecessor or successor corporation, either directly or through the Company or any such predecessor or successor corporation, whether by virtue of any constitution, statute or rule of law, or by the enforcement of any assessment or penalty or otherwise; it being expressly understood that the Indenture and the obligations issued hereunder and thereunder are solely corporate obligations, and that no such personal liability whatever shall attach to, or is or shall be incurred by, the incorporators, stockholders, officers or directors as such, of the Company or of any predecessor or successor corporation, or any of them, because of the creation of the indebtedness authorized by the Indenture, or under or by reason of the obligations, covenants or agreements contained in the Indenture or in any of the Securities or implied therefrom; and that any and all such personal liability of every name and nature, either at common law or in equity or by constitution or statute, of, and any and all such rights and claims against, every such incorporator, stockholder, officer or director as such, because of the creation of the indebtedness authorized by the Indenture, or under or by reason of the obligations, covenants or agreements contained in the Indenture or in the Securities or implied therefrom, are hereby expressly waived and released as a condition of, and as a consideration for, the acceptance of the Securities.
No Recourse Against Others.
 
11.     The Indenture contains certain provisions pertaining to defeasance, which provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth herein.
Discharge of Indenture.
 
12.     This Security shall not be valid until the Trustee signs the certificate of authentication attached to the other side of this Security.
Authentication.
 
 
13.     Customary abbreviations may be used in the name of a Securityholder or an assignee, such as: TEN COM (= tenants in common), TEN ENT (= tenants by the entireties), JT TEN (= joint tenants with right of survivorship and not as tenants in common), CUST (= Custodian), and U/G/M/A (= Uniform Gifts to Minors Act).
Abbreviations.
 
14.     The Base Indenture, the First Supplemental Indenture and the Securities shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the laws of the State of New York.
Governing Law.
 
 
 
To assign this Security, fill in the form below: (I) or (we) assign and transfer this Security to
 
 
 
 
 
 
and irrevocably appoint
agent to transfer this Security on the books of the Company. The agent may substitute another to act for him.
 
Date:             
 
Your Signature:        
                                                             
 
(Sign exactly as your name appears on the face of this Security)
 
Signature Guarantee

 
Exhibit 5.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
Computer Sciences Corporation
2100 East Grand Avenue
El Segundo, California 90245
 
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
 
We have acted as counsel to Computer Sciences Corporation, a Nevada corporation (the ""), in connection with the registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Act"), of $300,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 5.00% Notes due February 15, 2013 (the ""). The Notes are being issued pursuant to an indenture for the debt securities described therein (the ""), dated as of February 10, 2003, by and between the Company and Citibank, N.A., as trustee (the ""), as supplemented by the first supplemental indenture (the "," and together with the Shelf Indenture, as supplemented by the Supplemental Indenture, the ""), dated as of February 14, 2003, by and between the Company and the Trustee.
Company
Notes
Shelf Indenture
Trustee
Supplemental Indenture
Indenture
 
We have examined originals or certified copies of such corporate records, certificates of officers of the Company and/or public officials and such other documents, and have made such other factual and legal investigations, as we have deemed relevant and necessary as the basis for the opinions set forth below. In such examination, we have assumed the genuineness of all signatures, the legal capacity of natural persons, the authenticity of all documents submitted to us as originals and the conformity to original documents of all documents submitted to us as conformed or photostatic copies. In rendering this opinion, we have further assumed the due and valid execution and delivery of the Indenture by the Trustee and that the Indenture constitutes the legal, valid and binding agreement of the Trustee.
 
Based on the foregoing and in reliance thereon, and subject to the assumptions, exceptions, qualifications and limitations set forth below and relying on the statements of fact
 
Computer Sciences Corporation
February 14, 2003
Page 2
 
contained in the documents we have examined, we are of the opinion that (a) the Notes, upon the execution, authentication, issuance, and delivery thereof and timely payment in full therefor in the manner described in the Indenture, the Registration Statement on Form S-3 (Registration No. 333-72034) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "") on October 23, 2001 (the ""), the prospectus, dated October 23, 2001, constituting a part of the Registration Statement and the prospectus supplement (the ""), dated February 11, 2003, describing the terms of the Notes as issued, will be validly issued, fully paid and nonassessable and (b) the Notes so issued will be legally binding obligations of the Company, entitled to the benefits provided under the Indenture.
Commission
Registration Statement
Prospectus Supplement
 
The opinions set forth herein are subject to the following assumptions, qualifications, limitations and exceptions:
 
(a)    we express no opinion as to the effect of (i) applicable bankruptcy, reorganization, insolvency, moratorium and other similar laws and court decisions of general application (including, without limitation, statutory or other laws regarding fraudulent or preferential transfers) relating to, limiting or affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights generally, and (ii) general principles of equity, regardless of whether a matter is considered in a proceeding in equity, at law or in arbitration, including, without limitation, concepts of materiality, reasonableness, good faith and fair dealing. Without limitation, we express no opinion as to the ability to obtain specific performance, injunctive relief or other equitable relief as a remedy for noncompliance with any of the Notes or the Indenture. We further express no opinion as to the validity or legally binding nature of any provisions in the Notes or the Indenture relating to indemnification, exculpation or contribution or as to any provisions that may be construed as imposing penalties or forfeitures; and
 
(b)    we express no opinion as to: (i) any provisions of the Notes or the Indenture regarding the remedies available to any person (A) to take action that is arbitrary, unreasonable or capricious or is not taken in good faith or in a commercially reasonable manner, whether or not such action is permitted under the Notes or the Indenture or (B) for violations or breaches that are determined by a court to be non-material or without substantially adverse effect upon the ability of the Company to perform its material obligations under the Notes or the Indenture; or (ii) the provisions of the Notes or the Indenture that may provide for interest on interest or penalty interest.
 
Although we are not admitted to practice in the State of Nevada, we are generally familiar with the General Corporation Law of the State of Nevada as presently in effect and have made such inquiries as we consider necessary to render the opinions related to Nevada law herein. Our opinions herein are limited to matters involving the laws of the United States of America and the State of New York and the General Corporation Law of the State of Nevada. We express no opinion as to matters involving the laws of any other jurisdiction (or any other laws of the State of Nevada). This opinion is limited to the effect to the present state of the laws
 
Computer Sciences Corporation
February 14, 2003
Page 3
 
of the United States of America and the State of New York and, to the limited extent set forth in the second preceding sentence, the State of Nevada and the facts as they presently exist. In rendering this opinion, we assume no obligation to revise or supplement this opinion should the present laws, or the interpretation thereof, or such facts, be changed.
 
We hereby consent to the filing of this opinion as an exhibit to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K and to the reference to our name under the caption "Legal Matters" in the Prospectus Supplement. In giving this consent, we do not admit that we are within the category of persons whose consent is required under Section 7 of the Act or the General Rules and Regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
Very truly yours,
 
/s/ G, D & C LLP
IBSON
UNN
RUTCHER
 
GIBSON, DUNN & CRUTCHER LLP
 
 

Exhibit 12.1
 
 
 
 


