FILE:CSC/CSC-8K-20080915164332.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
3
 

 
 
 
EXHIBIT 4.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
N.A. means not applicable.
*  This Cross Reference Table is not part of the Indenture.
 
 
 
 
 
i
 
 
ii
 
S
 
 
iii
 
INDENTURE dated as of March 3, 2008 between COMPUTER SCIENCES CORPORATION, a Nevada corporation, and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., as trustee.
 
The Company and the Trustee agree as follows for the benefit of each other and for the equal and ratable benefit of the Holders (as defined) of the 5.50% Senior Notes due 2013 (the ) and the   6.50% Senior Notes due 2018 (the  and, together with the 2013 Notes, the ):
 
2013 Notes
2018 Notes
Notes
 
 
 
 
Section 1.01
 
Definitions.
 
means a Global Note substantially in the form of Exhibit A1 hereto, with respect to the 2013 Notes, or Exhibit A2 hereto, with respect to the 2018 Notes, bearing the Global Note Legend and the Private Placement Legend and deposited with or on behalf of, and registered in the name of, the Depositary or its nominee that will be issued in a denomination equal to the outstanding principal amount of the 2013 Notes or 2018 Notes, as applicable, sold in reliance on Rule 144A.
144A Global Note
 
 means additional 2013 Notes (other than the Initial 2013 Notes) issued under this Indenture, in accordance with Section 2.02 hereof, as part of the same series as the Initial 2013 Notes.
Additional 2013 Notes
 
 means additional 2018 Notes (other than the Initial 2018 Notes) issued under this Indenture, in accordance with Section 2.02 hereof, as part of the same series as the Initial 2018 Notes.
Additional 2018 Notes
 
means all additional interest then owing pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement
 Additional Interest
.
 
 means the Additional 2013 Notes and the Additional 2018 Notes.
Additional Notes
 
means:
Affiliate
 
(1)
 
any Person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with the Company or any other obligor upon the 2013 Notes or 2018 Notes, as applicable;
 
(2)
 
any spouse, immediate family member or other relative who has the same principal resident of any Person described in (1) above;
 
(3)
 
any trust in which any such Persons described in (1) or (2) above has a beneficial interest; and
 
(4)
 
any corporation or other organization of which any such Persons described in (1), (2) or (3) above collectively own more than 50% of the equity of such entity.  For purposes of this definition, beneficial ownership of 10% of more of the Voting Stock of the Company (on a fully diluted basis) or warrants to purchase such Voting Stock (whether or not currently exercisable) of a Person shall be deemed to be control of such Person. For purposes of this definition, the terms   and  have correlative meanings.
controlling,
controlled by
under common control with
 
 
1
 
 
means any Registrar, co-registrar, Paying Agent or additional paying agent.
Agent
 
means, with respect to any transfer or exchange of or for beneficial interests in any Global Note, the rules and procedures of the Depositary, Euroclear and Clearstream that apply to such transfer or exchange.
Applicable Procedures
 
means, with respect to any Sale/Leaseback Transaction, the present value of the minimum rental payments called for during the term of the lease (including any period for which such lease has been extended), determined in accordance with GAAP, discounted at a rate that, at the inception of the lease, the lessee would have incurred to borrow over a similar term the funds necessary to purchase the leased assets.
Attributable Debt
 
means Title 11, U.S. Code or any similar federal or state law for the relief of debtors.
Bankruptcy Law
 
 means the Board of Directors of the Company or any duly authorized committee of such Board of Directors.
Board of Directors
 
has the meaning set forth in the Registration Rights Agreement.
Broker-Dealer
 
means, any day other than a day on which Federal of State banking institutions in the Borough of Manhattan, City of New York, or in the city where the office or agency for payment of the Notes is maintained is obligated by law, regulation or executive order to close.  If a payment date is not a Business Day, payment may be made at that place on the next succeeding Business Day, and no interest shall accrue on such payment for the intervening period.
Business Day
 
 means, at the time any determination is to be made, the amount of the liability in respect of a capital lease that would at that time be required to be capitalized on a balance sheet prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Capital Lease Obligation
 
 means any and all shares, interest, participations or other equivalents (however designated) of corporate stock or partnership interests.
Capital Stock
 
means the occurrence of any of the following:
Change of Control
 
(1)
 
the direct or indirect sale, transfer, conveyance or other disposition (other than by way of merger or consolidation), in a single transaction or a series of related transactions, of all or substantially all of the Companys assets and the assets of its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, to one or more persons (as that term is defined in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act) (other than to the Company or one of its Subsidiaries);
 
(2)
 
the consummation of any transaction (including, without limitation, any merger or consolidation) as a result of which any person (as that term is used in Section 13(d) (3) of the Exchange Act) becomes the beneficial owner (as defined in Rules 13d-3 and 13d-5 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the Voting Stock of the Company, measured by voting power rather than number of shares;
 
(3)
 
the Company consolidates with, or merges with or into any Person, or any Person consolidates with, or merges with or into the Company, in any such event pursuant to a transaction in which any of the outstanding Voting Stock of the Company or such other person is converted into or exchanged for cash, securities or other property, other than any such transaction where the shares of Voting Stock of the Company outstanding immediately prior to such transaction constitute, or are converted into or exchanged for, a majority of the Voting Stock of the surviving Person immediately after giving effect to such transaction;
 
 
2
 
 
(4)
 
the first day on which a majority of the members of the Board of Directors of the Company are not Continuing Directors; or
 
(5)
 
the adoption of a plan relating to the liquidation or dissolution of the Company.
 
 means the occurrence of both a Change of Control and a Rating Event.
Change of Control Triggering Event
 
means Clearstream Banking, S.A.
Clearstream
 
 means Computer Sciences Corporation, and any and all successors thereto.
Company
 
 means the United States Treasury security selected by the Independent Investment Banker as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term of the 2013 Notes to be redeemed or the 2018 Notes to be redeemed, as applicable, that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of such Notes.
Comparable Treasury Issue
 
 means, with respect to any redemption date:
Comparable Treasury Price
 
(1)
 
the average of the Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such redemption date, after excluding the highest and lowest such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations; or
 
(2)
 
if the Trustee obtains fewer than four such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations.
 
 means, as of any particular time, the aggregate amount of the Companys assets and the assets of the Companys Subsidiaries (in each case, less applicable reserves and other properly deductible items) after deducting from such amount:
Consolidated Net Tangible Assets
 
(1)
 
all current liabilities other than (A) notes and loans payable, (B) current maturities of long-term debt and (C) current maturities of Capital Lease Obligations, and
 
(2)
 
intangible assets, to the extent included in such aggregate assets, all as set forth on the Companys then most recent consolidated balance sheet and computed in accordance with GAAP.
 
means, as of any date of determination, any member of the Companys Board of Directors who (1) was a member of such Board of Directors on the date the Notes were issued or (2) was nominated for election, elected or appointed to such Board of Directors with the approval of a majority of the Continuing Directors who were members of such Board of Directors at the time of such nomination, election or appointment (either by a specific vote or by approval of the proxy statement of the Company in which such member was named as a nominee for election as a director, without objection to such nomination).
Continuing Directors
 
 means the principal office of the Trustee at which at any time its corporate trust business shall be administered, which office at the dated hereof is located at 700 South Flower Street, Suite 500, Los Angeles, CA 90017, Attention:  Corporate Unit, or such other address as the Trustee may designate from time to time by notice to the Holders and the Company, or the principal corporate trust office of any successor Trustee (or such other address as such successor Trustee may designate from time to time by notice to the Holders and the Company).
Corporate Trust Office
 
 
3
 
 
means the Trustee, as custodian with respect to the Global Notes, or any successor entity thereto.
Custodian
 
means any event, act or condition that is, or with the lapse of time or the giving of notice, or both, would constitute, an Event of Default.
Default
 
means a certificated Note registered in the name of the Holder thereof and issued in accordance with Section 2.06 hereof, substantially in the form of Exhibit A1 or A2 hereto, respectively, except that such Note shall not bear the Global Note Legend and shall not have the Schedule of Exchanges of Interest in the Global Note attached thereto.
Definitive Note
 
means, with respect to the Notes issuable or issued in whole or in part in global form, the Person specified in Section 2.03 hereof as the Depositary with respect to the Notes, and any and all successors thereto appointed as depositary hereunder and having become such pursuant to the applicable provision of this Indenture.
Depositary
 
means Euroclear Bank, S.A./N.V., as operator of the Euroclear system.
Euroclear
 
 means the 2013 Notes issued in the Exchange Offer in accordance with Section 2.06(f) hereof.
Exchange 2013 Notes
 
 means the 2018 Notes issued in the Exchange Offer in accordance with Section 2.06(f) hereof.
Exchange 2018 Notes
 
means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Exchange Act
 
means Exchange 2013 Notes and the Exchange 2018 Notes.
Exchange Notes
 
has the meaning set forth in the Registration Rights Agreement.
Exchange Offer
 
has the meaning set forth in the Registration Rights Agreement.
Exchange Offer Registration Statement
 
 means Fitch Inc., a subsidiary of Fimalac, S.A., and its successors.
Fitch
 
means generally accepted accounting principles set forth in the opinions and pronouncements of the Accounting Principles Board of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and statements and pronouncements of the Financial Accounting Standards Board or in such other statements by such other entity as have been approved by a significant segment of the accounting profession, which are in effect from time to time.
GAAP
 
means the legend set forth in Section 2.06(g)(2) hereof, which is required to be placed on all Global Notes issued under this Indenture.
Global Note Legend
 
means, individually and collectively, each of the Restricted Global Notes and the Unrestricted Global Notes deposited with or on behalf of and registered in the name of the Depository or its nominee, substantially in the form of Exhibit A1 or Exhibit A2, respectively, hereto and that bears the Global Note Legend and that has the Schedule of Exchanges of Interests in the Global Note attached thereto, issued in accordance with Section 2.01, 2.06(b)(3), 2.06(b)(4), 2.06(d)(2) or 2.06(f) hereof.
Global Notes
 
 
4
 
 
means securities that are (i) direct obligations of the United States of America for the payment of which its full faith and credit is pledged or (ii) obligations of a Person controlled or supervised by and acting as an agency or instrumentality of the United States of America, the payment of which is unconditionally guaranteed as a full faith and credit obligation by the United States of America that, in either case, are not callable or redeemable at the option of the issuer thereof, and shall also include a depositary receipt issued by a bank (as defined in Section 3(a)(2) of the Securities Act) as custodian with respect to any such Government Securities or a specific payment of principal of or interest on any such Government Securities held by such custodian for the account of the holder of such depositary receipt; provided, however, that (except as required by law) such custodian is not authorized to make any deduction from the amount payable to the holder of such depositary receipt from any amount received by the custodian in respect of the Government Securities or the specific payment of principal of or interest on the Government Securities evidenced by such depositary receipt.
Government Securities
 
means a Person in whose name a Note is registered.
Holder
 
means a Global Note substantially in the form of each of Exhibit A1 or Exhibit A2, respectively, hereto bearing the Global Note Legend and the Private Placement Legend and deposited with or on behalf of and registered in the name of the Depositary or its nominee that will be issued in a denomination equal to the outstanding principal amount of 2013 Notes or 2018 Notes, as applicable, sold to Institutional Accredited Investors
IAI Global Note
.
 
means, with respect to any Person, and without duplication:
Indebtedness
 
(1)
 
any liability of such Person
 
(a)
 
for borrowed money; or
 
(b)
 
for any letter of credit for the account of such Person supporting obligations of such Person or other Persons; or
 
(c)
 
evidenced by a bond, note, debenture or similar instrument (including a purchase money obligation) given in connection with the acquisition of any businesses, properties or assets of any kind (other than a trade payable or a current liability arising in the ordinary course of business); or
 
(d)
 
for the payment of money relating to a capitalized lease; and
 
(2)
 
any liability of others described in the preceding clause (1) that the Person has guaranteed or that is otherwise its legal liability; and
 
(3)
 
any amendment, supplement, modification, deferral, renewal, extension or refunding of any liability of the types referred to in the clauses (1) and (2) above.
 
means this Indenture, as amended or supplemented from time to time.
Indenture
 
 
5
 
 
 means an independent investment institution of national standing, which may be one of the Reference Treasury Dealers or their respective affiliates, selected by the Company.
Independent Investment Banker
 
means a Person who holds a beneficial interest in a Global Note through a Participant.
Indirect Participant
 
 means the first $700,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 2013 Notes issued under this Indenture on the date hereof.
Initial 2013 Notes
 
 means the first $1,000,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 2018 Notes issued under this Indenture on the date hereof.
Initial 2018 Notes
 
 means the Initial 2013 Notes and the Initial 2018 Notes.
Initial Notes
 
means Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, Banc of America Securities LLC, Barclays Capital Inc., Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Greenwich Capital Markets, Inc., Mitsubishi UFJ Securities International plc, Scotia Capital (USA) Inc., UBS Securities LLC, Wachovia Capital Markets, LLC, BNY Capital Markets, Inc., Goldman, Sachs & Co., Banca IMI S.p.A, BNP Paribas Securities Corp., Daiwa Securities America Inc., Danske Markets Inc., Lloyds TSB Bank plc, Standard Chartered Bank and Wells Fargo Securities, LLC.
Initial Purchasers
 
means an institution that is an accredited investor as defined in Rule 501(a)(1), (2), (3) or (7) under the Securities Act, who are not also QIBs.
Institutional Accredited Investor
 
 means a rating equal to or higher than Baa3 (or the equivalent) by Moodys; BBB (or the equivalent) by S&P; and BBB- (or the equivalent) by Fitch, and the equivalent investment grade credit rating from any additional rating agency or Rating Agencies selected by the Company.
Investment Grade Rating
 
means the letter of transmittal to be prepared by the Company and sent to all Holders of the Notes for use by such Holders in connection with the Exchange Offer.
Letter of Transmittal
 
means any lien, security interest, charge, mortgage, pledge or other encumbrance of any kind (including any conditional sale or other title retention agreement, any lease in the nature thereof, and any agreement to give any security interest).
Lien
 
 means Moodys Investors Service, Inc.
Moodys
 
means a Person who is not a U.S. Person.
Non-U.S. Person
 
has the meaning assigned to it in the preamble to this Indenture.  The Initial 2013 Notes and the Additional 2013 Notes shall be treated as a single class for all purposes under this Indenture and the Initial 2018 Notes and the Additional 2018 Notes shall be treated as a single class for all purposes under this Indenture.  Unless the context otherwise requires, all references to Notes shall include the Initial Notes, the Exchange Notes and any Additional Notes.
Notes
 
means any principal, interest, penalties, fees, indemnifications, reimbursements, damages and other liabilities payable under the documentation governing any Indebtedness.
Obligations
 
 
6
 
 
means, with respect to any Person, the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, the Chief Operating Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the Treasurer, any Assistant Treasurer, the Controller, the Secretary or any Vice-President of such Person.
Officer
 
means a certificate signed on behalf of the Company by two Officers of the Company that meets the requirements of Section 11.05 hereof.
Officers Certificate
 
means a written opinion from legal counsel who is reasonably acceptable to the Trustee; provided that any opinion delivered on behalf of the Company shall meet the requirements of Section 11.05 hereof.  The counsel may be an employee of or counsel to the Company or any Subsidiary of the Company.
Opinion of Counsel
 
means, with respect to the Depositary, Euroclear or Clearstream, a Person who has an account with the Depositary, Euroclear or Clearstream, respectively (and, with respect to DTC, shall include Euroclear and Clearstream).
Participant
 
means any individual, corporation, partnership,  trust, unincorporated organization, limited liability company or government or other entity.
Person
 
means the legend set forth in Section 2.06(g)(1) hereof to be placed on all Notes issued under this Indenture except where otherwise permitted by the provisions of this Indenture.
Private Placement Legend
 
means a qualified institutional buyer as defined in Rule 144A.
QIB
 
 means:
Rating Agencies
 
 
7
 
 
(1)
 
each of Moodys, S&P and Fitch; and
 
(2)
 
if any of Moodys, S&P or Fitch ceases to rate the 2013 Notes or the 2018 Notes or fails to make a rating of such Notes publicly available for reasons outside of the control of the Company, a nationally recognized statistical rating organization within the meaning of Rule 15c3-1(c)(2)(vi)(F) under the Exchange Act selected by the Company (as certified by a resolution of the Board of Directors) as a replacement agency for Moodys, S&P or Fitch, as the case may be.
 
 means:
Rating Event
 
(1)
 
with respect to the 2013 Notes, the rating on the 2013 Notes is lowered by at least two of the three Rating Agencies and the 2013 Notes are rated below an Investment Grade Rating by at least two of the three Rating Agencies; and
 
(2)
 
with respect to the 2018 Notes, the rating on the 2018 Notes is lowered by at least two of the three Rating Agencies and the 2018 Notes are rated below an Investment Grade Rating by at least two of the three Rating Agencies;
 
in either case, on any day during the period (the period will be extended so long as the rating of the applicable Notes is under publicly announced consideration for a possible downgrade by any of the Rating Agencies) commencing on the earlier of the date of the first public occurrence of a Change of Control or the date of public notice of an agreement that, if consummated, would result in a Change of Control and ending 60 days following consummation of such Change of Control.
 
 
 means each of:
Reference Treasury Dealer
 
(1)
 
Banc of America Securities LLC, Barclays Capital Inc. and Merrill Lynch Government Securities Inc., and their successors; provided, however, that if any of the foregoing ceases to be a primary U.S. Government securities dealer in New York City (a ), the Company shall substitute another Primary Treasury Dealer; and
Primary Treasury Dealer
 
(2)
 
any other Primary Treasury Dealers selected by the Company.
 
 means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer at any redemption date, the average, as determined by the Trustee, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Trustee by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 3:30 p.m., New York City time, on the third Business Day preceding such redemption date.
Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations
 
means the Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of March 3, 2008, between the Company and the other parties named on the signature pages thereof, as such agreement may be amended, modified or supplemented from time to time.
Registration Rights Agreement
 
means Regulation S promulgated under the Securities Act.
Regulation S
 
means a permanent Global Note in the form of each of Exhibit A1 and Exhibit A2, respectively, hereto bearing the Global Note Legend and the Private Placement Legend and deposited with or on behalf of and registered in the name of the Depositary or its nominee, issued in a denomination equal to the outstanding principal amount of 2013 Notes or 2018 Notes sold in reliance on Rule 903 of Regulation S.
Regulation S Global Note
 
when used with respect to the Trustee, means any officer within the Corporate Trust Administration of the Trustee (or any successor group of the Trustee) or any other officer of the Trustee customarily performing functions similar to those performed by any of the above designated officers and also means, with respect to a particular corporate trust matter, any other officer to whom such matter is referred because of his knowledge of and familiarity with the particular subject and who shall have responsibility for the administration of this Indenture.
Responsible Officer,
 
means a Definitive Note bearing the Private Placement Legend.
Restricted Definitive Note
 
means a Global Note bearing the Private Placement Legend.
Restricted Global Note
 
means the period beginning on the date hereof and ending 40 days thereafter.
Restricted Period
 
means Rule 144 promulgated under the Securities Act.
Rule 144
 
means Rule 144A promulgated under the Securities Act.
Rule 144A
 
means Rule 903 promulgated under the Securities Act.
Rule 903
 
means Rule 904 promulgated under the Securities Act.
Rule 904
 
 means Standard & Poors Rating Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
S&P
 
 
8
 
 
 means any arrangement with any Person (other than the Company or any of its Subsidiaries) providing for a capitalized lease by the Company or any of its subsidiaries of any property which has been or is to be sold or transferred by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries to such Person or to any Person (other than the Company or any of its Subsidiaries) by whom funds have been or are to be advanced on the security of the leased property.
Sale/Leaseback Transaction
 
means the Securities and Exchange Commission.
SEC
 
means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Securities Act
 
means the Shelf Registration Statement as defined in the Registration Rights Agreement.
Shelf Registration Statement
 
 means, with respect to any installment of interest or principal on any series of Indebtedness, the date on which the payment of interest or principal was scheduled to be paid in the documentation governing such Indebtedness as of the date of this Indenture, and will not include any contingent obligations to repay, redeem or repurchase any such interest or principal prior to the date originally scheduled for the payment thereof.
Stated Maturity
 
means, with respect to any specified Person:
Subsidiary
 
(1)
 
a corporation a majority of whose Capital Stock with voting power, under ordinary circumstances, to elect directors is at the time directly or indirectly owned by the Company or by the Company and a Subsidiary or Subsidiaries of the Company or by a Subsidiary or Subsidiaries of the Company; or
 
(2)
 
any other Person (other than a corporation) in which the Company or the Company and a Subsidiary or Subsidiaries of the Company or a Subsidiary or Subsidiaries of the Company directly or indirectly at the date of determination thereof has at least a majority ownership interest.
 
means the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended (15 U.S.C.  77aaa-77bbbb).
TIA
 
 means, with respect to any redemption date, the rate equal to the semiannual equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, assuming a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such redemption date.
Treasury Rate
per annum
 
means The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., until a successor replaces it in accordance with the applicable provisions of this Indenture and thereafter means the successor serving hereunder.
Trustee
 
means a Definitive Note that does not bear and is not required to bear the Private Placement Legend.
Unrestricted Definitive Note
 
means a Global Note that does not bear and is not required to bear the Private Placement Legend.
Unrestricted Global Note
 
means a U.S. Person as defined in Rule 902(k) promulgated under the Securities Act.
U.S. Person
 
 
9
 
 
 of any specified Person as of any date means the Capital Stock of such Person that is at the time entitled to vote generally in the election of the Board of Directors of such Person.
Voting Stock
 
Section 1.02
 
Other Definitions.
 
Section 1.03
 
Incorporation by Reference of Trust Indenture Act.
 
Whenever this Indenture refers to a provision of the TIA, the provision is incorporated by reference in and made a part of this Indenture.
 
The following TIA terms used in this Indenture have the following meanings:
 
means the Notes;
indenture securities
 
means a Holder of a Note;
indenture security holder
 
means this Indenture;
indenture to be qualified
 
or means the Trustee; and
indenture trustee
institutional trustee
 
on the Notes means the Company and any successor obligor upon the Notes.
obligor
 
All other terms used in this Indenture that are defined by the TIA, defined by TIA reference to another statute or defined by SEC rule under the TIA have the meanings so assigned to them.
 
Section 1.04
 
Rules of Construction.
 
Unless the context otherwise requires:
 
(1)
 
a term has the meaning assigned to it;
 
(2)
 
an accounting term not otherwise defined has the meaning assigned to it in accordance with GAAP;
 
(3)
 
or is not exclusive;
 
 
10
 
 
(4)
 
words in the singular include the plural, and in the plural include the singular;
 
(5)
 
will shall be interpreted to express a command;
 
(6)
 
provisions apply to successive events and transactions; and
 
(7)
 
references to sections of or rules under the Securities Act will be deemed to include substitute, replacement of successor sections or rules adopted by the SEC from time to time.
 
 
Section 2.01
 
Form and Dating.
 
(a)
 
.  The Notes and the Trustees certificate of authentication will be substantially in the form of Exhibits A1 and A2 hereto.  The Notes may have notations, legends or endorsements required by law, stock exchange rule or usage.  Each Note will be dated the date of its authentication.  The Notes shall be in denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof.
General
 
The terms and provisions contained in the Notes will constitute, and are hereby expressly made, a part of this Indenture and the Company and the Trustee, by their execution and delivery of this Indenture, expressly agree to such terms and provisions and to be bound thereby.  However, to the extent any provision of any Note conflicts with the express provisions of this Indenture, the provisions of this Indenture shall govern and be controlling.
 
(b)
 
.  2013 Notes issued in global form will be substantially in the form of Exhibit A1 hereto (including the Global Note Legend thereon and the Schedule of Exchanges of Interests in the Global Note attached thereto).  2018 Notes issued in global form will be substantially in the form of Exhibit A2 hereto (including the Global Note Legend thereon and the Schedule of Exchanges of Interests in the Global Note attached thereto).  2013 Notes issued in definitive form will be substantially in the form of Exhibit A1 hereto (but without the Global Note Legend thereon and without the Schedule of Exchanges of Interests in the Global Note attached thereto).  2018 Notes issued in definitive form will be substantially in the form of Exhibit A1 hereto (but without the Global Note Legend thereon and without the Schedule of Exchanges of Interests in the Global Note attached thereto).  Each Global Note will represent such of the outstanding Notes as will be specified therein and each shall provide that it represents the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Notes from time to time endorsed thereon and that the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Notes represented thereby may from time to time be reduced or increased, as appropriate, to reflect exchanges and redemptions.  Any endorsement of a Global Note to reflect the amount of any increase or decrease in the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Notes represented thereby will be made by the Trustee or the Custodian, at the direction of the Trustee, in accordance with instructions given by the Holder thereof as required by Section 2.06 hereof.
Global Notes
 
Section 2.02
 
Execution and Authentication.
 
At least one Officer must sign the Notes for the Company by manual or facsimile signature.
 
If an Officer whose signature is on a Note no longer holds that office at the time a Note is authenticated, the Note will nevertheless be valid.
 
 
11
 
 
A Note will not be valid until authenticated by the manual signature of the Trustee.  The signature will be conclusive evidence that the Note has been authenticated under this Indenture.
 
The Trustee will, upon receipt of a written order of the Company signed by two Officers (an ), authenticate Notes for original issue that may be validly issued under this Indenture, including any Additional Notes.  The aggregate principal amount of Notes outstanding at any time may not exceed the aggregate principal amount of Notes authorized for issuance by the Company pursuant to one or more Authentication Orders, except as provided in Section 2.07 hereof.
Authentication Order
 
The Trustee may appoint an authenticating agent acceptable to the Company to authenticate Notes.  An authenticating agent may authenticate Notes whenever the Trustee may do so.  Each reference in this Indenture to authentication by the Trustee includes authentication by such agent. An authenticating agent has the same rights as an Agent to deal with Holders or an Affiliate of the Company.
 
Section 2.03
 
Registrar and Paying Agent.
 
The Company will maintain an office or agency where Notes may be presented for registration of transfer or for exchange () and an office or agency where Notes may be presented for payment ().  The Registrar will keep a register of the Notes and of their transfer and exchange.  The Company may appoint one or more co-registrars and one or more additional paying agents.  The term Registrar includes any co-registrar and the term Paying Agent includes any additional paying agent.  The Company may change any Paying Agent or Registrar without notice to any Holder.  The Company will notify the Trustee in writing of the name and address of any Agent not a party to this Indenture.  If the Company fails to appoint or maintain another entity as Registrar or Paying Agent, the Trustee shall act as such.  The Company or any of its Subsidiaries may act as Paying Agent or Registrar.
Registrar
Paying Agent
 
The Company initially appoints The Depository Trust Company () to act as Depositary with respect to the Global Notes.
DTC
 
The Company initially appoints the Trustee to act as the Registrar and Paying Agent and to act as Custodian with respect to the Global Notes.
 
Section 2.04
 
Paying Agent to Hold Money in Trust.
 
The Company will require each Paying Agent other than the Trustee to agree in writing that the Paying Agent will hold in trust for the benefit of Holders or the Trustee all money held by the Paying Agent for the payment of principal, premium or Additional Interest, if any, or interest on the Notes, and will notify the Trustee of any default by the Company in making any such payment.  While any such default continues, the Trustee may require a Paying Agent to pay all money held by it to the Trustee.  The Company at any time may require a Paying Agent to pay all money held by it to the Trustee.  Upon payment over to the Trustee, the Paying Agent (if other than the Company or a Subsidiary) will have no further liability for the money.  If the Company or a Subsidiary acts as Paying Agent, it will segregate and hold in a separate trust fund for the benefit of the Holders all money held by it as Paying Agent.  Upon any bankruptcy or reorganization proceedings relating to the Company, the Trustee will serve as Paying Agent for the Notes.
 
Section 2.05
 
Holder Lists.
 
The Trustee will preserve in as current a form as is reasonably practicable the most recent list available to it of the names and addresses of all Holders and shall otherwise comply with TIA  312(a).  If the Trustee is not the Registrar, the Company will furnish to the Trustee at least seven Business Days before each interest payment date and at such other times as the Trustee may request in writing, a list in such form and as of such date as the Trustee may reasonably require of the names and addresses of the Holders of Notes and the Company shall otherwise comply with TIA  312(a).
 
 
12
 
 
Section 2.06
 
Transfer and Exchange.
 
(a)
 
.  A Global Note may not be transferred except as a whole by the Depositary to a nominee of the Depositary, by a nominee of the Depositary to the Depositary or to another nominee of the Depositary, or by the Depositary or any such nominee to a successor Depositary or a nominee of such successor Depositary.  All Global Notes will be exchanged by the Company for Definitive Notes if:
Transfer and Exchange of Global Notes
 
(1)
 
the Company delivers to the Trustee notice from the Depositary that it is unwilling or unable to continue to act as Depositary or that it is no longer a clearing agency registered under the Exchange Act and, in either case, a successor Depositary is not appointed by the Company within 120 days after the date of such notice from the Depositary;
 
(2)
 
the Company in its sole discretion determines that the Global Notes (in whole but not in part) should be exchanged for Definitive Notes and delivers a written notice to such effect to the Trustee;or
 
 
(3)
 
there has occurred and is continuing a Default or Event of Default with respect to the Notes and the Holder delivers to the Company a request to undertake such an exchange.
 
Upon the occurrence of either of the preceding events in (1) or (2) above, Definitive Notes shall be issued in such names as the Depositary shall instruct the Trustee.  Global Notes also may be exchanged or replaced, in whole or in part, as provided in Sections 2.07 and 2.10 hereof.  Every Note authenticated and delivered in exchange for, or in lieu of, a Global Note or any portion thereof, pursuant to this Section 2.06 or Section 2.07 or 2.10 hereof, shall be authenticated and delivered in the form of, and shall be, a Global Note.  A Global Note may not be exchanged for another Note other than as provided in this Section 2.06(a), however, beneficial interests in a Global Note may be transferred and exchanged as provided in Section 2.06(b), (c) or (f) hereof.
 
(b)
 
.  The transfer and exchange of beneficial interests in the Global Notes will be effected through the Depositary, in accordance with the provisions of this Indenture and the Applicable Procedures.  Beneficial interests in the Restricted Global Notes will be subject to restrictions on transfer comparable to those set forth herein to the extent required by the Securities Act.  Transfers of beneficial interests in the Global Notes also will require compliance with either subparagraph (1) or (2) below, as applicable, as well as one or more of the other following subparagraphs, as applicable:
Transfer and Exchange of Beneficial Interests in the Global Notes
 
(1)
 
.  Beneficial interests in any Restricted Global Note may be transferred to Persons who take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in the same Restricted Global Note in accordance with the transfer restrictions set forth in the Private Placement Legend; providedhowever, that prior to the expiration of the Restricted Period, transfers of beneficial interests in the Regulation S Global Note may not be made to a U.S. Person or for the account or benefit of a U.S. Person (other than an Initial Purchaser). Beneficial interests in any Unrestricted Global Note may be transferred to Persons who take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note.  No written orders or instructions shall be required to be delivered to the Registrar to effect the transfers described in this Section 2.06(b)(1).
Transfer of Beneficial Interests in the Same Global Note
,
 
 
13
 
 
(2)
 
  In connection with all transfers and exchanges of beneficial interests that are not subject to Section 2.06(b)(1) above, the transferor of such beneficial interest must deliver to the Registrar either:
All Other Transfers and Exchanges of Beneficial Interests in Global Notes.
 
(A)
 
both:
 
(i)
 
a written order from a Participant or an Indirect Participant given to the Depositary in accordance with the Applicable Procedures directing the Depositary to credit or cause to be credited a beneficial interest in another Global Note in an amount equal to the beneficial interest to be transferred or exchanged; and
 
(ii)
 
instructions given in accordance with the Applicable Procedures containing information regarding the Participant account to be credited with such increase; or
 
(B)
 
both:
 
(i)
 
a written order from a Participant or an Indirect Participant given to the Depositary in accordance with the Applicable Procedures directing the Depositary to cause to be issued a Definitive Note in an amount equal to the beneficial interest to be transferred or exchanged; and
 
(ii)
 
instructions given by the Depositary to the Registrar containing information regarding the Person in whose name such Definitive Note shall be registered to effect the transfer or exchange referred to in (1) above.
 
Upon consummation of an Exchange Offer by the Company in accordance with Section 2.06(f) hereof, the requirements of this Section 2.06(b)(2) shall be deemed to have been satisfied upon receipt by the Registrar of the instructions contained in the Letter of Transmittal delivered by the Holder of such beneficial interests in the Restricted Global Notes.  Upon satisfaction of all of the requirements for transfer or exchange of beneficial interests in Global Notes contained in this Indenture and the Notes or otherwise applicable under the Securities Act, the Trustee shall adjust the principal amount of the relevant Global Note(s) pursuant to Section 2.06(h) hereof.
 
(3)
 
  A beneficial interest in any Restricted Global Note may be transferred to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in another Restricted Global Note if the transfer complies with the requirements of Section 2.06(b)(2) above and the Registrar receives the following:
Transfer of Beneficial Interests to Another Restricted Global Note.
 
(A)
 
if the transferee will take delivery in the form of a beneficial interest in the 144A Global Note, then the transferor must deliver a certificate in the form of Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (1) thereof;
 
(B)
 
if the transferee will take delivery in the form of a beneficial interest in the Regulation S Global Note, then the transferor must deliver a certificate in the form of Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (2) thereof; and
 
(C)
 
if the transferee will take delivery in the form of a beneficial interest in the IAI Global Note, then the transferor must deliver a certificate in the form of Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications, certificates and Opinion of Counsel required by item (3) thereof, if applicable.
 
 
14
 
 
(4)
 
  A beneficial interest in any Restricted Global Note may be exchanged by any holder thereof for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note or transferred to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note if the exchange or transfer complies with the requirements of Section 2.06(b)(2) above and:
Transfer and Exchange of Beneficial Interests in a Restricted Global Note for Beneficial Interests in an Unrestricted Global Note.
 
(A)
 
such exchange or transfer is effected pursuant to the Exchange Offer in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement and the holder of the beneficial interest to be transferred, in the case of an exchange, or the transferee, in the case of a transfer, certifies in the applicable Letter of Transmittal that it is not (i) a Broker-Dealer, (ii) a Person participating in the distribution of the Exchange Notes or (iii) a Person who is an affiliate (as defined in Rule 144) of the Company;
 
(B)
 
such transfer is effected pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement;
 
(C)
 
such transfer is effected by a Broker-Dealer pursuant to the Exchange Offer Registration Statement in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement; or
 
(D)
 
the Registrar receives the following:
 
(i)
 
if the holder of such beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note proposes to exchange such beneficial interest for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note, a certificate from such holder in the form of Exhibit C hereto, including the certifications in item (1)(a) thereof; or
 
(ii)
 
if the holder of such beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note proposes to transfer such beneficial interest to a Person who shall take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note, a certificate from such holder in the form of Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (4) thereof;
 
and, in each such case set forth in this subparagraph (D), if the Registrar so requests or if the Applicable Procedures so require, an Opinion of Counsel in form reasonably acceptable to the Registrar to the effect that such exchange or transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act and that the restrictions on transfer contained herein and in the Private Placement Legend are no longer required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act; provided, however, that no such Opinion of Counsel shall be required for transfers made pursuant to Rule 144 that are consummated more than one year following the issuance date of the applicable Notes by the Company.
 
If any such transfer is effected pursuant to subparagraph (B) or (D) above at a time when an Unrestricted Global Note has not yet been issued, the Company shall issue and, upon receipt of an Authentication Order in accordance with Section 2.02 hereof, the Trustee shall authenticate one or more Unrestricted Global Notes in an aggregate principal amount equal to the aggregate principal amount of beneficial interests transferred pursuant to subparagraph (B) or (D) above.
 
 
15
 
 
Beneficial interests in an Unrestricted Global Note cannot be exchanged for, or transferred to Persons who take delivery thereof in the form of, a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note.
 
(c)
 
Transfer or Exchange of Beneficial Interests for Definitive Notes.
 
(1)
 
  If any holder of a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note proposes to exchange such beneficial interest for a Restricted Definitive Note or to transfer such beneficial interest to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a Restricted Definitive Note, then, upon receipt by the Registrar of the following documentation:
Beneficial Interests in Restricted Global Notes to Restricted Definitive Notes.
 
(A)
 
if the holder of such beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note proposes to exchange such beneficial interest for a Restricted Definitive Note, a certificate from such holder in the form of Exhibit C hereto, including the certifications in item (2)(a) thereof;
 
(B)
 
if such beneficial interest is being transferred to a QIB in accordance with Rule 144A, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (1) thereof;
 
(C)
 
if such beneficial interest is being transferred to a Non-U.S. Person in an offshore transaction in accordance with Rule 903 or Rule 904, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (2) thereof;
 
(D)
 
if such beneficial interest is being transferred pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act in accordance with Rule 144, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (3)(a) thereof;
 
(E)
 
if such beneficial interest is being transferred to an Institutional Accredited Investor in reliance on an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act other than those listed in subparagraphs (B) through (D) above, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications, certificates and Opinion of Counsel required by item (3)(d) thereof, if applicable;
 
(F)
 
if such beneficial interest is being transferred to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (3)(b) thereof; or
 
(G)
 
if such beneficial interest is being transferred pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (3)(c) thereof,
 
the Trustee shall cause the aggregate principal amount of the applicable Global Note to be reduced accordingly pursuant to Section 2.06(h) hereof, and the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Person designated in the instructions a Definitive Note in the appropriate principal amount.  Any Definitive Note issued in exchange for a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note pursuant to this Section 2.06(c) shall be registered in such name or names and in such authorized denomination or denominations as the holder of such beneficial interest shall instruct the Registrar through instructions from the Depositary and the Participant or Indirect Participant.  The Trustee shall deliver such Definitive Notes to the Persons in whose names such Notes are so registered.  Any Definitive Note issued in exchange for a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note pursuant to this Section 2.06(c)(1) shall bear the Private Placement Legend and shall be subject to all restrictions on transfer contained therein.
 
 
16
 
 
(2)
 
  A holder of a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note may exchange such beneficial interest for an Unrestricted Definitive Note or may transfer such beneficial interest to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of an Unrestricted Definitive Note only if:
Beneficial Interests in Restricted Global Notes to Unrestricted Definitive Notes.
 
(A)
 
such exchange or transfer is effected pursuant to the Exchange Offer in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement and the holder of such beneficial interest, in the case of an exchange, or the transferee, in the case of a transfer, certifies in the applicable Letter of Transmittal that it is not (i) a Broker-Dealer, (ii) a Person participating in the distribution of the Exchange Notes or (iii) a Person who is an affiliate (as defined in Rule 144) of the Company;
 
(B)
 
such transfer is effected pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement;
 
(C)
 
such transfer is effected by a Broker-Dealer pursuant to the Exchange Offer Registration Statement in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement; or
 
(D)
 
the Registrar receives the following:
 
(i)
 
if the holder of such beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note proposes to exchange such beneficial interest for an Unrestricted Definitive Note, a certificate from such holder in the form of Exhibit C hereto, including the certifications in item (1)(b) thereof; or
 
(ii)
 
if the holder of such beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note proposes to transfer such beneficial interest to a Person who shall take delivery thereof in the form of an Unrestricted Definitive Note, a certificate from such holder in the form of Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (4) thereof;
 
and, in each such case set forth in this subparagraph (D), if the Registrar so requests or if the Applicable Procedures so require, an Opinion of Counsel in form reasonably acceptable to the Registrar to the effect that such exchange or transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act and that the restrictions on transfer contained herein and in the Private Placement Legend are no longer required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act; provided, however, that no such Opinion of Counsel shall be required for transfers made pursuant to Rule 144 that are consummated more than one year following the issuance date of the applicable Notes by the Company.
 
(3)
 
  If any holder of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note proposes to exchange such beneficial interest for a Definitive Note or to transfer such beneficial interest to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a Definitive Note, then, upon satisfaction of the conditions set forth in Section 2.06(b)(2) hereof, the Trustee will cause the aggregate principal amount of the applicable Global Note to be reduced accordingly pursuant to Section 2.06(h) hereof, and the Company will execute and the Trustee will authenticate and deliver to the Person designated in the instructions a Definitive Note in the appropriate principal amount.  Any Definitive Note issued in exchange for a beneficial interest pursuant to this Section 2.06(c)(3) will be registered in such name or names and in such authorized denomination or denominations as the holder of such beneficial interest requests through instructions to the Registrar from or through the Depositary and the Participant or Indirect Participant.  The Trustee will deliver such Definitive Notes to the Persons in whose names such Notes are so registered.  Any Definitive Note issued in exchange for a beneficial interest pursuant to this Section 2.06(c)(3) will not bear the Private Placement Legend.
Beneficial Interests in Unrestricted Global Notes to Unrestricted Definitive Notes.
 
 
17
 
 
(d)
 
Transfer and Exchange of Definitive Notes for Beneficial Interests.
 
(1)
 
  If any Holder of a Restricted Definitive Note proposes to exchange such Note for a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note or to transfer such Restricted Definitive Notes to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note, then, upon receipt by the Registrar of the following documentation:
Restricted Definitive Notes to Beneficial Interests in Restricted Global Notes.
 
(A)
 
if the Holder of such Restricted Definitive Note proposes to exchange such Note for a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note, a certificate from such Holder in the form of Exhibit C hereto, including the certifications in item (2)(b) thereof;
 
(B)
 
if such Restricted Definitive Note is being transferred to a QIB in accordance with Rule 144A, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (1) thereof;
 
(C)
 
if such Restricted Definitive Note is being transferred to a Non-U.S. Person in an offshore transaction in accordance with Rule 903 or Rule 904, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (2) thereof;
 
(D)
 
if such Restricted Definitive Note is being transferred pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act in accordance with Rule 144, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (3)(a) thereof;
 
(E)
 
if such Restricted Definitive Note is being transferred to an Institutional Accredited Investor in reliance on an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act other than those listed in subparagraphs (B) through (D) above, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications, certificates and Opinion of Counsel required by item (3)(d) thereof, if applicable;
 
(F)
 
if such Restricted Definitive Note is being transferred to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (3)(b) thereof; or
 
(G)
 
if such Restricted Definitive Note is being transferred pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (3)(c) thereof,
 
the Trustee will cancel the Restricted Definitive Note, increase or cause to be increased the aggregate principal amount of, in the case of clause (A) above, the appropriate Restricted Global Note, in the case of clause (B) above, the 144A Global Note, in the case of clause (C) above, the Regulation S Global Note, and in all other cases, the IAI Global Note.
 
 
18
 
 
(2)
 
  A Holder of a Restricted Definitive Note may exchange such Note for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note or transfer such Restricted Definitive Note to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note only if:
Restricted Definitive Notes to Beneficial Interests in Unrestricted Global Notes.
 
(A)
 
such exchange or transfer is effected pursuant to the Exchange Offer in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement and the Holder, in the case of an exchange, or the transferee, in the case of a transfer, certifies in the applicable Letter of Transmittal that it is not (i) a Broker-Dealer, (ii) a Person participating in the distribution of the Exchange Notes or (iii) a Person who is an affiliate (as defined in Rule 144) of the Company;
 
(B)
 
such transfer is effected pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement;
 
(C)
 
such transfer is effected by a Broker-Dealer pursuant to the Exchange Offer Registration Statement in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement; or
 
(D)
 
the Registrar receives the following:
 
(i)
 
if the Holder of such Definitive Notes proposes to exchange such Notes for a beneficial interest in the Unrestricted Global Note, a certificate from such Holder in the form of Exhibit C hereto, including the certifications in item (1)(c) thereof; or
 
(ii)
 
if the Holder of such Definitive Notes proposes to transfer such Notes to a Person who shall take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in the Unrestricted Global Note, a certificate from such Holder in the form of Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (4) thereof;
 
and, in each such case set forth in this subparagraph (D), if the Registrar so requests or if the Applicable Procedures so require, an Opinion of Counsel in form reasonably acceptable to the Registrar to the effect that such exchange or transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act and that the restrictions on transfer contained herein and in the Private Placement Legend are no longer required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act.
 
Upon satisfaction of the conditions of any of the subparagraphs in this Section 2.06(d)(2), the Trustee will cancel the Definitive Notes and increase or cause to be increased the aggregate principal amount of the Unrestricted Global Note.
 
(3)
 
  A Holder of an Unrestricted Definitive Note may exchange such Note for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note or transfer such Definitive Notes to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note at any time.  Upon receipt of a request for such an exchange or transfer, the Trustee will cancel the applicable Unrestricted Definitive Note and increase or cause to be increased the aggregate principal amount of one of the Unrestricted Global Notes.
Unrestricted Definitive Notes to Beneficial Interests in Unrestricted Global Notes.
 
 
19
 
 
If any such exchange or transfer from a Definitive Note to a beneficial interest is effected pursuant to subparagraphs (2)(B), (2)(D) or (3) above at a time when an Unrestricted Global Note has not yet been issued, the Company will issue and, upon receipt of an Authentication Order in accordance with Section 2.02 hereof, the Trustee will authenticate one or more Unrestricted Global Notes in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of Definitive Notes so transferred.
 
(e)
 
  Upon request by a Holder of Definitive Notes and such Holders compliance with the provisions of this Section 2.06(e), the Registrar will register the transfer or exchange of Definitive Notes.  Prior to such registration of transfer or exchange, the requesting Holder must present or surrender to the Registrar the Definitive Notes duly endorsed or accompanied by a written instruction of transfer in form satisfactory to the Registrar duly executed by such Holder or by its attorney, duly authorized in writing.  In addition, the requesting Holder must provide any additional certifications, documents and information, as applicable, required pursuant to the following provisions of this Section 2.06(e).
Transfer and Exchange of Definitive Notes for Definitive Notes.
 
(1)
 
  Any Restricted Definitive Note may be transferred to and registered in the name of Persons who take delivery thereof in the form of a Restricted Definitive Note if the Registrar receives the following:
Restricted Definitive Notes to Restricted Definitive Notes.
 
(A)
 
if the transfer will be made pursuant to Rule 144A, then the transferor must deliver a certificate in the form of Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (1) thereof;
 
(B)
 
if the transfer will be made pursuant to Rule 903 or Rule 904, then the transferor must deliver a certificate in the form of Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (2) thereof; and
 
(C)
 
if the transfer will be made pursuant to any other exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act, then the transferor must deliver a certificate in the form of Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications, certificates and Opinion of Counsel required by item (3) thereof, if applicable.
 
(2)
 
  Any Restricted Definitive Note may be exchanged by the Holder thereof for an Unrestricted Definitive Note or transferred to a Person or Persons who take delivery thereof in the form of an Unrestricted Definitive Note if:
Restricted Definitive Notes to Unrestricted Definitive Notes.
 
(A)
 
such exchange or transfer is effected pursuant to the Exchange Offer in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement and the Holder, in the case of an exchange, or the transferee, in the case of a transfer, certifies in the applicable Letter of Transmittal that it is not (i) a Broker-Dealer, (ii) a Person participating in the distribution of the Exchange Notes or (iii) a Person who is an affiliate (as defined in Rule 144) of the Company;
 
(B)
 
any such transfer is effected pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement;
 
(C)
 
any such transfer is effected by a Broker-Dealer pursuant to the Exchange Offer Registration Statement in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement; or
 
 
20
 
 
(D)
 
the Registrar receives the following:
 
(i)
 
if the Holder of such Restricted Definitive Notes proposes to exchange such Notes for an Unrestricted Definitive Note, a certificate from such Holder in the form of Exhibit C hereto, including the certifications in item (1)(d) thereof; or
 
(ii)
 
if the Holder of such Restricted Definitive Notes proposes to transfer such Notes to a Person who shall take delivery thereof in the form of an Unrestricted Definitive Note, a certificate from such Holder in the form of Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (4) thereof;
 
and, in each such case set forth in this subparagraph (D), if the Registrar so requests, an Opinion of Counsel in form reasonably acceptable to the Registrar to the effect that such exchange or transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act and that the restrictions on transfer contained herein and in the Private Placement Legend are no longer required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act; provided, however, that no such Opinion of Counsel shall be required for transfers made pursuant to Rule 144 that are consummated more than one year following the issuance date of the applicable Notes by the Company.
 
(3)
 
  A Holder of Unrestricted Definitive Notes may transfer such Notes to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of an Unrestricted Definitive Note.  Upon receipt of a request to register such a transfer, the Registrar shall register the Unrestricted Definitive Notes pursuant to the instructions from the Holder thereof.
Unrestricted Definitive Notes to Unrestricted Definitive Notes.
 
(f)
 
  Upon the occurrence of the Exchange Offer in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement, the Company will issue and, upon receipt of an Authentication Order in accordance with Section 2.02 hereof, the Trustee will authenticate:
Exchange Offer.
 
(1)
 
one or more Unrestricted Global Notes in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of the beneficial interests in the Restricted Global Notes accepted for exchange in the Exchange Offer by Persons that certify in the applicable Letters of Transmittal that (A) they are not Broker-Dealers, (B) they are not participating in a distribution of the Exchange Notes and (C) they are not affiliates (as defined in Rule 144) of the Company; and
 
(2)
 
Unrestricted Definitive Notes in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of the Restricted Definitive Notes accepted for exchange in the Exchange Offer by Persons that certify in the applicable Letters of Transmittal that (A) they are not Broker-Dealers, (B) they are not participating in a distribution of the Exchange Notes and (C) they are not affiliates (as defined in Rule 144) of the Company.
 
Concurrently with the issuance of such Notes, the Trustee will cause the aggregate principal amount of the applicable Restricted Global Notes to be reduced accordingly, and the Company will execute and the Trustee will authenticate and deliver to the Persons designated by the Holders of Definitive Notes so accepted Unrestricted Definitive Notes in the appropriate principal amount.
 
(g)
 
  The following legends will appear on the face of all Global Notes and Definitive Notes issued under this Indenture unless specifically stated otherwise in the applicable provisions of this Indenture.
Legends.
 
 
21
 
 
(1)
 
.
Private Placement Legend
 
(A)
 
Except as permitted by subparagraph (B) below, each Global Note and each Definitive Note (and all Notes issued in exchange therefor or substitution thereof) shall bear the legend in substantially the following form:
 
THIS SECURITY HAS NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE SECURITIES ACT).  THE HOLDER HEREOF, BY PURCHASING THIS SECURITY, AGREES FOR THE BENEFIT OF COMPUTER SCIENCES CORPORATION, THAT THIS SECURITY MAY NOT BE RESOLD, PLEDGED OR OTHERWISE TRANSFERRED OTHER THAN (1) TO COMPUTER SCIENCES CORPORATION, (2) SO LONG AS THIS SECURITY IS ELIGIBLE FOR RESALE PURSUANT TO RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT (RULE 144A), TO A PERSON WHOM THE SELLER REASONABLY BELIEVES IS A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER WITHIN THE MEANING OF RULE 144A, PURCHASING FOR ITS OWN ACCOUNT OR FOR THE ACCOUNT OF A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER TO WHOM NOTICE IS GIVEN THAT THE RESALE, PLEDGE OR OTHER TRANSFER IS BEING MADE IN RELIANCE ON RULE 144A, (3) IN AN OFFSHORE TRANSACTION (AS DEFINED UNDER REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT) IN ACCORDANCE WITH REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, (4) PURSUANT TO ANY EXEMPTION FROM REGISTRATION UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT PROVIDED BY RULE 144 (IF APPLICABLE) UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, (5) TO AN INSTITUTIONAL ACCREDITED INVESTOR THAT, PRIOR TO SUCH TRANSFER, FURNISHES TO THE TRUSTEE A SIGNED LETTER CONTAINING CERTAIN REPRESENTATIONS AND AGREEMENTS RELATING TO THE REGISTRATION AND TRANSFER OF THIS NOTE (THE FORM OF WHICH LETTER CAN BE OBTAINED FROM THE TRUSTEE) AND, IF SUCH TRANSFER IS IN RESPECT OF AN AGGREGATE PRINCIPAL AMOUNT OF NOTES AT THE TIME OF TRANSFER OF LESS THAT $250,000, AND OPINION OF COUNSEL ACCEPTABLE TO THE COMPANY THAT SUCH TRANSFER IS IN COMPLIANCE WITH THE SECURITIES ACT, OR (6) PURSUANT TO AN EFFECTIVE REGISTRATION STATEMENT UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, IN EACH CASE IN ACCORDANCE WITH ANY APPLICABLE SECURITIES LAWS OF ANY STATE OF THE UNITED STATES.  THE HOLDER HEREOF, BY PURCHASING THIS SECURITY, REPRESENTS AND AGREES FOR THE BENEFIT OF COMPUTER SCIENCES CORPORATION.  THAT IT IS (1) A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER WITHIN THE MEANING OF RULE 144A OR (2) NOT A U.S.  PERSON AND IS OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES WITHIN THE MEANING OF (OR AN ACCOUNT SATISFYING THE REQUIREMENTS OF PARAGRAPH (k)(2)(i) OF RULE 902 UNDER) REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT.
 
(B)
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, any Global Note or Definitive Note issued pursuant to subparagraphs (b)(4), (c)(2), (c)(3), (d)(2), (d)(3), (e)(2), (e)(3) or (f) of this Section 2.06 (and all Notes issued in exchange therefor or substitution thereof) will not bear the Private Placement Legend.
 
(2)
 
.  Each Global Note will bear a legend in substantially the following form:
Global Note Legend
 
THIS GLOBAL NOTE IS HELD BY THE DEPOSITARY (AS DEFINED IN THE INDENTURE GOVERNING THIS NOTE) OR ITS NOMINEE IN CUSTODY FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE BENEFICIAL OWNERS HEREOF, AND IS NOT TRANSFERABLE TO ANY PERSON UNDER ANY CIRCUMSTANCES EXCEPT THAT (1) THE TRUSTEE MAY MAKE SUCH NOTATIONS HEREON AS MAY BE REQUIRED PURSUANT TO SECTION 2.06 OF THE INDENTURE, (2) THIS GLOBAL NOTE MAY BE EXCHANGED IN WHOLE BUT NOT IN PART PURSUANT TO SECTION 2.06(a) OF THE INDENTURE, (3) THIS GLOBAL NOTE MAY BE DELIVERED TO THE TRUSTEE FOR CANCELLATION PURSUANT TO SECTION 2.11 OF THE INDENTURE AND (4) THIS GLOBAL NOTE MAY BE TRANSFERRED TO A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY WITH THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF COMPUTER SCIENCES CORPORATION.
 
 
22
 
 
UNLESS AND UNTIL IT IS EXCHANGED IN WHOLE OR IN PART FOR NOTES IN DEFINITIVE FORM, THIS NOTE MAY NOT BE TRANSFERRED EXCEPT AS A WHOLE BY THE DEPOSITARY TO A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY OR BY A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY TO THE DEPOSITARY OR ANOTHER NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY OR BY THE DEPOSITARY OR ANY SUCH NOMINEE TO A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE OF SUCH SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY.  UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY (55 WATER STREET, NEW YORK, NEW YORK) (DTC), TO THE COMPANY OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR SUCH OTHER NAME AS MAY BE REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS MAY BE REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.
 
(h)
 
  At such time as all beneficial interests in a particular Global Note have been exchanged for Definitive Notes or a particular Global Note has been redeemed, repurchased or canceled in whole and not in part, each such Global Note will be returned to or retained and canceled by the Trustee in accordance with Section 2.11 hereof.  At any time prior to such cancellation, if any beneficial interest in a Global Note is exchanged for or transferred to a Person who will take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in another Global Note or for Definitive Notes, the principal amount of Notes represented by such Global Note will be reduced accordingly and an endorsement will be made on such Global Note by the Trustee or by the Depositary at the direction of the Trustee to reflect such reduction; and if the beneficial interest is being exchanged for or transferred to a Person who will take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in another Global Note, such other Global Note will be increased accordingly and an endorsement will be made on such Global Note by the Trustee or by the Depositary at the direction of the Trustee to reflect such increase.
Cancellation and/or Adjustment of Global Notes.
 
(i)
 
General Provisions Relating to Transfers and Exchanges.
 
(1)
 
To permit registrations of transfers and exchanges, the Company will execute and the Trustee will authenticate Global Notes and Definitive Notes upon receipt of an Authentication Order in accordance with Section 2.02 hereof or at the Registrars request.
 
(2)
 
No service charge will be made to a Holder of a beneficial interest in a Global Note or to a Holder of a Definitive Note for any registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any transfer tax or similar governmental charge payable in connection therewith (other than any such transfer taxes or similar governmental charge payable upon exchange or transfer pursuant to Sections 2.10, 3.06 and 9.05 hereof).
 
(3)
 
The Registrar will not be required to register the transfer of or exchange of any Note selected for redemption in whole or in part, except the unredeemed portion of any Note being redeemed in part.
 
 
23
 
 
(4)
 
All Global Notes and Definitive Notes issued upon any registration of transfer or exchange of Global Notes or Definitive Notes will be the valid obligations of the Company, evidencing the same debt, and entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture, as the Global Notes or Definitive Notes surrendered upon such registration of transfer or exchange.
 
(5)
 
Neither the Registrar nor the Company will be required:
 
(A)
 
to issue, to register the transfer of or to exchange any Notes during a period beginning at the opening of business 15 days before the day of any selection of Notes for redemption under Section 3.02 hereof and ending at the close of business on the day of selection;
 
(B)
 
to register the transfer of or to exchange any Note selected for redemption in whole or in part, except the unredeemed portion of any Note being redeemed in part; or
 
(C)
 
to register the transfer of or to exchange a Note between a record date and the next succeeding interest payment date.
 
(6)
 
Prior to due presentment for the registration of a transfer of any Note, the Trustee, any Agent and the Company may deem and treat the Person in whose name any Note is registered as the absolute owner of such Note for the purpose of receiving payment of principal of and interest on such Notes and for all other purposes, and none of the Trustee, any Agent or the Company shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
 
(7)
 
The Trustee will authenticate Global Notes and Definitive Notes in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.02 hereof.
 
(8)
 
All certifications, certificates and Opinions of Counsel required to be submitted to the Registrar pursuant to this Section 2.06 to effect a registration of transfer or exchange may be submitted by facsimile.
 
Section 2.07
 
Replacement Notes.
 
If any mutilated Note is surrendered to the Trustee or the Company and the Trustee receives evidence to its satisfaction of the destruction, loss or theft of any Note, the Company will issue and the Trustee, upon receipt of an Authentication Order, will authenticate a replacement Note if the Trustees requirements are met.  If required by the Trustee or the Company, an indemnity bond must be supplied by the Holder that is sufficient in the judgment of the Trustee and the Company to protect the Company, the Trustee, any Agent and any authenticating agent from any loss that any of them may suffer if a Note is replaced.  The Company may charge for its expenses in replacing a Note.
 
Every replacement Note is an additional obligation of the Company and will be entitled to all of the benefits of this Indenture equally and proportionately with all other Notes duly issued hereunder.
 
Section 2.08
 
Outstanding Notes.
 
The Notes outstanding at any time are all the Notes authenticated by the Trustee except for those canceled by it, those delivered to it for cancellation, those reductions in the interest in a Global Note effected by the Trustee in accordance with the provisions hereof, and those described in this Section 2.08 as not outstanding.  Except as set forth in Section 2.09 hereof, a Note does not cease to be outstanding because the Company or an Affiliate of the Company holds the Note.
 
 
24
 
 
If a Note is replaced pursuant to Section 2.07 hereof, it ceases to be outstanding unless the Trustee receives proof satisfactory to it that the replaced Note is held by a protected purchaser.
 
If the principal amount of any Note is considered paid under Section 4.01 hereof, it ceases to be outstanding and interest on it ceases to accrue.
 
If the Paying Agent (other than the Company, a Subsidiary or an Affiliate of any thereof) holds, on a redemption date or maturity date, money sufficient to pay Notes payable on that date, then on and after that date such Notes will be deemed to be no longer outstanding and will cease to accrue interest.
 
Section 2.09
 
Treasury Notes.
 
In determining whether the Holders of the required principal amount of Notes have concurred in any direction, waiver or consent, Notes owned by the Company, or by any Person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with the Company, will be considered as though not outstanding, except that for the purposes of determining whether the Trustee will be protected in relying on any such direction, waiver or consent, only Notes that the Trustee knows are so owned will be so disregarded.
 
Section 2.10
 
Temporary Notes.
 
Until certificates representing Notes are ready for delivery, the Company may prepare and the Trustee, upon receipt of an Authentication Order, will authenticate temporary Notes.  Temporary Notes will be substantially in the form of certificated Notes but may have variations that the Company considers appropriate for temporary Notes and as may be reasonably acceptable to the Trustee.  Without unreasonable delay, the Company will prepare and the Trustee will authenticate definitive Notes in exchange for temporary Notes.
 
Holders of temporary Notes will be entitled to all of the benefits of this Indenture.
 
Section 2.11
 
Cancellation.
 
The Company at any time may deliver Notes to the Trustee for cancellation.  The Registrar and Paying Agent will forward to the Trustee any Notes surrendered to them for registration of transfer, exchange or payment.  The Trustee and no one else will cancel all Notes surrendered for registration of transfer, exchange, payment, replacement or cancellation and will dispose of canceled Notes in its customary manner (subject to the record retention requirement of the Exchange Act).  Certification of the disposal of all canceled Notes will be delivered to the Company upon its request therefor.  The Company may not issue new Notes to replace Notes that it has paid or that have been delivered to the Trustee for cancellation.
 
Section 2.12
 
Defaulted Interest.
 
If the Company defaults in a payment of interest on the Notes, it will pay the defaulted interest in any lawful manner plus, to the extent lawful, interest payable on the defaulted interest, to the Persons who are Holders on a subsequent special record date, in each case at the rate provided in the Notes and in Section 4.01 hereof.  The Company will notify the Trustee in writing of the amount of defaulted interest proposed to be paid on each Note and the date of the proposed payment.  The Company will fix or cause to be fixed each such special record date and payment date; provided that no such special record date may be less than 10 days prior to the related payment date for such defaulted interest.  At least 15 days before the special record date, the Company (or, upon the written request of the Company, the Trustee in the name and at the expense of the Company) will mail or cause to be mailed to Holders a notice that states the special record date, the related payment date and the amount of such interest to be paid.
 
 
25
 
 
Section 2.13
 
CUSIP Numbers.
 
The Company in issuing the Notes of a series may use numbers (if then generally in use), and, if so, the Trustee shall use numbers in notices of redemption as a convenience to Holders; provided that any such notice may state that no representation is made as to the correctness of such numbers either as printed on the Notes or as contained in any notice of a redemption and that reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers printed on the Notes, and any such redemption shall not be affected by any defect in or omission of such numbers. The Company will promptly notify the Trustee of any change in the numbers.
CUSIP
CUSIP
CUSIP
 
 
 
Section 3.01
 
Notices to Trustee.
 
If the Company elects to redeem Notes pursuant to the optional redemption provisions of Section 3.07 hereof, it must furnish to the Trustee, at least 30 days but not more than 60 days before a redemption date, an Officers Certificate setting forth:
 
(1)
 
the clause of this Indenture pursuant to which the redemption shall occur;
 
(2)
 
the redemption date;
 
(3)
 
the principal amount of Notes to be redeemed; and
 
(4)
 
the redemption price.
 
Section 3.02
 
Selection of Notes to Be Redeemed or Purchased.
 
If less than all of the Notes are to be redeemed or purchased in an offer to purchase at any time, the Trustee will select Notes for redemption or purchase on a basis unless otherwise required by law or applicable stock exchange requirements.
pro rata
 
In the event of partial redemption or purchase by lot, the particular Notes to be redeemed or purchased will be selected, unless otherwise provided herein, not less than 30 nor more than 90 days prior to the redemption or purchase date by the Trustee from the outstanding Notes not previously called for redemption or purchase.
 
The Trustee will promptly notify the Company in writing of the Notes selected for redemption or purchase and, in the case of any Note selected for partial redemption or purchase, the principal amount thereof to be redeemed or purchased.  Notes and portions of Notes selected will be in amounts of $2,000 or whole multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof; except that if all of the Notes of a Holder are to be redeemed or purchased, the entire outstanding amount of Notes held by such Holder, even if not a multiple of $1,000, shall be redeemed or purchased.  Except as provided in the preceding sentence, provisions of this Indenture that apply to Notes called for redemption or purchase also apply to portions of Notes called for redemption or purchase.
 
 
26
 
 
Section 3.03
 
Notice of Redemption.
 
At least 30 days but not more than 60 days before a redemption date, the Company will mail or cause the Trustee to mail, by first class mail, a notice of redemption to each Holder whose Notes are to be redeemed at its registered address, except that redemption notices may be mailed more than 60 days prior to a redemption date if the notice is issued in connection with a defeasance of the Notes or a satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture pursuant to Articles 8 or 10 hereof.
 
The notice will identify the Notes to be redeemed and will state:
 
(1)
 
the redemption date;
 
(2)
 
the redemption price;
 
(3)
 
if any Note is being redeemed in part, the portion of the principal amount of such Note to be redeemed and that, after the redemption date upon surrender of such Note, a new Note or Notes in principal amount equal to the unredeemed portion will be issued upon cancellation of the original Note;
 
(4)
 
the name and address of the Paying Agent;
 
(5)
 
that Notes called for redemption must be surrendered to the Paying Agent to collect the redemption price;
 
(6)
 
that, unless the Company defaults in making such redemption payment, interest on Notes called for redemption ceases to accrue on and after the redemption date;
 
(7)
 
the paragraph of the Notes and/or Section of this Indenture pursuant to which the Notes called for redemption are being redeemed; and
 
(8)
 
that no representation is made as to the correctness or accuracy of the CUSIP number, if any, listed in such notice or printed on the Notes.
 
Any notice that is mailed in the manner herein provided shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the registered holder receives the notice.  In any case, failure duly to give such notice to the Holder of any Notes designated for redemption in whole or in part, or any defect in the notice, shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other Notes of such series or any other series.  At the Companys request, the Trustee will give the notice of redemption in the Companys name and at its expense; providedhowever, that the Company has delivered to the Trustee, at least 15 days prior to the proposed publication date of the notice, an Officers Certificate requesting that the Trustee give such notice and setting forth the information to be stated in such notice as provided in the preceding paragraph.
,
 
Section 3.04
 
Effect of Notice of Redemption.
 
Once notice of redemption is mailed in accordance with Section 3.03 hereof, Notes called for redemption become irrevocably due and payable on the redemption date at the redemption price.  A notice of redemption may not be conditional.
 
 
27
 
 
Section 3.05
 
Deposit of Redemption or Purchase Price.
 
At least one Business Day prior to the redemption or purchase date, the Company will deposit with the Trustee or with the Paying Agent money sufficient to pay the redemption or purchase price of and accrued interest and Additional Interest, if any, on all Notes to be redeemed or purchased on that date.  The Trustee or the Paying Agent will promptly return to the Company any money deposited with the Trustee or the Paying Agent by the Company in excess of the amounts necessary to pay the redemption or purchase price of, and accrued interest and Additional Interest, if any, on, all Notes to be redeemed or purchased.
 
If the Company complies with the provisions of the preceding paragraph, on and after the redemption or purchase date, interest will cease to accrue on the Notes or the portions of Notes called for redemption or purchase.  If a Note is redeemed or purchased on or after an interest record date but on or prior to the related interest payment date, then any accrued and unpaid interest shall be paid to the Person in whose name such Note was registered at the close of business on such record date.  If any Note called for redemption or purchase is not so paid upon surrender for redemption or purchase because of the failure of the Company to comply with the preceding paragraph, interest shall be paid on the unpaid principal, from the redemption or purchase date until such principal is paid, and to the extent lawful on any interest not paid on such unpaid principal, in each case at the rate provided in the Notes and in Section 4.01 hereof.
 
Section 3.06
 
Notes Redeemed or Purchased in Part.
 
Upon surrender of a Note that is redeemed or purchased in part, the Company will issue and, upon receipt of an Authentication Order, the Trustee will authenticate for the Holder at the expense of the Company a new Note equal in principal amount to the unredeemed or unpurchased portion of the Note surrendered.
 
Section 3.07
 
Optional Redemption.
 
(a)
 
The 2013 and the 2018 Notes will be redeemable as a whole or in part, at the Companys option, at any time, from time to time, at a redemption price equal to the greater of:
 
(1)
 
100% of the principal amount of the 2013 Notes or the 2018 Notes, as applicable; and
 
(2)
 
as determined by the Independent Investment Banker, the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest thereon (not including any portion of such interest payments accrued as of the redemption date), discounted to the redemption date on a semiannual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the Treasury Rate plus (A) 0.50%, with respect to the 2013 Notes, or (B) 0.50%, with respect to the 2018 Notes.
 
Section 3.08
 
Mandatory Redemption.
 
The Company is not required to make mandatory redemption or sinking fund payments with respect to the Notes.
 
 
28
 
 
 
 
Section 4.01
 
Payment of Notes.
 
The Company will pay or cause to be paid the principal of, premium, if any, and interest and Additional Interest, if any, on, the Notes on the dates and in the manner provided in the Notes.  Principal, premium, if any, and interest and Additional Interest, if any will be considered paid on the date due if the Paying Agent, if other than the Company or a Subsidiary thereof, holds as of 10:00 a.m. Eastern Time on the due date money deposited by the Company in immediately available funds and designated for and sufficient to pay all principal, premium, if any, and interest then due.  The Company will pay all Additional Interest, if any, in the same manner on the dates and in the amounts set forth in the Registration Rights Agreement.
 
The Company will pay interest (including post-petition interest in any proceeding under any Bankruptcy Law) on overdue principal at the rate equal to 1% in excess of the then applicable interest rate on the Notes to the extent lawful; it will pay interest (including post-petition interest in any proceeding under any Bankruptcy Law) on overdue installments of interest and Additional Interest (without regard to any applicable grace period) at the same rate to the extent lawful.
per annum
 
Section 4.02
 
Maintenance of Office or Agency.
 
The Company will maintain in the Borough of Manhattan, the City of New York, an office or agency (which may be an office of the Trustee or an affiliate of the Trustee, Registrar or co-registrar) where Notes may be surrendered for registration of transfer or for exchange and where notices and demands to or upon the Company in respect of the Notes and this Indenture may be served.  The Company will give prompt written notice to the Trustee of the location, and any change in the location, of such office or agency.  If at any time the Company fails to maintain any such required office or agency or fails to furnish the Trustee with the address thereof, such presentations, surrenders, notices and demands may be made or served at the Corporate Trust Office.
 
The Company may also from time to time designate one or more other offices or agencies where the Notes may be presented or surrendered for any or all such purposes and may from time to time rescind such designations; providedhowever, that no such designation or rescission will in any manner relieve the Company of its obligation to maintain an office or agency in the Borough of Manhattan, the City of New York for such purposes.  The Company will give prompt written notice to the Trustee of any such designation or rescission and of any change in the location of any such other office or agency.
,
 
The Company hereby designates the Corporate Trust Office as one such office or agency of the Company in accordance with Section 2.03 hereof.
 
Section 4.03
 
Reports.
 
(a)
 
Whether or not required by the rules and regulations of the SEC, so long as any Notes of a particular series are outstanding, the Company will furnish to the Holders of Notes of such series or cause the Trustee to furnish to the Holders of Notes of such series, within 15 days of the time periods specified in the SECs rules and regulations, all current, quarterly and annual reports that would be required to be filed with the SEC on Forms 8-K, 10-Q and 10-K if the Company were required to file such reports, including a Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and, with respect to each annual report on Form 10-K, a report thereon by the Companys certified independent accountants.
 
 
29
 
 
In addition, the Company will file a copy of each of the reports referred to in this Section 4.03(a) with the SEC for public availability within the time periods specified in the rules and regulations applicable to such reports (unless the SEC will not accept such a filing) and will post the reports on its website within those time periods.  The Company will at all times comply with TIA  314(a).
 
If, at any time, the Company is no longer subject to the periodic reporting requirements of the Exchange Act for any reason, the Company will nevertheless continue filing the reports specified in this Section 4.03(a) with the SEC within the time periods specified above unless the SEC will not accept such a filing.  The Company will not take any action for the purpose of causing the SEC not to accept any such filings.
 
Delivery of such reports, information and documents to the Trustee is for informational purposes only and the Trustees receipt of such shall not constitute constructive notice of any information contained therein or determinable from information contained therein, including the Companys compliance with any of its covenants hereunder (as to which the Trustee is entitled to rely exclusively on Officers Certificates).
 
(b)
 
For so long as any Notes of a particular series remain outstanding, if at any time it is not required to file with the SEC the reports required by paragraph (a) of this Section 4.03, the Company will furnish to the Holders of such series and to securities analysts and prospective investors, upon their request, the information required to be delivered pursuant to Rule 144A(d)(4) under the Securities Act.
 
Section 4.04
 
Compliance Certificate.
 
(a)
 
The Company, so long as any Notes are outstanding, will deliver to the Trustee, within 120 days after the end of each fiscal year ending after the date of this Indenture, an Officers Certificate signed by its principal executive officer, principal financial officer or principal accounting officer stating whether or not, to the best knowledge of the signer thereof, the Company is in default in the performance and observance of any of the terms, provisions and conditions of this Indenture, and if the Company shall be in default, specifying all such defaults and the nature and status thereof of which they may have knowledge.
 
(b)
 
The Company, so long as any of the Notes are outstanding, shall promptly deliver to the Trustee, forthwith upon any Officer becoming aware of the occurrence of any Default or Event of Default, an Officers Certificate specifying such Default or Event of Default and the action which the Company proposes to make with respect thereto.
 
Section 4.05
 
Taxes.
 
The Company will pay, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to pay, prior to delinquency, all material taxes, assessments, and governmental levies except such as are contested in good faith and by appropriate proceedings or where the failure to effect such payment is not adverse in any material respect to the Holders of the Notes.
 
Section 4.06
 
Stay, Extension and Usury Laws.
 
The Company covenants (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) that it will not at any time insist upon, plead, or in any manner whatsoever claim or take the benefit or advantage of, any stay, extension or usury law wherever enacted, now or at any time hereafter in force, that may affect the covenants or the performance of this Indenture; and the Company (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) hereby expressly waives all benefit or advantage of any such law, and covenants that it will not, by resort to any such law, hinder, delay or impede the execution of any power herein granted to the Trustee, but will suffer and permit the execution of every such power as though no such law has been enacted.
 
 
30
 
 
Section 4.07
 
Limitations on Liens.
 
Other than as provided in Section 4.11 below, neither the Company nor any of its Subsidiaries may create, incur, assume or suffer to exist any Lien upon any of the Companys property to secure any Indebtedness, except for:
 
(1)
 
Liens existing on the date hereof and any extension, renewal or replacement (or successive extensions, renewals or replacements) of any such Lien; provided that no such extension, renewal or replacement will extend to or cover any property other than the property covered by such existing Lien;
 
(2)
 
Liens on property existing at the time the Company or any of its Subsidiaries acquires such property, provided that such Liens:
 
(A)
 
are not incurred in connection with, or in contemplation of the acquisition of the property acquired; and
 
(B)
 
do not extend to or cover any of the Companys property or any of its Subsidiaries property other than the property so acquired;
 
(3)
 
Liens on any property of a corporation or other entity existing at the time such corporation or entity becomes the Companys Subsidiary or is merged into or consolidated with the Company or a Subsidiary or at the time of a sale, lease or other disposition of the properties of such corporation or entity as an entirety or substantially as an entirety to the Company or a Subsidiary, provided that such Liens:
 
(A)
 
are not incurred in connection with or in contemplation of such corporation or entity becoming a Subsidiary or merging or consolidating with the Company or a Subsidiary or are not incurred in connection with or in contemplation of the sale, lease or other disposition of the properties of such corporation or other entity; and
 
(B)
 
do not extend to or cover any of the Companys property or any of its Subsidiaries property other than the property of such corporation or other entity; and
 
(4)
 
purchase money Liens upon or in any real or personal property (including fixtures and other equipment) the Company or any of its Subsidiaries hold or have acquired to secure the purchase price of such property or to secure Indebtedness incurred solely to finance or refinance the acquisition or improvement of such property and incurred within 180 days after completion of such acquisition or improvement, provided that no such Lien will extend to or cover any property other than the property being acquired or improved.
 
Section 4.08
 
Corporate Existence.
 
Subject to Article 5 hereof, the Company shall do or cause to be done all things necessary to preserve and keep in full force and effect its corporate existence and the rights (charter and statutory), licenses and franchises of the Company; providedhowever that the Company shall not be required to preserve any such right, license or franchise if the Board of Directors shall determine that the preservation thereof is no longer desirable in the conduct of the business of the Company and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, and that the loss thereof is not adverse in any material respect to the Holders of the Notes
,
,
 
 
31
 
 
Section 4.09
 
Change of Control.
 
(a)
 
If a Change of Control Triggering Event occurs with respect to a particular series of Notes, unless the Company has exercised its option to redeem such Notes as described in Section 3.07 hereof, the Company will make an offer (a ) to each Holder of such Notes to repurchase all or any part (equal to $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof) of that Holders Notes at a repurchase price, payable in cash, equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of Notes repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest, and Additional Interest if any, on the Notes repurchased to the date of repurchase (the ).  Within 30 days following any Change of Control Triggering Event or, at the Companys option, prior to any Change of Control, but after public announcement of the transaction that constitutes or may constitute the Change of Control, a notice will be sent to Holders of the Notes, with a copy to the Trustee, describing the transaction that constitutes or may constitute the Change of Control Triggering Event and offering to repurchase such Notes on the date specified in the notice, which date will be no earlier than 30 days and no later than 90 days from the date such notice is mailed (the ).  The notice will, if mailed prior to the date of consummation of the Change of Control, state that the offer to purchase is conditioned on the Change of Control Triggering Event occurring on or prior to the Change of Control Payment Date and shall state the following:
Change of Control Offer
Change of Control Payment
Change of Control Payment Date
 
(1)
 
that the Change of Control Offer is being made pursuant to this Section 4.09 and that all Notes tendered will be accepted for payment;
 
(2)
 
the purchase price and the purchase date, which shall be no earlier than 30 days and no later than 90 days from the date such notice is mailed;
 
(3)
 
that any Note not tendered will continue to accrue interest;
 
(4)
 
that, unless the Company defaults in the payment of the Change of Control Payment, all Notes accepted for payment pursuant to the Change of Control Offer will cease to accrue interest after the Change of Control Payment Date;
 
(5)
 
that Holders electing to have any Notes purchased pursuant to a Change of Control Offer will be required to surrender the Notes, with the form entitled Option of Holder to Elect Purchase attached to the Notes completed, or transfer by book-entry transfer, to the Paying Agent at the address specified in the notice prior to the close of business on the third Business Day preceding the Change of Control Payment Date;
 
(6)
 
that Holders will be entitled to withdraw their election if the Paying Agent receives, not later than the close of business on the second Business Day preceding the Change of Control Payment Date, a telegram, telex, facsimile transmission or letter setting forth the name of the Holder, the principal amount of Notes delivered for purchase, and a statement that such Holder is withdrawing his election to have the Notes purchased; and
 
(7)
 
that Holders whose Notes are being purchased only in part will be issued new Notes equal in principal amount to the unpurchased portion of the Notes surrendered, which unpurchased portion must be equal to $2,000 in principal amount or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof.
 
 
32
 
 
The Company will comply with the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the Exchange Act and any other securities laws and regulations thereunder to the extent those laws and regulations are applicable in connection with the repurchase of the Notes as a result of a Change in Control Triggering Event.  To the extent that the provisions of any securities laws or regulations conflict with the provisions of this Section 4.09, the Company will comply with the applicable securities laws and regulations and will not be deemed to have breached its obligations under this Section 4.09 by virtue of such compliance.
 
(b)
 
On the Change of Control Payment Date, the Company will, to the extent lawful:
 
(1)
 
accept for payment all Notes or portions of Notes properly tendered pursuant to the Change of Control Offer;
 
(2)
 
deposit with the Paying Agent an amount equal to the Change of Control Payment in respect of all Notes or portions of Notes properly tendered; and
 
(3)
 
deliver or cause to be delivered to the Trustee the Notes properly accepted together with an Officers Certificate stating the aggregate principal amount of Notes or portions of Notes being repurchased.
 
The Paying Agent will promptly mail (but in any case not later than five days after the Change of Control Payment Date) to each Holder of Notes properly tendered the Change of Control Payment for such Notes, and the Trustee will promptly authenticate and mail (or cause to be transferred by book entry) to each Holder a new Note equal in principal amount to any unpurchased portion of the Notes surrendered, if any.  The Company will publicly announce the results of the Change of Control Offer on or as soon as practicable after the Change of Control Payment Date.
 
(c)
 
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Section 4.09, the Company will not be required to make a Change of Control Offer upon the occurrence of a Change of Control Triggering Event if (1) a third party makes such an offer in the manner, at the times and otherwise in compliance with the requirements set forth in this Section 4.09 and the third party repurchases all Notes properly tendered and not withdrawn under its offer, or (2) notice of redemption has been given pursuant to Section 3.07 hereof, unless and until there is a default in payment of the applicable redemption price.
 
Section 4.10
 
Limitation on Sale and Leaseback Transactions.
 
Other than as provided in Section 4.11 below, neither the Company nor any of its Subsidiaries may enter into any Sale/Leaseback Transaction unless the Company or such Subsidiary would be entitled, pursuant to Section 4.07, to create, incur, assume or suffer to exist any Lien upon any of the Companys property subject to such Sale/Leaseback Transaction.
 
Section 4.11
 
Permitted Liens and Permitted Sale and Leaseback Transactions.
 
(a)
 
, and after giving effect to that event, the aggregate amount of all Indebtedness secured by Liens permitted by this Section 4.11 (excluding the Liens permitted pursuant to Section 4.07) and the aggregate amount of all Attributable Debt in respect of Sale/Leaseback Transactions permitted by this Section 4.11 (excluding Sale/Leaseback Transactions permitted under Section 4.10) measured, in each case, at the time any such Lien is incurred or any such Sale/Leaseback Transaction is
Notwithstanding the restrictions set forth under Section 4.07 and 4.10, the Company or any
of its Subsidiaries
may create, incur, assume or suffer to ex
ist any Lien or enter into any Sale/L
easeback
T
ransaction not otherwise permitted pursuant to Section 4.07 or 4.10; provided that, at the time of such event
entered into, by the Company or any Subsidiary doe
s not exceed 20% of the Company
s Cons
olidated Net Tangible Assets.
 
 
33
 
 
(b)
 
may create, incur, assume or suffer to exist Indebtedness secured by Liens not otherwise permitted by Section 4.11(a) if the Company first makes effective provisions whereby each series of Notes (together with any other Indebtedness of the Company then existing or thereafter created ranking equally with such Notes and similarly entitled to be equally and ratably secured) shall be secured equally and ratably with such Indebtedness for so long as such Indebtedness shall so be secured.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company or any of its
Subsidiaries
 
 
 
Section 5.01
 
Merger, Consolidation, or Sale of Assets.
 
Without the consent of any Holder of Notes, the Company may consolidate with, or merge into, or sell, transfer, lease or convey its assets substantially as an entirety to any entity, provided that:
 
(1)
 
the entity formed by or surviving any such consolidation or merger (if other than the Company) or to which such sale, transfer, lease or conveyance shall have been made, is a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the United States of America, any state, or the District of Columbia;
 
(2)
 
the corporation formed by or surviving any such consolidation or merger (if other than the Company), or to which such sale, transfer, lease or conveyance shall have been made, expressly assumes all of the Companys obligations under the Registration Rights Agreement, and the Obligations under the Notes and this Indenture pursuant to agreements reasonably acceptable to the Trustee; and
 
(3)
 
immediately before and after giving effect to the transaction, no Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing.
 
The Company shall deliver to the Trustee prior to the consummation of the proposed transaction an Officers' Certificate to the foregoing effect and an Opinion of Counsel stating that the proposed transactionand such supplemental indenture comply with this Indenture.
 
 
Section 5.02
 
Successor Corporation Substituted.
 
Upon any consolidation or merger, or any sale, transfer, lease, conveyance or other disposition of the assets of the Company substantially as an entirety in a transaction that is subject to, and that complies with the provisions of, Section 5.01 hereof, the successor Person formed by such consolidation or into or with which the Company is merged or to which such sale, lease, transfer, conveyance or other disposition is made shall succeed to, and be substituted for (so that from and after the date of such consolidation, merger, sale, lease, transfer, conveyance or other disposition, the provisions of this Indenture referring to the Company shall refer instead to the successor Person and not to the Company), and may exercise every right and power of the Company under this Indenture with the same effect as if such successor Person had been named as the Company herein; providedhowever, that the predecessor Company shall not be relieved from the obligation to pay the principal of and interest on the Notes except in the case of a sale of all of the Companys assets in a transaction that is subject to, and that complies with the provisions of, Section 5.01 hereof.
,
 
 
34
 
                              
                                 ARTICLE 6                                
 
 
Section 6.01
 
Events of Default.
 
Each of the following is an  with respect to a particular series of Notes:
Event of Default
 
(1)
 
default for 90 days in the payment when due of interest (or Additional Interest, if any) on such series of Notes so long as the period within which such payment is due has not been extended or deferred;
 
(2)
 
default in the payment when due (at maturity, upon redemption or otherwise) of the principal of, or premium, if any, on, such series of Notes;
 
(3)
 
failure by the Company for 90 days after notice to the Company by the Trustee or the Holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Notes of such series then outstanding voting as a single class to perform or observe any of the other covenants or agreements in this Indenture applicable to such series;
 
(4)
 
any of the Companys Indebtedness in the aggregate outstanding principal amount of $100 million or more either:
 
(A)
 
becomes due and payable prior to the due date for payment of such Indebtedness following the Companys default with respect to the terms of such Indebtedness; or
 
(B)
 
is not repaid at, and remains unpaid after, maturity as extended by any applicable period of grace or any guarantee given by the Company in respect of Indebtedness of any other Person in the aggregate outstanding principal amount of $100 million or more is not honored when, and remains dishonored after, becoming due;
 
(5)
 
the Company pursuant to or within the meaning of any Bankruptcy Law (i) commences a voluntary case, (ii) consents to the entry of an order for relief against it in an involuntary case, (iii) consents to the appointment of a Custodian of it or for all or substantially all of its property or (iv) makes a general assignment for the benefit of its creditors; or
 
(6)
 
a court of competent jurisdiction enters an order under any Bankruptcy Law that (i) is for relief against the Company in an involuntary case, (ii) appoints a Custodian of the Company for all or substantially all of the Companys properties, or (iii) orders the liquidation of the Company, and, in either of the above cases, the order or decree remains unstayed and in effect for 90 days.
 
Section 6.02
 
Acceleration.
 
In the case of an Event of Default specified in clause (5) or (6) of Section 6.01 hereof, all outstanding Notes will become due and payable immediately without further action or notice.  If any other Event of Default occurs and is continuing, the Trustee or the Holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of the then outstanding Notes of a particular series may declare all the Notes of such series to be due and payable immediately by notice in writing to the Company (and to the Trustee if notice is given by such Holders).
 
 
35
 
 
Upon any such declaration, the Notes shall become due and payable immediately.
 
The Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the then outstanding Notes of a particular series by written notice to the Trustee may, on behalf of all of the Holders of such series, rescind an acceleration and its consequences with respect to such series of Notes, if the rescission would not conflict with any judgment or decree and if all existing Events of Default with respect to such series of Notes (except nonpayment of principal, interest or premium or Additional Interest, if any, that has become due solely because of the acceleration) have been cured or waived.
 
Section 6.03
 
Other Remedies.
 
If an Event of Default occurs and is continuing, the Trustee may pursue any available remedy to collect the payment of principal, premium and Additional Interest, if any, and interest on the Notes or to enforce the performance of any provision of the Notes or this Indenture.
 
The Trustee may maintain a proceeding even if it does not possess any of the Notes or does not produce any of them in the proceeding.  A delay or omission by the Trustee or any Holder of a Note in exercising any right or remedy accruing upon an Event of Default shall not impair the right or remedy or constitute a waiver of or acquiescence in the Event of Default.  All remedies are cumulative to the extent permitted by law.
 
Section 6.04
 
Waiver of Past Defaults.
 
Holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the then outstanding Notes of a particular series by notice to the Trustee may on behalf of the Holders of all of the Notes of such series waive an existing Default or Event of Default and its consequences hereunder, except a continuing Default or Event of Default in the payment of the principal of, premium and Additional Interest, if any, or interest on, the Notes of such series (including in connection with an offer to purchase); providedhowever, that the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the then outstanding Notes of a particular series may rescind an acceleration and its consequences, including any related payment default that resulted from such acceleration with respect to the Notes of such series.  Upon any such waiver, such Default shall cease to exist, and any Event of Default arising therefrom shall be deemed to have been cured for every purpose of this Indenture; but no such waiver shall extend to any subsequent or other Default or impair any right consequent thereon.
,
 
Section 6.05
 
Control by Majority.
 
Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the then outstanding Notes of a particular series may direct the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for exercising any remedy available to the Trustee or exercising any trust or power conferred on it with respect to the Notes of such series.  However, the Trustee may refuse to follow any direction that conflicts with law or this Indenture that the Trustee determines may be unduly prejudicial to the rights of other Holders of Notes of such series or that may involve the Trustee in personal liability.
 
Section 6.06
 
Limitation on Suits.
 
A Holder may pursue a remedy with respect to this Indenture or the Notes of a particular series only if:
 
(1)
 
such Holder gives to the Trustee written notice that an Event of Default is continuing;
 
 
36
 
 
(2)
 
Holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of the then outstanding Notes of such series make a written request to the Trustee to pursue the remedy;
 
(3)
 
such Holder or Holders offer and, if requested, provide to the Trustee security or indemnity reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee against any loss, liability or expense;
 
(4)
 
the Trustee does not comply with the request within 60 days after receipt of the request and the offer of security or indemnity; and
 
(5)
 
during such 60-day period, Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the then outstanding Notes of a particular series do not give the Trustee a direction inconsistent with such request.
 
A Holder of a Note may not use this Indenture to prejudice the rights of another Holder of a Note or to obtain a preference or priority over another Holder of a Note.
 
Section 6.07
 
Rights of Holders of Notes to Receive Payment.
 
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Indenture, the right of any Holder of a Note to receive payment of principal, premium and Additional Interest, if any, and interest on the Note, on or after the respective due dates expressed in the Note (including in connection with an offer to purchase), or to bring suit for the enforcement of any such payment on or after such respective dates, shall not be impaired or affected without the consent of such Holder.
 
Section 6.08
 
Collection Suit by Trustee.
 
If an Event of Default specified in Section 6.01(1) or (2) hereof occurs and is continuing, the Trustee is authorized to recover judgment in its own name and as trustee of an express trust against the Company for the whole amount of principal of, premium Additional Interest, if any, and interest remaining unpaid on, the Notes and interest on overdue principal and, to the extent lawful, interest and such further amount as shall be sufficient to cover the costs and expenses of collection, including the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel.
 
Section 6.09
 
Trustee May File Proofs of Claim.
 
The Trustee is authorized to file such proofs of claim and other papers or documents as may be necessary or advisable in order to have the claims of the Trustee (including any claim for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel) and the Holders of the Notes allowed in any judicial proceedings relative to the Company (or any other obligor upon the Notes), its creditors or its property and shall be entitled and empowered to collect, receive and distribute any money or other property payable or deliverable on any such claims and any custodian in any such judicial proceeding is hereby authorized by each Holder to make such payments to the Trustee, and in the event that the Trustee shall consent to the making of such payments directly to the Holders, to pay to the Trustee any amount due to it for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel, and any other amounts due the Trustee under Section 7.07 hereof.  To the extent that the payment of any such compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel, and any other amounts due the Trustee under Section 7.07 hereof out of the estate in any such proceeding, shall be denied for any reason, payment of the same shall be secured by a Lien on, and shall be paid out of, any and all distributions, dividends, money, securities and other properties that the Holders may be entitled to receive in such proceeding whether in liquidation or under any plan of reorganization or arrangement or otherwise.  Nothing herein contained shall be deemed to authorize the Trustee to authorize or consent to or accept or adopt on behalf of any Holder any plan of reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition affecting the Notes or the rights of any Holder, or to authorize the Trustee to vote in respect of the claim of any Holder in any such proceeding.
 
 
37
 
 
Section 6.10
 
Priorities.
 
If the Trustee collects any money pursuant to this Article 6, it shall pay out the money in the following order:
 
:                      to the Trustee, its agents and attorneys for amounts due under Section 7.07 hereof, including payment of all compensation, expenses and liabilities incurred, and all advances made, by the Trustee and the costs and expenses of collection;
First
 
:                      to Holders of Notes of a particular series for amounts due and unpaid on the Notes of such series for principal, premium and Additional Interest, if any, and interest, ratably, without preference or priority of any kind, according to the amounts due and payable on the Notes of such series for principal, premium and Additional Interest, if any and interest, respectively; and
Second
 
:                      to the Company or to such party as a court of competent jurisdiction shall direct.
Third
 
The Trustee may fix a record date and payment date for any payment to Holders of Notes pursuant to this Section 6.10.
 
Section 6.11
 
Undertaking for Costs.
 
In any suit for the enforcement of any right or remedy under this Indenture or in any suit against the Trustee for any action taken or omitted by it as a Trustee, a court in its discretion may require the filing by any party litigant in the suit of an undertaking to pay the costs of the suit, and the court in its discretion may assess reasonable costs, including reasonable attorneys fees and expenses, against any party litigant in the suit, having due regard to the merits and good faith of the claims or defenses made by the party litigant.  This Section 6.11 does not apply to a suit by the Trustee, a suit by a Holder of a Note pursuant to Section 6.07 hereof, or a suit by Holders of more than 10% in aggregate principal amount of the then outstanding Notes of a particular series.
 
 
 
Section 7.01
 
Duties of Trustee.
 
(a)
 
If an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the Trustee will exercise such of the rights and powers vested in it by this Indenture, and use the same degree of care and skill in its exercise, as a prudent person would exercise or use under the circumstances in the conduct of such persons own affairs.
 
(b)
 
Except during the continuance of an Event of Default:
 
(1)
 
the duties of the Trustee will be determined solely by the express provisions of this Indenture and the Trustee need perform only those duties that are specifically set forth in this Indenture and no others, and no implied covenants or obligations shall be read into this Indenture against the Trustee; and
 
 
38
 
 
(2)
 
in the absence of bad faith on its part, the Trustee may conclusively rely, as to the truth of the statements and the correctness of the opinions expressed therein, upon certificates or opinions furnished to the Trustee and conforming to the requirements of this Indenture.  However, in the case of certificates or opinions specifically required by any provision hereof, the Trustee will examine the certificates and opinions to determine whether or not they conform to the requirements of this Indenture (but need not confirm or investigate the accuracy of mathematical calculations stated therein).
 
(c)
 
The Trustee may not be relieved from liabilities for its own negligent action, its own negligent failure to act, or its own willful misconduct, except that:
 
(1)
 
this paragraph does not limit the effect of paragraph (b) of this Section 7.01;
 
(2)
 
the Trustee will not be liable for any error of judgment made in good faith by a Responsible Officer, unless it is proved that the Trustee was negligent in ascertaining the pertinent facts; and
 
(3)
 
the Trustee will not be liable with respect to any action it takes or omits to take in good faith in accordance with a direction received by it pursuant to Section 6.05 hereof.
 
(d)
 
Whether or not therein expressly so provided, every provision of this Indenture that in any way relates to the Trustee is subject to paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this Section 7.01.
 
(e)
 
No provision of this Indenture will require the Trustee to expend or risk its own funds or incur any liability.  The Trustee will be under no obligation to exercise any of its rights and powers under this Indenture at the request of any Holders, unless such Holder has offered to the Trustee security and indemnity satisfactory to it against any loss, liability or expense.
 
(f)
 
The Trustee will not be liable for interest on any money received by it except as the Trustee may agree in writing with the Company.  Money held in trust by the Trustee need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law.
 
Section 7.02
 
Rights of Trustee.
 
(a)
 
The Trustee may conclusively rely upon any document believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or presented by the proper Person.  The Trustee need not investigate any fact or matter stated in the document.
 
(b)
 
Before the Trustee acts or refrains from acting, it may require an Officers Certificate or an Opinion of Counsel or both.  The Trustee will not be liable for any action it takes or omits to take in good faith in reliance on such Officers Certificate or Opinion of Counsel.  The Trustee may consult with counsel and the written advice of such counsel or any Opinion of Counsel will be full and complete authorization and protection from liability in respect of any action taken, suffered or omitted by it hereunder in good faith and in reliance thereon.
 
(c)
 
The Trustee may act through its attorneys and agents and will not be responsible for the misconduct or negligence of any agent appointed with due care.
 
 
39
 
 
(d)
 
The Trustee will not be liable for any action it takes or omits to take in good faith that it believes to be authorized or within the rights or powers conferred upon it by this Indenture.
 
(e)
 
Unless otherwise specifically provided in this Indenture, any demand, request, direction or notice from the Company will be sufficient if signed by an Officer of the Company.
 
(f)
 
The Trustee will be under no obligation to exercise any of the rights or powers vested in it by this Indenture at the request or direction of any of the Holders unless such Holders have offered to the Trustee indemnity or security reasonably satisfactory to it against the losses, liabilities and expenses that might be incurred by it in compliance with such request or direction.
 
(g)
 
In no event shall the Trustee be responsible or liable for special, indirect, or consequential loss or damage of any kind whatsoever (including, but not limited to, loss of profit) irrespective of whether the Trustee has been advised of the likelihood of such loss or damage and regardless of the form of action.
 
(h)
 
The Trustee shall not be deemed to have notice of any Default or Event of Default unless a Responsible Officer of the Trustee has actual knowledge thereof or unless written notice of any event which is in fact such a default is received by the Trustee at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee, and such notice references the Securities and this Indenture.
 
(i)
 
The rights, privileges, protections, immunities and benefits given to the Trustee, including, without limitation, its right to be indemnified, are extended to, and shall be enforceable by, the Trustee in each of its capacities hereunder, and each agent, custodian and other Person employed to act hereunder.
 
Section 7.03
 
Individual Rights of Trustee.
 
The Trustee in its individual or any other capacity may become the owner or pledgee of Notes and may otherwise deal with the Company or any Affiliate of the Company with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee.  However, in the event that the Trustee acquires any conflicting interest it must eliminate such conflict within 90 days, apply to the SEC for permission to continue as trustee (if this Indenture has been qualified under the TIA) or resign.  Any Agent may do the same with like rights and duties.  The Trustee is also subject to Sections 7.10 and 7.11 hereof.
 
Section 7.04
 
Trustees Disclaimer.
 
The Trustee will not be responsible for and makes no representation as to the validity or adequacy of this Indenture or the Notes, it shall not be accountable for the Companys use of the proceeds from the Notes or any money paid to the Company or upon the Companys direction under any provision of this Indenture, it will not be responsible for the use or application of any money received by any Paying Agent other than the Trustee, and it will not be responsible for any statement or recital herein or any statement in the Notes or any other document in connection with the sale of the Notes or pursuant to this Indenture other than its certificate of authentication.
 
Section 7.05
 
Notice of Defaults.
 
If a Default or Event of Default occurs and is continuing and if it is known to the Trustee, the Trustee will mail to Holders of Notes a notice of the Default or Event of Default within 90 days after it occurs.  Except in the case of a Default or Event of Default in payment of principal of, premium or Additional Interest, if any, or interest on, any Note, the Trustee may withhold the notice if and so long as a committee of its Responsible Officers in good faith determines that withholding the notice is in the interests of the Holders of the Notes.
 
 
40
 
 
Section 7.06
 
Reports by Trustee to Holders of the Notes.
 
(a)
 
Within 60 days after each May 15 beginning with the May 15 following the date of this Indenture, and for so long as Notes of a particular series remain outstanding, the Trustee will mail to the Holders of the Notes of such series a brief report dated as of such reporting date that complies with TIA  313(a) (but if no event described in TIA  313(a) has occurred within the twelve months preceding the reporting date, no report need be transmitted).  The Trustee also will comply with TIA  313(b)(2).  The Trustee will also transmit by mail all reports as required by TIA  313(c).
 
(b)
 
A copy of each report at the time of its mailing to the Holders of Notes will be mailed by the Trustee to the Company and filed by the Trustee with the SEC and any stock exchange on which the Notes of a particular series are listed in accordance with TIA  313(d).  The Company will promptly notify the Trustee when the Notes of a particular series are listed on any stock exchange.
 
Section 7.07
 
Compensation and Indemnity.
 
(a)
 
The Company will pay to the Trustee from time to time reasonable compensation for its acceptance of this Indenture and services hereunder.  The Trustees compensation will not be limited by any law on compensation of a trustee of an express trust.  The Company will reimburse the Trustee promptly upon request for all reasonable disbursements, advances and expenses incurred or made by it in addition to the compensation for its services.  Such expenses will include the reasonable compensation, disbursements and expenses of the Trustees agents and counsel.
 
(b)
 
The Company will indemnify the Trustee against any and all losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses incurred by it arising out of or in connection with the acceptance or administration of its duties under this Indenture, including the costs and expenses of enforcing this Indenture against the Company (including this Section 7.07) and defending itself against any claim (whether asserted by the Company, any Holder or any other Person) or liability in connection with the exercise or performance of any of its powers or duties hereunder, except to the extent any such loss, liability or expense shall be determined to have been caused by its own negligence, willful misconduct or bad faith.  The Trustee will notify the Company promptly of any claim of which a Responsible Officer has received written notice for which it may seek indemnity.  Failure by the Trustee to so notify the Company will not relieve the Company of its obligations hereunder.  The Company will defend the claim and the Trustee will cooperate in the defense.  The Trustee may have separate counsel and the Company will pay the reasonable fees and expenses of such counsel.  The Company need not pay for any settlement made without its consent, which consent will not be unreasonably withheld.
 
(c)
 
The obligations of the Company under this Section 7.07 will survive the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture.
 
(d)
 
To secure the Companys payment obligations in this Section 7.07, the Trustee will have a Lien prior to the Notes on all money or property held or collected by the Trustee, except that held in trust to pay principal and interest on particular Notes.  Such Lien will survive the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture.
 
(e)
 
When the Trustee incurs expenses or renders services after an Event of Default specified in Section 6.01(5) or (6) hereof occurs, the expenses and the compensation for the services (including the fees and expenses of its agents and counsel) are intended to constitute expenses of administration under any Bankruptcy Law.
 
 
41
 
 
(f)
 
The Trustee will comply with the provisions of TIA  313(b)(2) to the extent applicable.
 
Section 7.08
 
Replacement of Trustee.
 
(a)
 
A resignation or removal of the Trustee and appointment of a successor Trustee will become effective only upon the successor Trustees acceptance of appointment as provided in this Section 7.08.
 
(b)
 
The Trustee may resign in writing at any time and be discharged from the trust hereby created by so notifying the Company.  The Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the then outstanding Notes of a particular series may remove the Trustee with respect to such series of Notes by so notifying the Trustee and the Company in writing.  The Company may remove the Trustee if:
 
(1)
 
the Trustee fails to comply with Section 7.10 hereof;
 
(2)
 
the Trustee is adjudged a bankrupt or an insolvent or an order for relief is entered with respect to the Trustee under any Bankruptcy Law;
 
(3)
 
a custodian or public officer takes charge of the Trustee or its property; or
 
(4)
 
the Trustee becomes incapable of acting.
 
(c)
 
If the Trustee resigns or is removed or if a vacancy exists in the office of Trustee for any reason, the Company will promptly appoint a successor Trustee.  Within one year after the successor Trustee takes office, the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the then outstanding Notes of a particular series may appoint a successor Trustee with respect to such series of Notes to replace the successor Trustee appointed by the Company.
 
(d)
 
If a successor Trustee does not take office within 60 days after the retiring Trustee resigns or is removed, the retiring Trustee, the Company, or the Holders of at least 10% in aggregate principal amount of the then outstanding Notes may petition at the expense of the Company any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Trustee.
 
(e)
 
If the Trustee, after written request by any Holder who has been a Holder for at least six months, fails to comply with Section 7.10 hereof, such Holder may petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the removal of the Trustee and the appointment of a successor Trustee.
 
(f)
 
A successor Trustee will deliver a written acceptance of its appointment to the retiring Trustee and to the Company.  Thereupon, the resignation or removal of the retiring Trustee will become effective, and the successor Trustee will have all the rights, powers and duties of the Trustee under this Indenture.  The successor Trustee will mail a notice of its succession to Holders.  The retiring Trustee will promptly transfer all property held by it as Trustee to the successor Trustee; provided all sums owing to the Trustee hereunder have been paid and subject to the Lien provided for in Section 7.07 hereof.  Notwithstanding replacement of the Trustee pursuant to this Section 7.08, the Companys obligations under Section 7.07 hereof will continue for the benefit of the retiring Trustee.
 
 
42
 
 
Section 7.09
 
Successor Trustee by Merger, etc.
 
If the Trustee consolidates, merges or converts into, or transfers all or substantially all of its corporate trust business to, another corporation, the successor corporation without any further act will be the successor Trustee.
 
Section 7.10
 
Eligibility; Disqualification.
 
There will at all times be a Trustee hereunder that is a corporation organized and doing business under the laws of the United States of America or of any state thereof that is authorized under such laws to exercise corporate trustee power, that is subject to supervision or examination by federal or state authorities and that has a combined capital and surplus of at least $100.0 million as set forth in its most recent published annual report of condition.
 
This Indenture will always have a Trustee who satisfies the requirements of TIA  310(a)(1), (2) and (5).  The Trustee is subject to TIA  310(b).
 
Section 7.11
 
Preferential Collection of Claims Against Company.
 
The Trustee is subject to TIA  311(a), excluding any creditor relationship listed in TIA  311(b).  A Trustee who has resigned or been removed shall be subject to TIA  311(a) to the extent indicated therein.
 
 
 
Section 8.01
 
Option to Effect Legal Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance.
 
The Company may at any time, at the option of its Board of Directors evidenced by a resolution set forth in an Officers Certificate, elect to have either Section 8.02 or 8.03 hereof be applied to all outstanding Notes of a particular series upon compliance with the conditions set forth below in this Article 8.
 
Section 8.02
 
Legal Defeasance and Discharge.
 
Upon the Companys exercise under Section 8.01 hereof of the option applicable to this Section 8.02, the Company will, subject to the satisfaction of the conditions set forth in Section 8.04 hereof, be deemed to have been discharged from its obligations with respect to all outstanding Notes of a particular series on the date the conditions set forth below are satisfied (hereinafter, ).  For this purpose, Legal Defeasance means that the Company will be deemed to have paid and discharged the entire Indebtedness represented by the outstanding Notes of such series, which will thereafter be deemed to be outstanding only for the purposes of Section 8.05 hereof and the other Sections of this Indenture referred to in clauses (1) and (2) below, and to have satisfied all its other obligations under such Notes and this Indenture (and the Trustee, on demand of and at the expense of the Company, shall execute proper instruments acknowledging the same) with respect to such Notes, except for the following provisions which will survive until otherwise terminated or discharged hereunder:
Legal Defeasance
 
(1)
 
the rights of Holders of outstanding Notes of such series to receive payments in respect of the principal of, or interest or premium and Additional Interest, if any, on, such Notes when such payments are due from the trust referred to in Section 8.04 hereof;
 
 
43
 
 
(2)
 
Section 2.03, Section 2.06, Section 2.07, Section 4.02 and Section 7.08 hereof;
 
(3)
 
the rights, powers, trusts, duties and immunities of the Trustee hereunder and the Companys obligations in connection therewith; and
 
(4)
 
this Article 8.
 
Subject to compliance with this Article 8, the Company may exercise its option under this Section 8.02 notwithstanding the prior exercise of its option under Section 8.03 hereof.
 
Section 8.03
 
Covenant Defeasance.
 
Upon the Companys exercise under Section 8.01 hereof of the option applicable to this Section 8.03, the Company will, subject to the satisfaction of the conditions set forth in Section 8.04 hereof, be released from its obligations under the covenants contained in Sections 4.03, 4.05, 4.07, 4.08, 4.09 and 4.10, hereof with respect to the outstanding Notes of a particular series on and after the date the conditions set forth in Section 8.04 hereof are satisfied (hereinafter, ), and the Notes of such series will thereafter be deemed not outstanding for the purposes of any direction, waiver, consent or declaration or act of Holders of Notes of such series (and the consequences of any thereof) in connection with such covenants, but will continue to be deemed outstanding for all other purposes hereunder (it being understood that such Notes will not be deemed outstanding for accounting purposes).  For this purpose, Covenant Defeasance means that, with respect to the outstanding Notes of a particular series, the Company may omit to comply with and will have no liability in respect of any term, condition or limitation set forth in any such covenant, whether directly or indirectly, by reason of any reference elsewhere herein to any such covenant or by reason of any reference in any such covenant to any other provision herein or in any other document and such omission to comply will not constitute a Default or an Event of Default under Section 6.01 hereof, but, except as specified above, the remainder of this Indenture and such Notes will be unaffected thereby.  In addition, upon the Companys exercise under Section 8.01 hereof of the option applicable to this Section 8.03, subject to the satisfaction of the conditions set forth in Section 8.04 hereof, Section 6.01(3) hereof will not constitute Events of Default.
Covenant Defeasance
 
Section 8.04
 
Conditions to Legal or Covenant Defeasance.
 
In order to exercise either Legal Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance under either Section 8.02 or 8.03 hereof in respect of a particular series of Notes:
 
(1)
 
the Company must irrevocably deposit with the Trustee, in trust, for the benefit of the Holders of such series of Notes, cash in U.S. dollars, Government Securities, or a combination thereof, in such amounts as will be sufficient, in the opinion of a nationally recognized investment bank, appraisal firm, or firm of independent public accountants, to pay the principal of, and interest on such outstanding Notes on the stated date for payment thereof or on the applicable redemption date, as the case may be, and all other sums payable under this Indenture in respect of such series of Notes;
 
(2)
 
in the case of an election under Section 8.03 hereof, the Company must deliver to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel or a ruling received by the Internal Revenue Service to the effect that the Holders of the outstanding Notes of such series will not recognize income, gain or loss for federal income tax purposes as a result of such Covenant Defeasance and will be subject to federal income tax on the same amounts, in the same manner and at the same times as would have been the case if such Covenant Defeasance had not occurred;
 
 
44
 
 
(3)
 
in the case of an election under Section 8.03 hereof, no Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing on the date of such deposit in respect of Section 6.01(1), (2) and (4);
 
(4)
 
in the case of an election under Section 8.03 hereof, the Company must deliver to the Trustee an Officers Certificate stating that the deposit was not made by the Company with the intent of preferring the Holders of Notes of a particular series over the other creditors of the Company with the intent of defeating, hindering, delaying or defrauding any creditors of the Company or others; and
 
(5)
 
in the case of an election under Section 8.03 hereof, the Company must deliver to the Trustee an Officers Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each stating that all conditions precedent relating to the Covenant Defeasance have been complied with.
 
Section 8.05
 
Deposited Money and Government Securities to be Held in Trust; Other Miscellaneous Provisions.
 
Subject to Section 8.06 hereof, all money and Government Securities (including the proceeds thereof) deposited with the Trustee (or other qualifying trustee, collectively for purposes of this Section 8.05, the ) pursuant to Section 8.04 hereof in respect of the outstanding Notes of a particular series will be held in trust and applied by the Trustee, in accordance with the provisions of such Notes and this Indenture, to the payment, either directly or through any Paying Agent (including the Company acting as Paying Agent) as the Trustee may determine, to the Holders of such Notes of all sums due and to become due thereon in respect of principal, premium and Additional Interest, if any, and interest, but such money need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law.
Trustee
 
The Company will pay and indemnify the Trustee against any tax, fee or other charge imposed on or assessed against the cash or Government Securities deposited pursuant to Section 8.04 hereof or the principal and interest received in respect thereof other than any such tax, fee or other charge which by law is for the account of the Holders of the outstanding Notes of a particular series.
 
Notwithstanding anything in this Article 8 to the contrary, the Trustee will deliver or pay to the Company from time to time upon the request of the Company any money or Government Securities held by it as provided in Section 8.04 hereof which, in the opinion of a nationally recognized firm of independent public accountants expressed in a written certification thereof delivered to the Trustee (which may be the opinion delivered under Section 8.04(1) hereof), are in excess of the amount thereof that would then be required to be deposited to effect an equivalent Legal Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance.
 
Section 8.06
 
Repayment to Company.
 
Any money deposited with the Trustee or any Paying Agent, or then held by the Company, in trust for the payment of the principal of, premium or Additional Interest, if any, or interest on, any Note and remaining unclaimed for two years after such principal, premium Additional Interest, if any, or interest has become due and payable shall be paid to the Company on its request or (if then held by the Company) will be discharged from such trust; and the Holder of such Note will thereafter be permitted to look only to the Company for payment thereof, and all liability of the Trustee or such Paying Agent with respect to such trust money, and all liability of the Company as trustee thereof, will thereupon cease; providedhowever, that the Trustee or such Paying Agent, before being required to make any such repayment, may at the expense of the Company cause to be published once, in the New York Times and The Wall Street Journal (national edition), notice that such money remains unclaimed and that, after a date specified therein, which will not be less than 30 days from the date of such notification or publication, any unclaimed balance of such money then remaining will be repaid to the Company.
,
 
 
45
 
 
Section 8.07
 
Reinstatement.
 
If the Trustee or Paying Agent is unable to apply any U.S. dollars or Government Securities in accordance with Section 8.02 or 8.03 hereof, as the case may be, by reason of any order or judgment of any court or governmental authority enjoining, restraining or otherwise prohibiting such application, then the Companys obligations under this Indenture and the Notes of a particular series will be revived and reinstated as though no deposit had occurred pursuant to Section 8.02 or 8.03 hereof until such time as the Trustee or Paying Agent is permitted to apply all such money in accordance with Section 8.02 or 8.03 hereof, as the case may be; providedhowever, that, if the Company makes any payment of principal of, premium Additional Interest, if any, or interest on, any Note following the reinstatement of its obligations, the Company will be subrogated to the rights of the Holders of such Notes to receive such payment from the money held by the Trustee or Paying Agent.
,
 
 
 
Section 9.01
 
Without Consent of Holders of Notes.
 
Notwithstanding Section 9.02 of this Indenture, the Company and the Trustee may amend or supplement this Indenture or the Notes without the consent of any Holder of a series of Notes:
 
(1)
 
to fix any ambiguity, defect or inconsistency in this Indenture or such series of Notes;
 
(2)
 
to make any such changes as are required for this Indenture to comply with the TIA;
 
(3)
 
to add covenants for the benefit of Holders of such series of Notes or to surrender any of the Companys rights or powers;
 
(4)
 
to comply with Article 5 hereof;
 
(5)
 
to provide for uncertificated Notes of such series in addition to or in place of certificated Notes of such series;
 
(6)
 
to add any additional Events of Default with respect to such series;
 
(7)
 
to change or eliminate provisions of this Indenture if the provision that is changed or eliminated does not apply to any outstanding Notes;
 
(8)
 
to provide for the issuance of and terms and conditions of such series of Notes or to add to the rights of the Holders of such series of Notes; and
 
(9)
 
to provide for a successor Trustee and to facilitate the administration of the trust by more than one Trustee;
 
(10)
 
to conform the text of this Indenture or the Notes to any provision of the Description of the Notes section of the Companys Offering Memorandum dated February 27, 2008, relating to the initial offering of the Notes, to the extent that such provision in that Description of the Notes was intended to be a verbatim recitation of a provision of this Indenture or the Notes;
 
 
46
 
 
(11)
 
to secure such series of Notes or to provide that any of the Companys obligations under such series of Notes will be guaranteed and the terms of such guarantees; and
 
(12)
 
to make any other change that does not adversely affect the rights of any Holder of such series of Notes in any material respect.
 
Upon the request of the Company accompanied by a resolution of its Board of Directors authorizing the execution of any such amended or supplemental indenture, and upon receipt by the Trustee of the documents described in Section 7.02 hereof, the Trustee will join with the Company in the execution of any amended or supplemental indenture authorized or permitted by the terms of this Indenture and to make any further appropriate agreements and stipulations that may be therein contained, but the Trustee will not be obligated to enter into such amended or supplemental indenture that affects its own rights, duties or immunities under this Indenture or otherwise.
 
Section 9.02
 
With Consent of Holders of Notes.
 
Except as provided below in this Section 9.02, the Company and the Trustee may amend or supplement this Indenture (including, without limitation, Section 4.09 hereof) and the Notes of a particular series with the consent of the Holders of at least a majority in aggregate principal amount of the then outstanding Notes of such series (including, without limitation, Additional Notes of such series, if any) voting as a single class (including, without limitation, consents obtained in connection with a tender offer or exchange offer for, or purchase of, the Notes of a particular series), and, subject to Sections 6.04 and 6.07 hereof, any existing Default or Event of Default (other than a Default or Event of Default in the payment of the principal of, premium or Additional Interest, if any, or interest on, the Notes of a particular series, except a payment default resulting from an acceleration that has been rescinded) or compliance with any provision of this Indenture or the Notes of such series may be waived with the consent of the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the then outstanding Notes of a particular series (including, without limitation, Additional Notes of such series, if any) voting as a single class (including, without limitation, consents obtained in connection with a tender offer or exchange offer for, or purchase of, the Notes of such series).Section 2.08 hereof shall determine which Notes are considered to be outstanding for purposes of this Section 9.02.
 
 
Upon the request of the Company accompanied by a resolution of its Board of Directors authorizing the execution of any such amended or supplemental indenture, and upon the filing with the Trustee of evidence satisfactory to the Trustee of the consent of the Holders of Notes as aforesaid, and upon receipt by the Trustee of the documents described in Section 7.02 hereof, the Trustee will join with the Company in the execution of such amended or supplemental indenture unless such amended or supplemental indenture directly affects the Trustees own rights, duties or immunities under this Indenture or otherwise, in which case the Trustee may in its discretion, but will not be obligated to, enter into such amended or supplemental Indenture.
 
It is not be necessary for the consent of the Holders of Notes under this Section 9.02 to approve the particular form of any proposed amendment, supplement or waiver, but it is sufficient if such consent approves the substance thereof.
 
After an amendment, supplement or waiver under this Section 9.02 becomes effective, the Company will mail to the Holders of Notes affected thereby a notice briefly describing the amendment, supplement or waiver.  Any failure of the Company to mail such notice, or any defect therein, will not, however, in any way impair or affect the validity of any such amended or supplemental indenture or waiver.  Subject to Sections 6.04 and 6.07 hereof, the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Notes of a particular series then outstanding voting as a single class may waive compliance in a particular instance by the Company with any provision of this Indenture or the Notes of such series.  However, without the consent of each Holder of Notes of a particular series affected, an amendment, supplement or waiver under this Section 9.02 may not (with respect to any Notes of such series held by a non-consenting Holder):
 
 
47
 
 
(1)
 
reduce the percentage of principal amount of a particular series of Notes whose Holders must consent to an amendment;
 
(2)
 
reduce the rate of or extension of the time for payment of interest on any Note of a particular series;
 
(3)
 
reduce the principal of, or any installment of principal of or interest or Additional Interest, if any, on, any Note of a particular series or any reduction in the amount of principal that would be due and payable upon declaration of acceleration of maturity;
 
(4)
 
reduce the premium payable upon the redemption of any Note of a particular series;
 
(5)
 
make any Note payable in a currency other than that stated in that Note; and
 
(6)
 
impair the right of a Holder to bring a lawsuit for the enforcement of any payment on or after the Stated Maturity of any Note of a particular series (or in the case of redemption, on or after the date fixed for redemption).
 
Section 9.03
 
Compliance with Trust Indenture Act.
 
Every amendment or supplement to this Indenture or the Notes will be set forth in a supplemental indenture that complies with the TIA as then in effect.
 
Section 9.04
 
Revocation and Effect of Consents.
 
Until an amendment, supplement or waiver becomes effective, a consent to it by a Holder of a Note is a continuing consent by the Holder of a Note and every subsequent Holder of a Note or portion of a Note that evidences the same debt as the consenting Holders Note, even if notation of the consent is not made on any Note.  However, any such Holder of a Note or subsequent Holder of a Note may revoke the consent as to its Note if the Trustee receives written notice of revocation before the date the amendment, supplement or waiver becomes effective.  An amendment, supplement or waiver becomes effective in accordance with its terms and thereafter binds every Holder.
 
Section 9.05
 
Notation on or Exchange of Notes.
 
The Trustee may place an appropriate notation about an amendment, supplement or waiver on any Note thereafter authenticated.  The Company in exchange for all Notes may issue and the Trustee shall, upon receipt of an Authentication Order, authenticate new Notes that reflect the amendment, supplement or waiver.
 
 
48
 
 
Failure to make the appropriate notation or issue a new Note will not affect the validity and effect of such amendment, supplement or waiver.
 
Section 9.06
 
Trustee to Sign Amendments, etc.
 
The Trustee will sign any amended or supplemental indenture authorized pursuant to this Article 9 if the amendment or supplement does not adversely affect the rights, duties, liabilities or immunities of the Trustee.  The Company may not sign an amended or supplemental indenture until the Board of Directors of the Company approves it.  In executing any amended or supplemental indenture, the Trustee will be provided with and (subject to Section 7.01 hereof) will be fully protected in relying upon, in addition to the documents required by Section 11.04 hereof, an Officers Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel stating that the execution of such amended or supplemental indenture is authorized or permitted by this Indenture.
 
 
 
Section 10.01
 
 Satisfaction and Discharge.
 
This Indenture will be discharged and will cease to be of further effect as to all Notes of a particular series issued hereunder, when:
 
(1)
 
either:
 
(a)
 
all Notes of such series that have been authenticated, except lost, stolen or destroyed Notes that have been replaced or paid and Notes of such series for whose payment money has theretofore been deposited in trust and thereafter repaid to the Company, have been delivered to the Trustee for cancellation; or
 
(b)
 
all Notes of such series that have not been delivered to the Trustee for cancellation have become due and payable by reason of the mailing of a notice of redemption or otherwise or will become due and payable within one year and the Company has irrevocably deposited or caused to be deposited with the Trustee as trust funds in trust solely for the benefit of the Holders of such Notes, cash in U.S. dollars, Government Securities, or a combination thereof, in such amounts as will be sufficient, without consideration of any reinvestment of interest, to pay and discharge the entire Indebtedness on such Notes not delivered to the Trustee for cancellation for principal, premium and Additional Interest, if any, and accrued interest to the date of maturity or redemption;
 
(2)
 
no Default or Event of Default with respect to such series of Notes has occurred and is continuing on the date of such deposit in respect of Section 6.01(1), (2) and (4);
 
(3)
 
the Company has paid or caused to be paid all sums payable by it with respect to such series of Notes under this Indenture; and
 
(4)
 
the Company has delivered irrevocable instructions to the Trustee under this Indenture to apply the deposited money toward the payment of such series of Notes at maturity or on the redemption date, as the case may be.
 
In addition, the Company must deliver an Officers Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel to the Trustee stating that all conditions precedent to satisfaction and discharge have been satisfied.
 
 
49
 
 
Notwithstanding the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture, if money has been deposited with the Trustee pursuant to subclause (b) of clause (1) of this Section 10.01, the provisions of Sections 10.02 and 8.06 hereof will survive.  In addition, nothing in this Section 10.01 will be deemed to discharge those provisions of Section 7.07 hereof, that, by their terms, survive the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture.
 
Section 10.02
 
 Application of Trust Money.
 
Subject to the provisions of Section 8.06 hereof, all money deposited with the Trustee pursuant to Section 10.01 hereof shall be held in trust and applied by it, in accordance with the provisions of the Notes and this Indenture, to the payment, either directly or through any Paying Agent (including the Company acting as its own Paying Agent) as the Trustee may determine, to the Persons entitled thereto, of the principal (and premium and Additional Interest, if any) and interest for whose payment such money has been deposited with the Trustee; but such money need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law.
 
If the Trustee or Paying Agent is unable to apply any money or Government Securities in accordance with Section 10.01 hereof by reason of any legal proceeding or by reason of any order or judgment of any court or governmental authority enjoining, restraining or otherwise prohibiting such application, the Companys obligations under this Indenture and the Notes of a particular series shall be revived and reinstated as though no deposit had occurred pursuant to Section 10.01 hereof; provided that if the Company has made any payment of principal of, premium or Additional Interest, if any, or interest on, any Notes because of the reinstatement of its obligations, the Company shall be subrogated to the rights of the Holders of such Notes to receive such payment from the money or Government Securities held by the Trustee or Paying Agent.
 
 
 
Section 11.01
 
 Trust Indenture Act Controls.
 
If any provision of this Indenture limits, qualifies or conflicts with the duties imposed by TIA 318(c), the imposed duties will control.
 
Section 11.02
 
 Notices.
 
Any notice or communication by the Company or the Trustee to the others is duly given if in writing and delivered in Person or by first class mail (registered or certified, return receipt requested), facsimile transmission or overnight air courier guaranteeing next day delivery, to the others address:
 
If to the Company:
 
 
Computer Sciences Corporation
2100 East Grand Avenue
El Segundo, California 90245
Facsimile Number: (310) 322-9767
Attention: Hayward D. Fisk
 
 
50
 
 
With a copy to:
Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP
2029 Century Park East, Suite 4000
Los Angeles, California 90067
Facsimile Number: (310) 551-8741
Attention:  Brian Kilb, Esq.
 
If to the Trustee:
The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A.
700 South Flower Street, Suite 500
Los Angeles, CA 90017
Facsimile Number:  (213) 630-6175
Attention:  Corporate Unit
 
The Company or the Trustee, by notice to the others, may designate additional or different addresses for subsequent notices or communications.
 
All notices and communications (other than those sent to Holders) will be deemed to have been duly given: at the time delivered by hand, if personally delivered; five Business Days after being deposited in the mail, postage prepaid, if mailed; when receipt acknowledged, if transmitted by facsimile; and the next Business Day after timely delivery to the courier, if sent by overnight air courier guaranteeing next day delivery.
 
Any notice or communication to a Holder will be mailed by first class mail, certified or registered, return receipt requested, or by overnight air courier guaranteeing next day delivery to its address shown on the register kept by the Registrar.  Any notice or communication will also be so mailed to any Person described in TIA  313(c), to the extent required by the TIA.  Failure to mail a notice or communication to a Holder or any defect in it will not affect its sufficiency with respect to other Holders.
 
The Trustee agrees to accept and act upon facsimile transmission of written instructions and/or directions pursuant to this Indenture given by the Company, provided, however that: (i) the Company, subsequent to such facsimile transmission of written instructions and/or directions, shall provide the originally executed instructions and/or directions to the Trustee in a timely manner and (ii) such originally executed instructions and/or directions shall be signed by an Authorized Officer of the Company.
 
If a notice or communication is mailed in the manner provided above within the time prescribed, it is duly given, whether or not the addressee receives it.
 
If the Company mails a notice or communication to Holders, it will mail a copy to the Trustee and each Agent at the same time.
 
Section 11.03
 
 Communication by Holders of Notes with Other Holders of Notes.
 
Holders may communicate pursuant to TIA  312(b) with other Holders with respect to their rights under this Indenture or the Notes.  The Company, the Trustee, the Registrar and anyone else shall have the protection of TIA  312(c).
 
Section 11.04
 
 Certificate and Opinion as to Conditions Precedent.
 
Upon any request or application by the Company to the Trustee to take any action under this Indenture, the Company shall furnish to the Trustee:
 
 
51
 
 
(1)
 
an Officers Certificate in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee (which must include the statements set forth in Section 11.05 hereof) stating that, in the opinion of the signers, all conditions precedent and covenants, if any, provided for in this Indenture relating to the proposed action have been satisfied; and
 
(2)
 
an Opinion of Counsel in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee (which must include the statements set forth in Section 11.05 hereof) stating that, in the opinion of such counsel, all such conditions precedent and covenants have been satisfied.
 
Section 11.05
 
 Statements Required in Certificate or Opinion.
 
Each certificate or opinion with respect to compliance with a condition or covenant provided for in this Indenture (other than a certificate provided pursuant to TIA  314(a)(4)) must comply with the provisions of TIA  314(e) and must include:
 
(1)
 
a statement that the Person making such certificate or opinion has read such covenant or condition;
 
(2)
 
a brief statement as to the nature and scope of the examination or investigation upon which the statements or opinions contained in such certificate or opinion are based;
 
(3)
 
a statement that, in the opinion of such Person, he or she has made such examination or investigation as is necessary to enable him or her to express an informed opinion as to whether or not such covenant or condition has been satisfied; and
 
(4)
 
a statement as to whether or not, in the opinion of such Person, such condition or covenant has been satisfied.
 
Section 11.06
 
Rules by Trustee and Agents.
 
The Trustee may make reasonable rules for action by or at a meeting of Holders.  The Registrar or Paying Agent may make reasonable rules and set reasonable requirements for its functions.
 
Section 11.07
 
No Personal Liability of Directors, Officers, Employees and Stockholders.
 
No past, present or future director, officer, employee, incorporator or stockholder of the Company, as such, will have any liability for any obligations of the Company under the Notes, this Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of, or by reason of, such obligations or their creation.  Each Holder of Notes by accepting a Note waives and releases all such liability.  The waiver and release are part of the consideration for issuance of the Notes.  The waiver may not be effective to waive liabilities under the federal securities laws.
 
Section 11.08
 
Governing Law.
 
THE INTERNAL LAW OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK WILL GOVERN AND BE USED TO CONSTRUE THIS INDENTURE, THE NOTES WITHOUT GIVING EFFECT TO APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAW TO THE EXTENT THAT THE APPLICATION OF THE LAWS OF ANOTHER JURISDICTION WOULD BE REQUIRED THEREBY.
 
 
52
 
 
Section 11.09
 
No Adverse Interpretation of Other Agreements.
 
This Indenture may not be used to interpret any other indenture, loan or debt agreement of the Company or its Subsidiaries or of any other Person.  Any such indenture, loan or debt agreement may not be used to interpret this Indenture.
 
Section 11.10
 
Successors.
 
All agreements of the Company in this Indenture and the Notes will bind its successors.  All agreements of the Trustee in this Indenture will bind its successors.
 
Section 11.11
 
Severability.
 
In case any provision in this Indenture or in the Notes is invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions will not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
 
Section 11.12
 
Counterpart Originals.
 
The parties may sign any number of copies of this Indenture.  Each signed copy will be an original, but all of them together represent the same agreement.
 
Section 11.13
 
Table of Contents, Headings, etc.
 
The Table of Contents, Cross-Reference Table and Headings of the Articles and Sections of this Indenture have been inserted for convenience of reference only, are not to be considered a part of this Indenture and will in no way modify or restrict any of the terms or provisions hereof.
 
Section 11.14
 
Waiver of Jury Trial
 
EACH OF THE COMPANY AND THE TRUSTEE HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY AND ALL RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS INDENTURE, THE NOTES OR THE TRANSACTION CONTEMPLATED HEREBY.
 
Section 11.15
 
Force Majeure.
 
In no event shall the Trustee be responsible or liable for any failure or delay in the performance of its obligations hereunder arising out of or caused by, directly or indirectly, forces beyond its control, including, without limitation, strikes, work stoppages, accidents, acts of war or terrorism, civil or military disturbances, nuclear or natural catastrophes or acts of God, and interruptions, loss or malfunctions of utilities, communications or computer (software and hardware) services; it being understood that the Trustee shall use reasonable efforts which are consistent with accepted practices in the banking industry to resume performance as soon as practicable under the circumstances.
 
 
 
53
 
 
Dated as of March 3, 2008
 
Computer Sciences Corporation
 
 
 
 
The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A.
 
 
54
 
EXHIBIT A-1
CUSIP/CINS ____________
 
 
No. ___ $____________
 
 
promises to pay to [] or registered assigns,
              
 
the principal sum of __________________________________________________________ DOLLARS on March 15, 2013.
 
Interest Payment Dates:  March 15 and September 15
 
Record Dates:  March 1 and September 1
 
A1-1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dated:  _______________, 200_
 
COMPUTER SCIENCES CORPORATION
 
 
 
By: ______________________________________                                                                          
 
Name:
Title:
 
This is one of the Notes referred to
in the within-mentioned Indenture:
 
 
THE BANK OF NEW YORK TRUST COMPANY, N.A.,
  as Trustee
 
 
 
By: _____________________________                                                          
        Authorized Signatory
 
 
A1-2
 
 
[Insert the Global Note Legend, if applicable pursuant to the provisions of the Indenture]
 
[Insert the Private Placement Legend, if applicable pursuant to the provisions of the Indenture]
 
Capitalized terms used herein have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture referred to below unless otherwise indicated.
 
(1)
 
.  Computer Sciences Corporation, a Nevada corporation (the ), promises to pay interest on the principal amount of this 2013 Note at 5.50% from ________________, 20__  until maturity and shall pay the Additional Interest, if any, payable pursuant to Section 5 of the Registration Rights Agreement referred to below.  The Company will pay interest and Additional Interest, if any, semi-annually in arrears on March 15 and September 15 of each year, or if any such day is not a Business Day, on the next succeeding Business Day (each, an ).  Interest on the 2013 Notes will accrue from the most recent date to which interest has been paid or, if no interest has been paid, from the date of issuance; provided that if there is no existing Default in the payment of interest, and if this 2013 Note is authenticated between a record date referred to on the face hereof and the next succeeding Interest Payment Date, interest shall accrue from such next succeeding Interest Payment Date; providedfurther that the first Interest Payment Date shall be September 15, 2008. The Company will pay interest (including post-petition interest in any proceeding under any Bankruptcy Law) on overdue principal and premium, if any, from time to time on demand at a rate that is 1% in excess of the rate then in effect to the extent lawful; it will pay interest (including post-petition interest in any proceeding under any Bankruptcy Law) on overdue installments of interest and Additional Interest, if any, (without regard to any applicable grace periods) from time to time on demand at the same rate to the extent lawful.  Interest will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.
Interest
Company
per annum
Interest Payment Date
 
per annum
 
(2)
 
.  The Company will pay interest on the 2013 Notes (except defaulted interest) and Additional Interest, if any, to the Persons who are registered Holders of 2013 Notes at the close of business on the March 1 or September 1 next preceding the Interest Payment Date, even if such 2013 Notes are canceled after such record date and on or before such Interest Payment Date, except as provided in Section 2.12 of the Indenture with respect to defaulted interest.  The 2013 Notes will be payable as to principal, premium and Additional Interest, if any, and interest at the office or agency of the Company maintained for such purpose within or without the City and State of New York, or, at the option of the Company, payment of interest and Additional Interest, if any, may be made by check mailed to the Holders of 2013 Notes at their addresses set forth in the register of Holders of 2013 Notes; provided that payment by wire transfer of immediately available funds will be required with respect to principal of and interest, premium and Additional Interest, if any, on, all Global Notes and all other 2013 Notes the Holders of which will have provided wire transfer instructions to the Company or the Paying Agent.  Such payment will be in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts.
Method of Payment
 
(3)
 
.  Initially, The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., the Trustee under the Indenture, will act as Paying Agent and Registrar.  The Company may change any Paying Agent or Registrar without notice to any Holder.  The Company or any of its Subsidiaries may act in any such capacity.
Paying Agent and Registrar
 
 
A1-3
 
 
(4)
 
.  The Company issued the 2013 Notes under an Indenture dated as of March 3, 2008 (the ) among the Company and the Trustee.  The terms of the 2013 Notes include those stated in the Indenture and those made part of the Indenture by reference to the TIA.  The 2013 Notes are subject to all such terms, and Holders are referred to the Indenture and such Act for a statement of such terms.  To the extent any provision of this 2013 Note conflicts with the express provisions of the Indenture, the provisions of the Indenture shall govern and be controlling.  The 2013 Notes are unsecured obligations of the Company. The Indenture does not limit the aggregate principal amount of 2013 Notes that may be issued thereunder.
Indenture
Indenture
 
(5)
 
Optional Redemption.
 
(a)
 
The 2013 Notes will be redeemable as a whole or in part, at the Companys option, at any time, from time to time, at a redemption price equal to the greater of:
 
(i)
 
100% of the principal amount of the 2013 Notes; and
 
(ii)
 
as determined by the Independent Investment Banker, the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest thereon (not including any portion of such interest payments accrued as of the redemption date), discounted to the redemption date on a semiannual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the Treasury Rate plus 0.50%.
 
(6)
 
Mandatory Redemption.
 
The Company is not be required to make mandatory redemption or sinking fund payments with respect to the 2013 Notes.
 
(7)
 
Repurchase at the Option of Holder.
 
(a)
 
If a Change of Control Triggering Event occurs with respect to 2013 Notes, unless the Company has exercised its option to redeem such 2013 Notes as described under Section 3.07 of the Indenture, the Company will be required to make a Change of Control Offer to each Holder of such 2013 Notes to repurchase all or any part (equal to $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof) of that Holders 2013 Notes at a repurchase price, payable in cash, equal to the Change of Control Payment.  Within 30 days following any Change of Control Triggering Event or, at the Companys option, prior to any Change of Control, but after public announcement of the transaction that constitutes or may constitute the Change of Control, a notice will be sent to Holders of the Notes, with a copy to the Trustee, describing the transaction that constitutes or may constitute the Change of Control Triggering Event and offering to repurchase such Notes on the date specified in the notice, which date will be no earlier than 30 days and no later than 90 days from the date such notice is mailed.
 
(8)
 
.  Notice of redemption will be mailed at least 30 days but not more than 60 days before the redemption date to each Holder whose 2013 Notes are to be redeemed at its registered address, except that redemption notices may be mailed more than 60 days prior to a redemption date if the notice is issued in connection with a defeasance of the 2013 Notes or a satisfaction or discharge of the Indenture.  2013 Notes in denominations of larger than $2,000 may be redeemed in part, but only in whole multiples of $1,000, unless all of the 2013 Notes held by a Holder are to be redeemed.
Notice of Redemption
 
 
A1-4
 
 
(9)
 
.  The Notes are in registered form without coupons in denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof.  The transfer of 2013 Notes may be registered and 2013 Notes may be exchanged as provided in the Indenture. The Registrar and the Trustee may require a Holder, among other things, to furnish appropriate endorsements and transfer documents and the Company may require a Holder to pay any taxes and fees required by law or permitted by the Indenture.  The Company need not exchange or register the transfer of any 2013 Note or portion of a 2013 Note selected for redemption, except for the unredeemed portion of any 2013 Note being redeemed in part.  Also, the Company need not exchange or register the transfer of any 2013 Notes for a period of 15 days before a selection of 2013 Notes to be redeemed or during the period between a record date and the corresponding Interest Payment Date.
Denominations, Transfer, Exchange
 
(10)
 
.  The registered Holder of a 2013 Note may be treated as its owner for all purposes.
Persons Deemed Owners
 
(11)
 
.  Subject to certain exceptions, the Indenture or the 2013 Notes may be amended or supplemented with the consent of the Holders of at least a majority in aggregate principal amount of the then outstanding 2013 Notes including Additional 2013 Notes, if any, voting as a single class, and any existing Default or Event or Default or compliance with any provision of the Indenture or the 2013 Notes may be waived with the consent of the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the then outstanding 2013 Notes including Additional 2013 Notes, if any, voting as a single class.  Without the consent of any Holder of a 2013 Note, the Indenture or the 2013 Notes may be amended or supplemented to fix any ambiguity, defect or inconsistency in the Indenture or the 2013 Notes; to make any such changes as are required for the Indenture to comply with the TIA; to add covenants for the benefit of Holders of the 2013 Notes or to surrender any of the Companys rights or powers; to comply with Article 5 of the Indenture; to provide for uncertificated 2013 Notes in addition to or in place of certificated 2013 Notes; to add any additional Events of Default; to change or eliminate provisions of the Indenture if the provision that is changed or eliminated does not apply to any outstanding 2013 Notes; to provide for the issuance of and terms and conditions of 2013 Notes or to add to the rights of the Holders of 2013 Notes; and to provide for a successor Trustee and to facilitate the administration of the trust by more than one Trustee; to conform the text of the Indenture or the 2013 Notes to any provision of the Description of the Notes section of the Companys Offering Memorandum dated February 27, 2008, relating to the initial offering of the 2013 Notes, to the extent that such provision in that Description of the Notes was intended to be a verbatim recitation of a provision of the Indenture or the 2013 Notes; to secure the 2013 Notes or to provide that any of the Companys obligations under the 2013 Notes will be guaranteed and the terms of such guarantees; and to make any other change that does not adversely affect the rights of any Holder of 2013 Notes in any material respect.
Amendment, Supplement and Waiver
 
(12)
 
.  Events of Default include:  (i) default for 90 days in the payment when due of interest (or Additional Interest, if any) on such series of Notes so long as the period within which such payment is due has not been extended or deferred; (ii) default in the payment when due (at maturity, upon redemption or otherwise) of the principal of, or premium, if any, on, such series of Notes; (iii) failure by the Company for 90 days after notice to the Company by the Trustee or the Holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Notes of such series then outstanding voting as a single class to perform or observe any of the other covenants or agreements in this Indenture; (vi) any of the Companys Indebtedness in the aggregate outstanding principal amount of $100 million or more either: (a) becomes due and payable prior to the due date for payment of such Indebtedness following the Companys default; or (b) is not repaid at, and remains unpaid after, maturity as extended by any applicable period of grace or any guarantee given by the Company in respect of Indebtedness of any other Person in the aggregate outstanding principal amount of $100 million or more is not honored when, and remains dishonored after, becoming due; and (v) certain event of bankruptcy or insolvency with respect to the Company.  If any Event of Default occurs and is continuing, the Trustee or the Holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of the then outstanding 2013 Notes may declare all the 2013 Notes to be due and payable immediately.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the case of an Event of Default arising from certain events of bankruptcy or insolvency, all outstanding 2013 Notes will become due and payable immediately without further action or notice.  Holders may not enforce the Indenture or the 2013 Notes except as provided in the Indenture.  Subject to certain limitations, Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the then outstanding 2013 Notes may direct the Trustee in its exercise of any trust or power.  The Trustee may withhold from Holders of the 2013 Notes notice of any continuing Default or Event of Default (except a Default or Event of Default relating to the payment of principal or interest or premium or Additional Interest, if any,) if it determines that withholding notice is in their interest.  The Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the then outstanding 2013 Notes by notice to the Trustee may, on behalf of the Holders of all of the 2013 Notes, rescind an acceleration or waive any existing Default or Event of Default and its consequences under the Indenture except a continuing Default or Event of Default in the payment of interest or premium or Additional Interest, if any, on, or the principal of, the 2013 Notes.  The Company is required to deliver to the Trustee annually a statement regarding compliance with the Indenture, and the Company is required, upon becoming aware of any Default or Event of Default, to deliver to the Trustee a statement specifying such Default or Event of Default.
Defaults and remedies
 
 
A1-5
 
 
(13)
 
.  The Trustee, in its individual or any other capacity, may make loans to, accept deposits from, and perform services for the Company or its Affiliates, and may otherwise deal with the Company or its Affiliates, as if it were not the Trustee.
Trustee Dealings with Company
 
(14)
 
.  A director, officer, employee, incorporator or stockholder of the Company, as such, will not have any liability for any obligations of the Company under the 2013 Notes or the Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of, or by reason of, such obligations or their creation.  Each Holder by accepting a 2013 Note waives and releases all such liability.  The waiver and release are part of the consideration for the issuance of the 2013 Notes.
No Recourse Against Others
 
(15)
 
.  This 2013 Note will not be valid until authenticated by the manual signature of the Trustee or an authenticating agent.
Authentication
 
(16)
 
.  Customary abbreviations may be used in the name of a Holder or an assignee, such as:  TEN COM (= tenants in common), TEN ENT (= tenants by the entireties), JT TEN (= joint tenants with right of survivorship and not as tenants in common), CUST (= Custodian), and U/G/M/A (= Uniform Gifts to Minors Act).
Abbreviations
 
(17)
 
.  In addition to the rights provided to Holders of 2013 Notes under the Indenture, Holders of Restricted Global Notes and Restricted Definitive Notes will have all the rights set forth in the Registration Rights Agreement dated as of March 3, 2008, among the Company and the other parties named on the signature pages thereof (the ).
Additional Rights of Holders of Restricted Global Notes and Restricted Definitive Notes
Registration Rights Agreement
 
 
A1-6
 
 
(18)
 
.  Pursuant to a recommendation promulgated by the Committee on Uniform Security Identification Procedures, the Company has caused CUSIP numbers to be printed on the 2013 Notes, and the Trustee may use CUSIP numbers in notices of redemption as a convenience to Holders.  No representation is made as to the accuracy of such numbers either as printed on the 2013 Notes or as contained in any notice of redemption, and reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers placed thereon.
CUSIP Numbers
 
(19)
 
 THE INTERNAL LAW OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK WILL GOVERN AND BE USED TO CONSTRUE THE INDENTURE AND THIS 2013 NOTE WITHOUT GIVING EFFECT TO APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAW TO THE EXTENT THAT THE APPLICATION OF THE LAWS OF ANOTHER JURISDICTION WOULD BE REQUIRED THEREBY.
GOVERNING LAW.
 
The Company will furnish to any Holder upon written request and without charge a copy of the Indenture and/or the Registration Rights Agreement.  Requests may be made to:
 
Computer Sciences Corporation
2100 East Grand Avenue
El Segundo, California 90245
Attention: Hayward D. Fisk
 
 
 
 
To assign this 2013 Note, fill in the form below:
 
(I) or (we) assign and transfer this 2013 Note to: _____________________________________                                                                                                                                         
(Insert assignees legal name)
 
 
 
 
 
 
and irrevocably appoint                                                                                                                                          
 
to transfer this Note on the books of the Company.  The agent may substitute another to act for him.
 
Date:  _______________
 
Your Signature:                                                                           
(Sign exactly as your name appears on the face of this 2013 Note)
Signature Guarantee*:  _________________________
*           Participant in a recognized Signature Guarantee Medallion Program (or other signature guarantor acceptable to the Trustee).
 
 
 
Option of Holder to Elect Purchase
If you want to elect to have this 2013 Note purchased by the Company pursuant to Section 4.09 of the Indenture, check the box below:
 
 
If you want to elect to have only part of the 2013 Note purchased by the Company pursuant to Section 4.09 of the Indenture, state the amount you elect to have purchased:
 
Date:  _______________
 
Your Signature:  __________________________________________________                                                                                                      
(Sign exactly as your name appears on the face of this 2013Note)
 
 
Tax Identification No.: _____________________________________                                                                          
Signature Guarantee*:  _________________________
*           Participant in a recognized Signature Guarantee Medallion Program (or other signature guarantor acceptable to the Trustee).
 
 
 
 
The following exchanges of a part of this Global Note for an interest in another Global Note or for a Definitive Note, or exchanges of a part of another Global Note or Definitive Note for an interest in this Global Note, have been made:
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT A-2
CUSIP/CINS ____________
 
 
No. ___ $____________
 
 
promises to pay to [] or registered assigns,
              
 
the principal sum of __________________________________________________________ DOLLARS on _____________, 2018.
 
Interest Payment Dates:  March 15 and September 15
 
Record Dates:  March 1 and September 1
 
A2-1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dated:  _______________, 200_
 
COMPUTER SCIENCES CORPORATION
 
 
 
By:                                                                           
 
Name:
 
Title:
 
This is one of the Notes referred to
 
in the within-mentioned Indenture:
 
 
THE BANK OF NEW YORK TRUST COMPANY, N.A.,
 
  as Trustee
 
 
 
By:                                                           
 
Authorized Signatory
 
 
 
 
 
[Insert the Global Note Legend, if applicable pursuant to the provisions of the Indenture]
 
[Insert the Private Placement Legend, if applicable pursuant to the provisions of the Indenture]
 
Capitalized terms used herein have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture referred to below unless otherwise indicated.
 
(1)
 
.  Computer Sciences Corporation, a Nevada corporation (the ), promises to pay interest on the principal amount of this 2018 Note at 6.50% from ________________, 20__  until maturity and shall pay the Additional Interest, if any, payable pursuant to Section 5 of the Registration Rights Agreement referred to below.  The Company will pay interest and Additional Interest, if any, semi-annually in arrears on March 15 and September 15 of each year, or if any such day is not a Business Day, on the next succeeding Business Day (each, an ).  Interest on the 2018 Notes will accrue from the most recent date to which interest has been paid or, if no interest has been paid, from the date of issuance; provided that if there is no existing Default in the payment of interest, and if this 2018 Note is authenticated between a record date referred to on the face hereof and the next succeeding Interest Payment Date, interest shall accrue from such next succeeding Interest Payment Date; providedfurther that the first Interest Payment Date shall be September 15, 2008. The Company will pay interest (including post-petition interest in any proceeding under any Bankruptcy Law) on overdue principal and premium, if any, from time to time on demand at a rate that is 1% in excess of the rate then in effect to the extent lawful; it will pay interest (including post-petition interest in any proceeding under any Bankruptcy Law) on overdue installments of interest and Additional Interest, if any, (without regard to any applicable grace periods) from time to time on demand at the same rate to the extent lawful.  Interest will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.
Interest
Company
per annum
Interest Payment Date
 
per annum
 
(2)
 
.  The Company will pay interest on the 2018 Notes (except defaulted interest) and Additional Interest, if any, to the Persons who are registered Holders of 2018 Notes at the close of business on the March 1 and September 1 next preceding the Interest Payment Date, even if such 2018 Notes are canceled after such record date and on or before such Interest Payment Date, except as provided in Section 2.12 of the Indenture with respect to defaulted interest.  The 2018 Notes will be payable as to principal, premium and Additional Interest, if any, and interest at the office or agency of the Company maintained for such purpose within or without the City and State of New York, or, at the option of the Company, payment of interest and Additional Interest, if any, may be made by check mailed to the Holders of 2018 Notes at their addresses set forth in the register of Holders of 2018 Notes; provided that payment by wire transfer of immediately available funds will be required with respect to principal of and interest, premium and Additional Interest, if any, on, all Global Notes and all other 2018 Notes the Holders of which will have provided wire transfer instructions to the Company or the Paying Agent.  Such payment will be in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts.
Method of Payment
 
(3)
 
.  Initially, The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., the Trustee under the Indenture, will act as Paying Agent and Registrar.  The Company may change any Paying Agent or Registrar without notice to any Holder.  The Company or any of its Subsidiaries may act in any such capacity.
Paying Agent and Registrar
 
 
A2-3
 
 
(4)
 
.  The Company issued the 2018 Notes under an Indenture dated as of March 3, 2008 (the ) among the Company and the Trustee.  The terms of the 2018 Notes include those stated in the Indenture and those made part of the Indenture by reference to the TIA.  The 2018 Notes are subject to all such terms, and Holders are referred to the Indenture and such Act for a statement of such terms.  To the extent any provision of this 2018 Note conflicts with the express provisions of the Indenture, the provisions of the Indenture shall govern and be controlling.  The 2018 Notes are unsecured obligations of the Company. The Indenture does not limit the aggregate principal amount of 2018 Notes that may be issued thereunder.
Indenture
Indenture
 
(5)
 
Optional Redemption.
 
(a)
 
The 2018 Notes will be redeemable as a whole or in part, at the Companys option, at any time, from time to time, at a redemption price equal to the greater of:
 
(i)
 
100% of the principal amount of the 2018 Notes; and
 
(ii)
 
as determined by the Independent Investment Banker, the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest thereon (not including any portion of such interest payments accrued as of the redemption date), discounted to the redemption date on a semiannual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the Treasury Rate plus 0.50%.
 
(6)
 
Mandatory Redemption.
 
The Company is not be required to make mandatory redemption or sinking fund payments with respect to the 2018 Notes.
 
(7)
 
Repurchase at the Option of Holder.
 
(a)
 
If a Change of Control Triggering Event occurs with respect to 2018 Notes, unless the Company has exercised its option to redeem such 2018 Notes as described under Section 3.07 of the Indenture, the Company will be required to make a Change of Control Offer to each Holder of such 2018 Notes to repurchase all or any part (equal to $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof) of that Holders 2018 Notes at a repurchase price, payable in cash, equal to the Change of Control Payment.  Within 30 days following any Change of Control Triggering Event or, at the Companys option, prior to any Change of Control, but after public announcement of the transaction that constitutes or may constitute the Change of Control, a notice will be sent to Holders of the Notes, with a copy to the Trustee, describing the transaction that constitutes or may constitute the Change of Control Triggering Event and offering to repurchase such Notes on the date specified in the notice, which date will be no earlier than 30 days and no later than 90 days from the date such notice is mailed.
 
(8)
 
.  Notice of redemption will be mailed at least 30 days but not more than 60 days before the redemption date to each Holder whose 2018 Notes are to be redeemed at its registered address, except that redemption notices may be mailed more than 60 days prior to a redemption date if the notice is issued in connection with a defeasance of the 2018 Notes or a satisfaction or discharge of the Indenture.  2018 Notes in denominations of larger than $2,000 may be redeemed in part, but only in whole multiples of $1,000, unless all of the 2018 Notes held by a Holder are to be redeemed.
Notice of Redemption
 
 
A2-4
 
 
(9)
 
.  The Notes are in registered form without coupons in denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof.  The transfer of 2018 Notes may be registered and 2018 Notes may be exchanged as provided in the Indenture. The Registrar and the Trustee may require a Holder, among other things, to furnish appropriate endorsements and transfer documents and the Company may require a Holder to pay any taxes and fees required by law or permitted by the Indenture.  The Company need not exchange or register the transfer of any 2018 Note or portion of a 2018 Note selected for redemption, except for the unredeemed portion of any 2018 Note being redeemed in part.  Also, the Company need not exchange or register the transfer of any 2018 Notes for a period of 15 days before a selection of 2018 Notes to be redeemed or during the period between a record date and the corresponding Interest Payment Date.
Denominations, Transfer, Exchange
 
(10)
 
.  The registered Holder of a 2018 Note may be treated as its owner for all purposes.
Persons Deemed Owners
 
(11)
 
.  Subject to certain exceptions, the Indenture or the 2018 Notes may be amended or supplemented with the consent of the Holders of at least a majority in aggregate principal amount of the then outstanding 2018 Notes including Additional 2018 Notes, if any, voting as a single class, and any existing Default or Event or Default or compliance with any provision of the Indenture or the 2018 Notes may be waived with the consent of the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the then outstanding 2018 Notes including Additional 2018 Notes, if any, voting as a single class.  Without the consent of any Holder of a 2018 Note, the Indenture or the 2018 Notes may be amended or supplemented to fix any ambiguity, defect or inconsistency in the Indenture or the 2018 Notes; to make any such changes as are required for the Indenture to comply with the TIA; to add covenants for the benefit of Holders of the 2018 Notes or to surrender any of the Companys rights or powers; to comply with Article 5 of the Indenture; to provide for uncertificated 2018 Notes in addition to or in place of certificated 2018 Notes; to add any additional Events of Default; to change or eliminate provisions of the Indenture if the provision that is changed or eliminated does not apply to any outstanding 2018 Notes; to provide for the issuance of and terms and conditions of 2018 Notes or to add to the rights of the Holders of 2018 Notes; and to provide for a successor Trustee and to facilitate the administration of the trust by more than one Trustee; to conform the text of the Indenture or the 2018 Notes to any provision of the Description of the Notes section of the Companys Offering Memorandum dated February 27, 2008, relating to the initial offering of the 2018 Notes, to the extent that such provision in that Description of the Notes was intended to be a verbatim recitation of a provision of the Indenture or the 2018 Notes; to secure the 2018 Notes or to provide that any of the Companys obligations under the 2018 Notes will be guaranteed and the terms of such guarantees; and to make any other change that does not adversely affect the rights of any Holder of 2018 Notes in any material respect.
Amendment, Supplement and Waiver
 
(12)
 
.  Events of Default include:  (i) default for 90 days in the payment when due of interest (or Additional Interest, if any) on such series of Notes so long as the period within which such payment is due has not been extended or deferred; (ii) default in the payment when due (at maturity, upon redemption or otherwise) of the principal of, or premium, if any, on, such series of Notes; (iii) failure by the Company for 90 days after notice to the Company by the Trustee or the Holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Notes of such series then outstanding voting as a single class to perform or observe any of the other covenants or agreements in this Indenture; (vi) any of the Companys Indebtedness in the aggregate outstanding principal amount of $100 million or more either: (a) becomes due and payable prior to the due date for payment of such Indebtedness following the Companys default; or (b) is not repaid at, and remains unpaid after, maturity as extended by any applicable period of grace or any guarantee given by the Company in respect of Indebtedness of any other Person in the aggregate outstanding principal amount of $100 million or more is not honored when, and remains dishonored after, becoming due; and (v) certain event of bankruptcy or insolvency with respect to the Company.  If any Event of Default occurs and is continuing, the Trustee or the Holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of the then outstanding 2018 Notes may declare all the 2018 Notes to be due and payable immediately.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the case of an Event of Default arising from certain events of bankruptcy or insolvency, all outstanding 2018 Notes will become due and payable immediately without further action or notice.  Holders may not enforce the Indenture or the 2018 Notes except as provided in the Indenture.  Subject to certain limitations, Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the then outstanding 2018 Notes may direct the Trustee in its exercise of any trust or power.  The Trustee may withhold from Holders of the 2018 Notes notice of any continuing Default or Event of Default (except a Default or Event of Default relating to the payment of principal or interest or premium or Additional Interest, if any,) if it determines that withholding notice is in their interest.  The Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the then outstanding 2018 Notes by notice to the Trustee may, on behalf of the Holders of all of the 2018 Notes, rescind an acceleration or waive any existing Default or Event of Default and its consequences under the Indenture except a continuing Default or Event of Default in the payment of interest or premium or Additional Interest, if any, on, or the principal of, the 2018 Notes.  The Company is required to deliver to the Trustee annually a statement regarding compliance with the Indenture, and the Company is required, upon becoming aware of any Default or Event of Default, to deliver to the Trustee a statement specifying such Default or Event of Default.
Defaults and remedies
 
 
A2-5
 
 
(13)
 
.  The Trustee, in its individual or any other capacity, may make loans to, accept deposits from, and perform services for the Company or its Affiliates, and may otherwise deal with the Company or its Affiliates, as if it were not the Trustee.
Trustee Dealings with Company
 
(14)
 
.  A director, officer, employee, incorporator or stockholder of the Company, as such, will not have any liability for any obligations of the Company under the 2018 Notes or the Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of, or by reason of, such obligations or their creation.  Each Holder by accepting a 2018 Note waives and releases all such liability.  The waiver and release are part of the consideration for the issuance of the 2018 Notes.
No Recourse Against Others
 
(15)
 
.  This 2018 Note will not be valid until authenticated by the manual signature of the Trustee or an authenticating agent.
Authentication
 
(16)
 
.  Customary abbreviations may be used in the name of a Holder or an assignee, such as:  TEN COM (= tenants in common), TEN ENT (= tenants by the entireties), JT TEN (= joint tenants with right of survivorship and not as tenants in common), CUST (= Custodian), and U/G/M/A (= Uniform Gifts to Minors Act).
Abbreviations
 
(17)
 
.  In addition to the rights provided to Holders of 2018 Notes under the Indenture, Holders of Restricted Global Notes and Restricted Definitive Notes will have all the rights set forth in the Registration Rights Agreement dated as of March 3, 2008, among the Company and the other parties named on the signature pages thereof (the ).
Additional Rights of Holders of Restricted Global Notes and Restricted Definitive Notes
Registration Rights Agreement
 
 
A2-6
 
 
(18)
 
.  Pursuant to a recommendation promulgated by the Committee on Uniform Security Identification Procedures, the Company has caused CUSIP numbers to be printed on the 2018 Notes, and the Trustee may use CUSIP numbers in notices of redemption as a convenience to Holders.  No representation is made as to the accuracy of such numbers either as printed on the 2018 Notes or as contained in any notice of redemption, and reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers placed thereon.
CUSIP Numbers
 
(19)
 
 THE INTERNAL LAW OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK WILL GOVERN AND BE USED TO CONSTRUE THE INDENTURE AND THIS 2018 NOTE WITHOUT GIVING EFFECT TO APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAW TO THE EXTENT THAT THE APPLICATION OF THE LAWS OF ANOTHER JURISDICTION WOULD BE REQUIRED THEREBY.
GOVERNING LAW.
 
The Company will furnish to any Holder upon written request and without charge a copy of the Indenture and/or the Registration Rights Agreement.  Requests may be made to:
 
Computer Sciences Corporation
2100 East Grand Avenue
El Segundo, California 90245
Attention: Hayward D. Fisk
 
 
 
 
To assign this 2018 Note, fill in the form below:
 
(I) or (we) assign and transfer this 2018 Note to:                                                                                                                                          
(Insert assignees legal name)
 
 
 
 
 
 
and irrevocably appoint                                                                                                                                          
 
to transfer this Note on the books of the Company.  The agent may substitute another to act for him.
 
Date:  _______________
 
Your Signature:                                                                           
(Sign exactly as your name appears on the face of this 2018 Note)
Signature Guarantee*:  _________________________
*           Participant in a recognized Signature Guarantee Medallion Program (or other signature guarantor acceptable to the Trustee).
 
 
 
Option of Holder to Elect Purchase
If you want to elect to have this 2018 Note purchased by the Company pursuant to Section 4.09 of the Indenture, check the box below:
 
 
If you want to elect to have only part of the 2018 Note purchased by the Company pursuant to Section 4.09 of the Indenture, state the amount you elect to have purchased:
 
Date:  _______________
 
Your Signature:                                                                           
(Sign exactly as your name appears on the face of this 2018Note)
 
 
Tax Identification No.:                                                                           
Signature Guarantee*:  _________________________
*           Participant in a recognized Signature Guarantee Medallion Program (or other signature guarantor acceptable to the Trustee).
 
 
 
 
The following exchanges of a part of this Global Note for an interest in another Global Note or for a Definitive Note, or exchanges of a part of another Global Note or Definitive Note for an interest in this Global Note, have been made:
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT B
 
 
Computer Sciences Corporation
 
2100 East Grand Avenue
 
El Segundo, California 90245
 
Attention: Hayward D. Fisk
 
The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A.
700 South Flower Street, Suite 500
Los Angeles, CA 90017
 
 
 
Reference is hereby made to the Indenture, dated as of March 3, 2008 (the ), between Computer Sciences Corporation, as issuer (the ), and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., as trustee.  Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Indenture.
Indenture
Company
 
___________________, (the ) owns and proposes to transfer the [2013] [2018] Note[s] or interest in such [2013] [2018] Note[s] specified in Annex A hereto, in the principal amount of $___________ in such [2013] [2018] Note[s] or interests (the ), to  ___________________________ (the ), as further specified in Annex A hereto.  In connection with the Transfer, the Transferor hereby certifies that:
Transferor
Transfer
Transferee
 
 
1.     .  The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ), and, accordingly, the Transferor hereby further certifies that the beneficial interest or Definitive Note is being transferred to a Person that the Transferor reasonably believes is purchasing the beneficial interest or Definitive Note for its own account, or for one or more accounts with respect to which such Person exercises sole investment discretion, and such Person and each such account is a qualified institutional buyer within the meaning of Rule 144A in a transaction meeting the requirements of Rule 144A, and such Transfer is in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States.  Upon consummation of the proposed Transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Definitive Note will be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the 144A Global Note and/or the Restricted Definitive Note and in the Indenture and the Securities Act.
Check if Transferee will take delivery of a beneficial interest in the 144A Global Note or a Restricted Definitive Note pursuant to Rule 144A
Securities Act
 
2.     .  The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 903 or Rule 904 under the Securities Act and, accordingly, the Transferor hereby further certifies that (i) the Transfer is not being made to a Person in the United States and (x) at the time the buy order was originated, the Transferee was outside the United States or such Transferor and any Person acting on its behalf reasonably believed and believes that the Transferee was outside the United States or (y) the transaction was executed in, on or through the facilities of a designated offshore securities market and neither such Transferor nor any Person acting on its behalf knows that the transaction was prearranged with a buyer in the United States, (ii) no directed selling efforts have been made in contravention of the requirements of Rule 903(b) or Rule 904(b) of Regulation S under the Securities Act, (iii) the transaction is not part of a plan or scheme to evade the registration requirements of the Securities Act and (iv) if the proposed transfer is being made prior to the expiration of the Restricted Period, the transfer is not being made to a U.S. Person or for the account or benefit of a U.S. Person (other than an Initial Purchaser). Upon consummation of the proposed transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Definitive Note will be subject to the restrictions on Transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the Regulation S Global Note and/or the Restricted Definitive Note and in the Indenture and the Securities Act.
Check if Transferee will take delivery of a beneficial interest in the Regulation S Global Note or a Restricted Definitive Note pursuant to Regulation S
 
 
B-1
 
 
3.     .  The Transfer is being effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to beneficial interests in Restricted Global Notes and Restricted Definitive Notes and pursuant to and in accordance with the Securities Act and any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States, and accordingly the Transferor hereby further certifies that (check one):
Check and complete if Transferee will take delivery of a beneficial interest in the IAI Global Note or a Restricted Definitive Note pursuant to any provision of the Securities Act other than Rule 144A or Regulation S
 
(a)              such Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 144 under the Securities Act;
 
 
(b)              such Transfer is being effected to the Company or a subsidiary thereof;
 
 
(c)              such Transfer is being effected pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act and in compliance with the prospectus delivery requirements of the Securities Act;
 
 
(d)              such Transfer is being effected to an Institutional Accredited Investor and pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act other than Rule 144A, Rule 144, Rule 903 or Rule 904, and the Transferor hereby further certifies that it has not engaged in any general solicitation within the meaning of Regulation D under the Securities Act and the Transfer complies with the transfer restrictions applicable to beneficial interests in a Restricted Global Note or Restricted Definitive Notes and the requirements of the exemption claimed, which certification is supported by (1) a certificate executed by the Transferee in the form of Exhibit D to the Indenture and (2) if such Transfer is in respect of a principal amount of Notes at the time of transfer of less than $250,000, an Opinion of Counsel provided by the Transferor or the Transferee (a copy of which the Transferor has attached to this certification), to the effect that such Transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act.  Upon consummation of the proposed transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Definitive Note will be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the IAI Global Note and/or the Restricted Definitive Notes and in the Indenture and the Securities Act.
 
4.     .
Check if Transferee will take delivery of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note or of an Unrestricted Definitive Note
 
 
B-2
 
 
(a)     .  (i) The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 144 under the Securities Act and in compliance with the transfer restrictions contained in the Indenture and any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States and (ii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act.  Upon consummation of the proposed Transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Definitive Note will no longer be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the Restricted Global Notes, on Restricted Definitive Notes and in the Indenture.
Check if Transfer is pursuant to Rule 144
 
(b)     .  (i) The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 903 or Rule 904 under the Securities Act and in compliance with the transfer restrictions contained in the Indenture and any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States and (ii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act.  Upon consummation of the proposed Transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Definitive Note will no longer be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the Restricted Global Notes, on Restricted Definitive Notes and in the Indenture.
Check if Transfer is Pursuant to Regulation S
 
(c)     .  (i) The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in compliance with an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act other than Rule 144, Rule 903 or Rule 904 and in compliance with the transfer restrictions contained in the Indenture and any applicable blue sky securities laws of any State of the United States and (ii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act.  Upon consummation of the proposed Transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Definitive Note will not be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the Restricted Global Notes or Restricted Definitive Notes and in the Indenture.
Check if Transfer is Pursuant to Other Exemption
 
This certificate and the statements contained herein are made for your benefit and the benefit of the Company.
 
        
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
[Insert Name of Transferor]
 
 
 
 
By: ______________________________                                                                        
 
Name:
Title:
 
Dated:  _______________________
 
B-3
||
 
 
 
 
1.           The Transferor owns and proposes to transfer the following:
 
 
(a)
 
   a beneficial interest in the:
 
(i)             144A Global Note (CUSIP _________), or
 
(ii)             Regulation S Global Note (CUSIP _________), or
 
(iii)             IAI Global Note (CUSIP _________); or
 
(b)      a Restricted Definitive Note.
 
2.           After the Transfer the Transferee will hold:
 
 
(a)     a beneficial interest in the:
 
(i)             144A Global Note (CUSIP _________), or
 
(ii)             Regulation S Global Note (CUSIP _________), or
 
(iii)           IAI Global Note (CUSIP _________); or
 
(iv)            Unrestricted Global Note (CUSIP _________); or
 
(b)     a Restricted Definitive Note; or
 
(c)     an Unrestricted Definitive Note,
 
in accordance with the terms of the Indenture.
 
B-4
 
 
 
 EXHIBIT C
 
Computer Sciences Corporation
2100 East Grand Avenue
El Segundo, California 90245
Attention: Hayward D. Fisk
 
The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A.
700 South Flower Street, Suite 500
Los Angeles, CA 90017
 
 
 
 
Reference is hereby made to the Indenture, dated as of March 3, 2008 (the ), between Computer Sciences Corporation, as issuer (the ), and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., as trustee.  Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Indenture.
Indenture
Company
 
__________________________, (the ) owns and proposes to exchange the [2013] [2018] Note[s] or interest in such [2013] [2018] Note[s] specified herein, in the principal amount of $____________ in such [2013] [2018] Note[s] or interests (the ).  In connection with the Exchange, the Owner hereby certifies that:
Owner
Exchange
 
1.           
Exchange of Restricted Definitive Notes or Beneficial Interests in a Restricted Global Note for Unrestricted Definitive Notes or Beneficial Interests in an Unrestricted Global Note
 
(a)   .  In connection with the Exchange of the Owners beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note in an equal principal amount, the Owner hereby certifies (i) the beneficial interest is being acquired for the Owners own account without transfer, (ii) such Exchange has been effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to the Global Notes and pursuant to and in accordance with the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ), (iii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act and (iv) the beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note is being acquired in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States.
Check if Exchange is from beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note to beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note
Securities Act
 
(b)   .  In connection with the Exchange of the Owners beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note for an Unrestricted Definitive Note, the Owner hereby certifies (i) the Definitive Note is being acquired for the Owners own account without transfer, (ii) such Exchange has been effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to the Restricted Global Notes and pursuant to and in accordance with the Securities Act, (iii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act and (iv) the Definitive Note is being acquired in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States.
Check if Exchange is from beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note to Unrestricted Definitive Note
 
 
C-1
 
 
(c)   .  In connection with the Owners Exchange of a Restricted Definitive Note for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note, the Owner hereby certifies (i) the beneficial interest is being acquired for the Owners own account without transfer, (ii) such Exchange has been effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to Restricted Definitive Notes and pursuant to and in accordance with the Securities Act, (iii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act and (iv) the beneficial interest is being acquired in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States.
Check if Exchange is from Restricted Definitive Note to beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note
 
(d)   .  In connection with the Owners Exchange of a Restricted Definitive Note for an Unrestricted Definitive Note, the Owner hereby certifies (i) the Unrestricted Definitive Note is being acquired for the Owners own account without transfer, (ii) such Exchange has been effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to Restricted Definitive Notes and pursuant to and in accordance with the Securities Act, (iii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act and (iv) the Unrestricted Definitive Note is being acquired in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States.
Check if Exchange is from Restricted Definitive Note to Unrestricted Definitive Note
 
2.           
Exchange of Restricted Definitive Notes or Beneficial Interests in Restricted Global Notes for Restricted Definitive Notes or Beneficial Interests in Restricted Global Notes
 
(a)     In connection with the Exchange of the Owners beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note for a Restricted Definitive Note with an equal principal amount, the Owner hereby certifies that the Restricted Definitive Note is being acquired for the Owners own account without transfer.  Upon consummation of the proposed Exchange in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the Restricted Definitive Note issued will continue to be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the Restricted Definitive Note and in the Indenture and the Securities Act.
Check if Exchange is from beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note to Restricted Definitive Note.
 
(b)   .  In connection with the Exchange of the Owners Restricted Definitive Note for a beneficial interest in the [CHECK ONE] 144A Global Note, Regulation S Global Note,   IAI Global Note with an equal principal amount, the Owner hereby certifies (i) the beneficial interest is being acquired for the Owners own account without transfer and (ii) such Exchange has been effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to the Restricted Global Notes and pursuant to and in accordance with the Securities Act, and in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States.  Upon consummation of the proposed Exchange in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the beneficial interest issued will be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the relevant Restricted Global Note and in the Indenture and the Securities Act.
Check if Exchange is from Restricted Definitive Note to beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note
 
 
C-2
 
 
This certificate and the statements contained herein are made for your benefit and the benefit of the Company.
 
 
[Insert Name of Transferor]
 
 
 
 
By:                                                                   
 
  Name:
  Title:
 
Dated:  ______________________
 
C-3
 
 
 
 EXHIBIT D
 
 
Computer Sciences Corporation
2100 East Grand Avenue
El Segundo, California 90245
Attention: Hayward D. Fisk
 
The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A.
700 South Flower Street, Suite 500
Los Angeles, CA 90017
 
 
 
Reference is hereby made to the Indenture, dated as of March 3, 2008 (the ), between Computer Sciences Corporation, as issuer (the ), and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., as trustee.  Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Indenture.
Indenture
Company
 
In connection with our proposed purchase of $____________ aggregate principal amount of:
 
(a)   a beneficial interest in a Global Note, or
 
(b)   a Definitive Note,
 
we confirm that:
 
1.           We understand that any subsequent transfer of the [2013] [2018] Notes or any interest therein is subject to certain restrictions and conditions set forth in the Indenture and the undersigned agrees to be bound by, and not to resell, pledge or otherwise transfer the [2013] [2018] Notes or any interest therein except in compliance with, such restrictions and conditions and the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ).
Securities Act
 
2.           We understand that the offer and sale of the [2013] [2018] Notes have not been registered under the Securities Act, and that the [2013] [2018] Notes and any interest therein may not be offered or sold except as permitted in the following sentence.  We agree, on our own behalf and on behalf of any accounts for which we are acting as hereinafter stated, that if we should sell the [2013] [2018] Notes or any interest therein, we will do so only (A) to the Company or any subsidiary thereof, (B) in accordance with Rule 144A under the Securities Act to a qualified institutional buyer (as defined therein), (C) to an institutional accredited investor (as defined below) that, prior to such transfer, furnishes (or has furnished on its behalf by a U.S. broker-dealer) to you and to the Company a signed letter substantially in the form of this letter and, if such transfer is in respect of a principal amount of [2013] [2018] Notes, at the time of transfer of less than $250,000, an Opinion of Counsel in form reasonably acceptable to the Company to the effect that such transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act, (D) outside the United States in accordance with Rule 904 of Regulation S under the Securities Act, (E) pursuant to the provisions of Rule 144(k) under the Securities Act or (F) pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act, and we further agree to provide to any Person purchasing the Definitive Note or beneficial interest in a Global Note from us in a transaction meeting the requirements of clauses (A) through (E) of this paragraph a notice advising such purchaser that resales thereof are restricted as stated herein.
 
 
D-1
 
 
3.           We understand that, on any proposed resale of the [2013] [2018] Notes or beneficial interest therein, we will be required to furnish to you and the Company such certifications, legal opinions and other information as you and the Company may reasonably require to confirm that the proposed sale complies with the foregoing restrictions.  We further understand that the [2013] [2018] Notes purchased by us will bear a legend to the foregoing effect.
 
4.           We are an institutional accredited investor (as defined in Rule 501(a)(1), (2), (3) or (7) of Regulation D under the Securities Act) and have such knowledge and experience in financial and business matters as to be capable of evaluating the merits and risks of our investment in the Notes, and we and any accounts for which we are acting are each able to bear the economic risk of our or its investment.
 
5.           We are acquiring the [2013] [2018] Notes or beneficial interest therein purchased by us for our own account or for one or more accounts (each of which is an institutional accredited investor) as to each of which we exercise sole investment discretion.
 
You and the Company are entitled to rely upon this letter and are irrevocably authorized to produce this letter or a copy hereof to any interested party in any administrative or legal proceedings or official inquiry with respect to the matters covered hereby.
 
 
[Insert Name of Accredited Investor]
 
 
 
By:
 
Name:
 
Title:
 
Dated:  _______________________
 
D-2
|
 
 
 


