FILE:CSC/CSC-8K-20080227164201.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
3
 
 
4
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
EL SEGUNDO, Calif., Feb. 27  Computer Sciences Corporation ("") (NYSE: CSC) announced today that it intends to issue Senior Notes due 2013 and Senior Notes due 2018 (collectively, the "") in a private offering.
CSC
Senior Notes
 
CSC expects to use the net proceeds of the offering of the Senior Notes to repay the commercial paper issued by CSC to finance the acquisition of Covansys Corporation and for general corporate purposes.
 
The Senior Notes will be offered to qualified institutional buyers in reliance on Rule 144A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ), and to non-U.S. persons in reliance on Regulation S of the Securities Act. At the time of the offering, the Senior Notes will not be registered under the Securities Act.  Therefore, the Senior Notes may not be offered or sold absent registration under the Securities Act or an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act and any applicable state or jurisdictional securities laws.
Securities Act
 
This press release does not and will not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy the Senior Notes, nor will there be any sale of the Senior Notes in any jurisdiction in which any such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to the registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such jurisdiction.

Exhibit 99.2
Our ratio of earnings to fixed charges for the periods indicated is as follows:
In calculating the ratio of earnings to fixed charges, earnings represent the sum of (i) income from continuing operations before income taxes and minority interest (ii) (income)/loss for equity method investees, (iii) fixed charges, (iv) amortization of capitalized interest, (v) distributed income of equity method investees and (vi) our share of pre-tax losses in equity method investees, minus interest capitalized.  Fixed charges represent the sum of (i) interest expensed and capitalized, (ii) amortized premiums, discounts and capitalized expenses related to indebtedness, (iii) estimated interest within rental expense and (iv) preference security dividend requirements of consolidated subsidiaries.


