FILE:CSC/CSC-8K-20090520170223.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
                    Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereto duly authorized.
 
 
 
COMPUTER SCIENCES CORPORATION
 
 
 
 
Dated: May 20, 2009
  By 
 /s/   Michael J. Mancuso                            
  
        Michael J. Mancuso
 
        Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
FALLS CHURCH, Va., May 20 - - CSC (NYSE: CSC) today reported fourth quarter 2009 fully diluted earnings per share (EPS) of $2.51, compared with fourth quarter 2008 EPS of $1.15.  For the full year, EPS was $7.31 compared with $3.20 in fiscal year 2008.
Operating cash flow was $1,058 million for the fourth quarter and $1,986 million for the full year.  Free cash flow was $850 million for the quarter and $1,021 million for the fiscal year, compared to $175 million for the previous year.
Highlights include:
Commenting on the results, CSC Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Michael W. Laphen said, Fourth quarter 2009 was another successful and important step in our march to consistent results and continuous improvement.  Despite the challenging economic environment, CSCs achievements included exceptional cash generation, realization of our full-year goal of at least a 25 basis points margin rate improvement, successful execution and delivery of the National Health Service (NHS) milestones, and remediation of a material weakness associated with our tax accounting.
New Business Awards
Across the three lines of business, the 2009 fourth quarter awards contributed approximately $1.66 billion to the North American Public Sector (NPS), $0.99 billion to Business Solutions & Services (BS&S), and $0.83 billion to Global Outsourcing Services (GOS).  Subsequent to the companys fiscal year ended April 3, 2009, CSC has secured new business awards with a total value in excess of $1 billion to date.
Lines of Business
NPS
Despite some delays in government task orders, revenue for the fourth quarter increased year over year by 2.6% to $1.51 billion.  For fiscal year 2009, revenues grew by 3.4% to $5.98 billion compared to fiscal year 2008.
BS&S
This sector was impacted by currency and pressures on discretionary projects, partially offset by our successful deliverables within the NHS program.  Quarterly revenue was $1.14 billion, a decline of 5% year-over-year (up 8% in constant currency).  Annual revenues of $4.41 billion in 2009 reflect an increase of 8% (12% growth in constant currency).
GOS
Currency and pressures on discretionary projects also impacted this sector.  Consequently, revenue was $1.49 billion during the quarter, down 19% (down 7% in constant currency) from the previous year.  For fiscal year 2009, revenues decreased by 4.4% to $6.46 billion (flat in constant currency) compared to the prior fiscal year.
Business Outlook
 In the North American Public Sector, we expect to grow revenue in the mid to high single digits and early wins this fiscal year support our expectations.  We see significant opportunities resulting from the economic stimulus packages, however this spending is not likely to manifest itself in our results before the end of the calendar year.  CSC continues to be in a strong position to capture opportunities such as healthcare and cyber security, Laphen said.
Our commercial business appears to have stabilized at the levels achieved in the fourth quarter. On balance, we expect the first half of fiscal year 2010 revenue to be moderately down in constant currency versus last year with growth coming in the second half.
Laphen added, ...we will continue our focus on operational improvements.  Additionally, we are strengthening our ability to mitigate risks associated with external factors.  For example, we are taking an important step in that direction by discontinuing our defined benefit pension plan in favor of enhancing our defined contribution 401K plan.
Guidance
Looking forward to FY2010, CSC expects to generate revenue in the $16 to $16.5 billion range and EPS in the $4.20 to $4.30 per share range.  Free cash flow for FY2010 is expected to be in a range of 90% to100% of net income.
 
As announced in the company's prior press release, dated May 7, 2009, a teleconference will be held today at 5 p.m. EDT to discuss fourth quarter and year-end results.  This teleconference can be accessed at , in a listen-only mode, and slides will also be available at this site immediately prior to the call.
www.csc.com/investorrelations
 
 
Non-GAAP Measures
 
 
In an effort to provide investors with additional information regarding the company's results as determined by generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), the company has also disclosed in this press release non-GAAP information which management believes provides useful information to investors, including: operating income, operating margin and free cash flow. A reconciliation of the adjustments to GAAP results for this quarter and prior periods, as well as the rationale for management's use of non-GAAP measures, is included in the tables below.
 
 
About CSC
 
 
CSC is a global leader in providing technology-enabled solutions and services through three primary lines of business. These include Business Solutions & Services, Global Outsourcing Services and the North American Public Sector. CSC's advanced capabilities include systems design and integration, information technology and business process outsourcing, applications software development, Web and application hosting, mission support and management consulting. Headquartered in Falls Church, Va., CSC has approximately 92,000 employees and reported revenue of $ 16.74 billion for the 12 months ended April 3, 2009. For more information, visit the company's Web site at .
www.csc.com
 
 
All statements in this press release and in all future press releases that do not directly and exclusively relate to historical facts constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements represent the company's intentions, plans, expectations and beliefs, and are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which are outside the company's control.  These factors could cause actual results to differ materially from such forward-looking statements.  For a written description of these factors, see the section titled "Risk Factors" in CSC's Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 3, 2009 and any updating information in subsequent SEC filings. The company disclaims any intention or obligation to update these forward-looking statements whether as a result of subsequent events or otherwise, except as required by law.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes:                      All amounts are net of taxes.                                                                Amounts are in millions except per-share amounts.
 
 
 


