FILE:CSC/CSC-8K-20090210161752.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
                    Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereto duly authorized.
 
 
 
COMPUTER SCIENCES CORPORATION
 
 
 
 
Dated: February 10, 2009
  By 
 /s/   Michael J. Mancuso                            
  
      Michael J. Mancuso
 
        Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

FALLS CHURCH, Va., Feb. 10 -- CSC (NYSE: CSC) today reported fiscal 2009 third quarter revenues of $3.95 billion with earnings per share for the quarter of $1.06 fully diluted. The company also reported year-to-date revenues of $12.6 billion, a 5% increase over the same period last year. Year-to-date earnings per share, fully diluted, were $4.80, including $2.43 from the IRS resolution reported in the second quarter (up 131% in reported earnings per share over the comparable period last year).
Highlights also include:
 
 
 
Commenting on the results, CSC Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer Michael W. Laphen said, We are pleased with our progress in the third quarter.
These results reflect the companys intensified focus on financial discipline, cost control and cash management.  CSC continues to execute on its strategic initiatives and is well positioned to take advantage of emerging opportunities in an otherwise unsettled and difficult economic environment.
New Business Awards
New business awards for the third quarter totaled almost $2.7 billion across CSCs three lines of business. These awards were comprised of approximately $1.2 billion from North American Public Sector (NPS), $1.2 billion from Business Solutions & Services (BS&S) and $327 million for Global Outsourcing Services (GOS).  Awards for the first nine months of fiscal 2009 were up for all three lines of business, totaling approximately $12.7 billion, up 21% over last years comparable period.
Performance by Lines of Business and Industry Verticals
Lines of Business
Overall CSCs quarterly revenue declined 5% (up 2% in constant currency) with varying results in the companys three lines of business: Business Solutions & Services, Global Outsourcing Services and the North American Public Sector.
BS&S quarterly revenue was $1.01 billion, essentially flat compared with last years $1.03 billion (up 7% in constant currency).
GOS posted a third quarter revenue total of $1.49 billion, down 13% (down 3% in constant currency) from $1.72 billion a year ago.  The company attributed the GOS revenue decline to deferral of contract decisions and the negative impact of currency fluctuations.
            NPS revenue for the third quarter increased 3% to $1.48 billion from $1.44 billion for last years comparable quarter.
 
 
 
Industry Verticals
The companys quarterly revenue growth by industry group was mixed.   Healthcare was up 17%, and the Public Sector increased 2%, while the remaining four industry verticals declined from 10% to 16% due primarily to the difficult discretionary spending environment and the impact of currency fluctuations in the quarter. In constant currency, quarterly revenue growth for the six industry verticals ranged from - -7% to 29%, equating to a net consolidated revenue growth of 2% year-over-year.
Business Outlook
Notwithstanding the challenging macroeconomic environment, including widespread currency volatility, CSC remains well positioned to assist both public and private sector clients in addressing the realities of the global economic environment, including efficiency demands, pressure on profitability and increased regulation, said Laphen.  Our broad services portfolio allows us to focus on these growth opportunities while we continue to deliver high-value solutions to our existing customers.
Guidance
As previously mentioned, there are a number of factors affecting the companys ability to forecast fourth quarter revenue and earnings performance, including uncertainty in the macroeconomic environment, continued volatility in the currency exchange rates and the fact that CSC is currently undergoing tax examinations in a number of state and international tax jurisdictions. In light of these factors, the company currently anticipates full-year revenue of approximately $16.8 billion and earnings per share of approximately $6.30, which is at the low end of previous guidance.
As announced in the companys press release dated Jan. 20, 2009, a teleconference will be held today at 5 p.m. EST to discuss third quarter results.  This teleconference can be accessed at www.csc.com/investorrelations, in a listen-only mode, and slides will also be available at this site immediately prior to the call.
 
 
 
Non-GAAP Measures
In an effort to provide investors with additional information regarding the companys results as determined by generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), the company has also disclosed in this press release non-GAAP information which management believes provides useful information to investors, including: operating income, operating margin and free cash flow.  A reconciliation of the adjustments to GAAP results for this quarter and prior periods, as well as the rationale for managements use of non-GAAP measures, is included in the tables below.
About CSC
CSC is a global leader in providing technology-enabled solutions and services through three primary lines of business. These include Business Solutions & Services, Global Outsourcing Services and the North American Public Sector. CSCs advanced capabilities include systems design and integration, information technology and business process outsourcing, applications software development, Web and application hosting, mission support and management consulting. Headquartered in Falls Church, Va., CSC has approximately 92,000 employees and reported revenue of $17.1 billion for the 12 months ended Jan. 2, 2009. For more information, visit the companys Web site at www.csc.com.
All statements in this press release and in all future press releases that do not directly and exclusively relate to historical facts constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  These statements represent the companys intentions, plans, expectations and beliefs, and are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which are outside the companys control.  These factors could cause actual results to differ materially from such forward-looking statements.  For a written description of these factors, see the section titled Risk Factors in CSCs Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 28, 2008 and any updating information in
 
 
 
subsequent  SEC filings.  The company disclaims any intention or obligation to update these forward-looking statements whether as a result of subsequent events or otherwise except as required by law.
Note to Analysts and Editors: Please see attached tables.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes:     All amounts are net of taxes.
Amounts are in millions except per-share amounts.


