FILE:CSC/CSC-8K-20100414152641.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.01. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officer
 
See Item 8.01 below.
 
Item 8.01.  Other Events
On April 14, 2010, CSC issued a press release announcing the employment by CSC of Denise M. Peppard as Vice PresidentChief Human Resources Officer, succeeding Nathan (Gus) Siekierka who will continue to serve as a corporate Vice President until his retirement early next year.  A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference and made a part hereof.
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
FALLS CHURCH, Va., April 14  CSC (NYSE: CSC) named Denise Peppard vice president and chief human resources officer, effective April 3, 2010. Peppard will report to CSC Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer Michael W. Laphen. She succeeds Nathan (Gus) Siekierka who will continue to serve as a corporate vice president until his retirement early next year.
Peppard will be responsible for all human resources programs and initiatives globally. Denise brings a wealth of success and experience in the computer, pharmaceutical, biotech and financial services industries to CSC and were happy that she is joining our executive team, said Laphen. Her appointment strengthens CSCs leadership team and will provide value to our 92,000 worldwide employees.
Id also like to thank Gus for his significant contributions and leadership during his 37 years of service and commitment to CSC, added Laphen.
Prior to joining CSC, Peppard was senior vice president of human resources at Wyeth and Wyeth Pharmaceuticals in New Jersey. In this role, Peppard was responsible for HR strategy, including talent and compensation strategies to support the achievement of business goals. She was also responsible for providing leadership in company transformation initiatives, along with guidance and direction on internal change management processes. Previously, Peppard held several senior management roles with Liberty Financial Companies, Inc., in Boston, and Cytotherapeutics, in Rhode Island.
Peppardholds an M.B.A. in Finance and Organizational Behavior and a B.B.A. in Accounting from the University of Michigan.
 
 
 
 
About CSC
CSC is a global leader in providing technology-enabled solutions and services through three primary lines of business. These include Business Solutions and Services, the Managed Services Sector and the North American Public Sector. CSCs advanced capabilities include system design and integration, information technology and business process outsourcing, applications software development, Web and application hosting, mission support and management consulting. The company has been recognized as a leader in the industry, including being named by as one of the Worlds Most Admired Companies for Information Technology Services (2010).Headquartered in Falls Church, Va., CSC has approximately 92,000 employe es and reported revenue of $16.0 billion for the 12 months ended Jan. 1, 2010. For more information, visit the companys Web site at .
FORTUNE Magazine
 
www.csc.com
 
 
 


