FILE:CSC/CSC-8K-20101110085128.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Item 2.02.                      Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On November 10, 2010, Computer Sciences Corporation (the Company) issued a press release reporting its preliminary financial results for the fiscal quarter ended October 1, 2010. In addition, at 11:00 AM, Eastern Time, on November 10, 2010, the Company will hold a teleconference to discuss the Companys first quarter results, which will include a slide presentation accessible on the Companys website at http://www.csc.com under Investor Relations. The press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
This information is furnished and not filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. It may only be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or the Securities Act of 1933 only if and to the extent such subsequent filing specifically references the information incorporated by reference herein.
Item 9.01.                      Financial Statements and Exhibits
Exhibit
99.1                      Earnings Release (furnished herewith).
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Exhibit
99.1                      Earnings Release (furnished herewith)
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
FALLS CHURCH, Va., Nov. 10  CSC (NYSE: CSC) today reported second quarter fiscal 2011 revenue of $4.0 billion and fully diluted earnings per share (EPS) of $1.18 compared to second quarter fiscal 2010 revenue of $4.0 billion and EPS of $1.40 ($1.15 after normalizing for the tax rate). The half year revenue was $7.9 billion and EPS was $2.09 compared to half year fiscal 2010 revenue of $7.9 billion and EPS of $2.26 ($1.97 after normalizing for the tax rate).
 
Commenting on the results, CSC Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Michael Laphen said, Our underlying performance in the quarter continues to track in a positive direction. We achieved a solid quarter in new business bookings which supports our anticipated growth in the second half of the fiscal year. Our pre-tax margin and operating margin improved sequentially, this despite a series of non-recurring accounting adjustments in MSS, primarily in the Nordics Region.
 
Highlights for the quarter include:
 
 
 
 
New Business Awards
Across the three lines of business, new business awards for the quarter were $4.5 billion. North American Public Sector (NPS) contributed approximately $2.9 billion, Business Solutions & Services (BSS) reported $0.8 billion, and Managed Services Sector (MSS) closed $0.8 billion of new business.
 
Lines of Business
 
For the quarter, NPS revenue was $1.55 billion (down 4.5% from the second quarter last year mainly due to the previous years benefit of a claims settlement), MSS revenue was $1.58 billion (up 0.1% from the second quarter last year) and BSS revenue was $0.87 billion (up 0.6% from the second quarter last year and up 6% when adjusted for currency and the fiscal 2010 acquisition and divestiture).
 
Business Outlook
 
 While our NPS business is still experiencing a slowdown in the pace of customer decisions, our continued success in capturing sizeable IDIQ awards positions us for meaningful second half growth, said Laphen. Our commercial businesses have achieved new logo wins and are building a robust pipeline, particularly in our targeted areas of Applications Outsourcing, Cyber and Cloud solutions.
 
Guidance
 
The company updated its guidance for the full year, increasing New Business Bookings and EPS while modifying its Revenue and Margin range as a consequence of the aforementioned NPS award delays and the adjustments in the Nordics. Free Cash Flow guidance is unchanged.
 
 
The revised guidance is:
 
 
 
Conference Call and Webcast
 
CSC senior management will host a conference call and Webcast at 11:00 a.m. EDT today. The conference call dial-in number for domestic callers is 877-545-1403. International callers will need to dial +1 719-325-4812. The pass code for all participants is 6934108. The Webcast and presentation slides can be accessed at .
www.csc.com/investor_relations
 
 
 
 
 
 
Non-GAAP Measures
 
In an effort to provide investors with additional information regarding the Companys results as determined by generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), the company has also disclosed in this press release non-GAAP information which management believes provides useful information to investors, including: operating income, operating margin, free cash flow and free cash flow as a percentage of net income attributable to CSC common shareholders.  A reconciliation of the adjustments to GAAP results for this quarter and prior periods, as well as the rationale for managements use of non-GAAP measures, is included in the tables below.
 
 
About CSC
 
CSC is a global leader in providing technology-enabled solutions and services through three primary lines of business.  These include Business Solutions and Services, the Managed Services Sector and the North American Public Sector.  CSCs advanced capabilities include system design and integration, information technology and business process outsourcing, applications software development, Web and application hosting, mission support and management consulting.  Headquartered in Falls Church, Va., CSC has approximately 94,000 employees and reported revenue of $16.1 billion for the 12 months ended October 1, 2010.  For more information, visit the Companys website at .
www.csc.com
 
 
All statements in this press release and in all future press releases that do not directly and exclusively relate to historical facts constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements represent the Companys intentions, plans, expectations and beliefs, and are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which are outside the Companys control. These factors could cause actual results to differ materially from such forward-looking statements. For a written description of these factors, see the section titled Risk Factors in CSCs Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 2, 2010 and any updating information in subsequent SEC filings.  The Company disclaims any intention or obligation to update these forward-looking statements whether as a result of subsequent event or otherwise, except as required by law.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CSC-Page8                                                                                                                                            0;       11/10/2010
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
The following tables reconcile operating income and free cash flow to the most directly comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP. CSC management believes that these non-GAAP financial measures provide useful information to investors regarding the Companys financial condition and results of operations as they provide another measure of the Companys profitability and ability to service its debt, and are considered important measures by financial analysts covering CSC and its peers. Management uses operating income to evaluate business unit financial performance and it is one of the measures used in assessing management performance. One of the limitations associated with the use of operating income (as compared to reported earnings) is that it does not reflect the complete financial resul ts of the Company. CSC compensates for these limitations by providing reconciliation between operating income and income before taxes.
 
Note: Payments on capital leases and other long-term asset financings, and proceeds from the sale of property and equipment (included in investment activities) are included in the calculation of Free Cash Flow (FCF). Operating margin is defined as operating income as a percentage of revenue. Pre-tax margin is defined as income before taxes as a percentage of revenue.
 
 
 
 


