FILE:CSC/CSC-8K-20101124124627.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
 
Item 8.01. Other Events
 
As described in Note 13Commitments and Contingencies to the  Companys Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements (Unaudited) contained in the Companys Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, for the fiscal quarter ended October 1, 2010, as of October 1, 2010, the Company had 14 claims (the CDA Claims) totaling approximately $678 million, excluding interest, asserted against the U.S. federal government under a single contract pending before the Armed Services Board of Contracts Appeals (ASBCA).  These claims were filed under the Contract Disputes Act of 1978 (the CDA).  The following is an update of this litigation.
On November 19, 2010, the Government and the Company entered into a formal agreement to stay the CDA Claims litigation and engage in a non-binding alternate dispute resolution (ADR) process to resolve all outstanding CDA Claims and other issues associated with the contract.  This expedited process is expected to conclude in the first quarter of Fiscal Year 2012.  If the parties do not reach settlement, the litigation would resume.  As part of the ADR process and in accordance with the terms of the ADR agreement, on November 22, 2010, the Company filed with the Government two requests for equitable adjustment (REA) totaling approximately $1.3 billion associated with the same contract under which the CDA Claims were brough t.  REAs, unlike CDA Claims, are not interest bearing. The matters covered by the REAs overlap to some extent with certain matters covered by the CDA claims, but the REAs seek recovery under other legal theories.  An estimate of the amount of the overlap cannot be made at this time, but could be material.  In addition, due to this overlap, the aggregate amount of REA and CDA Claims filed by the Company may not be indicative of the amounts that would ultimately be recoverable by the Company. There are no additional assets on the Companys books that relate to the REAs described above.
 
 
 


