FILE:CSC/CSC-8K-20100811083958.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02.                      Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On August 11, 2010, Computer Sciences Corporation (the Company) issued a press release reporting its preliminary financial results for the fiscal quarter ended July 2, 2010. In addition, at 11:00 AM, Eastern Time, on August 11, 2010, the Company will hold a teleconference to discuss the Companys first quarter results, which will include a slide presentation accessible on the Companys website at http://www.csc.com under Investor Relations. The press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
This information is furnished and not filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. It may only be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or the Securities Act of 1933 only if and to the extent such subsequent filing specifically references the information incorporated by reference herein.
Item 8.01.                      Other Events
On August 9, 2010, the Companys Board of Directors declared a dividend of $0.15 per share for the quarter ended July 2, 2010, payable on October 15, 2010 to the holders of record of the Companys common stock as of the close of business on September 9, 2010.
Item 9.01.                      Financial Statements and Exhibits
Exhibit
99.1                      Earnings Release (furnished herewith).
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
Exhibit
99.1                      Earnings Release (furnished herewith)
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 FALLS CHURCH, Va., August 11  CSC (NYSE: CSC) today reported first quarter fiscal 2011 Revenue of $3.94 billion and fully diluted earnings per share (EPS) of $0.91 compared to first quarter fiscal 2010 Revenue of $3.90 billion and EPS of $0.85.
   
 
 Highlights for the Quarter include:
   
 
Commenting on the results, CSC Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Michael Laphen said, I am pleased with our operational improvements and the corresponding financial results, particularly the margin and cash flow performance. We remain focused on delivering positive results while navigating a still uncertain macro economic environment.
 
 
1
 
New Business Awards
 
 Across the three lines of business, new business awards for the quarter were $3.2 billion. North American Public Sector (NPS) contributed approximately $1.2 billion, Business Solutions & Services (BSS) reported $0.8 billion, and Managed Services Sector (MSS) closed $1.2 billion of new business.
   
 
Business Outlook
 
 I am encouraged by the size and quality of our current pipeline, said Laphen. We are seeing increased demand emerging from some regions and within some industries.  Our strategic targets of Cloud, Cyber and Healthcare, as well as network management are all indicating positive signs.  Although our businesses are impacted by the overall sluggish recovery and, to a lesser extent government spending, we have a very robust backlog and I remain optimistic that we will realize meaningful growth beginning in the second half of our fiscal year.
   
 
 The Company reconfirmed guidance for the full year as follows:
   
 
 Bookings in excess of $18 billion, revenue in the range of $16.8 billion to $17.2 billion, operating margin between 9% and 9.25%, EPS in the $5.30 to $5.40 range, and Free Cash Flow in excess of 90% of net income attributable to CSC common shareholders.
   
 
 
Lines of Business
 
 For the quarter, NPS Revenue was $1.55 billion (up 2.2% from first quarter last year), MSS Revenue was $1.60 billion (up 2.2% from first quarter last year) and BSS Revenue was $0.82 billion (down 2% from first quarter last year).
   
 
 
Conference Call and Webcast
 
CSC senior management will host a conference call and Webcast at 11:00 a.m. EST today. The conference call dial-in number for domestic callers is 888-352-6793. International callers will need to dial +1 719-325-2106. The pass code for all participants is 3379040. The Webcast and presentation slides can be accessed at .
www.csc.com/investorrelations
 
Non-GAAP Measures
 
In an effort to provide investors with additional information regarding the Companys results as determined by generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), the company has also disclosed in this press release non-GAAP information which management believes provides useful information to investors, including: operating income, operating margin, free cash flow and free cash flow as a percentage of net income attributable to CSC common shareholders.  A reconciliation of the adjustments to GAAP results for this quarter and prior periods, as well as the rationale for managements use of non-GAAP measures, is included in the tables below.
 
 
2
 
About CSC
 
CSC is a global leader in providing technology-enabled solutions and services through three primary lines of business.  These include Business Solutions & Services, the Managed Services Sector and the North American Public Sector.  CSCs advanced capabilities include system design and integration, information technology and business process outsourcing, applications software development, Web and application hosting, mission support and management consulting.  Headquartered in Falls Church, VA., CSC has approximately 95,000 employees and reported revenue of $16.2 billion for the 12 months ended July 2, 2010.  For more information, visit the Companys Web Site at .
www.csc.com
 
 
All statements in this press release and in all future press releases that do not directly and exclusively relate to historical facts constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements represent the Companys intentions, plans, expectations and beliefs, and are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which are outside the Companys control. These factors could cause actual results to differ materially from such forward-looking statements. For a written description of these factors, see the section titled Risk Factors in CSCs Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 2, 2010 and any updating information in subsequent SEC filings.  The Company disclaims any intention or obligation to update these forward-looking statements whether as a result of subsequent event or otherwise, except as required by law.
 
 
3
 
 
 
4
 
 
 
5
 
 
 
 
6
 
 
 
 
 
7
 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
 The following tables reconcile operating income and free cash flow to the most directly comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP. CSC management believes that these non-GAAP financial measures provide useful information to investors regarding the Companys financial condition and results of operations as they provide another measure of the Companys profitability and ability to service its debt, and are considered important measures by financial analysts covering CSC and its peers. Management uses operating income to evaluate business unit financial performance and it is one of the measures used in assessing management performance. One of the limitations associated with the use of operating income (as compared to reported earnings) is that it does not reflect the complete financial results of the Company. CSC compensates for these limitations by providing reconciliation between operating income and income before taxes.
   
 
 Note: Payments on capital leases and other long-term asset financings and proceeds from the sale of property and equipment (included in investment activities) are included in the calculation of Free Cash Flow (FCF).  Operating margin is defined as operating income as a percentage of revenue.  Pre-tax margin is defined as income before taxes as a percentage of revenue.
   
 
 
 
8
 


