FILE:CSC/CSC-8K-20100520083222.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02.                      Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On May 20, 2010, Computer Sciences Corporation (the Company) issued a press release reporting its preliminary financial results for the fiscal quarter and year ended April 2, 2010. In addition, at 11:00 AM,  Eastern Time, on May 20, 2010, the Company will hold a teleconference to discuss the Companys fourth quarter and year end results, which will include a slide presentation accessible on the Companys website at http://www.csc.com under Investor Relations. The press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
This information is furnished and not filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. It may only be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or the Securities Act of 1933 only if and to the extent such subsequent filing specifically references the information incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
Item 8.01                      Other Events
.
On May 19, 2010, the Companys Board of Directors declared a dividend of $0.15 per share for the quarter ended April 2, 2010, payable on July 15, 2010 to the holders of record of the Companys common stock as of the close of business on June 15, 2010.
Item 9.01                      Financial Statements and Exhibits
.
Exhibit
99.1                      Earnings Release (furnished herewith)
.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereto duly authorized.
COMPUTER SCIENCES CORPORATION
 
 
 
Exhibit
99.1                      Earnings Release (furnished herewith)
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
FALLS CHURCH, Va., May 20  CSC (NYSE: CSC) today reported fourth quarter fiscal 2010
revenue of $4.2 billion and fully diluted earnings per share (EPS) of $1.66 compared to fourth quarter
fiscal 2009 revenue of $4.1 billion and EPS of $2.51 (which included $1.11 of net favorable tax audit settlements).
For the full year, revenue was $16.1 billion (compared to $16.7 billion for the previous year), and EPS was $5.28 (compared to $7.31 for the previous year which included a total of $3.36 of net favorable tax audit settlements).
Highlights for the Quarter and Full Year include:
 
 
 
EXHIBIT 99.1
 
Commenting on the results, CSC Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Michael Laphen said, We had a solid quarter and an outstanding year marked by robust cash generation, further increased profitability, and a significantly strengthened balance sheet. I am especially pleased with our success in capturing new business with another $4.3 billion of new awards in the quarter bringing our total year result to $19.2 billion, a record for CSC and $3 billion above last year.
New Business Awards
 
The breakdown of the $4.3 billion of new business awards in the quarter by our three lines of business is as follows: North American Public Sector (NPS) contributed $1.4 billion ($7.1 billion for the full year), Business Solutions and Services (BSS) reported $0.8 billion ($3.4 billion for the full year), and Managed Services Sector (MSS) closed $2.1 billion of new business ($8.7 billion for the full year).
 
Business Outlook
 
Our fourth quarter revenue reflects a sequential increase of 7%, and that, coupled with the $19.2 billion of new business awards, positions us for a return to growth in Fiscal Year 2011 said Laphen. As the world economies gradually improve, our financial strength, market position, and innovative solutions will stimulate expansion across our three lines of business.
 
Lines of Business
 
 
For the quarter, NPS revenue was $1.61 billion (up 8.8% sequentially and up 6.1% from fourth quarter last year), MSS revenue was $1.69 billion (up 4.4% sequentially and up 4.7% from fourth quarter last year) and BSS revenue was $0.97 billion (up 9.5% sequentially and down 4.1% from fourth quarter last year).
 
Dividend Declaration
 
Laphen added, Our focus on operational and financial excellence and particularly cash generation gives us the confidence that we can adequately fund the necessary investments in technology and strategic acquisitions while enhancing our return to investors.
 
Therefore, as a demonstration of that confidence in performance and commitment to our shareholders, the companys Board of Directors authorized and declared a quarterly dividend of $0.15 per share payable July 2010.
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT 99.1
 
Guidance
 
For fiscal year 2011, the company anticipates bookings in excess of $18 billion, revenue in the range of $16.8 billion to $17.2 billion (an increase of 4% to 7%) and operating margin between 9% and 9.25%, representing a further increase of 25 to 50 basis points. EPS is projected to be in the $5.30 to $5.40 range, representing an increase of approximately 20% when normalized for tax rate. Free Cash Flow is forecast to be in excess of 90% of net income attributable to CSC common shareholders.
 
Conference Call and Webcast
 
CSC senior management will host a conference call and Webcast at 11:00 a.m. EST today. The conference call dial-in number for domestic callers is 877-604-9670. International callers will need to dial 719-325-4813. The pass code for all participants is 9342404. The Webcast and presentation slides can be accessed at .
www.csc.com/investorrelations
 
Non-GAAP Measures
 
In an effort to provide investors with additional information regarding the companys results as determined by generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), the company has also disclosed in this press release non-GAAP information which management believes provides useful information to investors, including: operating income, operating margin, free cash flow and free cash flow as a percentage of net income attributable to CSC common shareholders.  A reconciliation of the adjustments to GAAP results for this quarter and prior periods, as well as the rationale for managements use of non-GAAP measures, is included in the tables below.
 
About CSC
 
CSC is a global leader in providing technology-enabled solutions and services through three primary lines of business.  These include Business Solutions & Services, the Managed Services Sector and the North American Public Sector.  CSCs advanced capabilities include system design and integration, information technology and business process outsourcing, applications software development, Web and application hosting, mission support and management consulting.  Headquartered in Falls Church, VA., CSC has approximately 94,000 employees and reported revenue of $16.1 billion for the 12 months ended April 2, 2010.  For more information, visit the companys Web Site at .
www.csc.com
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
 
All statements in this press release and in all future press releases that do not directly and exclusively relate to historical facts constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements represent the companys intentions, plans, expectations and beliefs, and are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which are outside the companys control. These factors could cause actual results to differ materially from such forward-looking statements. For a written description of these factors, see the section titled Risk Factors in CSCs Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 3, 2009 and any updating information in subsequent SEC filings.  The company disclaims any intention or obligation to update these forward-looking statements whether as a result of subsequent event or otherwise, except as required by law.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT 99.1
 
CSC-Page 8
 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
The following tables reconcile operating income and free cash flow to the most directly comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP). CSC management believes that these non-GAAP financial measures provide useful information to investors regarding the Companys financial condition and results of operations as they provide another measure of the Companys profitability and ability to service its debt, and are considered important measures by financial analysts covering CSC and its peers. Management uses operating income to evaluate business unit financial performance and it is one of the measures used in assessing management performance. One of the limitations associated with the use of operating income (as compared to reported ea rnings) is that it does not reflect the complete financial results of the Company. CSC compensates for these limitations by providing a reconciliation between operating income and reported earnings.
Note: Capital lease payments and proceeds from the sale of property and equipment (included in investment activities) are included in the calculation of free cash flow (FCF).  Operating margin is defined as operating income as a percentage of revenue.  Pre-tax margin is defined as Income before taxes as a percentage of revenue.
 
 
 
 


