FILE:CSC/CSC-8K-20110209083706.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Item 2.02.                      Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On February 9, 2011, Computer Sciences Corporation (the Company) issued a press release reporting its preliminary financial results for the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2010. In addition, at 11:00 AM, Eastern Time, on February 9, 2011, the Company will hold a teleconference to discuss the Companys third quarter results, which will include a slide presentation accessible on the Companys website at http://www.csc.com under Investor Relations. The press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
This information is furnished and not filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. It may only be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or the Securities Act of 1933 only if and to the extent such subsequent filing specifically references the information incorporated by reference herein.
Item 9.01.                      Financial Statements and Exhibits
Exhibit
99.1                      Earnings Release (furnished herewith).
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereto duly authorized.
Exhibit
99.1                      Earnings Release (furnished herewith)
 
 
 

 
 
 
FALLS CHURCH, Va., Feb. 9  CSC (NYSE: CSC) today reported third quarter fiscal 2011 revenue of $4.01 billion and fully diluted earnings per share (EPS) of $1.54 compared to third quarter fiscal 2010 revenue of $3.95 billion and EPS of $1.36. The year to date revenue was $11.93 billion and EPS was $3.64 compared to the year to date fiscal 2010 revenue of $11.89 billion and EPS of $3.62.
 
Operating cash flow was $462 million for the quarter, as compared to $131 million from the previous year. For the year to date, operating cash flow was $804 million compared to $407 million from the previous year.
Free Cash Flow was $253 million for the quarter, as compared to -$107 million from the previous year. For the year to date, free cash flow was $110 million compared to -$140 million from the previous year.
Commenting on the results, CSC Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Michael W. Laphen said, Our revenue growth of 1.4% (2.1% constant currency) reflects year over year growth within all of our business sectors. Sequentially, our Public Sector revenue continues to be impacted by award decision delays by the federal government while our Commercial segments continue on their growth trajectory. Operating results were primarily impacted by a trailing effect from the previously disclosed Nordics Region issue, offset by a lower tax rate, resulting in a year over year increase in EPS.  I am pleased to see the positive results from our continued focus on cash management and the corresponding contribution to our balance sheet strength.
 
 
New Business Awards
 
Across the three lines of business, new business awards for the quarter were $2.3 billion. North American Public Sector (NPS) contributed approximately $0.5 billion, Business Solutions & Services (BSS) reported $0.8 billion and Managed Services Sector (MSS) closed $1.0 billion of new business.
 
 
1
 
 
Revenue by Line of Business
 
For the quarter, NPS revenue was $1.48 billion (up 0.3% from the third quarter last year), MSS revenue was $1.65 billion (up 2.2% from the third quarter last year) and BSS revenue was $899 million (up 1.4% from the third quarter last year).
 
 
Business Outlook
 
The acquisitions we announced during the quarter further demonstrated the progress we are making in the expansion of our capabilities in Cyber Security and Healthcare, continued Laphen. We have also cloud-enabled more of our data centers and we are experiencing more demand for these services. Although the sluggish pace of new business awards in NPS is impacting the rate of our revenue growth, we remain confident our businesses will grow in line with our longer term projections and our Commercial businesses, which are already growing at a steady pace, will continue to benefit from the opportunities arising from Cloud, Cyber and Healthcare.
 
 
Guidance
 
As a consequence of the above, the company modified its Fiscal Year 2011 guidance as follows:
 
 
Conference Call and Webcast
 
CSC senior management will host a conference call and Webcast at 11:00 a.m. EST today. The conference call dial-in number for domestic callers is 888-312-3046. International callers will need to dial +1 719-325-2282. The pass code for all participants is 6914748. The Webcast and presentation slides can be accessed at .
www.csc.com/investor_relations
 
 
 
2
 
 
Non-GAAP Measures
 
In an effort to provide investors with additional information regarding the Companys results as determined by generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), the company has also disclosed in this press release non-GAAP information which management believes provides useful information to investors, including: operating income, operating margin, free cash flow and free cash flow as a percentage of net income attributable to CSC common shareholders.  A reconciliation of the adjustments to GAAP results for this quarter and prior periods, as well as the rationale for managements use of non-GAAP measures, is included in the tables below.
 
 
About CSC
 
CSC is a global leader in providing technology-enabled solutions and services through three primary lines of business. These include Business Solutions and Services, the Managed Services Sector and the North American Public Sector. CSCs advanced capabilities include system design and integration, information technology and business process outsourcing, applications software development, Web and application hosting, mission support and management consulting. The company has been recognized as a leader in the industry, including being named by FORTUNE Magazine as one of the Worlds Most Admired Companies for Information Technology Services (2010). Headquartered in Falls Church, Va., CSC has approximately 93,000 employees and reported revenue of $16.2 billion for the 12 months ended December 31, 2010. For more information, vis it the companys website at www.csc.com.
 
All statements in this press release and in all future press releases that do not directly and exclusively relate to historical facts constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements represent the Companys intentions, plans, expectations and beliefs, and are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which are outside the Companys control. These factors could cause actual results to differ materially from such forward-looking statements. For a written description of these factors, see the section titled Risk Factors in CSCs Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 2, 2010 and any updating information in subsequent SEC filings.  The Company disclaims any intention or obligation to update these forward-looking statements whether as a result of subsequent event or otherwise, except as required by law.
 
 
3
 
                                                                                                                                        
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
Revenues by Segment
(preliminary and unaudited)
performed by the North American Public Sector reporting segment (NPS).
 
4
 
                                                                                                                                         
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
Consolidated Condensed Statements of Income
(preliminary and unaudited)
 
5
 
                                                                                                                             
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
Selected Balance Sheet Data
(preliminary and unaudited)
 
6
 
                                                                                                                                       
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
Consolidated Condensed Statement of Cash Flows
(preliminary and unaudited)
 
7
 
                                                                                                                                      
&# 160;  
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
The following tables reconcile operating income and free cash flow to the most directly comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP.  CSC management believes that these non-GAAP financial measures provide useful information to investors regarding the Companys financial condition and results of operations as they provide another measure of the Companys profitability and ability to service its debt, and are considered important measures by financial analysts covering CSC and its peers.  Management uses operating income to evaluate business unit financial performance and it is one of the measures used in assessing management performance.  One of the limitations associated with the use of operating income (as compared to reported earnings) is that it does not reflec t the complete financial results of the Company.  CSC compensates for these limitations by providing reconciliation between operating income and income before taxes.
GAAP Reconciliations
Note:  Payments on capital leases and other long-term asset financings, and proceeds from the sale of property and equipment (included in investment activities) are included in the calculation of Free Cash Flow (FCF).  Operating margin is defined as operating income as a percentage of revenue.  Pre-tax margin is defined as income before taxes as a percentage of revenue.
 
8
 


