FILE:CSC/CSC-8K-20111109085149.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02.                      Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On November 9, 2011, Computer Sciences Corporation (the Company) issued a press release reporting its preliminary financial results for the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2011. In addition, at 11:00 AM, Eastern Time, on November 9, 2011, the Company will hold a teleconference to discuss the Companys second quarter results, which will include a slide presentation accessible on the Companys website at http://www.csc.com under Investor Relations. The press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
This information is furnished and not filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. It may only be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or the Securities Act of 1933 only if and to the extent such subsequent filing specifically references the information incorporated by reference herein.
Item 9.01.                      Financial Statements and Exhibits
Exhibit
99.1                      Earnings Release (furnished herewith).
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereto duly authorized.
 
 
COMPUTER SCIENCES CORPORATION
   
   
   
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
Exhibit
99.1                      Earnings Release (furnished herewith)
 
 
 

 
FALLS CHURCH, Va., Nov. 9  CSC (NYSE: CSC) today reported results for the second quarter of fiscal 2012 ended September 30, 2011.
The results are as follows:
 
1
 
New Business Awards
Across the three lines of business, new business awards for the second quarter were $6.6 billion.  North American Public Sector (NPS) contributed $3.1 billion, MSS reported $2.6 billion, and Business Solutions & Services closed $0.9 billion of new business.
On a year-to-date basis, new business awards were approximately $8.9 billion compared to $7.9 billion in the previous year.
Revenue by Line of Business
For the quarter, revenue from BSS was $0.95 billion (an increase of 8.7% from the second quarter last year and 2.4% in constant currency).  NPS revenue was $1.44 billion (down 4.8% from the second quarter last year and down 2.1% when adjusted for the settlement of disputed claims with the U.S. Government).  MSS revenue was $1.62 billion (an increase of 2.4% from the second quarter of last year and a decline of 2.8% in constant currency).
Business Commentary
The first half total bookings of $8.9 billion is encouraging and reflects the investment we have made in our sales organization, said Michael W. Laphen, CSC Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. I am encouraged with the direction of our commercial revenue in the quarter and although the NPS business continues to be impacted by the Federal budget uncertainty, I am comfortable with our relative position in this market.
With respect to the bottom line, MSS is a turnaround story and as previously announced we have made several organization and process changes aimed at accelerating improvements. As stated above, we have taken a non-cash goodwill impairment charge resulting from our annual test which is normally conducted in our second quarter. In our estimation, a key contributor to this charge is the fact that our stock price has been under pressure of late as the result of several business and market uncertainties. During the quarter our equitable settlement with the US government was finalized, resulting in a $1 billion incremental contract value, a cash payment to the Company of $277 million and a non-cash
pre-tax charge of $269 million.
 
2
 
Fiscal Year 2012 Updated Guidance
* excluding the claims settlement and the goodwill impairment charge
Conference Call and Webcast
CSC senior management will host a conference call and Webcast at 11:00 a.m. EST today. The conference call dial-in number for domestic callers is 877-681-3370. International callers will need to dial +1 719-457-1517. The pass code for all participants is 2693468. The Webcast and presentation slides can be accessed at .
www.csc.com/investor_relations
Non-GAAP Measures
In an effort to provide investors with additional information regarding the Companys preliminary results as determined by generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), the Company has also disclosed in this press release preliminary non-GAAP information which management believes provides useful information to investors, including: pro forma data, operating income, operating margin, free cash flow and free cash flow as a percentage of net income attributable to CSC common shareholders.  A reconciliation of the adjustments to preliminary GAAP results for this quarter, twelve months and prior periods, as well as the rationale for managements use of non-GAAP measures, is included in the tables below.
About CSC
CSC is a global leader in providing technology-enabled business solutions and services. Headquartered in Falls Church, Va., CSC has approximately 97,000 employees and reported revenue of $16.2 billion for the 12 months ended September 30, 2011. For more information, visit the company's website at www.csc.com.
All statements in this press release and in all future press releases that do not directly and exclusively relate to historical facts constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements represent the Companys intentions, plans, expectations and beliefs, and are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which are outside the Companys control. These factors could cause actual results to differ materially from such forward-looking statements. For a written description of these factors, see the section titled Risk Factors in CSCs Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 1, 2011 and any updating information in subsequent SEC filings.  The Company disclaims any intention or obligation to update these forward-looking statements whether as a result of subsequent event or otherwise, except as required by law.
 
3
 
CSC-Page 4
                                                                                                                                                      11/09/2011
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
Revenues by Segment
(preliminary and unaudited)
 
4
 
CSC-Page 5
                                                                                                                                                11/09/2011
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
Consolidated Condensed Statements of Operations
(preliminary and unaudited)
 
5
 
CSC-Page 6
                                                                                                                                                  11/09/2011
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
Selected Balance Sheet Data
(preliminary and unaudited)
 
6
 
CSC-Page 7
                                                                                                                                                           
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
Consolidated Condensed Statement of Cash Flows
(preliminary and unaudited)
 
7
 
CSC-Page 8
 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
The following tables reconcile operating income and free cash flow to the most directly comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP.  CSC management believes that these non-GAAP financial measures provide useful information to investors regarding the Companys financial condition and results of operations as they provide another measure of the Companys profitability and ability to service its debt, and are considered important measures by financial analysts covering CSC and its peers.  Management uses operating income to evaluate business unit financial performance and it is one of the measures used in assessing management performance.  One of the limitations associated with the use of operating income (as compared to reported earnings) is that it does not reflect the complete financial results of the Company.  CSC compensates for these limitations by providing reconciliation between operating income and income before taxes.
GAAP Reconciliations
Note:  Free cash flow is a non-GAAP measure and the Company's definition of such measure may differ from other companies. We define free cash flow as equal to the sum of (1) operating cash flows, (2) investing cash flows, excluding business acquisitions, dispositions and investments (including short-term investments and purchase or sale of available for sale securities), and (3) payments on capital leases and other long-term asset financings. Operating margin is defined as operating income as a percentage of revenue. Pre-tax margin is defined as income before taxes as a percentage of revenue.
 
8
 
CSC-Page 9
                                                                                                                                      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
   
   
 
Profit and Loss Statement Pro Forma
 
(Amounts in millions)
 
 
 
Pro Forma: excludes Goodwill Impairment, Claims settlement, and iSOFT impact. This table reconciles Pro Forma Revenue, Operating Income, and EPS (all non-GAAP measures) to the most directly comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP. CSC Management believes that these non-GAAP financial measures provide useful information to investors regarding the impact of two large non-cash items and a significant acquisition which occurred in Q2 FY12. Numbers may not add up due to rounding.
 
 
9
 


