FILE:CSC/CSC-8K-20110803162601.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Item 2.01.  Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets.
On July 29, 2011 (the Effective Date), Computer Sciences Corporation (CSC) completed the acquisition of iSoft Group Limited (iSoft) pursuant to a Scheme Implementation Agreement (the SIA) by and among CSC, CSC Computer Sciences Australia Holdings Pty Limited (CSC Australia), and iSoft.  Under the SIA, CSC acquired, through CSC Australia, all of the issued fully paid ordinary shares in iSOFT, together with the cancellation of all options to subscribe for fully paid ordinary shares in iSOFT, by means of separate schemes of arrangement under Part 5.1 of the .  The SIA was approved by the iSoft stockholders on July 15, 2011. Pursuant to the SIA, at the closing, holders of iSoft ordinary shares, options, convertible notes and warrants received aggregate cash consideration of $246 million, and CSC also paid off approximately $256 million of outstanding iSoft debt.   The acquisition was funded through the CSCs existing cash balances.
Corporations Act
iSoft will continue its operations as a wholly owned subsidiary of CSC Australia.
 
The foregoing summary is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the SIA, which is filed as Exhibit 2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits
   
(a)
 
Financial Statements of Business Acquired.
Financial statements to the extent required by this item are not currently available.  As permitted by Item 9.01(a)(4) of Form 8-K, if required, the Company will file the financial statements required by Item 9.01(a)(1) of Form 8-K pursuant to an amendment to this Form 8-K within 71 calendar days after the date this Form 8-K is required to be filed.
(b)
 
Pro Forma Financial Information.
Pro forma financial information to the extent required by this item is not currently available.  As permitted by Item 9.01(b)(2) of Form 8-K, if required, the Company will file the pro forma financial information required by Item 9.01(b)(1) of Form 8-K pursuant to an amendment to this Form 8-K within 71 calendar days after the date this Form 8-K is required to be filed.
(d) Exhibits
                                                        
Exhibit
Description
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereto duly authorized.
Securities Exchange
 
 
 
 
 
                                                        
Exhibit
Description
 
 
 


