FILE:CSC/CSC-8K-20110525161531.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Item 2.02.                      Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On May 25, 2011, Computer Sciences Corporation (the Company) issued a press release reporting its preliminary financial results for the fiscal quarter and year ended April 1, 2011. In addition, at 5:00 PM, Eastern Time, on May 25, 2010, the Company will hold a teleconference to discuss the Companys preliminary fourth quarter and year-end results, which will include a slide presentation accessible on the Companys website at http://www.csc.com under Investor Relations. The press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
This information is furnished and not filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. It may only be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or the Securities Act of 1933 only if and to the extent such subsequent filing specifically references the information incorporated by reference herein.
Item 9.01.                      Financial Statements and Exhibits
Exhibit
99.1                      Earnings Release (furnished herewith).
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereto duly authorized.
 
 
 
Exhibit
99.1                      Earnings Release (furnished herewith)
 
 
 

 
FALLS CHURCH, Va., May 25  CSC (NYSE: CSC) today reported preliminary fourth quarter fiscal 2011 revenue of $4.20 billion and fully diluted earnings per share (EPS including discontinued operations) of $1.09 compared to fourth quarter fiscal 2010 revenue of $4.20 billion and EPS of $1.66.
 
 
The preliminary fourth quarter results are in-line with our updated guidance issued on May 2, said Michael W. Laphen, CSC Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. Although Fiscal Year 2011 was challenging given the NHS uncertainty, the unexpected difficulties in the Nordics and the delays in the Federal budgets, I am pleased with the sequential and year over year revenue growth achieved in our commercial business. Excluding the challenges, our business performed as expected in terms of operating margin and free cash flow.
The Company also announced preliminary full year revenue of $16.04 billion and EPS (including discontinued operations) of $4.73 compared to fiscal 2010 revenue of $15.92 billion and EPS of $5.28. The reduction in the Companys preliminary earnings per share for fiscal 2011 as compared to fiscal 2010 is primarily due to a profit adjustment related to the Companys contract with National Health Service in the United Kingdom,  net out of period adjustments in the Companys Managed Services Sector and a higher effective tax rate.
 
Exhibit A provides a breakdown of the Companys preliminary 2011 EPS from continuing and discontinued operations with comparisons to its May 2, 2011 guidance.
Preliminary highlights for the quarter and full year include:
 
1
 
Investigation Update; Preliminary Results Subject to Change
 
As previously disclosed, in fiscal year 2011 the Company initiated an investigation into certain accounting errors in the Companys Managed Services Sector (MSS), primarily involving accounting irregularities in  the Nordic region.  Initially, the investigation was conducted by Company personnel, but outside Company counsel and forensic accountants retained by such counsel later assisted in the Companys investigation.  On January 28, 2011, the Company was notified by the Division of Enforcement of the had commenced a formal civil investigation relating to these matters, with which the Company is cooperating.  On May 2, 2011, the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors commenced an independent investigation into matters relating to MSS and the Nordic region, matters identified by subpoenas issued by the SECs Division of Enforcement and certain other accounting matters identified by the Audit Committee and retained independent counsel to represent CSC on behalf of, and under the exclusive direction of, the Audit Committee in connection with such independent investigation.  Independent counsel has retained forensic accountants to assist their work.  Independent counsel also represents CSC on behalf of, and under the exclusive direction of, the Audit Committee in connection with the investigation by the SECs Division of Enforcement.
United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) that the SEC
 
 
In addition, the SECs Division of Corporation Finance has issued comment letters to the Company requesting additional information regarding its previously disclosed adjustments in connection with the above-referenced accounting errors, the Companys conclusions regarding such adjustments and the Companys analysis of the effectiveness of its disclosure controls and procedures and its internal control over financial reporting.  The Company is responding to such comments.
 
 
The investigation of the accounting irregularities in the Nordic region is not sufficiently complete so as to allow the Audit Committee and the Company to determine the appropriateness of filing the Companys financial statements for the year ended April 1, 2011. Consequently, the Company will not be able to file its Form 10-K for the year ended April 1, 2011 before the required filing date of May 31, 2011. The Company currently anticipates that the Form 10-K will be filed on or before June 15, 2011, the prescribed due date according to SEC Rule 12b-25.
 
 
Because the Company has not issued its financial statements for the year ended April 1, 2011, all financial results and other financial data described in this press release should be considered preliminary and are subject to change to reflect any necessary additional corrections or adjustments, or changes in accounting estimates, that are identified in connection with these matters.  In addition, the outcomes of the SEC and Audit Committee investigations are uncertain at this time.
 
 
The Company is unable to predict the effect, if any, the foregoing matters may have on its business, financial condition or results of operations.
 
 
2
 
 
 
New Business Awards
Across the three lines of business, new business awards for the fourth quarter were $4.0 billion.  North American Public Sector (NPS) contributed approximately $0.9 billion, Business Solutions & Services (BSS) reported $1.1 billion and the Managed Services Sector (MSS) closed $2.0 billion of new business.
For the full year, new business awards of $14.0 billion were comprised of $5.5 billion from NPS, $3.5 billion from BSS, and $5.0 billion from MSS.
Preliminary Revenue by Line of Business
For the quarter, NPS revenue from continuing operations was $1.50 billion (down 4.4% from the fourth quarter last year), MSS revenue was $1.75 billion (an increase of 3.6% from the fourth quarter of last year and 1.4% in constant currency) and BSS revenue from continuing operations was $981 million (up 1.0% from the fourth quarter last year and down 1.4% in constant currency).
For the fiscal year, NPS revenue from continuing operations was $6.00 billion (down 1.5% from last year), MSS revenue was $6.58 billion (an increase of 2.0% from last year and up 2.1% in constant currency) and BSS revenue from continuing operations was $3.57 billion (up 2.5% from last year and 2.7% in constant currency).
Business Outlook
As I said at our recent investor conference, I am confident in the Companys future, continued Laphen. The industry analysts have recognized our leadership position in the emerging technologies in demand and we will continue to invest in these areas. The Company is financially solid, weve realigned our sales engine and infused new talent.  I believe we have a great market position as we head into fiscal year 2012.
 
 
Share Repurchases
During the fourth quarter, the Company used $65 million of cash on hand to purchase approximately 1.4 million shares under the Companys previously-announced open market share repurchase program.
Guidance
The Company issued fiscal year 2012 guidance as follows:
 
3
 
 
The above forecast does not reflect any impact from the pending acquisition of iSOFT.
 
 
Conference Call and Webcast
CSC senior management will host a conference call and Webcast at 5 p.m. EST today. The conference call dial-in number for domestic callers is 800-479-9001. International callers will need to dial +1 719-457-2710. The pass code for all participants is 9399139. The Webcast and presentation slides can be accessed at .
www.csc.com/investor_relations
Non-GAAP Measures
In an effort to provide investors with additional information regarding the Companys preliminary results as determined by generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), the Company has also disclosed in this press release preliminary non-GAAP information which management believes provides useful information to investors, including: operating income, operating margin, free cash flow and free cash flow as a percentage of net income attributable to CSC common shareholders.  A reconciliation of the adjustments to preliminary GAAP results for this quarter, twelve months and prior periods, as well as the rationale for managements use of non-GAAP measures, is included in the tables below.
About CSC
CSC is a global leader in providing technology-enabled business solutions and services. Headquartered in Falls Church, Va., CSC has approximately 91,000 employees and reported revenue of $16.0 billion for the 12 months ended April 1, 2011. For more information, visit the company's website at .
www.csc.com
 
All statements in this press release and in all future press releases that do not directly and exclusively relate to historical facts constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements represent the Companys intentions, plans, expectations and beliefs, and are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which are outside the Companys control. These factors could cause actual results to differ materially from such forward-looking statements. For a written description of these factors, see the section titled Risk Factors in CSCs Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 2, 2010 and any updating information in subsequent SEC filings.  The Company disclaims any intention or obligation to update these forward-looking statements whether as a result of subsequent event or otherwise, except as required by law.
 
4
 
CSC-Page 5
Revenues by Segment
 (preliminary and unaudited)
 
5
 
CSC-Page 6
Consolidated Statements of Income
(preliminary and unaudited)
 
6
 
CSC-Page 7
Selected Balance Sheet Data
(preliminary and unaudited)
 
7
 
CSC-Page 8
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
(preliminary and unaudited)
 
8
 
CSC-Page 9
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
The following tables reconcile operating income and free cash flow to the most directly comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP.  CSC management believes that these non-GAAP financial measures provide useful information to investors regarding the Companys financial condition and results of operations as they provide another measure of the Companys profitability and ability to service its debt, and are considered important measures by financial analysts covering CSC and its peers.  Management uses operating income to evaluate business unit financial performance and it is one of the measures used in assessing management performance.  One of the limitations associated with the use of operating income (as compared to reported earnings) is that it does not reflect the complete financial results of the Company.  CSC compensates for these limitations by providing reconciliation between operating income and income from continuing operations before taxes.
GAAP Reconciliations
Note:  Payments on capital leases and other long-term asset financings, and proceeds from the sale of property and equipment (included in investment activities) are included in the calculation of Free Cash Flow (FCF). Operating margin is defined as operating income as a percentage of revenue. Pre-tax margin is defined as income before taxes as a percentage of revenue.
 
 
9
 


