FILE:CSC/CSC-8K-20110810091421.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02.                      Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On August 10, 2011, Computer Sciences Corporation (the Company) issued a press release reporting its preliminary financial results for the fiscal quarter ended July 1, 2011. In addition, at 11:00 AM, Eastern Time, on August 10, 2011, the Company will hold a teleconference to discuss the Companys first quarter results, which will include a slide presentation accessible on the Companys website at http://www.csc.com under Investor Relations. The press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
This information is furnished and not filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. It may only be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or the Securities Act of 1933 only if and to the extent such subsequent filing specifically references the information incorporated by reference herein.
Item 9.01.                      Financial Statements and Exhibits
Exhibit
99.1                      Earnings Release (furnished herewith).
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereto duly authorized.
 
 
 
Exhibit
99.1                      Earnings Release (furnished herewith)
 
 
 

 
FALLS CHURCH, Va., Aug. 10  CSC (NYSE: CSC) today reported first quarter fiscal 2012 revenue of $4.03 billion and fully diluted earnings per share (EPS) from continuing operations of $1.18 compared to first quarter fiscal 2011 revenue of $3.91 billion and EPS from continuing operations of $0.89.
 
 
Results for the quarter include:
This quarters margin results were adversely affected by performance within the Managed Services Sector (MSS). Improvement actions are underway within this business, said Michael W. Laphen, CSC Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. Our other two lines of business delivered results essentially in line with our expectations.  I am particularly encouraged by the revenue growth in Business Solutions & Services (BSS) which weve identified as our growth platform. We are very pleased to have closed our acquisition of iSOFT with its depth of quality healthcare resources and clients.
 
1
 
New Business Awards
Across the three lines of business, new business awards for the first quarter were $2.3 billion.  North American Public Sector (NPS) contributed $0.9 billion, BSS reported $0.9 billion and MSS closed $0.5 billion of new business.
On a year-to-date basis, new business awards are approximately $4.1 billion with a further $1.4 billion of awards for which CSC has been down-selected to one and/or the only party in negotiations.
Revenue by Line of Business
For the quarter, BSS revenue was $0.96 billion (an increase of 17.1% from the first quarter last year and 8.0% in constant currency).  NPS revenue was $1.48 billion (down 2.4% from the first quarter last year but flat when adjusted for the Census contract contribution in the previous fiscal year).  MSS revenue was $1.62 billion (an increase of 1.3% from the first quarter of last year and a decline of 5.7% in constant currency).
Fiscal Year 2012 Updated Guidance
The Companys updated guidance for fiscal year 2012 includes the July 29, 2011 iSOFT acquisition and related costs.
Conference Call and Webcast
CSC senior management will host a conference call and Webcast at 11:00 a.m. EDT today. The conference call dial-in number for domestic callers is 877-548-7906. International callers will need to dial +1 719-325-4805. The pass code for all participants is 5541259. The Webcast and presentation slides can be accessed at .
www.csc.com/investor_relations
 
2
 
Non-GAAP Measures
In an effort to provide investors with additional information regarding the Companys preliminary results as determined by generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), the Company has also disclosed in this press release preliminary non-GAAP information which management believes provides useful information to investors, including: operating income, operating margin, free cash flow and free cash flow as a percentage of net income attributable to CSC common shareholders.  A reconciliation of the adjustments to preliminary GAAP results for this quarter, twelve months and prior periods, as well as the rationale for managements use of non-GAAP measures, is included in the tables below.
About CSC
CSC is a global leader in providing technology-enabled business solutions and services. Headquartered in Falls Church, Va., CSC has approximately 93,000 employees and reported revenue of $16.2 billion for the 12 months ended July 1, 2011. For more information, visit the company's website at www.csc.com.
All statements in this press release and in all future press releases that do not directly and exclusively relate to historical facts constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements represent the Companys intentions, plans, expectations and beliefs, and are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which are outside the Companys control. These factors could cause actual results to differ materially from such forward-looking statements. For a written description of these factors, see the section titled Risk Factors in CSCs Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 1, 2011 and any updating information in subsequent SEC filings.  The Company disclaims any intention or obligation to update these forward-looking statements whether as a result of subsequent event or otherwise, except as required by law.
 
3
 
 
 
4
 
 
 
5
 
 
 
 
6
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7
 
 
                                                                                                                                         8/10/2011
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
The following tables reconcile operating income and free cash flow to the most directly comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP. CSC management believes that these non-GAAP financial measures provide useful information to investors regarding the Companys financial condition and results of operations as they provide another measure of the Companys profitability and ability to service its debt, and are considered important measures by financial analysts covering CSC and its peers. Management uses operating income to evaluate business unit financial performance and it is one of the measures used in assessing management performance. One of the limitations associated with the use of operating income (as compared to reported earnings) is that it does not reflect the complete financial results of the Company. CSC compensates for these limitations by providing reconciliation between operating income and income before taxes.
 
Note: Payments on capital leases and other long-term asset financings, and proceeds from the sale of property and equipment (included in investment activities) are included in the calculation of Free Cash Flow (FCF).  Operating margin is defined as operating income as a percentage of revenue.  Pre-tax margin is defined as income from continuing operations before taxes, as a percentage of revenue.
 
 
8
 


