FILE:CSC/CSC-8K-20110405135138.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01.  Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
On April 1, 2011 (the Effective Date), Computer Sciences Corporation (CSC) announced that it has entered into a Scheme Implementation Agreement (the SIA) by and among CSC, CSC Computer Sciences Australia Holdings Pty Limited (CSC Australia), and iSoft Group Limited (iSoft) pursuant to which CSC will acquire, through CSC Australia, all of the issued fully paid ordinary shares in iSOFT, together with the cancellation of all options to subscribe for fully paid ordinary shares in iSOFT, by means of separate schemes of arrangement under Part 5.1 of the .
Corporations Act
 
The offer to iSOFT shareholders is at A$0.17 per share. Closing of the transaction is expected during the second quarter of CSCs 2012 fiscal year, and is subject to various conditions, including, , iSOFT shareholder approval and certain Australian and EU regulatory approvals.  As a result of the transactions contemplated by the proposed scheme of arrangement, at completion, iSoft will continue its operations as a wholly owned subsidiary of CSC Australia.
inter alia
 
The foregoing summary is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the SIA, which is filed as Exhibit 2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.  Capitalized terms used but not defined herein have the meanings ascribed to such terms in the SIA.
 
 
A press release announcing the SIA is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.  The text of the release is incorporated herein by reference and made a part hereof.
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits
                                                           
Exhibit
Description
99                     Press Release
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
Exhibit
 
 
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 2
 
 
Scheme Implementation Agreement
 
iSOFT Group Limited
 
CSC Computer Sciences Australia Holdings Pty Limited
 
Computer Sciences Corporation
 
 
 
 
 
 
Contents
 
Clause
Number                      Heading Page
 
 
 
 
i
 
 
Recitals
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Operative provisions
 
 
 
Definitions
 
 
 
 
1
 
 
 
 
means, in relation to an entity, its legal, financial and other expert advisers (not including the Independent Expert).
Adviser
 
 
an amount equivalent to the Warrant Consideration multiplied by the number of the Warrants held by Oceania as at the date of this Agreement.
Aggregate Warrant Consideration means
 
 
means the Australian Securities and Investments Commission.
ASIC
 
 
has the meaning given in section 12(2) of the Corporations Act as if iSOFT was the designated body
Associate
.
 
 
means ASX Limited (ACN 008 624 691) or, where the context requires, the securities market which it operates.
ASX
 
 
any material licence, permit or approval granted by a Government Agency, that is necessary for the iSOFT Group to conduct its business as it is being conducted as at the date of this Agreement.
Authorisation means, in relation to the iSOFT Group,
 
 
means the Bidder Parent and each of its respective Subsidiaries.
Bidder Group
 
 
means each member of the Bidder Group and their respective Representatives.
Bidder Indemnified Party
 
 
one or more occurrences or any fact, matter or circumstance (whenever occurring) that is announced or becomes known to iSOFT that individually, or when aggregated with all such occurrences, facts, matters or circumstances, has had or is reasonably likely to have one of the following effects to prevent or would be likely to prevent Bidder from materially discharging its obligations under this Agreement, unless that occurrence, fact, matter or circumstance:
Bidder Material Adverse Change means
 
 
 
 
means the occurrence of any of the following:
Bidder Prescribed Event
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
means information about the Bidder Group which is provided to iSOFT by or on behalf of Bidder to enable the Scheme Booklet to be prepared in accordance with all applicable laws, applicable ASIC guidance and policies (including ASIC Regulatory Guide 60) and the Listing Rules or to the Independent Expert to enable it to prepare its report, including information regarding the arrangements Bidder has in place to fund the Scheme Consideration and the Option Scheme Consideration and Bidder's intentions with respect to the assets, business and employees of iSOFT if the Scheme is implemented, including any section describing the merged business.
Bidder Scheme Information
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
means the representations and warranties of Bidder set out in clause 7.4.
Bidder Warranties
 
 
means a day that is not a Saturday, Sunday or a public holiday or bank holiday in Sydney, NSW Australia and Virginia, United States of America.
Business Day
 
 
means a demand, claim, action or proceeding, however arising and whether present, unascertained, immediate, future or contingent, including any claim for specific performance.
Claim
 
 
means any expression of interest, offer or proposal by any person (other than Bidder or its Associates):
Competing Proposal
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
means any relevant government, governmental, national, supranational, competition or antitrust body or other authority, in any jurisdiction, which is responsible for applying merger control or other competition or antitrust legislation in such jurisdictions and, for the avoidance of doubt, includes the notion of "competent authority" as that term is used in the EU Regulation.
Competition Authority
 
 
means completion of the implementation of the Scheme or Option Scheme (as the context requires) on the Implementation Date.
Completion
 
 
Condition means a condition to the Scheme set out in clause 3.1 
and/or a condition to the Option Scheme set out in clause 3.2 
(as the context requires).
 
 
means the confidentiality agreement between iSOFT and Bidder Parent dated on or about 21 September 2010 (as amended on 4 March 2011).
Confidentiality Agreement
 
 
iSOFT Share.
Convertible Notes means a convertible note issued by iSOFT pursuant to the Convertible Note Deed Poll that converts into an
 
 
means the deed poll executed by iSOFT in favour of the holder of Convertible Notes dated on or about 21 August 2007 (as amended from time to time).
Convertible Note Deed Poll
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
Convertible Note Redemption Amount means $39,717,621.22.
 
 
means the (Cth).
Corporations Act
Corporations Act 2001
 
 
means a court of competent jurisdiction under the Corporations Act.
Court
 
 
means the deed poll to be executed by Bidder in the form of Annexure 3.
Deed Poll
 
 
means the day that the Scheme Booklet is dispatched to iSOFT Shareholders and Optionholders.
Dispatch Date
 
 
means, when used in relation to the Scheme or Option Scheme, the coming into effect, under section 411(10) of the Corporations Act, of the Court order made under section 411(4)(b) of the Corporations Act in relation to the Scheme or Option Scheme (as the context requires).
Effective
 
 
means the date on which an office copy of the Court order made under section 411(4)(b) of the Corporations Act approving the Scheme or Option Scheme (as the context requires) is lodged with ASIC.
Effective Date
 
 
means the period between the date of this Agreement and the earliest of:
Exclusivity
Period
 
 
 
 
 
Exercise Price means $0.1614 per Warrant.
 
 
Existing Financing Facilities means the financing facilities which are disclosed in the letter from iSOFT to Bidder dated 28 March 2011, which letter is included as data room document number 22.02.03 in the electronic data room established by iSOFT in connection with the Sale Process.
 
 
EIP Rules means the iSOFT Employee Incentive Plan Rules dated September 2008.
 
 
means any Member State of the European Union or, with the exception of Switzerland, of the European Free Trade Association.
EU Member State
 
 
Council Regulation (EC) 139/2004.
EU Regulation means
 
 
Facilities Agreement means the single currency term and multi-currency facilities agreement dated 23 December 2009 between, amongst other, iSOFT and Barclays Bank plc as facility agent and security agent.
 
 
means disclosed in sufficient detail so as to enable a reasonable and sophisticated buyer (or one of its Representatives) experienced in transactions similar to the Scheme and experienced in a business similar to any business conducted by the iSOFT Group, to identify the nature and scope of the relevant matter, event or circumstance.
Fairly Disclosed
 
 
means the date of the hearing by the Court of the application to order the convening of the Scheme Meeting and Option Scheme Meeting under section 411(1) of the Corporations Act.
First Court Date
 
 
means an Australian or foreign:
Government Agency
 
 
 
 
4
 
 
 
 
 
and includes ASX, ASIC, the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission, the Foreign Investment Review Board and the Takeovers Panel.
 
 
means goods and services tax as defined in (Cth), or any like tax.
GST
A New Tax Systems (Goods and Services Tax) Act 1999
 
 
Option Scheme Consideration pursuant to this Agreement, the Option Scheme Deed Poll and the Option Scheme, and the Warrant Consideration and the Convertible Note Redemption Amount pursuant to clause 14.2 of this Agreement.
Guaranteed Obligations means the obligations of Bidder to pay the Scheme Consideration pursuant to this Agreement, the Deed Poll and the Scheme, the
 
 
means the requirement under section 411(4)(a)(ii)(A) of the Corporations Act that the resolution to approve the Scheme at the Scheme Meeting is passed by a majority in number of iSOFT Shareholders present and voting, either in person or by proxy.
Headcount Test
 
 
means the implementation of the Scheme or Option Scheme (as the context requires), following it becoming Effective under section 411(10) of the Corporations Act.
Implementation
 
 
means the third Business Day after the Scheme Record Date.
Implementation Date
 
 
means an expert independent of the parties engaged by iSOFT to opine (and prepare a report for inclusion in the Scheme Booklet) on whether the Scheme or the Option Scheme is in the best interests of iSOFT Shareholders or Optionholders (as the case may be).
Independent Expert
 
 
Integration Committee means the operational committee established in accordance with clause 6.13
.
 
 
means the board of directors of iSOFT as constituted from time to time.
iSOFT Board
 
 
iSOFT Director means a director of iSOFT.
 
 
means all information, other than Non-Factual Statements and iSOFT Forecasts, disclosed or made available by or on behalf of iSOFT and its Representatives, in the electronic data room established by iSOFT in connection with the Sale Process, to Bidder or its Representatives in the period up until 5.00pm (London time) on 24 March 2011, including the PwC Report, the materials identified in the letter from and all responses to requests for information made by or on behalf of Bidder and its Representatives.
iSOFT Due Diligence Information
iSOFT to Bidder dated 28 March 2011, which letter is included as data room document number 22.02.02 in the electronic data room established by iSOFT in connection with the Sale Process
 
 
iSOFT Forecasts means the materials identified in the letter from iSOFT to Bidder dated 28 March 2011, which letter is included as data room document number 22.02.01 in the electronic data room established by iSOFT in connection with the Sale Process.
 
 
means iSOFT and each of its Subsidiaries.
iSOFT Group
 
 
 
5
 
 
 
 
means each member of the iSOFT Group and their respective Representatives.
iSOFT Indemnified Party
 
 
means one or more occurrences or any fact, matter or circumstance (whenever occurring) that is announced or becomes known to Bidder that individually, or when aggregated with all such occurrences, facts, matters or circumstances, has had or is reasonably likely to have one or more of the following effects:
iSOFT Material Adverse Change
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
unless that occurrence, fact, matter or circumstance:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
means the occurrence of any of the following:
iSOFT Prescribed Event
 
 
 
 
 
6
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
however none of the above events will constitute an iSOFT Prescribed Event where:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7
 
 
 
 
 
 
means all information included in the Scheme Booklet other than the Bidder Scheme Information included in the Scheme Booklet and the Independent Expert's report.
iSOFT Scheme Information
 
 
means an issued fully paid ordinary share in iSOFT.
iSOFT Share
 
 
means each person who is registered in the Register as a holder of iSOFT Shares.
iSOFT Shareholder
 
 
means a resolution by iSOFT Shareholders in favour of the Scheme passed by the majorities required under section 411(4)(a)(ii) of the Corporations Act or, in the circumstances contemplated by clause 3.5, the majority required under section 411(4)(a)(ii)(B) of the Corporations Act.
iSOFT Shareholder Approval
 
 
means the representations and warranties of iSOFT set out in clause 7.1.
iSOFT Warranties
 
 
of any requirement under ASX Listing Rule 6.23 to obtain iSOFT Shareholder approval to the cancellation of the Warrants as contemplated by this Agreement and the Warrant Deed Poll.
LR 6.23 Waiver means a waiver from the ASX
 
 
Lenders means Barclays Capital, KFW Ipex-Bank GmbH, The Governor and Company of the Bank of Ireland, Clydesdale Bank plc, Westpac Banking Corporation, Abbey National Treasury Services plc and any other lender under the Facilities Agreement.
 
 
means the listing rules of ASX as amended from time to time.
Listing Rules
 
 
Majority of the iSOFT Board means more than 50% of the iSOFT Directors including any of the iSOFT Directors nominated by Oceania Capital Partners Limited or any of its Related Bodies Corporate.
 
 
Non-Factual Statements means the following statements as to matters which are not of a factual nature:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Oceania means Oceania Healthcare Technology Investments Pty Ltd (ACN 114 762 551), being the holder of the Convertible Notes and Warrants.
 
 
means, in relation to an entity, its directors, officers and employees.
Officer
 
 
means an option to subscribe for an iSOFT Share.
Option
 
 
means each person who is registered in the Option Register as a holder of an Option.
Optionholder
 
 
means a resolution by Optionholders in favour of the Option Scheme passed by the majorities required under section 411(4)(a)(i) of the Corporations Act.
Optionholder Approval
 
 
Option Register means the register of holders of Options.
 
 
means the creditors' scheme of arrangement, substantially in the form set out in Annexure 4, under Part 5.1 of the Corporations Act between iSOFT and the Scheme Optionholders as described in clause 4, subject to any alterations or conditions made or required by the Court under section 411(6) of the Corporations Act and approved in writing by iSOFT and Bidder.
Option Scheme
 
 
means $0.001 or such greater amount as Bidder shall determine in its absolute discretion in respect of each Scheme Option.
Option Scheme Consideration
 
 
means a deed poll to be executed by Bidder substantially in the form of Annexure 2 under which Bidder covenants in favour of the Optionholders to perform its obligations under the Option Scheme.
Option Scheme Deed Poll
 
 
means the meeting of Optionholders ordered by the Court to be convened under section 411(1) of the Corporations Act.
Option Scheme Meeting
 
 
Performance Rights means a right granted by iSOFT for the holder of a performance right to acquire by way of issue an iSOFT Share subject to the terms of the EIP Rules.
 
 
Project Sub-Contract Agreement between CSC Computer Sciences Limited and iSOFT plc dated 28 April 2004.
Project Sub-Contract Agreement means the
 
 
Proposed Transaction means the proposed acquisition of all of the iSOFT Shares and Options by the Bidder pursuant to the Scheme and Option Scheme, in accordance with the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
 
 
made by iSOFT or any of its Subsidiaries in Australia, and (ii) all public filings of statutory financial year end accounts made by iSOFT or any of its Subsidiaries in Germany, the Netherlands, Spain and the United Kingdom, in each case, in the period beginning on 1 November 2007 and ending on the date that is at least two Business Days before the date of this Agreement.
Public Filings means (i) all publicly available filings
 
 
 
9
 
 
 
PwC Report means the draft Project Kiwi Vendor Due Diligence Report prepared by PricewaterhouseCoopers dated 19 March 2011, excluding any Non-Factual Statements contained therein.
 
Recommendation means
 
 
 
 
means the register of shareholders of iSOFT.
Register
 
 
has the meaning given to that term in clause 3.1(f).
Regulatory Consents
 
 
has the meaning given to that term in the Corporations Act.
Related Body Corporate
 
 
means, in relation to an entity:
Representative
 
 
 
 
Sale Process means the process which was implemented by iSOFT (and which commenced at the beginning of February 2011) in connection with the proposed sale of all of the shares or assets of the iSOFT Group.
 
 
means the scheme of arrangement, substantially in the form set out in Annexure 5, under Part 5.1 of the Corporations Act between iSOFT and iSOFT Shareholders as described in clause 4, subject to any alterations or conditions made or required by the Court under section 411(6) of the Corporations Act and approved in writing by iSOFT and Bidder.
Scheme
 
 
means, in respect of the Scheme and Option Scheme, the document including the information described in clause 6.1(a) to be approved by the Court and dispatched to iSOFT Shareholders and Optionholders.
Scheme Booklet
 
 
means $0.17 in respect of each Scheme Share.
Scheme Consideration
 
 
means the meeting of iSOFT Shareholders ordered by the Court to be convened under section 411(1) of the Corporations Act.
Scheme Meeting
 
 
Scheme Option means each Option on issue at the Scheme Record Date.
 
 
Scheme Optionholder means each person who holds Scheme Options.
 
 
means 7.00 pm on the fifth Business Day after the Effective Date.
Scheme Record Date
 
 
means an iSOFT Share as at the Scheme Record Date.
Scheme Share
 
 
means each person who holds Scheme Shares.
Scheme Shareholder
 
 
 
10
 
 
 
means the date of the hearing by the Court of the application to approve the Scheme and Option Scheme under section 411(4)(b) of the Corporations Act.
Second Court Date
 
 
Senior Manager means a director or senior executive of iSOFT involved in the management of the iSOFT Group.
 
 
means the splitting by a holder of iSOFT Shares of those iSOFT Shares into two or more parcels of iSOFT Shares whether or not it results in any change in beneficial ownership of the iSOFT Shares.
Share Splitting
 
 
has the meaning given to that term in the Corporations Act.
Subsidiary
 
 
means:
Sunset Date
 
 
 
 
means a bona fide Competing Proposal which the iSOFT Board, in good faith and to satisfy what the iSOFT Board considers to be its fiduciary or statutory duties (after having taken advice from its legal and financial advisers), determines is, or is reasonably likely to result in, a transaction more favourable to iSOFT Shareholders than the Scheme, taking into account all terms and conditions of the Competing Proposal.
Superior Proposal
 
 
means the indicative timetable set out in Annexure 1.
Timetable
 
 
has the meaning given to that term in Chapter 6 of the Corporations Act.
voting power
 
 
means a warrant issued under the Warrant Deed Poll.
Warrant
 
 
means the approval of iSOFT Shareholders in accordance with ASX Listing Rule 6.23 in respect of the cancellation of the Warrants.
Warrant Cancellation Approval
 
 
means the Scheme Consideration less the Exercise Price for each Warrant.
Warrant Consideration
 
 
means the deed poll executed by iSOFT in favour of the holder of Warrants dated on or about 29 October 2007 (as amended from time to time).
Warrant Deed Poll
 
Interpretation
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Construction
 
 
 
 
12
 
 
Payments
 
 
 
 
 
In this clause 1.4, a Receiving Party does not include a Scheme Shareholder or Scheme Optionholder.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and will provide reasonable assistance to iSOFT in proposing and implementing the Scheme and Option Scheme in accordance with this Agreement.
 
 
Scheme Conditions
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
13
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
14
 
 
and if the Proposed Transaction has been referred back (or deemed to have been referred back) in part to the Competition Authority of any EU Member State under Article 4(4) or Article 9 of the EU Regulation, the European Commission having adopted a decision referred to in sub-paragraphs (I), (II) or (III) above in respect of any and all parts of the Scheme not so referred to a Competition Authority of a Member State;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
15
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Option Scheme Conditions
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
16
 
 
Reasonable endeavours
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Share splitting
 
 
 
 
Waiver of Conditions
 
 
 
 
17
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Failure of Condition
 
 
 
 
and neither of the following has occurred:
 
 
 
then iSOFT and Bidder must consult in good faith with a view to determining whether:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
18
 
 
 
 
may terminate this Agreement at any time prior to 8.00 am on the Second Court Date with immediate effect by written notice to the other party.
 
 
 
Notice of changes
 
 
 
 
 
 
and must provide Bidder or iSOFT (as applicable) with reasonable details of the relevant breach.
 
Certificates
 
 
 
 
 
19
 
 
 
 
iSOFT Material Adverse Change Condition
 
 
 
 
Scheme
 
 
 
 
Scheme Consideration
 
 
Option Scheme Consideration
 
 
 
 
 
20
 
 
 
 
 
 
Deed Poll and Option Scheme Deed Poll
 
 
 
 
 
Giving effect to Scheme and Option Scheme
 
 
Scheme Booklet
 
 
 
 
iSOFTs obligations
 
 
 
 
21
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
22
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
23
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
24
 
 
Bidder's obligations
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
25
 
 
 
 
 
 
Timetable
 
 
Conduct of appeals
 
 
iSOFT Board Recommendation
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
26
 
 
 
 
Conduct of business
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
27
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
28
 
 
 
 
(including with respect to the Performance Rights, Warrants and Convertible Notes in accordance with clause 14); or
 
 
 
 
Integration committee
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
29
 
 
 
 
 
 
provided that nothing in this clause 6.15 obliges iSOFT to provide to the Bidder nominees on the Integration Committee any information:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Change of control rights
 
 
 
 
 
 
30
 
 
 
Appointing directors
 
 
 
 
 
 
iSOFT Warranties
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
31
 
 
 
 
and there are no other preference shares of any class, rights, performance rights, shares, convertible notes or other securities on issue, and neither it nor any of its Subsidiaries are under any obligation to issue and have not granted any person the right to call for the issue of any securities in it or any of its Subsidiaries;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
32
 
iSOFT indemnity
 
 
 
Bidder Warranties
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
33
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bidder indemnity
 
 
 
Release
 
 
 
 
 
34
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Survival of indemnities
 
 
 
 
 
 
No other warranties or reliance
 
 
 
Notification of breach
 
 
 
 
 
Termination for breach
 
 
 
 
 
35
 
 
 
 
Automatic termination
 
 
 
 
 
Termination by iSOFT or Bidder
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Termination following Superior Proposal
 
 
 
 
36
 
 
Effect of termination
 
 
 
 
 
Background
 
 
 
Costs incurred by Bidder
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and in each case, incurred by the Bidder directly or indirectly as a result of having entered into this Agreement and pursuing the Scheme.
 
 
 
 
Payment by iSOFT to Bidder
 
 
 
 
 
 
37
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Payment of Break Fee
 
 
Compliance with law
 
 
 
 
 
then:
 
 
 
and iSOFT must not seek any such determination.
 
Exclusive remedy
 
 
 
 
Regulatory intervention
 
 
 
 
38
 
 
 
 
 
 
Announcement of the Scheme
 
 
Public announcements
 
 
 
 
 
 
Required disclosure
 
 
Statements on termination
 
 
 
 
Confidentiality Agreement
 
 
 
 
39
 
 
 
 
except that the terms of this Agreement will prevail over the Confidentiality Agreement to the extent of any inconsistency.
 
Privacy
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
No shop
 
 
No talk and no due diligence
 
 
 
 
 
Exceptions
 
 
 
 
40
 
 
 
 
iSOFT warranty and undertakings
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notice of Competing Proposal
 
 
 
 
 
 
other than to the extent prohibited under a confidentiality agreement entered into with the relevant third party (in which case iSOFT must notify Bidder that there has been an approach, but not the identity of the party that has made that approach).
 
 
 
41
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Normal provision of information
 
 
 
 
 
42
 
 
 
 
 
 
Warrants and Convertible Notes
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Performance Rights
 
 
 
 
Costs
 
 
 
 
43
 
 
Stamp duty
 
 
 
 
Consideration
 
 
Guarantee
 
 
Right to demand
 
 
Principal debtor
 
 
 
 
the Guaranteed Obligations:
 
 
 
Indemnity
 
 
 
 
 
 
44
 
 
 
Continuing guarantee and indemnity
 
 
 
 
 
 
Obligations of Bidder Parent unaffected
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Requirements
 
 
 
 
 
to iSOFT:
 
 
 
45
 
 
 
 
 
to Bidder:
 
 
 
and with a copy to Bidder and Bidder Parent:
 
 
 
 
Receipt of notices
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
46
 
 
 
but if a notice is served by hand, or is received by the recipient's fax, on a day that is not a Business Day, or after 5.00 pm (recipient's local time) on a Business Day, the notice will be considered to have been received by the recipient at 9.00 am (recipient's local time) on the next Business Day.
 
 
 
Entire agreement
 
 
 
 
Further assurances
 
 
No merger
 
 
Assignment
 
 
Invalid or unenforceable provisions
 
 
 
 
Waiver and exercise of rights
 
 
 
 
 
 
47
 
 
 
Amendment
 
 
Counterparts
 
 
Rights cumulative
 
 
Consents or approvals
 
 
Severability
 
 
 
 
Enforceability
 
 
 
 
GST
 
 
 
 
 
48
 
 
 
Governing law and jurisdiction
 
 
 
 
 
Service of process
 
 
 
 
 
49
 
 
Execution
 
as an agreement.
Executed
 
50
 
Annexure 1
 
Timetable
 
 
51
 
Annexure 2
 
Option Scheme Deed Poll
 
CSC agrees to provide this Schedule supplementally to the Commission upon request.
 
 
52
 
Annexure 3
 
Deed Poll
 
CSC agrees to provide this Schedule supplementally to the Commission upon request.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
53
 
Annexure 4
 
Scheme of Arrangement (Options)
 
CSC agrees to provide this Schedule supplementally to the Commission upon request.
 
 
 
54
 
Annexure 5
 
Scheme of Arrangement (Shares)
 
CSC agrees to provide this Schedule supplementally to the Commission upon request.
 
 
 
55
 
Annexure 5
 
Public announcement
 
CSC agrees to provide this Schedule supplementally to the Commission upon request.
 
 
 
56
 

EXHIBIT 99
 
 
 
CSC ENTERS INTO AGREEMENT TO ACQUIRE ISOFTS GLOBAL OPERATIONS
 
Acquisition to Accelerate Growth in Companys Global Healthcare Business
 
FALLS CHURCH, Va., April 1  CSC (NYSE: CSC) today announced it has signed an agreement to acquire all of the outstanding equity of iSOFT Group Limited (ASX: ISF), one of the worlds largest providers of advanced healthcare IT solutions, by way of a court-approved scheme of arrangement. The acquisition will complement and strengthen CSCs market-leading software products and healthcare integration and services portfolio, while enhancing its healthcare research and development capabilities. It will also accelerate CSCs strategic growth plan in the Life Sciences market and reinforce the company as a very strong player in healthcare information technology.
 
The offer to iSOFT shareholders is at A$0.17 per share in cash. Closing of the transaction is expected during CSCs Q2FY12, and is subject to various conditions, including, among others, iSOFT shareholder approval and certain Australian and EU regulatory approvals.  
 
Adding iSOFTs 3,300 global employees including those from major research and development centers in India, Spain, UK, Australia, New Zealand and Central Europe, will expand CSCs capability to support existing customers, develop more innovative solutions, and add a robust set of clients in new and emerging markets.
 
The combination of these companies will further establish CSC as an innovative leader in global healthcare IT, said Michael W. Laphen, CSC chairman, president and chief executive officer. Through our combined experience in global healthcare delivery, complementary world-class healthcare software solutions, and enhanced capabilities in system integration, outsourcing and process management, we are forming a compelling lifecycle of services to better serve our global clients and improve patient care.
 
More than 13,000 healthcare providers and governments in 40 countries use iSOFTs e-health software solutions to manage patient information and drive improvements in their core processes. With the expertise and experience of more than 1,300 development professionals and more than 200 clinicians, iSOFT solutions touch more than 200 million patients across five continents every day, and its systems are installed in more than 8,000 hospitals and clinics. This scale has allowed iSOFT to keep abreast of the latest trends in healthcare technology and practices and translate them into innovative and practical solutions.
 
 
 
 
 
"iSOFTs Electronic Health Record software and services, coupled with CSCs global healthcare expertise and delivery capabilities, will create a very powerful force in the global healthcare market to enhance the provision of integrated care," said Andrea Fiumicelli, chief executive officer of iSOFT. This is a great development for iSOFTs employees as they will have the opportunity to continue their important work in healthcare IT whilst developing their careers across CSCs global business.
 
When completed, this acquisition will be a critical step in the expansion of our global healthcare business. CSC will be at the forefront of emerging healthcare technologies, giving our clients access to an expanded range of healthcare capabilities and continuing our journey of bringing the vision of a single patient record to life, Laphen added.
 
Perella Weinberg Partners LP is acting as financial advisor to CSC and Jones Day is acting as legal advisor to CSC.
 
About CSC
 
CSC is a global leader in providing technology-enabled solutions and services through three primary lines of business. These include Business Solutions and Services, the Managed Services Sector and the North American Public Sector. CSCs advanced capabilities include system design and integration, information technology and business process outsourcing, applications software development, Web and application hosting, mission support and management consulting. The company has been recognized as a leader in the industry, including being named by FORTUNE Magazine as one of the Worlds Most Admired Companies for Information Technology Services (2011). Headquartered in Falls Church, Va., CSC has approximately 93,000 employees and reported revenue of $16.2 billion for the 12 months ended December 31, 2010. For more information, visit the companys website at
www.csc.com
.
 
About iSOFT Group
 
iSOFT Group Limited (ASX: ISF) is the largest health information technology company listed on the Australian Securities Exchange, and among the worlds biggest providers of advanced application solutions in modern healthcare economies.
 
iSOFT works with healthcare professionals to design and build software applications that answer all of the difficult questions posed by todays healthcare delivery challenges. Our solutions act as a catalyst for change, supporting free exchange of critical information across diverse care settings and participating organizations.
 
Today, more than 13,000 provider organizations in over 40 countries use iSOFTs solutions to manage patient information and drive improvements in their core processes. The groups sustainable development is delivered through careful planning, in-depth analysis of the market, and anticipation of our clients evolving requirements. Our business is driven by the collective talent, experience and commitment of more than 3,300 specialists in 19 countries worldwide.
 
A global network of iSOFT subsidiaries, supported by an extensive partner network, provides substantial experience of national healthcare markets. As a result, we offer our clients comprehensive knowledge of local market requirements in terms of culture, language, working practices, regulation and organizational structure.
 
 
 
 
All statements in this press release and in all future press releases that do not directly and exclusively relate to historical facts constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements represent the Companys intentions, plans, expectations and beliefs, and are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which are outside the Companys control. These factors could cause actual results to differ materially from such forward-looking statements. For a written description of these factors, see the section titled Risk Factors in CSCs Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 2, 2010 and any updating information in subsequent SEC filings.  The Company disclaims any intention or obligation to update these forward-looking statements whether as a result of subsequent event or otherwise, except as required by law.
 
 
 
 


