FILE:CSC/CSC-8K-20120808084125.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Date of Report
(Date of earliest event reported):
August 8, 2012
Registrant's telephone number, including area code
(703) 876-1000
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (
see
General Instruction A.2. below):
[  ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[  ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[  ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[  ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On August 8, 2012, Computer Sciences Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release reporting its preliminary financial results for the first quarter ended June 29, 2012. The Company will hold a conference call at 11:00 AM ET, on Wednesday, August 8, 2012, in which the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer will discuss this matter. The press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference and made a part hereof.
This information is "furnished" and not "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. It may only be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or the Securities Act of 1933 only if and to the extent such subsequent filing specifically references the information incorporated by reference herein.
All statements in this report that do not directly and exclusively relate to historical facts constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements represent the Company's intentions, plans, expectations and beliefs, and are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors many of which are outside the Company's control. These factors could cause actual results to differ materially from such forward-looking statements. For a written description of these factors, see the section titled "Risk Factors" in CSC's Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 30, 2012 and any updating information in subsequent SEC filings. The Company disclaims any intention or obligation to update these forward-looking statements whether as a result of subsequent event or otherwise, except as required by law.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) The following exhibit is filed herewith.
SIGNATURES
    
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereto duly authorized.

    
FALLS CHURCH, Va., August 8  CSC (NYSE: CSC) today reported first quarter 2013 diluted earnings of $0.26 per share, compared with diluted earnings of $1.17 per share in the first quarter of 2012 which included a one-time tax benefit of approximately $0.78 cents. Total revenue was $3.96 billion compared to $4.03 billion in the same period of last year.
Financial Highlights
New business awards of $4.0 billion.
Total revenue of $3.96 billion decreased by 2% on a reported basis and increased by 1% in constant currency when compared to the prior year.
Operating margin of 4.6% increased by 16 basis points from the previous year and includes a restructuring charge of $27 million.
EBIT margin of 2.9% decreased by 37 basis points year-over-year.
Operating cash flow of $221 million for the quarter, an improvement of $267 million from the previous year.
Free cash flow of negative $25 million for the quarter, an improvement of $378 million compared to the previous year.
Ending cash and cash equivalents were $1.00 billion.
"Our first quarter performance reflects a first step in turning around CSC. While there is significant work ahead of us, I am pleased with our initial progress on operating margins and free cash flow," said Mike Lawrie, President and CEO. "We have launched several action plans which will transform the company over the next several years and create value for our shareholders. As part of this transformation agenda, we are bringing a much needed focus to greater contract management discipline across the company. We are also simplifying our operating model to realize greater productivity and operational efficiency. We are attacking our cost structure and we expect to realize about $1 billion in cost improvement over the next 18 months."
    
Lines of Business
    
revenue of $1.64 billion increased by 1% from the first quarter of last year and increased 5% in constant currency, mainly due to new contracts and the AppLabs acquisition. Segment operating margin increased 525 basis points to 5.8% due to better contract performance versus the year-ago period. MSS signed $2.2 billion of new business during the quarter.
Managed Services Sector (MSS)
    
Business Solutions & Services (BSS)
revenue was $0.99 billion, an increase of 2% from the first quarter last year and 7% in constant currency, primarily due to the iSOFT acquisition. Segment operating margin declined by 431 basis points to 1.6% primarily as the result of dilution from the iSOFT acquisition. BSS added $0.9 billion of new business in the quarter.
    
North American Public Sector (NPS)
revenue of $1.37 billion declined by 8% from the first quarter last year primarily due the completion of three Department of Defense contracts. Operating margin declined by 57 basis points to 7.4%. NPS bookings of $0.9 billion were in-line with one year ago.
Conference Call and Webcast
CSC senior management will host a conference call and Webcast at 11:00 a.m. EDT today. The dial-in number for domestic callers is 877-627-6590. Callers who reside outside the United States or Canada should dial 719-325-4773. The passcode for all participants is 3550438. The Webcast audio and any presentation slides will be available at www.csc.com/investorrelations.
    
Non-GAAP Measures
In an effort to provide investors with additional information regarding the Company's preliminary results as determined by generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), the Company has also disclosed in this press release preliminary non-GAAP information which management believes provides useful information to investors, including: operating income, operating margin, earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT), EBIT margin, and free cash flow. Reconciliations of the preliminary non-GAAP measures to the respective and most directly comparable GAAP measures, as well as the rationale for management's use of non-GAAP measures, is included below.
    
About CSC
CSC is a global leader in providing technology-enabled business solutions and services. Headquartered in Falls Church, Va., CSC has approximately 96,000 employees and reported revenue of $15.8 billion for the 12 months ended June 29, 2012. For more information, visit the company's website at www.csc.com.
    
    
All statements in this press release and in all future press releases that do not directly and exclusively relate to historical facts constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements represent the Company's intentions, plans, expectations and beliefs, and are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which are outside the Company's control. These factors could cause actual results to differ materially from such forward-looking statements. For a written description of these factors, see the section titled "Risk Factors" in CSC's Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 30, 2012 and any updating information in subsequent SEC filings. The Company disclaims any intention or obligation to update these forward-looking statements whether as a result of subsequent event or otherwise, except as required by law.
CSC-Page 4
Business Segment Revenues, Operating Income, and Operating Margins
(preliminary and unaudited)
Revenues by Segment
CSC-Page 5
Consolidated Condensed Statements of Operations
(preliminary and unaudited)
CSC-Page 6
Selected Balance Sheet Data
(preliminary and unaudited)
CSC-Page 7
Consolidated Condensed Statements of Cash Flows
(preliminary and unaudited)
CSC-Page 8
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
The following tables reconcile operating income, earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) and free cash flow to the most directly comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP. CSC management believes that these non-GAAP financial measures provide useful information to investors regarding the Company's financial condition and results of operations as they provide another measure of the Company's profitability and ability to service its debt, and are considered important measures by financial analysts covering CSC and its peers.
Management uses operating income to evaluate business unit financial performance and it is one of the measures used in assessing management performance. One of the limitations associated with the use of operating income (as compared to reported earnings) is that it does not reflect the complete financial results of the Company. CSC compensates for these limitations by providing reconciliation between operating income and income before taxes. Management uses free cash flow as one of the factors in reviewing the overall performance of the business. Management compensates for the limitations of this non-GAAP measure by also reviewing the GAAP measures of operating, investing and financing cash flows as well as debt levels measured by the debt-to-total capitalization ratio.
GAAP Reconciliations
CSC defines operating income as revenue less costs of services, depreciation and amortization expense, restructuring costs and segment general and administrative (G&A) expense, excluding corporate G&A. Operating margin is defined as operating income as a percentage of revenue. A reconciliation of consolidated operating income to income from continuing operations before taxes is as follows:
CSC defines EBIT as revenue less costs of services, selling, general and administrative expenses, depreciation and amortization, restructuring costs, goodwill impairment, and other income (expense). EBIT margin is defined as EBIT as a percentage of revenue. A reconciliation of EBIT to net income from continuing operations is as follows:
CSC-Page 9
CSC defines free cash flow as equal to the sum of (1) operating cash flows, (2) investing cash flows, excluding business acquisitions, dispositions and investments (including short-term investments and purchase or sale of available for sale securities), and (3) payments on capital leases and other long-term asset financings. A reconciliation of free cash flow to net cash provided by (used in) operating activities is as follows:


