FILE:CSC/CSC-8K-20120305091752.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Item 8.01.  Other Information.
As previously reported, the Company, the NHS and U.K. Cabinet officials have been in discussions on the way forward to redefining the contractual relationship between the Company and the NHS. As a result of these discussions, CSC and the NHS entered into a non-binding letter of intent on March 2, 2012.
The letter of intent is a without prejudice document created in the context of on-going without prejudice discussions. Under the letter of intent, the NHS and CSC have agreed to a set of high-level principles, which are intended to be reflected in a binding interim agreement to be entered into by the parties by March 31, 2012.
The non-binding letter of intent contemplates that under the interim agreement, NHS will provide a commitment of a certain number of trusts, some to be named in the interim agreement and the remainder within six months, to receive the Lorenzo software product, which has been redefined into deployment units categorized as base product and additional product for pricing purposes.  In addition to the amounts committed by NHS for the base product, additional amounts will be available from centrally available funds for additional products, supplemental trust activity and local configuration. The letter of intent also contemplates that the interim agreement will provide for a structured set of payments following certain product deliveries, as well as additional payments to CSC, which would cover, among other items, various deployments for the named trusts and payments for work already performed.  Any payments would be made only if the binding interim agreement is entered into by the parties.
The letter of intent provides that the interim agreement will contain an optional purchase arrangement for those additional trusts (other than the committed named trusts) that choose to take a deployment of Lorenzo.  Pricing will be the same as that applicable to the committed named trusts.
The letter of intent provides for an interim Lorenzo-related standstill arrangement and  contemplates that  a mutual release of all accrued claims with respect to the Lorenzo deployments will be included as part of the interim agreement.
The interim agreement, if agreed, will form the basis of an amendment and restatement of the existing NHS contract to be negotiated by the parties (the amendment).
There can be no assurance that CSC and the NHS will enter into the interim agreement or the amendment or, if the interim agreement and amendment are negotiated and entered into, that  such documents as finally negotiated will be on terms favorable to CSC or as provided in the letter of intent.
Entry into the non-binding letter of intent by the NHS was approved by a steering committee overseeing the negotiations process made up of government officials from the Department of Health, Cabinet Office and Treasury.  Entry into the interim agreement will also require government approvals and there can be no assurance that such approvals will be obtained in a timely fashion or at all.
As reported in the Companys fiscal 2012 third quarter 10-Q, the Company recorded a $1.5 billion contract charge as of December 30, 2011, including a $204 million reduction of revenue reflecting managements best estimates of total contract revenue and costs under the percentage of completion method. This charge included a write-off of the Companys work in process balance of $1,263 million,  billed and unbilled receivables of $204 million and net other assets and liabilities of $18 million, resulting in no material remaining net assets under the contract. Based on the terms of the letter of intent, it is reasonably possible that the interim agreement and the amendment, if concluded, could result in a payment for the recovery of a portion of the amounts that have been written off as of December 30, 2011, and therefore could generate a gain.  However, there can be no assurance that an interim agreement will be concluded, that the terms of the interim agreement will be favorable to CSC or as provided in the letter of intent and that any gain will be generated in the event such agreement is concluded or that such recovery will occur.
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(d) The following exhibit is filed herewith.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereto duly authorized.
 
 
                                                                        COMPUTER SCIENCES CORPORATION
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
FALLS CHURCH, Va., March. 5  CSC (NYSE: CSC) CSC announced today that it has signed a non-binding Letter of Intent with the UK Department of Health (NHS) that defines a way forward for CSC to deliver healthcare solutions and services, primarily across the North, the Midlands and East of England, in support of the NHS' reform agenda.  In connection with the announcement, CSC filed a Current Report on Form 8-K with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
The Letter of Intent reflects a new approach, moving toward a construct of more localized initiatives, reflecting the shift to more devolved decision-making and budgetary control within the NHS. Systems will continue to meet agreed rigorous national standards and will improve connectivity and interoperability of health providers in order to enhance overall patient care in England.
The principles contained in the Letter of Intent are intended to establish a framework for a broad agreement to be entered into by the parties by 31 March 2012.  As a part of this agreement, it is intended that CSC will contract to deliver additional Lorenzo implementations, adding to the 10 deployed successfully to date, with options for more where demand materializes. CSC is confident that Lorenzos modern technology base and the fact that it has been specifically designed in collaboration with the NHS, should result in further demand in the future.
Beyond Lorenzo, CSC provides a wide range of other solutions and services to the NHS, including General Practitioner, ambulance, and community systems, and digital imaging, and these services will continue.
CSC believes that the principles contained in the Letter of Intent represent the appropriate way to support the NHS reform agenda, providing value for money to taxpayers and, through technology, significantly improving standards of patient care in England.
About CSC
CSC is a global leader in providing technology-enabled business solutions and services. Headquartered in Falls Church, Va., CSC has approximately 98,000 employees and reported revenue of $16.0 billion for the 12 months ended December 30, 2011. For more information, visit the companys website at .
www.csc.com
 
All statements in this press release and in all future press releases that do not directly and exclusively relate to historical facts constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements represent the Companys intentions, plans, expectations and beliefs, and are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which are outside the Companys control. These factors could cause actual results to differ materially from such forward-looking statements. For a written description of these factors, see the section titled Risk Factors in CSCs Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 1, 2011 and any updating information in subsequent SEC filings.  The Company disclaims any intention or obligation to update these forward-looking statements whether as a result of subsequent event or otherwise, except as required by law.
 
 
 
 


