FILE:CSC/CSC-8K-20121106090158.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 2.02.      Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On November 6, 2012, Computer Sciences Corporation (the Company) issued a press release reporting its preliminary financial results for the second quarter ended September 28, 2012. The Company will hold a conference call at 11:00 AM ET, on Tuesday, November 6, 2012, in which the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer will discuss this matter. The press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference and made a part hereof.
This information is furnished and not filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. It may only be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or the Securities Act of 1933 only if and to the extent such subsequent filing specifically references the information incorporated by reference herein.
All statements in this report that do not directly and exclusively relate to historical facts constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements represent the Companys intentions, plans, expectations and beliefs, and are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors many of  which are outside the Companys control. These factors could cause actual results to differ materially from such forward-looking statements. For a written description of these factors, see the section titled Risk Factors in CSCs Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 30, 2012 and any updating information in subsequent SEC filings.  The Company disclaims any intention or obligation to update these forward-looking statements whether as a result of subsequent event or otherwise, except as required by law.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) The following exhibit is filed herewith.
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereto duly authorized.
Exhibit Index

EXHIBIT 99.1
CSC REPORTS CONTINUED IMPROVEMENT IN SECOND QUARTER 2013 RESULTS
Diluted EPS of $0.83
Operating Income of $298 Million
As Reported Operating Margin of 7.7%; Adjusted Operating Margin of 9.2% Excludes Restructuring
Free Cash Flow of $237 Million, a YoY Improvement of $505 Million
Bookings of $4.2 Billion
FY2013 EPS Target Increased to $2.30 to $2.50
FALLS CHURCH, Va., November 6 - CSC (NYSE: CSC) today reported second quarter 2013 diluted earnings of $0.83 per share, compared with diluted EPS of $(18.56) in the second quarter 2012 which included a goodwill impairment charge of $18.21 per share and a U.S. Claims settlement of $1.20 per share. Total revenues were $3.85 billion compared with $3.97 billion in the year ago period, a decrease of 3% as reported and a 1% decline in constant currency.
Financial Highlights
"Our second quarter results reflect continued progress made on our contract management performance and cost takeout program. As a result, operating margins improved across all three lines of business when compared with the prior year and we are raising our fiscal year 2013 EPS targets to $2.30 to $2.50," said Mike Lawrie, President and CEO. "During the quarter, we also strengthened our offering portfolio through the acquisition of
a
premiere software development company that specializes in big data, analytics and advanced applications. This action is consistent with our strategy of being a leader in next generation technology solutions and services. We are also taking steps to divest certain non-core assets such as a smaller business in Italy. There is much work to be completed but we are encouraged with the early results of our turnaround program."
Lines of Business
Managed Services Sector (MSS)
revenue of $1.58 billion decreased by 2% from the second quarter of last year but increased 1% in constant currency mainly due to the AppLabs acquisition. Segment operating margin increased 278 basis points to 5.6% due to better contract performance and cost takeout partially offset by a $47 million workforce restructuring charge. MSS signed $2.2 billion of new business during the quarter.
Business Solutions & Services (BSS)
revenue was $0.92 billion decreased by 3% from the second quarter of last year but increased 1% in constant currency. BSS operating margin expanded by 335 basis points to 6.9% primarily as the result of improved contract performance and cost takeout partially offset by a $10 million workforce restructuring charge. New business awards for BSS were $0.9 billion.
North American Public Sector (NPS)
revenue of $1.38 billion declined by 4% from the second quarter last year primarily due to the Department of Defense contract completions which occurred at the end of fiscal year 2012. Operating margin of 10.9% increased significantly year over year due to the impact of the U.S. Claims settlement in the prior year. NPS bookings of $1.1 billion declined from one year ago as new business awards continue to be impacted by continued uncertainty in government procurement.
Conference Call and Webcast
CSC senior management will host a conference call and Webcast at 11:00 a.m. EST today. The dial-in number for domestic callers is 888-401-4691. Callers who reside outside the United States or Canada should dial 719-325-2132. The passcode for all participants is 1519747. The Webcast audio and any presentation slides will be available at www.csc.com/investorrelations.
A replay of the conference call will be available from approximately two hours after the conclusion of the call until November 12, 2012. The replay dial-in number is 888-203-1112 for
domestic callers and 719-457-0820 for callers who reside outside of the U.S. and Canada. The replay passcode is also 1519747.
Non-GAAP Measures
In an effort to provide investors with additional information regarding the Company's preliminary results as determined by generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), the Company has also disclosed in this press release preliminary non-GAAP information which management believes provides useful information to investors, including: operating income, operating margin, earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT), EBIT margin, and free cash flow. Reconciliations of the preliminary non-GAAP measures to the respective and most directly comparable GAAP measures, as well as the rationale for management's use of non-GAAP measures, is included below.
About CSC
CSC is a global leader in providing technology-enabled business solutions and services. Headquartered in Falls Church, Va., CSC has approximately 95,000 employees and reported revenue of $15.7 billion for the 12 months ended September 28, 2012. For more information, visit the company's website at www.csc.com.
All statements in this press release and in all future press releases that do not directly and exclusively relate to historical facts constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements represent the Company's intentions, plans, expectations and beliefs, and are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which are outside the Company's control. These factors could cause actual results to differ materially from such forward-looking statements. For a written description of these factors, see the section titled Risk Factors in CSC's Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 30, 2012 and any updating information in subsequent SEC filings. The Company disclaims any intention or obligation to update these forward-looking statements whether as a result of subsequent event or otherwise, except as required by law.
CSC-Page 4
            
11/06/2012
Business Segment Revenues, Operating Income and Operating Margins
(preliminary and unaudited)
CSC-Page 5
            
11/06/2012
Consolidated Condensed Statements of Operations
(preliminary and unaudited)
CSC-Page 6
            
11/06/2012
Selected Balance Sheet Data
(preliminary and unaudited)
CSC-Page 7
            
11/06/2012
Consolidated Condensed Statements of Cash Flows
(preliminary and unaudited)
CSC-Page 8
            
11/06/2012
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
The following tables reconcile operating income, earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) and free cash flow to the most directly comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP. CSC management believes that these non-GAAP financial measures provide useful information to investors regarding the Company's financial condition and results of operations as they provide another measure of the Company's profitability and ability to service its debt, and are considered important measures by financial analysts covering CSC and its peers.
Management uses operating income to evaluate business unit financial performance and it is one of the measures used in assessing management performance. One of the limitations associated with the use of operating income (as compared to reported earnings) is that it does not reflect the complete financial results of the Company. CSC compensates for these limitations by providing reconciliation between operating income and income before taxes. Management uses free cash flow as one of the factors in reviewing the overall performance of the business. Management compensates for the limitations of this non-GAAP measure by also reviewing the GAAP measures of operating, investing and financing cash flows as well as debt levels measured by the debt-to-total capitalization ratio.
GAAP Reconciliations
CSC defines operating income as revenue less costs of services, depreciation and amortization expense, restructuring costs and segment general and administrative (G&A) expense, excluding corporate G&A. Operating margin is defined as operating income as a percentage of revenue. A reconciliation of consolidated operating income to income from continuing operations before taxes is as follows:
CSC defines EBIT as revenue less costs of services, selling, general and administrative expenses, depreciation and amortization, restructuring costs, goodwill impairment, and other income (expense). EBIT margin is defined as EBIT as a percentage of revenue. A reconciliation of EBIT to net income is as follows:
CSC-Page 9                                            
11/06/2012
CSC defines free cash flow as equal to the sum of (1) operating cash flows, (2) investing cash flows, excluding business acquisitions, dispositions and investments (including short-term investments and purchase or sale of available for sale securities), and (3) payments on capital leases and other long-term asset financings. A reconciliation of free cash flow to net cash provided by (used in) operating activities is as follows:


