FILE:CSC/CSC-8K-20120919171236.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Senior Notes Offering
On September 18, 2012, Computer Sciences Corporation ("CSC") issued an aggregate of $700 million of senior unsecured notes consisting of $350 million aggregate principal amount of its 2.500% Senior Notes due 2015 (the "2015 Notes") and $350 million aggregate principal amount of its 4.450% Senior Notes due 2022 (the "2022 Notes" and, together with the 2015 Notes, the "notes") under an Indenture, dated as of September 18, 2012 (the "Base Indenture"), between CSC and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as trustee (the "Trustee"), as amended and supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture thereto, dated as of September 18, 2012, between CSC and the Trustee (the "First Supplemental Indenture" and, together with the Base Indenture, the "Indenture"). Interest on the 2015 Notes and the 2022 Notes is payable on September 15 and March 15 of each year, beginning on March 15, 2013. The 2015 Notes mature on September 15, 2015 and the 2022 Notes mature on September 15, 2022. The notes were issued in an underwritten offering registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. Net offering proceeds, after deducting underwriting discounts and estimated offering expenses, were approximately $693 million. CSC intends to use the net proceeds to fund (i) the redemption of a portion of its 5.50% senior notes due 2013 and/or (ii) the redemption of all or a portion of its 5.00% senior notes due 2013, in each case pursuant to the terms thereof. CSC plans to invest the net proceeds in short-term interest bearing securities pending the redemptions described above.
The notes will be CSC's senior unsecured and unsubordinated obligations and will rank equally with all of its current and future senior unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness, including any borrowings under its senior credit facility, and senior to all of its future subordinated debt.
CSC may redeem each series of the notes, in whole or in part, at any time or from time to time, in each case, at its option, at a redemption price equal to the greater of:
 
 
plus, in either of the above cases, accrued and unpaid interest to the date of redemption.
If a Change of Control Triggering Event (as defined in the First Supplemental Indenture) occurs with respect to a particular series of notes, subject to certain exceptions, CSC must give holders of such notes the opportunity to sell their notes to CSC, in whole or in part, at a purchase price equal to 101% of the principal amount, plus any accrued and unpaid interest to the date of purchase.
The Indenture contains customary events of default, including:
 
 
 
 
 
If an event of default under the Indenture occurs and is continuing, the Trustee may, and at the direction of the holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the outstanding notes of a particular series shall, declare the principal of, premium, if any, and accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on such notes to be due and payable. In the case of certain events of default relating to bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization, those amounts will automatically become immediately due and payable.
CSC is subject to certain negative covenants under the Indenture governing the notes. The Indenture limits the ability of CSC to:
 
 
 
The terms and provisions of the notes and Indenture set forth in this Current Report on Form 8-K are qualified in their entirety by reference to the full text of the Base Indenture and the First Supplemental Indenture, the 2015 Notes (in global form) and the 2022 Notes (in global form), which are attached hereto as Exhibit 4.1, Exhibit 4.2, Exhibit 4.3 and Exhibit 4.4, respectively, and each of which is incorporated herein by this reference.
As previously reported, on September 11, 2012, CSC entered into an underwriting agreement with Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, Barclays Capital Inc. and Citigroup Global Markets Inc., as representatives of the several underwriters named therein, in connection with an underwritten public offering of the notes.
Term Loan Agreement
On September 18, 2012, CSC entered into a Term Loan Agreement among CSC, the financial institutions named therein, as lenders, and The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., as administrative agent (the "Term Loan Agreement").
The Term Loan Agreement is a $250 million (subject to CSC's option to request that the available commitments be increased to $350 million), four year, unsecured, delayed-draw term loan credit facility maturing on September 18, 2016. CSC may request advances (i) in respect of the $250 million initial commitments, until February 16, 2013 and (ii) in respect of the additional $100 million availability increase amount, at the time the commitments are increased. At CSC's option, advances made to it under the Term Loan Agreement will be available at the following rates: (1) with respect to any Base Rate Advance, a rate equal to a daily margin between 0.25% and 1.5% plus the highest of (a) the Prime Rate, (b) the Federal funds rate plus 0.50% and (c) one month LIBOR plus 1.00%; and (2) with respect to any
 
Eurodollar Rate Advance, a rate equal to LIBOR plus a daily margin between 1.25% and 2.5%. The interest rates payable under Base Rate Advances will fluctuate daily, and the interest rates payable under the Eurodollar Rate Advances will be fixed for interest periods of 1, 2, 3 or 6 months. Interest is payable quarterly on Base Rate Advances and at the end of each interest period for each Eurodollar Rate Advance, but no less frequently than quarterly. In addition, the Term Loan Agreement requires CSC to pay a fee on the aggregate unused amount of the facility. Amounts outstanding under the Term Loan Agreement amortize at a rate of 2.5% per quarter, commencing December 31, 2013.
The Term Loan Agreement contains representations, warranties, and covenants customary for facilities of this type (substantially the same as those set forth in CSC's Credit Agreement (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to CSC's 8-K dated March 18, 2011)), as well as customary events of default (substantially the same as those set forth in CSC's Credit Agreement), including a cross-default to payment defaults on principal payments aggregating $125,000,000 or to other events if the effect is to accelerate or permit acceleration of such debt. In addition, under the Term Loan Agreement, CSC is required to maintain a ratio of EBITDA to interest expense no less than 3:00 to 1:00 and a ratio of total debt to EBITDA of no more than 3:00 to 1:00.
On September 18, 2012, no borrowings were outstanding under the Term Loan Agreement. The use of proceeds from the Term Loan Agreement, together with available cash, may be used to redeem the remaining 5.50% senior notes due 2013 not otherwise redeemed with the proceeds of the senior notes offering referenced above.
The foregoing summary of the material terms of the Term Loan Agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Term Loan Agreement, which is filed as Exhibit 10.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and incorporated herein by this reference. Capitalized terms used in this description of the Term Loan Agreement but not defined herein have the meanings ascribed to such terms in the Term Loan Agreement.
 
The disclosure under Item 1.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 4.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
N.A. means Not Applicable.
Note: This Cross-Reference Table shall not, for any purpose, be deemed to be part of this Indenture.
 
THIS INDENTURE, dated as of September 18, 2012, is entered into by and between COMPUTER SCIENCES CORPORATION, a Nevada corporation (the ""), and THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON TRUST COMPANY, N.A., a national banking association, as trustee (the "").
Company
Trustee
WHEREAS, the Company may from time to time duly authorize the issue of its unsecured debentures, notes or other evidences of indebtedness to be issued in one or more series (the "") up to such principal amount or amounts as may from time to time be authorized in accordance with the terms of this Indenture;
Securities
WHEREAS, the Company has duly authorized the execution and delivery of this Indenture to provide, among other things, for the authentication, delivery and administration of the Securities; and
WHEREAS, all things necessary to make this Indenture a valid indenture and agreement according to its terms have been done;
NOW, THEREFORE:
In consideration of the premises and the purchases of the Securities by the holders thereof, the Company and the Trustee mutually covenant and agree for the equal and proportionate benefit of the respective holders from time to time of the Securities as follows:
Section 1.1. .
Definitions
"" means any additional amounts required by the express terms of a Security or by or pursuant to a Board Resolution, under circumstances specified therein or pursuant thereto, to be paid by the Company with respect to certain taxes, assessments or other governmental charges imposed on certain Holders and that are owing to those Holders.
Additional Amounts
"" of any specified Person means any other Person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with such specified Person. For purposes of this definition, "control," as used with respect to any Person, means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of such Person, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by agreement or otherwise. For purposes of this definition, the terms "controlling," "controlled by" and "under common control with" have correlative meanings.
Affiliate
"" means Title 11, or any similar Federal or state law for the relief of debtors.
Bankruptcy Law
United States Code
 
"" means:
Board of Directors
 
 
 
 
"" means a copy of a resolution certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the applicable Person to have been duly adopted by the Board of Directors of such Person and to be in full force and effect on the date of such certification, and delivered to the Trustee.
Board Resolution
"" means each day that is not a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which banking institutions in New York, New York or another place of payment are authorized or required by law to close.
Business Day
"" means:
Capital Stock
(a) in the case of a corporation, corporate stock;
(b) in the case of an association or business entity, any and all shares, interests, participations, rights or other equivalents (however designated) of corporate stock;
(c) in the case of a partnership or limited liability company, partnership interests (whether general or limited) or membership interests; and
(d) any other interest or participation that confers on a Person the right to receive a share of the profits and losses of, or distributions of assets of, the issuing Person,
(e) but excluding from all of the foregoing any debt securities convertible into Capital Stock, whether or not such debt securities include any right of participation with Capital Stock.
"" means the Person named as the "Company" in the first paragraph of this instrument until a successor Person shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture, and thereafter "Company" shall mean such successor Person.
Company
"" means a written order signed in the name of the Company by two Officers of the Company, and delivered to the Trustee.
Company Order
 
"" means any receiver, trustee, assignee, liquidator, custodian or similar official under any Bankruptcy Law.
Custodian
"" means any event that is, or with the passage of time or the giving of notice or both would be, an Event of Default.
Default
"" means, with respect to the Securities of any series issuable or issued in whole or in part in global form, the Person specified pursuant to as the initial Depositary with respect to the Securities of that series, until a successor shall have been appointed and become such pursuant to the applicable provision of this Indenture, and thereafter "Depositary" shall mean or include that successor.
Depositary
Section 2.1
"" or "$" means a dollar or other equivalent unit in such coin or currency of the United States as at the time shall be legal tender for the payment of public and private debt.
Dollar
"" means The Depository Trust Company, its nominees and their respective successors and assigns, or such other depositary institution hereinafter appointed by the Company.
DTC
"" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Exchange Act
"" means generally accepted accounting principles set forth in the opinions and pronouncements of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) and statements and pronouncements of the Financial Accounting Standards Board or in such other statements by such other entity as have been approved by a significant segment of the accounting profession, which are in effect as of the date of determination.
GAAP
"" of any series means a Security of that series that is issued in global form in the name of the Depositary with respect thereto or its nominee.
Global Securities
"" means direct obligations of, or obligations guaranteed by, the United States of America for the payment of which obligations or guarantee the full faith and credit of the United States of America is pledged.
Government Securities
"" means a Person in whose name a Security is registered in the applicable Securities Register.
Holder
"" means this Indenture as amended or supplemented from time to time by one or more indentures supplemental hereto entered into pursuant to the applicable provisions hereof, including, for all purposes of this instrument and any such supplemental indenture, the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act that are deemed to be a part of and govern this instrument and any such supplemental indenture, respectively. The term "Indenture" shall also include the terms of any particular series of Securities and established as contemplated by .
Indenture
Section 2.1
"," when used with respect to any Security, shall have the meaning assigned to that term in the Security as contemplated by .
Interest Payment Date
Section 2.1
 
"" means, with respect to any Security, the date on which the principal of that Security or an installment of principal becomes due and payable as therein or herein provided, whether at the Stated Maturity thereof, or by declaration of acceleration, call for redemption or otherwise.
Maturity
"" means any principal, interest, penalties, fees, indemnifications, reimbursements, damages and other liabilities payable under the documentation governing any indebtedness.
Obligations
"" means the Chief Executive Officer, the President, the Chief Operating Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the Treasurer, any Assistant Treasurer, the Controller, the Secretary or any Vice-President of the Company.
Officer
"" means a certificate signed by two Officers, at least one of whom shall be the President, the Chief Financial Officer or the Treasurer.
Officers' Certificate
"" means a written opinion from legal counsel who is reasonably acceptable to the Trustee. The counsel may be an employee of or counsel to the Company.
Opinion of Counsel
"" means any Security that provides for an amount less than the principal amount thereof to be due and payable on a declaration of acceleration of the Maturity thereof pursuant to .
Original Issue Discount Security
Section 6.2
"" means any individual, corporation, partnership, joint venture, association, joint-stock company, trust, unincorporated organization, limited liability company or government or other entity.
Person
"" when used with respect to any Security to be redeemed, in whole or in part, means the date fixed for such redemption by or pursuant to this Indenture.
Redemption Date
"" means, with respect to any Security to be redeemed, the price at which it is to be redeemed pursuant to this Indenture.
Redemption Price
"" means the Securities and Exchange Commission.
SEC
"" has the meaning ascribed to it in the second introductory paragraph of this Indenture.
Securities
"" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Securities Act
"" means the register of the Securities and of their exchange, maintained by the Registrar, pursuant to .
Securities Register
Section 2.5
"" means, with respect to Securities of a series issued in global form, the Trustee for Securities of that series, as custodian with respect to the Securities of that series, or any successor entity thereto.
Security Custodian
 
"" means, with respect to any installment of interest or principal on any series of indebtedness, the date on which the payment of interest or principal was scheduled to be paid in the documentation governing such indebtedness as of the date of this Indenture, and will not include any contingent obligations to repay, redeem or repurchase any such interest or principal prior to the date originally scheduled for the payment thereof.
Stated Maturity
"" of any specified Person means any corporation, association or other business entity of which more than 50% of the total voting power of shares of Capital Stock entitled (without regard to the occurrence of any contingency) to vote in the election of directors, managers or trustees thereof is at the time owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by such Person or one or more of the other Subsidiaries of that Person or a combination thereof.
Subsidiary
"" or "," except as otherwise provided in , means the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 (15  77aaa - 77bbbb), as in effect on the date hereof.
TIA
Trust Indenture Act
Section 9.3
U.S.C.
"" shall mean, when used with respect to the Trustee, any officer within the corporate trust department of the Trustee, including any vice president, assistant vice president, assistant secretary, assistant treasurer, trust officer or any other officer of the Trustee who customarily performs functions similar to those performed by the Persons who at the time shall be such officers, respectively, or to whom any corporate trust matter is referred because of such person's knowledge of and familiarity with the particular subject and who shall have direct responsibility for the administration of this Indenture.
Trust Officer
"" means the Person named as such above until a successor replaces it in accordance with the applicable provisions of this Indenture, and thereafter "Trustee" means each Person who is then a Trustee hereunder, and if at any time there is more than one such Person, "Trustee" as used with respect to the Securities of any series means the Trustee with respect to Securities of that series.
Trustee
Section 1.2. .
Other Definitions
 
 
Section 1.3. . This Indenture is subject to the mandatory provisions of the TIA which are incorporated by reference in and made a part of this Indenture. The following TIA terms have the following meanings:
Incorporation by Reference of Trust Indenture Act
"Commission" means the SEC.
"indenture securities" means the Securities.
"indenture security holder" means a Holder of a Security.
"indenture to be qualified" means this Indenture.
"indenture trustee" or "institutional trustee" means the Trustee.
"obligor" on any series of Securities means the Company.
All other TIA terms used in this Indenture that are defined by the TIA, defined in the TIA by reference to another statute or defined by SEC rules have the meanings assigned to them by such definitions.
Section 1.4. .
Rules of Construction
Unless the context otherwise requires:
(a) a term has the meaning assigned to it;
 
(b) an accounting term not otherwise defined has the meaning assigned to it in accordance with GAAP;
(c) "or" is not exclusive;
(d) "including" means including without limitation;
(e) words in the singular include the plural and words in the plural include the singular;
(f) the principal amount of any noninterest bearing or other discount security at any date shall be the principal amount thereof that would be shown on a balance sheet of the Company dated such date prepared in accordance with GAAP; and
(g) provisions apply to successive events and transactions.
Section 2.1. .
Form, Dating and Terms
The aggregate principal amount of Securities that may be issued, authenticated and delivered under this Indenture is unlimited.
The Securities may be issued in one or more series and, except as otherwise provided herein, each such series shall be unsecured and shall rank with each other and with all other unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness for borrowed money of the Company. There shall be established in or pursuant to a Board Resolution, and set forth, or determined in the manner provided, in an Officers' Certificate of the Company or in a Company Order, or established in one or more indentures supplemental hereto, prior to the issuance of Securities of any series:
pari passu
(a) the title of the Securities of the series (which shall distinguish the Securities of the series from the Securities of all other series);
(b) if there is to be a limit, the limit upon the aggregate principal amount of the Securities of the series that may be authenticated and delivered under this Indenture (except for Securities authenticated and delivered upon registration of transfer of, or in exchange for, or in lieu of, other Securities of the series pursuant to , , , , or and except for any Securities that, pursuant to or , are deemed never to have been authenticated and delivered hereunder); , that unless otherwise provided in the terms of the series, the authorized aggregate principal amount of such series may be increased before or after the issuance of any Securities of the series by a Board Resolution (or action pursuant to a Board Resolution) to such effect;
Section 2.8
Section 2.9
Section 2.13
Section 2.16
Section 5.7
Section 9.5
Section 2.4
Section 2.16
provided, however
 
(c) whether any Securities of the series are to be issuable initially in temporary global form and whether any Securities of the series are to be issuable in permanent global form, as Global Securities or otherwise, and, if so, whether beneficial owners of interests in any such Global Security may exchange such interests for Securities of such series and of like tenor of any authorized form and denomination and the circumstances under which any such exchanges may occur, if other than in the manner provided in , and the initial Depositary and Security Custodian, if any, for any Global Security or Securities of such series;
Section 2.16
(d) the manner in which any interest payable on a temporary Global Security on any Interest Payment Date will be paid if other than in the manner provided in ;
Section 2.12
(e) the date or dates on which the principal of and premium (if any) on the Securities of the series is payable or the method of determination thereof;
(f) the rate or rates (which may be fixed or variable), or the method of determination thereof, at which the Securities of the series shall bear interest, if any, whether and under what circumstances Additional Amounts with respect to such Securities shall be payable, the date or dates from which such interest shall accrue, the Interest Payment Dates on which such interest shall be payable, or the method by which such date will be determined, and the record date for the interest payable on any Securities on any Interest Payment Date, or if other than provided herein, the Person to whom any interest on Securities of the series shall be payable;
(g) the place or places where, subject to the provisions of , the principal of, premium (if any) and interest on and any Additional Amounts with respect to the Securities of the series shall be payable;
Section 3.3
(h) the period or periods within which, the price or prices (whether denominated in cash, securities or otherwise) at which and the terms and conditions upon which Securities of the series may be redeemed, in whole or in part, at the option of the Company, if the Company is to have that option, and the manner in which the Company must exercise any such option, if different from those set forth herein;
(i) the obligation, if any, of the Company to redeem, purchase or repay Securities of the series pursuant to any sinking fund or analogous provisions or at the option of a Holder thereof and the period or periods within which, the price or prices (whether denominated in cash, securities or otherwise) at which and the terms and conditions upon which Securities of the series shall be redeemed, purchased or repaid in whole or in part pursuant to such obligation;
(j) if other than denominations of $1,000 and any integral multiple in excess thereof, the denomination in which any Securities of that series shall be issuable;
(k) if other than Dollars, the currency or currencies (including composite currencies) or the form, including equity securities, other debt securities (including Securities), warrants or any other securities or property of the Company or any other Person, in which payment of the principal of, premium (if any) and interest on and any Additional Amounts with respect to the Securities of the series shall be payable;
 
(l) if the principal of, premium (if any) or interest on or any Additional Amounts with respect to the Securities of the series are to be payable, at the election of the Company or a Holder thereof, in a currency or currencies (including composite currencies) other than that in which the Securities are stated to be payable, the currency or currencies (including composite currencies) in which payment of the principal of, premium (if any) and interest on and any Additional Amounts with respect to Securities of such series as to which such election is made shall be payable, and the periods within which and the terms and conditions upon which such election is to be made;
(m) if the amount of payments of principal of, premium (if any) and interest on and any Additional Amounts with respect to the Securities of the series may be determined with reference to any commodities, currencies or indices, values, rates or prices or any other index or formula, the manner in which such amounts shall be determined;
(n) if other than the entire principal amount thereof, the portion of the principal amount of Securities of the series that shall be payable upon declaration of acceleration of the Maturity thereof pursuant to ;
Section 6.2
(o) any additional means of satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture and any additional conditions or limitations to discharge with respect to Securities of the series pursuant to or any modifications of or deletions from such conditions or limitations;
Article VIII
(p) any deletions or modifications of or additions to the Events of Default set forth in or covenants of the Company set forth in pertaining to the Securities of the series and any change in the right of the Trustee or the Holders to declare the principal of, and premium, if any, and interest on, such Securities due and payable;
Section 6.1
Article III
(q) any restrictions or other provisions with respect to the transfer or exchange of Securities of the series, which may amend, supplement, modify or supersede those contained in this ;
Article II
(r) if the Securities of the series are to be convertible into or exchangeable for capital stock, other debt securities (including Securities), warrants, other equity securities or any other securities or property of the Company or any other Person, at the option of the Company or the Holder or upon the occurrence of any condition or event, the terms and conditions for such conversion or exchange, including the initial conversion or exchange price or rate, the conversion or exchange period and any other provision in addition to or in lieu of those described herein;
(s) if applicable, that the Securities of the series, in whole or any specified part, shall not be defeasible pursuant to or or both such Sections, and, if such Securities may be defeased, in whole or in part, pursuant to either or both
Section 8.2
Section 8.3
 
such Sections, any provisions to permit a pledge of obligations other than Government Securities (or the establishment of other arrangements) to satisfy the requirements of for defeasance of such Securities and, if other than by a Board Resolution of the Company, the manner in which any election by the Company to defease such Securities shall be evidenced; and
Section 8.4(a)
(t) any other terms of the series (which terms shall not be prohibited by the provisions of this Indenture).
All Securities of any one series shall be substantially identical except as to denomination and except as may otherwise be provided in or pursuant to the Board Resolution referred to above and (subject to ) set forth, or determined in the manner provided, in the Officers' Certificate or Company Order referred to above or in any such indenture supplemental hereto.
Section 2.3
If any of the terms of the series are established by action taken pursuant to a Board Resolution, a copy of an appropriate record of such action, together with such Board Resolution, shall be set forth in an Officers' Certificate or certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company and delivered to the Trustee at or prior to the delivery of the Officers' Certificate or Company Order setting forth the terms of the series.
Section 2.2. . The Securities of each series shall be issuable in such denominations as shall be specified as contemplated by . In the absence of any such provisions with respect to the Securities of any series, the Securities of such series denominated in Dollars shall be issuable in denominations of $1,000 and any integral multiples thereof.
Denominations
Section 2.1
Section 2.3. . The Securities of each series shall be in fully registered form and in substantially such form or forms (including temporary or permanent global form) established by or pursuant to a Board Resolution or in one or more indentures supplemental hereto. The Securities may have notations, legends or endorsements required by law, securities exchange rule, the Company's certificate of incorporation, bylaws or other similar governing documents, agreements to which the Company is subject, if any, or usage (provided that any such notation, legend or endorsement is in a form acceptable to the Company). A copy of the Board Resolution establishing the form or forms of Securities of any series shall be delivered to the Trustee at or prior to the delivery of the Company Order contemplated by for the authentication and delivery of such Securities.
Forms Generally
Section 2.4
The definitive Securities of each series shall be printed, lithographed or engraved on steel engraved borders or may be produced in any other manner, all as determined by the Officers executing such Securities, as evidenced by their execution thereof.
The Trustee's certificate of authentication shall be in substantially the following form:
"This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
 
Date:                     
 
Section 2.4. . Two Officers of the Company shall sign the Securities on behalf of the Company by manual or facsimile signature.
Execution, Authentication, Delivery and Dating
If an Officer of the Company whose signature is on a Security no longer holds that office at the time the Security is authenticated, the Security shall be valid nevertheless.
A Security shall not be entitled to any benefit under this Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose until authenticated by the manual signature of an authorized signatory of the Trustee, which signature shall be conclusive evidence that the Security has been authenticated under this Indenture. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any Security has been authenticated and delivered hereunder but never issued and sold by the Company, and the Company delivers such Security to the Trustee for cancellation as provided in , together with a written statement stating that such Security has never been issued and sold by the Company, for all purposes of this Indenture such Security shall be deemed never to have been authenticated and delivered hereunder and shall never be entitled to the benefits of this Indenture.
Section 2.11
At any time and from time to time after the execution and delivery of this Indenture, the Company may deliver Securities of any series executed by the Company to the Trustee for authentication, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver such Securities for original issue upon a Company Order for the authentication and delivery of such Securities or pursuant to such procedures acceptable to the Trustee as may be specified from time to time by Company Order. Such order shall specify the amount of the Securities to be authenticated, the date on which the original issue of Securities is to be authenticated, the name or names of the initial Holder or Holders and any other terms of the Securities of such series not otherwise determined. If provided for in such procedures, such Company Order may authorize (1) authentication and delivery of Securities of such series for original issue from time to time, with certain terms (including, without limitation, the Maturity dates or dates, original issue date or dates and interest rate or rates) that differ from Security to Security and (2) may authorize authentication and delivery pursuant to oral or electronic instructions from the Company or its duly authorized agent, which instructions shall be promptly confirmed in writing.
If the form or terms of the Securities of the series have been established in or pursuant to one or more Board Resolutions as permitted by , in authenticating such Securities, and accepting the additional responsibilities under this Indenture in relation to such Securities, the Trustee shall receive (in addition to the Company Order referred to above and the other documents required by ), and (subject to ) shall be fully protected in relying upon:
Section 2.1
Section 11.4
Section 7.1
(a) an Officers' Certificate of the Company setting forth the Board Resolution and, if applicable, an appropriate record of any action taken pursuant thereto, as contemplated by the last paragraph of ; and
Section 2.1
 
(b) an Opinion of Counsel to the effect that:
(1) the form of such Securities has been established in conformity with the provisions of this Indenture;
(2) the terms of such Securities have been established in conformity with the provisions of this Indenture; and
(3) that such Securities, when authenticated and delivered by the Trustee and issued by the Company in the manner and subject to any conditions specified in such Opinion of Counsel, will constitute valid and binding obligations of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with their respective terms, except as the enforceability thereof may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium, fraudulent conveyance or transfer or other similar laws in effect from time to time affecting the rights of creditors generally, and the application of general principles of equity (regardless of whether such enforceability is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law).
If all the Securities of any series are not to be issued at one time, then the documents required to be delivered pursuant to this must be delivered only once prior to the authentication and delivery of the first Security of such series, provided, however, that the Trustee shall receive an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel covering the provisions set forth in of this Indenture.
Section 2.4
Section 11.5
The Trustee shall not be required to authenticate such Securities if the issuance of such Securities pursuant to this Indenture would affect the Trustee's own rights, duties or immunities under the Securities and this Indenture or otherwise in a manner not reasonably acceptable to the Trustee.
The Trustee may appoint an authenticating agent acceptable to the Company to authenticate Securities. Unless limited by the terms of such appointment, any such authenticating agent may authenticate Securities whenever the Trustee may do so. Each reference in this Indenture to authentication by the Trustee includes authentication by such agent. An authenticating agent has the same rights as an Agent to deal with the Company or an Affiliate of the Company.
Each Security shall be dated the date of its authentication.
Section 2.5. . The Company shall maintain an office or agency for each series of Securities where Securities of such series may be presented for registration of transfer or for exchange (the "") and an office or agency where Securities of such series may be presented for payment (the ""). The Company shall cause each of the Registrar and the Paying Agent to maintain an office or agency in the United States of America. The Registrar shall keep the Securities Register. The Company may have one or more co-registrars and one or more additional paying agents. The term "" includes any additional paying agent.
Registrar and Paying Agent
Registrar
Paying Agent
Paying Agent
 
The Company shall enter into an appropriate agency agreement with any Registrar, Paying Agent or co-registrar not a party to this Indenture, which shall incorporate the terms of the TIA. The agreement shall implement the provisions of this Indenture that relate to such agent. The Company shall notify the Trustee of the name and address of each such agent. If the Company fails to maintain a Registrar or Paying Agent, the Trustee shall act as such and shall be entitled to appropriate compensation therefor pursuant to . The Company or any of its Subsidiaries may act as Paying Agent, Registrar, co-registrar or transfer agent.
Section 7.7
The Company initially appoints the Trustee as Registrar and Paying Agent for the Securities.
Section 2.6. . By no later than 11:00 a.m. (New York City time) on the date on which any amount or Additional Amounts, if any, in respect of any Security is due and payable, the Company shall deposit with the Paying Agent a sum sufficient in immediately available funds to pay such amount or Additional Amounts, if any, when due. The Company shall require each Paying Agent (other than the Trustee) to agree in writing that such Paying Agent shall hold in trust for the benefit of the applicable Holders or the Trustee all money held by such Paying Agent for the payment of such amount and Additional Amounts, if any, on the applicable Securities and shall notify the Trustee in writing of any default by the Company in making any such payment. If the Company or a Subsidiary acts as Paying Agent, it shall segregate the money held by it as Paying Agent and hold it as a separate trust fund. The Company at any time may require a Paying Agent (other than the Trustee) to pay all money held by it to the Trustee and to account for any funds disbursed by such Paying Agent. Upon complying with this , the Paying Agent (if other than the Company or a Subsidiary) shall have no further liability for the money delivered to the Trustee. Upon any bankruptcy, reorganization or similar proceeding with respect to the Company, the Trustee shall serve as Paying Agent for the Securities.
Paying Agent to Hold Money in Trust
Section 2.6
Section 2.7. . The Trustee shall preserve in as current a form as is reasonably practicable the most recent list available to it of the names and addresses of Holders. If the Trustee is not the Registrar with respect to a series of Securities, or to the extent otherwise required under the TIA, the Company shall furnish to the Trustee, in writing at least five Business Days before each Interest Payment Date with respect to such series of Securities and at such other times as the Trustee may request in writing, promptly after the receipt by the Company of any such request, a list in such form and as of such date as the Trustee may reasonably require of the names and addresses of Holders of such series.
Holder Lists
Section 2.8. .
Transfer and Exchange
Except as set forth in or as may be provided pursuant to :
Section 2.16
Section 2.1
When Securities of any series are presented to the Registrar with the request to register the transfer of those Securities or to exchange those Securities for an equal principal amount of Securities of the same series of like tenor and of other authorized denominations, the Registrar
 
shall register the transfer or make the exchange as requested if its requirements and the requirements of this Indenture for those transactions are met; , that the Securities presented or surrendered for registration of transfer or exchange shall be duly endorsed or accompanied by a written instruction of transfer in form reasonably satisfactory to the Registrar duly executed by the Holder thereof or by his attorney, duly authorized in writing, on which instruction the Registrar can rely.
provided, however
To permit registrations of transfers and exchanges, the Company shall execute Securities and the Trustee shall authenticate such Securities at the Registrar's written request and submission of the Securities (other than Global Securities). No service charge shall be made to a Holder for any registration of transfer or exchange (except as otherwise expressly permitted herein), but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any transfer tax or similar governmental charge payable in connection therewith (other than such transfer tax or similar governmental charge payable on exchanges pursuant to , or ). The Trustee shall authenticate Securities in accordance with the provisions of . Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Indenture to the contrary, the Company shall not be required to register the transfer or exchange of (a) any Security selected for redemption in whole or in part pursuant to , except the unredeemed portion of any Security being redeemed in part or (b) any Security during the period beginning 15 Business Days before the mailing of notice of any offer to repurchase Securities of the series required pursuant to the terms thereof or of redemption of Securities of a series to be redeemed and ending at the close of business on the date of mailing.
Section 2.13
Section 5.7
Section 9.5
Section 2.4
Article V
Section 2.9. . If a mutilated Security is surrendered to the Registrar or if the Holder of a Security claims that the Security has been lost, destroyed or wrongfully taken, the Company shall issue and the Trustee shall authenticate a replacement Security with respect to such series if the requirements of Section 8-405 of the Uniform Commercial Code are met, such that the Holder (a) satisfies the Company or the Trustee within a reasonable time after such Holder has notice of such loss, destruction or wrongful taking and the Registrar does not register a transfer prior to receiving such notification, (b) makes such request to the Company or Trustee prior to the Security being acquired by a protected purchaser as defined in Section 8-303 of the Uniform Commercial Code (a "") and (c) satisfies any other reasonable requirements of the Trustee. If required by the Trustee or the Company, such Holder shall furnish an indemnity bond sufficient in the judgment of the Company and the Trustee to protect the Company, the Trustee, the Paying Agent, the Registrar and any co-registrar from any loss which any of them may suffer if a Security is replaced, and, in the absence of notice to the Company or the Trustee that such Security has been acquired by a protected purchaser, the Company shall execute and, upon a Company Order, the Trustee shall authenticate and make available for delivery, in exchange for any such mutilated Security or in lieu of any such destroyed, lost or wrongfully taken Security, a new Security of like tenor and principal amount, bearing a number not contemporaneously outstanding.
Mutilated, Destroyed, Lost or Wrongfully Taken Securities
protected purchaser
In case any such mutilated, destroyed, lost or wrongfully taken Security has become or is about to become due and payable, the Company in its discretion may, instead of issuing a new Security of such series, pay such Security.
 
Upon the issuance of any new Security under this , the Company may require the payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in relation thereto and any other expenses (including the fees and expenses of the Trustee and its counsel) in connection therewith.
Section 2.9
Every new Security issued pursuant to this Section in lieu of any mutilated, destroyed, lost or wrongfully taken Security shall constitute an original additional contractual obligation of the Company and any other obligor upon the Securities of such series, whether or not the mutilated, destroyed, lost or wrongfully taken Security shall be at any time enforceable by anyone, and shall be entitled to all benefits of this Indenture equally and proportionately with any and all other Securities of such series duly issued hereunder.
The provisions of this are exclusive and shall preclude (to the extent lawful) all other rights and remedies with respect to the replacement or payment of mutilated, destroyed, lost or wrongfully taken Securities.
Section 2.9
Section 2.10. . Securities outstanding at any time are all Securities authenticated by the Trustee except for those canceled by it, those delivered to it for cancellation and those described in this as not outstanding. A Security ceases to be outstanding in the event the Company or a Subsidiary of the Company holds the Security, , , that (a) for purposes of determining which are outstanding for consent or voting purposes hereunder, the provisions of shall apply and (b) in determining whether the Trustee shall be protected in making a determination whether the Holders of the requisite principal amount of outstanding Securities are present at a meeting of Holders of Securities for quorum purposes or have consented to or voted in favor of any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver, amendment or modification hereunder, or relying upon any such quorum, consent or vote, only Securities which a Trust Officer of the Trustee actually knows to be held by the Company or an Affiliate of the Company shall not be considered outstanding.
Outstanding Securities
Section 2.10
provided
however
Section 11.6
If a Security is replaced pursuant to , it ceases to be outstanding unless the Trustee and the Company receive proof satisfactory to them that the replaced Security is held by a protected purchaser.
Section 2.9
If the Paying Agent segregates and holds in trust, in accordance with this Indenture, on a Redemption Date or maturity date money sufficient to pay all amounts and Additional Amounts, if any, payable on that date with respect to the Securities (or portions thereof) to be redeemed or maturing, as the case may be, and the Paying Agent is not prohibited from paying such money to the Holders on that date pursuant to the terms of this Indenture, then on and after that date such Securities (or portions thereof) cease to be outstanding and interest on them ceases to accrue.
Section 2.11. . The Company at any time may deliver Securities to the Trustee for cancellation. The Registrar and the Paying Agent shall forward to the Trustee any Securities surrendered to them for registration of transfer, exchange or payment. The Trustee and no one else shall cancel all Securities surrendered for registration of transfer, exchange, payment or cancellation and dispose of such Securities in accordance with its internal policies, including, upon the written request of the Company, delivery of a certificate (a "")
Cancellation
Certificate of Destruction
 
describing such Securities disposed (subject to the record retention requirements of the Exchange Act). The Company may not issue new Securities to replace Securities it has paid or delivered to the Trustee for cancellation for any reason other than in connection with a transfer or exchange.
Section 2.12. . Unless otherwise provided as contemplated by with respect to the Securities of any series, interest and Additional Amounts, if any, on any Security of such series which is payable, and is punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date shall be paid to the Person in whose name such Security (or one or more predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the regular record date for such interest at the office or agency of the Company maintained for such purpose pursuant to .
Payment of Interest; Defaulted Interest
Section 2.1
Section 2.8
Unless otherwise provided as contemplated by with respect to the Securities of any series, any interest and Additional Amounts, if any, on any Security of such series which is payable, but is not paid when the same becomes due and payable and such nonpayment continues for a period of 30 days shall forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on the regular record date, and such defaulted interest and (to the extent lawful) interest on such defaulted interest at the rate provided for in the Securities therefor (such defaulted interest and interest thereon herein collectively called "") shall be paid by the Company, at its election in each case, as provided in clause (a) or (b) below:
Section 2.1
Defaulted Interest
(a) The Company may elect to make payment of any Defaulted Interest to the Persons in whose names the Securities (or their respective predecessor Securities) are registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date (as defined below) for the payment of such Defaulted Interest, which shall be fixed in the following manner. The Company shall notify the Trustee in writing of the amount of Defaulted Interest proposed to be paid on each Security and the date (not less than 30 days after such notice) of the proposed payment (the ""), and at the same time the Company shall deposit with the Trustee an amount of money equal to the aggregate amount proposed to be paid in respect of such Defaulted Interest or shall make arrangements satisfactory to the Trustee for such deposit prior to the date of the proposed payment, such money when deposited to be held in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled to such Defaulted Interest as in this clause provided. Thereupon the Trustee shall fix a record date (the "") for the payment of such Defaulted Interest, which date shall be not more than 15 days and not less than 10 days prior to the Special Interest Payment Date and not less than 10 days after the receipt by the Trustee of the notice of the proposed payment. The Trustee shall promptly notify the Company of such Special Record Date, and in the name and at the expense of the Company, shall cause notice of the proposed payment of such Defaulted Interest and the Special Record Date and Special Interest Payment Date therefor to be given in the manner provided for in , not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date. Notice of the proposed payment of such Defaulted Interest and the Special Record Date and Special Interest Payment Date therefor having been so given, such Defaulted Interest shall be paid on the Special Interest Payment Date to the Persons in whose names the Securities (or their respective predecessor Securities) are registered at the close of business on such Special Record Date and shall no longer be payable pursuant to the following clause (b).
Special Interest Payment Date
Special Record Date
Section 11.2
 
(b) The Company may make payment of any Defaulted Interest in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Securities may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, if, after notice given by the Company to the Trustee of the proposed payment pursuant to this clause, such manner of payment shall be deemed practicable by the Trustee.
Subject to the foregoing provisions of this , each Security delivered under this Indenture upon registration of, transfer of or in exchange for or in lieu of any other Security shall carry the rights to interest and Additional Amounts, if any, each as accrued and unpaid, and to accrue, which were carried by such other Security.
Section 2.12
Section 2.13. . Until definitive Securities of any series are ready for delivery, the Company may execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver temporary Securities of such series. Temporary Securities shall be substantially in the form of definitive Securities, but may have variations that the Company considers appropriate for temporary Securities. Without unreasonable delay, the Company shall prepare definitive Securities in exchange for temporary Securities. Upon surrender for cancellation of any one or more temporary Securities of any series, the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver in exchange therefor a like principal amount of definitive Securities of the same series of authorized denominations and of like tenor. Until so exchanged, the temporary Securities shall in all respects be entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture as definitive Securities.
Temporary Securities
Section 2.14. . The Company, the Trustee, any Agent and any authenticating agent may treat the Person in whose name any Security is registered as the owner of that Security for the purpose of receiving payments of principal of, premium (if any) or interest on, or any Additional Amounts with respect to, that Security and for all other purposes. None of the Company, the Trustee, any Agent or any authenticating agent shall be affected by any notice to the contrary.
Persons Deemed Owners
Section 2.15. . Except as otherwise provided as contemplated by with respect to the Securities of any series, interest on the Securities shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.
Computation of Interest
Section 2.1
Section 2.16. . If Securities of a series are issuable in global form as a Global Security, as contemplated by , then, notwithstanding and the provisions of , any such Global Security shall represent those of the outstanding Securities of that series as shall be specified therein and may provide that it shall represent the aggregate amount of outstanding Securities of that series from time to time endorsed thereon and that the aggregate amount of outstanding Securities of that series represented thereby may from time to time be reduced or increased, as appropriate, to reflect exchanges, transfers or redemptions. Any endorsement of a Global Security to reflect the amount, or any increase or decrease in the amount, of outstanding Securities of that series represented thereby shall be made by the Trustee (a) in such manner and upon instructions given by such Person or Persons as shall be specified in that Security or in a Company Order to be delivered to the Trustee pursuant to or (b) otherwise in accordance with written
Global Securities; Book-Entry Provisions
Section 2.1
Section 2.1(k)
Section 2.2
Section 2.4
 
instructions or such other written form of instructions as is customary for the Depositary for that Security, from that Depositary or its nominee on behalf of any Person having a beneficial interest in that Global Security. Subject to the provisions of and, if applicable, , the Trustee shall deliver and redeliver any Security in permanent global form in the manner and upon instructions given by the Person or Persons specified in that Security or in the applicable Company Order. Any Global Security may be deposited with the Depositary or its nominee, or may remain in the custody of the Trustee as the Security Custodian.
Section 2.4
Section 2.13
Members of, or participants in, the Depositary ("") shall have no rights under this Indenture with respect to any Global Security held on their behalf by the Depositary, or the Trustee or the Security Custodian as its custodian, or under that Global Security, and the Depositary may be treated by the Company, the Trustee or the Security Custodian and any agent of the Company, the Trustee or the Security Custodian as the absolute owner of that Global Security for all purposes whatsoever. Notwithstanding the foregoing, (a) the registered holder of a Global Security of any series may grant proxies and otherwise authorize any Person, including Agent Members and Persons that may hold interests through Agent Members, to take any action that a Holder of Securities of that series is entitled to take under this Indenture or the Securities of that series and (b) nothing herein shall prevent the Company, the Trustee or the Security Custodian or any agent of the Company, the Trustee, or the Security Custodian from giving effect to any written certification, proxy or other authorization furnished by the Depositary or shall impair, as between the Depositary and its Agent Members, the operation of customary practices governing the exercise of the rights of a beneficial owner of any Security.
Agent Members
Notwithstanding , and except as otherwise provided pursuant to , transfers of a Global Security shall be limited to transfers of that Global Security in whole, but not in part, to the Depositary, its successors or their respective nominees. Interests of beneficial owners in a Global Security may be transferred in accordance with the rules and procedures of the Depositary. Securities of any series shall be transferred to all beneficial owners of a Global Security of that series in exchange for their beneficial interests in that Global Security if, and only if, either (a) the Depositary notifies the Company that it is unwilling or unable to continue as depositary for such Global Security or the Depositary ceases to be a clearing agency registered under the Exchange Act, at a time when the Depositary is required to be so registered in order to act as depositary, and, in either case, a successor depositary is not appointed by the Company within 90 days of such notice, (b) the Company, at its option, notifies the Trustee in writing that it elects to cause the issuance of definitive Securities or (c) a Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing with respect to the Securities and the Registrar has received a request from the Depositary to issue Securities in lieu of all or a portion of the Global Security (in which case the Company shall deliver Securities promptly).
Section 2.8
Section 2.1
In connection with any transfer of a portion of the beneficial interests in a Global Security to beneficial owners pursuant to this , the Registrar shall reflect on its books and records the date and a decrease in the principal amount of the Global Security in an amount equal to the principal amount of the beneficial interest in the Global Security to be transferred, and the Company shall execute and the Trustee on receipt of a Company Order for the authentication and delivery of Securities shall authenticate and deliver, one or more Securities of the same series of like tenor and amount.
Section 2.16
 
In connection with the transfer of all the beneficial interests in a Global Security of any series to beneficial owners pursuant to this , the Global Security shall be deemed to be surrendered to the Trustee for cancellation, and the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, to each beneficial owner identified by the Depositary in exchange for its beneficial interest in the Global Security, an equal aggregate principal amount of Securities of that series of authorized denominations.
Section 2.16
Neither the Company nor the Trustee will have any responsibility or liability for any aspect of the records relating to, or payments made on account of, Securities by the Depositary, or for maintaining, supervising or reviewing any records of the Depositary relating to those Securities. Neither the Company nor the Trustee shall be liable for any delay by the related Global Security Holder or the Depositary in identifying the beneficial owners, and each such Person may conclusively rely on, and shall be protected in relying on, instructions from that Global Security Holder or the Depositary for all purposes (including with respect to the registration and delivery, and the respective principal amounts, of the Securities to be issued).
The provisions of the last sentence of the third paragraph of shall apply to any Global Security if that Global Security was never issued and sold by the Company and the Company delivers to the Trustee the Global Security together with written instructions with regard to the cancellation or reduction in the principal amount of Securities represented thereby, together with the written statement contemplated by the last sentence of the third paragraph of .
Section 2.4
Section 2.4
Notwithstanding the provisions of and , unless otherwise specified as contemplated by with respect to Securities of any series, payment of principal of and premium (if any) and interest on and any Additional Amounts with respect to any Global Security shall be made to the Person or Persons specified therein.
Section 2.3
Section 2.12
Section 2.1
Section 2.17. . The Company in issuing the Securities of any series may use CUSIP numbers (if then generally in use) and, if so, the Trustee shall use CUSIP, ISIN and Common Code numbers in notices of redemption as a convenience to Holders of Securities of such series; , , that any such notice may state that no representation is made as to the correctness of such numbers either as printed on the Securities of such series or as contained in any notice of a redemption and that reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers printed on the Securities of such series, and any such redemption shall not be affected by any defect in or omission of such numbers. The Company shall promptly notify the Trustee in writing of any change in the CUSIP, ISIN and Common Code numbers.
CUSIP Numbers, Etc
provided
however
Section 2.18. . In determining whether the Holders of the required principal amount of outstanding Securities have concurred in any direction, amendment, supplement, waiver or consent, unless otherwise provided as contemplated by with respect to the Securities of any series, (a) the principal amount of an Original Issue Discount Security of such series shall be the principal amount thereof that would be due and payable as of the date of that determination upon acceleration of the Maturity thereof pursuant to , and (b) the principal amount of a Security of such series denominated in a foreign currency shall be the Dollar equivalent, as
Original Issue Discount and Foreign-Currency Denominated Securities
Section 2.1
Section 6.2
 
determined by the Company by reference to the noon buying rate in The City of New York for cable transfers for that currency, as that rate is certified for customs purposes by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (the "") on the date of original issuance of that Security, of the principal amount (or, in the case of an Original Issue Discount Security, the Dollar equivalent, as determined by the Company by reference to the Exchange Rate on the date of original issuance of that Security, of the amount determined as provided in (a) above), of that Security.
Exchange Rate
Section 3.1. . The Company shall promptly pay the principal of, premium, if any, on, and interest and Additional Amounts, if any, on the Securities on the dates and in the manner provided in the Securities and in this Indenture. Principal, premium, if any, interest and Additional Amounts, if any, shall be considered paid on the date due if on such date the Trustee or the Paying Agent holds in accordance with this Indenture immediately available funds sufficient to pay all principal, premium and interest and Additional Amounts, if any, then due and the Trustee or Paying Agent, as the case may be, is not prohibited from paying money to the Holders on that date pursuant to the terms of this Indenture.
Payment of Securities
The Company shall pay interest on overdue principal at the rate specified therefor in the Securities, and it shall pay interest on overdue installments of interest at the same rate to the extent lawful.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Indenture, the Company may, to the extent it is required to do so by law, deduct or withhold income or other similar taxes imposed by the United States of America from principal or interest payments hereunder.
Section 3.2. . So long as the Securities of any series are outstanding, the Company shall:
Reports
(a) furnish to the Trustee, within 15 days after the Company files the same with the SEC, copies of the annual reports and of the information, documents and other reports (or copies of such portions of any of the foregoing as the SEC may from time to time by rules and regulations prescribe) which the Company files with the SEC pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act; and
(b) comply with the other provisions of TIA  314(a).
Section 3.3. . The Company will maintain in the United States of America an office or agency for any series of Securities where such Securities may be presented or surrendered for payment, where, if applicable, the Securities of that series may be surrendered for registration of transfer or exchange and where notices and demands to or upon the Company in respect of the Securities of that series and this Indenture may be served. The principal corporate trust office of the Trustee at the address of the Trustee specified in (the "") shall be such office or agency of the Company, unless the Company shall designate and maintain some other office or agency for one or more of
Maintenance of Office or Agency
Section 11.2
Corporate Trust Office
 
such purposes. The Company will give prompt written notice to the Trustee of any change in the location of any such office or agency. If at any time the Company shall fail to maintain any such required office or agency or shall fail to furnish the Trustee with the address thereof, such presentations, surrenders, notices and demands may be made or served at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee, and the Company hereby appoints the Trustee as its agent to receive all such presentations, surrenders, notices and demands.
The Company may also from time to time designate one or more other offices or agencies where the Securities of one or more series may be presented or surrendered for any or all such purposes and may from time to time rescind any such designation; , , that no such designation or rescission shall in any manner relieve the Company of its obligation to maintain an office or agency in the United States of America for such purposes. The Company will give prompt written notice to the Trustee of any such designation or rescission and any change in the location of any such other office or agency.
provided
however
Section 3.4. . Subject to , the Company will do or cause to be done all things necessary to preserve and keep in full force and effect its corporate existence. This shall not prohibit or restrict the Company from converting into a different form of legal entity.
Corporate Existence
Article IV
Section 3.4
Section 3.5. . So long as Securities of any series are outstanding, the Company shall deliver to the Trustee within 120 days after the end of each fiscal year of the Company commencing July 7, 2013, an Officers' Certificate stating that in the course of the performance by the signers of their duties as Officers of the Company they would normally have knowledge of any Default or Event of Default and whether or not the signers know of any Default or Event of Default that occurred during such period. If they do, the certificate shall describe the Default or Event of Default, its status and what action the Company is taking or proposes to take with respect thereto. The Company also shall comply with TIA  314(a)(4).
Compliance Certificate
Section 3.6. . So long as Securities of any series are outstanding, the Company shall deliver to the Trustee, as soon as possible and in any event within 5 Business Days after the Company becomes aware of the occurrence of any Event of Default or Default with respect to that series an Officers' Certificate setting forth the details of such Event of Default or Default and the action which the Company is taking or proposes to take in respect thereof.
Statement by Officers as to Default
Section 3.7. . If the Securities of a series expressly provide for the payment of Additional Amounts, the Company will pay to the Holder of any Security of that series Additional Amounts as expressly provided therein. Whenever in this Indenture there is mentioned, in any context, the payment of the principal of or any premium or interest on, or in respect of, any Security of any series or the net proceeds received from the sale or exchange of any Security of any series, that mention shall be deemed to include mention of the payment of Additional Amounts provided for in this to the extent that, in that context, Additional Amounts are, were or would be payable in respect thereof pursuant to the provisions of this , and express mention of the payment of Additional Amounts (if applicable) in any provisions hereof shall not be construed as excluding Additional Amounts in those provisions hereof where that express mention is not made.
Additional Amounts
Section 3.7
Section 3.7
 
Unless otherwise provided pursuant to with respect to Securities of any series, if the Securities of a series provide for the payment of Additional Amounts, the Company shall furnish the Trustee and the Company's principal Paying Agent or Paying Agents, if other than the Trustee, with an Officers' Certificate, which shall specify the amount, if any, required to be withheld on payments of Additional Amounts to certain Holders of Securities, and the Company will pay to that Paying Agent the Additional Amounts required by this Section. The Company covenants to indemnify the Trustee and any Paying Agent for and to hold them harmless against any loss, liability or expense reasonably incurred without negligence or bad faith on their part arising out of or in connection with actions taken or omitted by any of them in reliance on any Officers' Certificate furnished pursuant to this .
Section 2.1
Section 3.7
Section 4.1. . The Company shall not consolidate or combine with or merge with or into or, directly or indirectly, sell, assign, convey, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of its assets to any Person or Persons in a single transaction or through a series of transactions, unless:
Merger, Consolidation or Sale of Assets
(a) the Company shall be the successor or continuing Person or, if the Company is not the successor or continuing Person, the resulting, surviving or transferee Person (the "") is a corporation, partnership or limited liability company organized and existing under the laws of the United States, any State thereof or the District of Columbia and, if such entity is not a corporation, a co-obligor of Securities is a corporation organized or existing under any such laws, that expressly assumes all of the Company's obligations under the Securities and this Indenture pursuant to a supplement hereto executed and delivered to the Trustee;
Surviving Entity
(b) immediately after giving effect to such transaction or series of transactions, no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing; and
(c) the Company or the Surviving Entity shall have delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and Opinion of Counsel stating that the transaction or series of transactions and any supplement hereto complies with the applicable terms of this Indenture.
If any consolidation or merger or any sale, assignment, conveyance, lease, transfer or other disposition of all or substantially all of the Company's assets occurs in accordance with the terms hereof, the Surviving Entity shall succeed to, and be substituted for, and may exercise every right and power of the Company under this Indenture with the same effect as if such Surviving Entity had been named as the Company, and thereafter the Company shall (except in the case of a lease) be discharged from all obligations and covenants under this Indenture and any Securities issued hereunder, and may be liquidated and dissolved. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company may merge or consolidate into or with any Subsidiary.
 
Section 5.1. . Redemption of Securities at the election of the Company or otherwise, as permitted or required by any provision of this Indenture, shall be made in accordance with such provision and (except as otherwise provided as contemplated by with respect to the Securities of any series) this .
Applicability of Article
Section 2.1
Article V
Section 5.2. . In case of any redemption of any series of Securities at the election of the Company, the Company shall, upon not later than the earlier of the date that is 45 days prior to the Redemption Date fixed by the Company or the date on which notice is given to the Holders (unless a shorter notice shall be satisfactory to the Trustee), notify the Trustee of such Redemption Date and of the principal amount of Securities to be redeemed and shall deliver to the Trustee such documentation and records as shall enable the Trustee in accordance with the procedures of the DTC to select the Securities of such series to be redeemed pursuant to .
Election to Redeem; Notice to Trustee
Section 5.3
Section 5.3. . If fewer than all of the Securities of any series are to be redeemed at any time, the Securities of any series shall be selected in accordance with the procedures of the DTC for redemption as follows:
Selection by Trustee of Securities to Be Redeemed
(a) if the Securities are listed on any national securities exchange, in compliance with the requirements of the principal national securities exchange on which the Securities are listed; or
(b) if the Securities are not listed on any national securities exchange, on a pro rata basis and in accordance with applicable DTC procedures.
Section 5.4. . Notice of redemption shall be given in the manner provided for in not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the Redemption Date, to each Holder of Securities to be redeemed, except that redemption notices may be mailed more than 60 days prior to a Redemption Date if such notice is issued in connection with a defeasance of the Securities or a satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture. Notice of any redemption may, at the Company's discretion, be subject to one or more conditions precedent. The Trustee shall give notice of redemption in the Company's name and at the Company's expense; , , that the Company shall deliver to the Trustee, at least 45 days prior to the Redemption Date (unless a shorter notice shall be satisfactory to the Trustee), an Officers' Certificate requesting that the Trustee give such notice at the Company's expense and setting forth the information to be stated in such notice as provided in the following items.
Notice of Redemption
Section 11.2
provided
however
 
All notices of redemption shall state:
(a) the Redemption Date;
(b) the redemption price (or the method of calculating the redemption price) and the amount of accrued interest and Additional Amounts, if any, to the Redemption Date payable as provided in ;
Section 5.6
(c) if less than all outstanding Securities are to be redeemed, the identification of the particular Securities (or portion thereof) to be redeemed, as well as the aggregate principal amount of Securities to be redeemed and the aggregate principal amount of Securities to be outstanding after such partial redemption;
(d) in case any Securities are is to be redeemed in part only, the notice which relates to such Securities shall state that on and after the Redemption Date, upon surrender of such Securities, the Holder will receive, without charge, a new Security or Securities of authorized denominations for the principal amount thereof remaining unredeemed;
(e) that on the Redemption Date the redemption price (and accrued interest, if any, to the Redemption Date payable as provided in ) will become due and payable upon each such Security, or the portion thereof, to be redeemed, and, unless the Company defaults in making the redemption payment, that interest and Additional Amounts, if any, on Securities (or the portions thereof) called for redemption will cease to accrue on and after said date;
Section 5.6
(f) the place or places where such Securities are to be surrendered for payment of the Redemption Price and accrued interest, if any;
(g) the name and address of the Paying Agent;
(h) that Securities called for redemption (other than a Global Note) must be surrendered to the Paying Agent to collect the redemption price;
(i) the CUSIP, ISIN or Common Code number, and that no representation is made as to the accuracy or correctness of the CUSIP, ISIN or Common Code number, if any, listed in such notice or printed on the Securities; and
(j) the section of this Indenture and the paragraph of the Securities pursuant to which the Securities are to be redeemed.
Any redemption and notice thereof pursuant to this Indenture may, in the Company's discretion, be subject to the satisfaction of one or more conditions.
Section 5.5. . Not later than 11:00 a.m. New York time on the Redemption Date, the Company shall deposit with the Trustee or with a Paying Agent (or, if the Company is acting as its own Paying Agent, segregate and hold in trust as provided in ) an amount of money sufficient to pay the redemption price of, and accrued interest and Additional Amounts, if any, on, all the Securities which are to be redeemed on that date.
Deposit of Redemption Price
Section 2.6
 
Section 5.6. . Notice of redemption having been given as aforesaid, unless the notice of redemption is subject to one or more conditions precedent which have not been satisfied, the Securities or portions of Securities so to be redeemed shall, on the Redemption Date, become due and payable at the redemption price therein specified (together with accrued and unpaid interest and Additional Amounts, if any, to the Redemption Date), and from and after such date (unless the Company shall default in the payment of the redemption price and accrued interest and Additional Amounts, if any) such Securities shall cease to bear interest and Additional Amounts, if any. Upon surrender of any such Security for redemption in accordance with said notice, such Security shall be paid by the Company at the redemption price, together with accrued and unpaid interest and Additional Amounts, if any, to the Redemption Date (subject to the rights of Holders of record on the relevant record date to receive interest and Additional Amounts, if any, due on an Interest Payment Date that is on or prior to the Redemption Date).
Securities Payable on Redemption Date
If any Security called for redemption shall not be so paid upon surrender thereof for redemption, the principal (and premium, if any) shall, until paid, bear interest and Additional Amounts, if any, from the Redemption Date at the rate borne by the Securities.
Section 5.7. . Any Security which is to be redeemed only in part (pursuant to the provisions of this ) shall be surrendered at the office or agency of the Company maintained for such purpose pursuant to (with, if the Company or the Trustee so require, due endorsement by, or a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Trustee duly executed by, the Holder thereof or such Holder's attorney duly authorized in writing), and the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and make available for delivery to the Holder of such Security at the expense of the Company, a new Security or Securities, of any authorized denomination as requested by such Holder, in an aggregate principal amount equal to and in exchange for the unredeemed portion of the principal of the Security so surrendered, that each such new Security will be in a principal amount of $1,000 or integral multiple thereof. No Securities of $1,000 or less may be redeemed in part.
Securities Redeemed in Part
Article V
Section 2.5
provided
Section 6.1. . Unless either inapplicable to a particular series or specifically deleted or modified in or pursuant to the supplemental indenture or Board Resolution establishing such series of Securities or in the form of Security for such series, an "," wherever used herein with respect to Securities of any series, occurs if:
Events of Default
Event of Default
(a) the Company defaults in the payment of any installment of interest on or Additional Amounts, if any, with respect to any Security of that series under this Indenture when due, continued for 90 days and the time for payment has not been extended or deferred;
 
(b) the Company defaults in the payment when due (at Stated Maturity, upon redemption or otherwise) of the principal of, or premium, if any, on the Securities of that series;
(c) the Company fails for 90 days after written notice to the Company from the Trustee or the Holders of not less than 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of that series then outstanding to observe or perform any of the other covenants contained in this Indenture or with respect to Securities of that series;
(d) the Company fails to deposit any sinking fund payment, when due, in respect of any debt security of that series;
(e) the Company pursuant to or within the meaning of any Bankruptcy Law (1) commences a voluntary case, (2) consents to the entry of an order for relief against it in an involuntary case, (3) consents to the appointment of a Custodian of it or for all or substantially all of its property or (4) makes a general assignment for the benefit of its creditors; or
(f) a court of competent jurisdiction enters an order under any Bankruptcy Law that (1) is for relief against the Company in an involuntary case, (2) appoints a Custodian of the Company for all or substantially all of the Company's properties, or (3) orders the liquidation of the Company, and, in either of the above cases, the order or decree remains unstayed and in effect for 90 days.
Section 6.2. . Except as otherwise provided as contemplated by with respect to the Securities of any series, in the case of an Event of Default with respect to such series specified in or , all outstanding Securities of such series shall become due and payable immediately without further action or notice by the Trustee or the Holders. Holders may not enforce this Indenture or the Securities except as provided in this Indenture.
Acceleration
Section 2.1
Section 6.1(e)
Section 6.1(f)
Except as otherwise provided as contemplated by with respect to the Securities of such series, if any Event of Default with respect to any Securities of such series at the time outstanding (other than those of the type described in or ) occurs and is continuing, the Trustee may, and at the direction of the Holders of not less than 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of such series then outstanding shall, declare the principal of all the Securities of that series, together with all accrued and unpaid interest and Additional Amounts, if any, and premium, if any, to be due and payable immediately by notice in writing to the Company and the Trustee specifying the respective Event of Default and that such notice is a notice of acceleration, and the same shall become immediately due and payable.
Section 2.1
Section 6.1(e)
Section 6.1(f)
Except as otherwise provided as contemplated by with respect to the Securities of any series, at any time after a declaration of acceleration with respect to the Securities of such series, the Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the Securities of that series then outstanding (by notice to the Trustee) may, on behalf of the Holders of all the Securities of that series, rescind and cancel such declaration and its consequences if:
Section 2.1
(a) the rescission would not conflict with any judgment or decree of a court of competent jurisdiction;
 
(b) all existing Defaults and Events of Default with respect to Securities of that series have been cured or waived except nonpayment of principal of or interest on the Securities of that series that has become due solely by reason of such declaration of acceleration;
(c) to the extent the payment of such interest is lawful, interest (at the same rate specified in the Securities of such series) on overdue installments of interest and Additional Amounts, if any, and overdue payments of principal which has become due otherwise than by such declaration of acceleration has been paid;
(d) the Company has paid the Trustee its reasonable compensation and reimbursed the Trustee for its reasonable expenses (including attorney fees and expenses), disbursements and advances; and
(e) in the event of the cure or waiver of an Event of Default of the type described in or , the Trustee has received an Officers' Certificate and Opinion of Counsel that such Event of Default has been cured or waived.
Section 6.1(e)
Section 6.1(f)
Section 6.3. . If an Event of Default with respect to any series occurs and is continuing, the Trustee may pursue any available remedy to collect the payment of principal of (or premium, if any) or interest or Additional Amounts, if any, on the Securities of such series or to enforce the performance of any provision of the Securities of such series or this Indenture with respect to such series.
Other Remedies
The Trustee may maintain a proceeding even if it does not possess any of the Securities or does not produce any of them in the proceeding. A delay or omission by the Trustee or any Holder in exercising any right or remedy accruing upon an Event of Default shall not impair the right or remedy or constitute a waiver of or acquiescence in the Event of Default. No remedy is exclusive of any other remedy. All available remedies are cumulative.
Section 6.4. . Except as otherwise provided as contemplated by with respect to the Securities of any series, the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the then outstanding Securities of such series by notice to the Trustee may, on behalf of the Holders of all the Securities of such series, (a) waive, by their consent (including, without limitation consents obtained in connection with a purchase of, or tender offer or exchange offer for, Securities of such series), an existing Default or Event of Default, with respect to such series and its consequences or compliance with any provisions except (1) a Default or Event of Default in the payment of the principal of, or premium, if any, or interest or Additional Amounts, if any, on a Security of such series or (2) a Default or Event of Default in respect of a provision that under cannot be amended without the consent of each Holder affected and (b) rescind any such acceleration with respect to the Securities of such series and its consequences if rescission would not conflict with any judgment or decree of a court of competent jurisdiction. When a Default or Event of Default is waived, it is deemed cured, but no such waiver shall extend to any subsequent or other Default or Event of Default or impair any consequent right.
Waiver of Past Defaults
Section 2.1
Section 9.2
 
Section 6.5. . With respect to Securities of any series, the Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the outstanding Securities of such series may direct the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee or of exercising any trust or power conferred on the Trustee. However, the Trustee may refuse to follow any direction that conflicts with law or this Indenture or, subject to and , that the Trustee determines is unduly prejudicial to the rights of the other Holders or would involve the Trustee in personal liability. Prior to taking any action hereunder, the Trustee shall receive indemnification satisfactory to it in its sole discretion against all losses and expenses caused by taking or not taking such action.
Control by Majority
Section 7.1
Section 7.2
Section 6.6. . Subject to , a Holder of a Security of any series may not pursue any remedy with respect to this Indenture or the Securities of such series unless:
Limitation on Suits
Section 6.7
(a) such Holder has previously given to the Trustee written notice stating that an Event of Default is continuing with respect to such series;
(b) Holders of not less than 25% in aggregate principal amount of the outstanding Securities of such series have made written request to the Trustee to institute a proceeding as Trustee;
(c) such Holders have offered to the Trustee indemnity satisfactory to the Trustee against the loss, liability and expense to be incurred in compliance with such request; and
(d) the Trustee has failed to institute such proceeding, and has not received from the Holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the debt securities of that series a direction inconsistent with the request within 60 days after the notice, request and offer
A Holder may not use this Indenture to prejudice the rights of another Holder or to obtain a preference or priority over another Holder.
Section 6.7. . Notwithstanding any other provision of this Indenture (including, without limitation, ), the right of any Holder to receive payment of principal of, premium (if any) or interest or Additional Amounts, if any, when due on the Securities held by such Holder, on or after the respective due dates expressed in the Securities, or to bring suit for the enforcement of any such payment on or after such respective dates, shall not be impaired or affected without the consent of such Holder.
Rights of Holders to Receive Payment
Section 6.6
Section 6.8. . If an Event of Default specified in or occurs and is continuing with respect to Securities of any series, the Trustee may recover judgment in its own name and as trustee of an express trust against the Company for the whole amount then due and owing (together with interest on any unpaid interest to the extent lawful) with respect to such series and the amounts provided for in .
Collection Suit by Trustee
Section 6.1(a)
Section 6.1(b)
Section 7.7
 
Section 6.9. . The Trustee may file such proofs of claim and other papers or documents as may be necessary or advisable in order to have the claims of the Trustee and the Holders allowed in any judicial proceedings relative to the Company, its Subsidiaries or its or their respective creditors or properties and, unless prohibited by law or applicable regulations, may vote on behalf of the Holders in any election of a trustee in bankruptcy or other Person performing similar functions, and any Custodian in any such judicial proceeding is hereby authorized by each Holder to make payments to the Trustee and, in the event that the Trustee shall consent to the making of such payments directly to the Holders, to pay to the Trustee any amount due it for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and its counsel, and any other amounts due the Trustee under . To the extent that the payment of any such compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel, and any other amounts due the Trustee under out of the estate in any such proceeding, shall be denied for any reason, payment of the same shall be secured by a lien on, and shall be paid out of, any and all distributions, dividends, money, securities and other properties that the Holders may be entitled to receive in such proceeding whether in liquidation or under any plan of reorganization or arrangement or otherwise. Nothing herein contained shall be deemed to authorize the Trustee to authorize or consent to or accept on behalf of any Holder any plan of reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition affecting the Securities or the rights of any Holder, or to authorize the Trustee to vote in respect of the claim of any Holder in any such proceeding.
Trustee May File Proofs of Claim
Section 7.7
Section 7.7
Section 6.10. . If the Trustee collects any money or property pursuant to this , it shall pay out the money or property in the following order:
Priorities
Article VI
: to the Trustee for amounts due under ;
FIRST
Section 7.7
: to Holders for amounts due and unpaid on the Securities in respect of which or for the benefit of which such money has been collected, for principal, premium, if any, and interest and Additional Amounts, if any, ratably, without preference or priority of any kind, according to the amounts due and payable on such Securities for principal, premium, if any, and interest and Additional Amounts, if any, respectively; and
SECOND
: to the Company or to such other party as a court of competent jurisdiction may direct.
THIRD
The Trustee may fix a record date and payment date for any payment to Holders pursuant to this . At least 15 days before such record date, the Company shall mail to each Holder and the Trustee a notice that states the record date, the payment date and amount to be paid.
Section 6.10
Section 6.11. . In any suit for the enforcement of any right or remedy under this Indenture or in any suit against the Trustee for any action taken or omitted by it as Trustee, a court in its discretion may require the filing by any party litigant in the suit of an undertaking to pay the costs of the suit, and the court in its discretion may assess reasonable costs, including reasonable attorneys' fees, against any party litigant in the suit, having due regard to the merits and good faith of the claims or defenses made by the party litigant. This does not apply to a suit by the Trustee, a suit by a Holder pursuant to or a suit by Holders of more than 10% in outstanding principal amount of the Securities of any series.
Undertaking for Costs
Section 6.11
Section 6.7
 
Section 7.1. .
Duties of Trustee
(a) If an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the Trustee shall exercise the rights and powers vested in it by this Indenture and use the same degree of care and skill in their exercise as a prudent Person would exercise or use under the circumstances in the conduct of such Person's own affairs; provided that if an Event of Default occurs and is continuing, the Trustee will be under no obligation to exercise the rights or powers under this Indenture at the request or direction of any of the Holders unless such Holders have offered to the Trustee indemnity or security against loss, liability or expense satisfactory to the Trustee in its sole discretion.
(b) Except during the continuance of an Event of Default with respect to the Securities of any series:
(1) the Trustee undertakes to perform such duties and only such duties as are specifically set forth in this Indenture, and the Trustee need perform only those duties that are specifically set forth in this Indenture and no others, and no implied covenants or obligations shall be read into this Indenture against the Trustee; and
(2) in the absence of bad faith on its part, the Trustee may conclusively rely, as to the truth of the statements and the correctness of the opinions expressed therein, upon certificates, opinions or orders furnished to the Trustee and conforming to the requirements of this Indenture. However, in the case of any such certificates or opinions which by any provisions hereof are specifically required to be furnished to the Trustee, the Trustee shall examine such certificates and opinions to determine whether or not they conform on their face to the requirements of this Indenture (but need not confirm or investigate the accuracy of mathematical calculations or other facts stated therein).
(c) The Trustee may not be relieved from liability for its own negligent action, its own negligent failure to act or its own willful misconduct, except that:
(1) this paragraph does not limit the effect of ;
Section 7.1(b)
(2) the Trustee shall not be liable for any error of judgment made in good faith by a Trust Officer unless it is proved that the Trustee was negligent in ascertaining the pertinent facts; and
(3) the Trustee shall not be liable with respect to any action it takes or omits to take in good faith in accordance with a direction received by it pursuant to .
Section 6.5
 
(d) Every provision of this Indenture that in any way relates to the Trustee is subject to , , and .
Section 7.1(a)
Section 7.1(b)
Section 7.1(c)
(e) The Trustee shall not be liable for interest on any money received by it except as the Trustee may agree in writing with the Company.
(f) Money held in trust by the Trustee need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law.
(g) No provision of this Indenture shall require the Trustee to expend or risk its own funds or otherwise incur financial liability in the performance of any of its duties hereunder or in the exercise of any of its rights or powers.
(h) Every provision of this Indenture relating to the conduct or affecting the liability of or affording protection to the Trustee shall be subject to the provisions of this and to the provisions of the TIA.
Section 7.1
(i) Unless otherwise specifically provided in this Indenture, any demand, request, direction or notice from the Company shall be sufficient if signed by an Officer of the Company.
(j) The Trustee shall be under no obligation to exercise any of the rights or powers vested in it by this Indenture at the request or direction of any of the Holders unless such Holders shall have offered to the Trustee reasonable security or indemnity satisfactory to it against the costs, expenses (including reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses) and liabilities that might be incurred by it in compliance with such request or direction.
Section 7.2. . Subject to :
Rights of Trustee
Section 7.1
(a) The Trustee may conclusively rely on any document (whether in its original or facsimile form) reasonably believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or presented by the proper person. The Trustee need not investigate any fact or matter stated in the document.
(b) Before the Trustee acts or refrains from acting, it may require an Officers' Certificate and/or an Opinion of Counsel. The Trustee shall not be liable for any action it takes or omits to take in good faith in reliance on an Officers' Certificate and/or Opinion of Counsel.
(c) The Trustee may act through its attorneys and agents and shall not be responsible for the misconduct or negligence of any agent appointed with due care.
(d) The Trustee shall not be liable for any action it takes or omits to take in good faith which it believes to be authorized or within the rights or powers conferred upon it by this Indenture.
 
(e) The Trustee may consult with counsel of its selection, and the advice or opinion of counsel with respect to legal matters relating to this Indenture and the Securities shall be full and complete authorization and protection from liability in respect of any action taken, omitted or suffered by it hereunder in good faith and in accordance with the advice or opinion of such counsel.
(f) The Trustee is not required to make any inquiry or investigation into facts or matters stated in any document but the Trustee, in its discretion, may make such further inquiry or investigation into such facts or matters as it may see fit and, if the Trustee determines to make such further inquiry or investigation, it shall be entitled to examine the books, records and premises of the Company.
(g) The Trustee is not required to take notice or shall not be deemed to have notice of any Default or Event of Default hereunder with respect to any series of Securities, unless a Trust Officer of the Trustee has actual knowledge thereof or has received notice in writing referencing the Securities and this Indenture of such Default or Event of Default from the Company or the Holders of not less than 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of such series then outstanding, and in the absence of any such notice, the Trustee may conclusively assume that no such Default or Event of Default exists.
(h) The Trustee is not required to give any bond or surety with respect to the performance of its duties or the exercise of its powers under this Indenture.
(i) In the event the Trustee receives inconsistent or conflicting requests and indemnity from two or more groups of Holders of Securities, each representing less than the aggregate principal amount of Securities outstanding required to take any action thereunder, the Trustee, in its sole discretion may determine what action, if any, shall be taken.
(j) The Trustee's immunities and protections from liability and its right to indemnification in connection with the performance of its duties under this Indenture shall extend to the Trustee's officers, directors, agents, attorneys and employees. Such immunities and protections and right to indemnification, together with the Trustee's right to compensation, shall survive the Trustee's resignation or removal, the discharge of this Indenture and final payments of the Securities.
(k) The permissive right of the Trustee to take actions permitted by this Indenture shall not be construed as an obligation or duty to do so.
(l) The Trustee shall have no duty to inquire as to the performance of the Company's covenants herein.
(m) In no event shall the Trustee be responsible or liable for special, indirect, or consequential loss or damage of any kind whatsoever (including, but not limited to, loss of profit) irrespective of whether the Trustee has been advised of the likelihood of such loss or damage and regardless of the form of action.
 
Section 7.3. . The Trustee in its individual or any other capacity may become the owner or pledgee of Securities and may otherwise deal with the Company or its Affiliates with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee. Any Paying Agent, Registrar, co-registrar or co-paying agent may do the same with like rights. However, the Trustee must comply with and .
Individual Rights of Trustee
Section 7.10
Section 7.11
Section 7.4. . The Trustee shall not be responsible for and makes no representation as to the validity or adequacy of this Indenture or the Securities, it shall not be accountable for the Company's use of the proceeds from the Securities, and it shall not be responsible for any statement of the Company in this Indenture or in any document issued in connection with the sale of the Securities or in the Securities other than the Trustee's certificate of authentication.
Trustee's Disclaimer
Section 7.5. . If a Default or Event of Default with respect to the Securities of any series occurs and is continuing and if a Trust Officer has actual knowledge thereof, the Trustee shall mail to each Holder of a Security of such series notice of the Default or Event of Default within 90 days after it occurs, unless the Default was already cured or waived. Except in the case of a Default or Event of Default in payment of principal of or interest on any Security of any series, the Trustee may withhold the notice if and so long as a committee of its trust officers in good faith determines that withholding the notice is in the interests of Holders of such series.
Notice of Defaults
Section 7.6. . As promptly as practicable after each May 15 beginning with the May 15 following the date of this Indenture and for so long as the Securities of any series remain outstanding, the Trustee shall mail to each Holder of Securities of such series a brief report dated as of such reporting date that complies with TIA  313(a). The Trustee also shall comply with TIA  313(b). The Trustee shall also transmit by mail all reports required by TIA  313(c).
Reports by Trustee to Holders
A copy of each report at the time of its mailing to Holders of Securities of any series shall be filed with the SEC and each stock exchange (if any) on which the Securities of such series are listed. The Company agrees to notify promptly the Trustee whenever the Securities of any series become listed on any stock exchange and of any delisting thereof.
Section 7.7. . The Company shall pay to the Trustee from time to time reasonable compensation for its acceptance of this Indenture and services hereunder as the Company and the Trustee shall from time to time agree in writing. The Trustee's compensation shall not be limited by any law on compensation of a trustee of an express trust. The Company shall reimburse the Trustee upon request for all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred or made by it, including costs of collection, costs of preparing and reviewing reports, certificates and other documents, costs of preparation and mailing of notices to Holders, in addition to the compensation for its services. Such expenses shall include the reasonable compensation and expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee's agents, counsel, accountants and experts. The Company shall indemnify the Trustee against any and all losses, liabilities, damages, claims, penalties, fines or expenses (including reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses) (for purposes of this , "losses") incurred by it in connection with the administration of this trust and the performance of its duties hereunder, including the costs and
Compensation and Indemnity
Section 7.7
 
expenses of enforcing this Indenture (including this ) and of defending itself against any claims (whether asserted by any Holder, the Company or otherwise), except to the extent such losses may be attributable to its negligence or bad faith. The Trustee shall notify the Company promptly of any claim for which it may seek indemnity. Failure by the Trustee to so notify the Company shall not relieve the Company of its obligations hereunder. The Company shall defend the claim and the Trustee shall provide reasonable cooperation at the Company's expense in the defense. The Trustee may have separate counsel and the Company shall pay the fees and expenses of such counsel provided that the Company shall not be required to pay such fees and expenses if it assumes the Trustee's defense, and, in the reasonable judgment of outside counsel to the Trustee, there is no conflict of interest between the Company and the Trustee in connection with such defense. The Company shall not be under any obligation to pay for any written settlement without its consent, which consent shall not be unreasonably delayed, conditioned or withheld. The Company need not reimburse any expense incurred by the Trustee through the Trustee's own willful misconduct, gross negligence or bad faith.
Section 7.7
To secure the Company's payment obligations in this , the Trustee shall have a lien prior to the Securities on all money or property held or collected by the Trustee other than money or property held in trust to pay principal of, interest and Additional Amounts, if any, on particular Securities.
Section 7.7
The Company's payment obligations pursuant to this shall survive the discharge of this Indenture, the resignation or removal of the Trustee and payment in full of the Securities. When the Trustee incurs expenses after the occurrence of a Default specified in or , the expenses are intended to constitute expenses of administration under any Bankruptcy Law.
Section 7.7
Section 6.1(e)
Section 6.1(f)
Section 7.8. . The Trustee may resign at any time by so notifying the Company. The Holders of a majority in principal amount of the then outstanding Securities of any series may remove the Trustee with respect to the Securities of such series by so notifying the Trustee and may appoint a successor Trustee. The Company shall remove the Trustee if:
Replacement of Trustee
(a) the Trustee fails to comply with Section 7.10;
(b) the Trustee is adjudged bankrupt or insolvent;
(c) a receiver or other public officer takes charge of the Trustee or its property; or
(d) the Trustee otherwise becomes incapable of acting.
If the Trustee resigns or is removed by the Company or by the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the then outstanding Securities of any series and such Holders of such series do not reasonably promptly appoint a successor Trustee, or if a vacancy exists in the office of the Trustee for any reason (the Trustee in such event being referred to herein as the retiring Trustee), the Company shall promptly appoint a successor Trustee with respect to such series.
 
If a successor Trustee with respect to Securities of any series does not take office within 60 days after the retiring Trustee resigns or is removed, the retiring Trustee or the Holders of at least 10% in principal amount of the then outstanding Securities of such series may petition, at the Company's expense, any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Trustee with respect to Securities of such series.
If the Trustee with respect to the Securities of a series fails to comply with , unless the Trustee's duty to resign is stayed as provided in TIA  310(b), any Holder who has been a bona fide Holder of a Security of such series for at least six months may petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the removal of the Trustee and the appointment of a successor Trustee with respect to such series.
Section 7.10
In case of the appointment of a successor Trustee with respect to all Securities, each such successor Trustee shall deliver a written acceptance of its appointment to the retiring Trustee and the Company. Thereupon the resignation or removal of the retiring Trustee shall become effective, and the successor Trustee shall have all the rights, power and duties of the retiring Trustee under this Indenture. The successor Trustee shall mail a notice of its succession to Holders. The retiring Trustee shall promptly transfer all property held by it as Trustee to the successor Trustee, subject to the lien provided for in .
Section 7.7
In case of the appointment of a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of one or more (but not all) series, the Company, the retiring Trustee and each successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of one or more (but not all) series shall execute and deliver an indenture supplemental hereto in which each successor Trustee shall accept such appointment and that (a) shall confer to each successor Trustee all the rights, powers and duties of the retiring Trustee with respect to the Securities of that or those series to which the appointment of such successor Trustee relates, (b) if the retiring Trustee is not retiring with respect to all Securities, shall confirm that all the rights, powers and duties of the retiring Trustee with respect to the Securities of that or those series as to which the retiring Trustee is not retiring shall continue to be vested in the retiring Trustee and (c) shall add to or change any of the provisions of this Indenture as shall be necessary to provide for or facilitate the administration of the trusts hereunder by more than one Trustee. Nothing herein or in such supplemental indenture shall constitute such Trustees co-trustees of the same trust, and each such Trustee shall be trustee of a trust or trusts hereunder separate and apart from any trust or trusts hereunder administered by any other such Trustee. Upon the execution and delivery of such supplemental indenture, the resignation or removal of the retiring Trustee shall become effective to the extent provided therein and each such successor Trustee shall have all the rights, powers and duties of the retiring Trustee with respect to the Securities of that or those series to which the appointment of such successor Trustee relates. On request of the Company or any successor Trustee, such retiring Trustee shall transfer to such successor Trustee all property held by such retiring Trustee as Trustee with respect to the Securities of that or those series to which the appointment of such successor Trustee relates. Such retiring Trustees shall, however, have the right to deduct its unpaid fees and expenses, including attorneys' fees.
Notwithstanding the replacement of the Trustee pursuant to this , the Company's obligations under shall continue for the benefit of the retiring Trustee.
Section 7.8
Section 7.7
 
Section 7.9. . If the Trustee consolidates with, merges or converts into, or transfers all or substantially all its corporate trust business or assets to, another corporation or banking association, the resulting, surviving or transferee corporation without any further act shall be the successor Trustee.
Successor Trustee by Merger
In case at the time such successor or successors by merger, conversion or consolidation to the Trustee shall succeed to the trusts created by this Indenture, any of the Securities shall have been authenticated but not delivered, any such successor to the Trustee may adopt the certificate of authentication of any predecessor trustee, and deliver such Securities so authenticated; and in case at that time any of the Securities shall not have been authenticated, any successor to the Trustee may authenticate such Securities either in the name of any predecessor hereunder or in the name of the successor to the Trustee; and in all such cases such certificates shall have the full force which it is anywhere in the Securities or in this Indenture.
Section 7.10. . The Trustee shall at all times satisfy the requirements of TIA  310(a). The Trustee shall have a combined capital and surplus of at least $50.0 million as set forth in its most recent published annual report of condition. The Trustee shall comply with TIA  310(b); , , that there shall be excluded from the operation of TIA  310(b)(1) any indenture or indentures under which other securities or certificates of interest or participation in other securities of the Company are outstanding if the requirements for such exclusion set forth in TIA  310(b)(1) are met.
Eligibility; Disqualification
provided
however
Section 7.11. . The Trustee shall comply with TIA  311(a), excluding any creditor relationship listed in TIA  311(b). A Trustee who has resigned or been removed shall be subject to TIA  311(a) to the extent indicated.
Preferential Collection of Claims Against Company
Section 8.1. . Unless otherwise designated pursuant to , the Securities of any series shall be subject to defeasance or covenant defeasance pursuant to or , in accordance with any applicable requirements provided pursuant to and upon compliance with the conditions set forth in this . The Company may, at its option and at any time, elect to have either or be applied to all outstanding Securities of any series so subject to defeasance or covenant defeasance. Any such election shall be evidenced by a Board Resolution of the Company or in another manner specified as contemplated by for such Securities.
Option to Effect Legal Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance
Section 2.1(t)
Section 8.2
Section 8.3
Section 2.1
Article VIII
Section 8.2
Section 8.3
Section 2.1
Section 8.2. . Upon the Company's exercise under of the option applicable to this with respect to Securities of any series, the Company shall, subject to the satisfaction of the conditions set forth in , be deemed to have been discharged from its Obligations with respect to all outstanding Securities of such series on the date the conditions set forth below are satisfied (hereinafter, ""). For this purpose, Legal Defeasance means that the Company shall be deemed to have paid and discharged the entire indebtedness represented by the outstanding Securities with
Legal Defeasance and Discharge
Section 8.1
Section 8.2
Section 8.4
Legal Defeasance
 
respect to such series, which shall thereafter be deemed to be "outstanding" only for the purposes of and the other Sections of this Indenture referred to in clauses (a) through (e) below, and to have satisfied all its other obligations under the Securities with respect to such series and this Indenture (and the Trustee, on demand of and at the expense of the Company, shall execute proper instruments acknowledging the same), except for the following provisions which shall survive until otherwise terminated or discharged hereunder: (a) the rights of Holders of outstanding Securities with respect to such series to receive, solely from the trust fund described in and , and as more fully set forth in such Section, payments in respect of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest and Additional Amounts, if any, on such Securities when such payments are due, (b) the Company's Obligations with respect to such Securities under and , (c) the rights, powers, trusts, duties and immunities of the Trustee hereunder and the Company's obligations in connection therewith, (d) the optional redemption provisions, if any, with respect to such Securities, and (e) this . If the Company exercises under the option applicable to this , subject to the satisfaction of the conditions set forth in , payment of the Securities with respect to such series may not be accelerated because of an Event of Default. Subject to compliance with this , the Company may exercise its option under this notwithstanding the prior exercise of its option under .
Section 8.5
Section 8.4
Section 8.5
Article II
Section 3.1
Article VIII
Section 8.1
Section 8.2
Section 8.4
Article VIII
Section 8.2
Section 8.3
Section 8.3. . Upon the Company's exercise under of the option applicable to this with respect to Securities of any series, the Company shall, with respect to such series of Securities, subject to the satisfaction of the conditions set forth in , be released from its obligations under the covenants contained in and , with respect to the outstanding Securities of such series on and after the date the conditions set forth in are satisfied (hereinafter, ""), and the Securities of such series shall thereafter be deemed not "outstanding" for the purposes of any direction, waiver, consent or declaration or act of Holders of such series (and the consequences of any thereof) in connection with such covenants, but shall continue to be deemed "outstanding" for all other purposes hereunder (it being understood that such Securities shall not be deemed outstanding for accounting purposes). For this purpose, Covenant Defeasance means that, with respect to the outstanding Securities of such series, the Company may omit to comply with and shall have no liability in respect of any term, condition or limitation set forth in any such covenant, whether directly or indirectly, by reason of any reference elsewhere herein to any such covenant or by reason of any reference in any such covenant to any other provision herein or in any other document and such omission to comply shall not constitute a Default or an Event of Default under , but, except as specified above, the remainder of this Indenture and such Securities shall be unaffected thereby. If the Company exercises under the option applicable to this , subject to the satisfaction of the conditions set forth in , payment of the Securities of such series may not be accelerated because of an Event of Default specified in (with respect to and ), or .
Covenant Defeasance
Section 8.1
Section 8.3
Section 8.4
Section 3.2
Section 3.3
Section 8.4
Covenant Defeasance
Section 6.1
Section 8.1
Section 8.3
Section 8.4
Section 6.1(c)
Section 3.2
Section 3.3
Section 6.1(e)
Section 6.1(f)
Section 8.4. . The following shall be the conditions to the application of either or to the outstanding Securities of any series.
Conditions to Legal or Covenant Defeasance
Section 8.2
Section 8.3
 
In order to exercise Legal Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance with respect to the Securities of any series:
(a) the Company must irrevocably deposit with the Trustee, in trust, for the benefit of the Holders of the Securities of such series, cash in U.S. dollars, non-callable Government Securities, or a combination of cash in U.S. dollars, and non-callable Government Securities, in amounts as will be sufficient, in the opinion of a nationally recognized investment bank, appraisal firm or firm of independent public accountants, to pay the principal of, and interest and Additional Amounts, if any, and premium, if any, on the outstanding Securities of such series on the stated date for payment or on the applicable Redemption Date, as the case may be, and the Company must specify whether the Securities of such series are being defeased to such stated date for payment or to a particular Redemption Date;
(b) in the case of Legal Defeasance, the Company must deliver to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel reasonably acceptable to the Trustee confirming that: (1) the Company has received from, or there has been published by, the Internal Revenue Service a ruling; or (2) since the date of this Indenture, there has been a change in the applicable federal income tax law, in either case to the effect that, and based thereon such Opinion of Counsel will confirm that, the Holders of the outstanding Securities of such series will not recognize income, gain or loss for federal income tax purposes as a result of such Legal Defeasance and shall be subject to federal income tax in the same amounts, in the same manner and at the same times as would have been the case if such Legal Defeasance had not occurred;
(c) in the case of Covenant Defeasance, the Company must deliver to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel reasonably acceptable to the Trustee confirming that Holders of the outstanding Securities of such series shall not recognize income, gain or loss for federal income tax purposes as a result of such Covenant Defeasance and shall be subject to federal income tax in the same amounts, in the same manner and at the same times as would have been the case if such Covenant Defeasance had not occurred;
(d) no Default or Event of Default has occurred and be continuing with respect to the Securities of such series on the date of such deposit (other than a Default or Event of Default resulting from the borrowing of funds to be applied to such deposit);
(e) such Legal Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance will not result in a breach or violation of, or constitute a default under, any material agreement or instrument (other than this Indenture) to which the Company or any of its Subsidiaries is a party or by which the Company or any of its Subsidiaries is bound;
(f) the Company must deliver to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate stating that such deposit was not made by the Company with the intent of preferring the Holders of Securities of such series over the other creditors of the Company with the intent of defeating, hindering, delaying or defrauding creditors of the Company or others; and
 
(g) the Company must deliver to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each stating that all conditions precedent relating to the Legal Defeasance or the Covenant Defeasance have been complied with.
Section 8.5. . Subject to , all cash and non-callable Government Securities (including the proceeds thereof) deposited with the Trustee (or other qualifying trustee), collectively for purposes of this , the "") pursuant to in respect of the outstanding Securities of such series shall be held in trust and applied by the Trustee, in accordance with the provisions of such Securities of such series and this Indenture, to the payment, either directly or through any Paying Agent (including the Company acting as Paying Agent) as the Trustee may determine, to the Holders of Securities of such series of all sums due and to become due thereon in respect of principal, premium, if any, interest and Additional Amounts, if any, but such cash and securities need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law.
Deposited Cash and Government Securities to be Held in Trust; Other Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 8.6
Section 8.5
Trustee
Section 8.4
The Company shall pay and indemnify the Trustee against any tax, fee or other charge imposed on or assessed against the cash or non-callable Government Securities deposited pursuant to or the principal and interest received in respect thereof other than any such tax, fee or other charge which by law is for the account of the Holders of the outstanding Securities of such series.
Section 8.4
Anything in this to the contrary notwithstanding, the Trustee shall deliver or pay to the Company from time to time upon the request of the Company any cash or non-callable Government Securities held by it as provided in which, in the opinion of a nationally recognized independent registered public accounting firm expressed in a written certification thereof delivered to the Trustee (which may be the certification delivered under ), are in excess of the amount thereof that would then be required to be deposited to effect an equivalent Legal Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance.
Article VIII
Section 8.4
Section 8.4(a)
Section 8.6. . Any cash or non-callable Government Securities deposited with the Trustee or any Paying Agent, or then held by the Company, in trust for the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, on, or interest or Additional Amounts, if any, on, any Security of any series and remaining unclaimed for one year after such principal, premium, if any, or interest or Additional Amounts, if any, has become due and payable shall be paid to the Company on its request (unless an abandoned property law designates another Person) or (if then held by the Company) shall be discharged from such trust; and such Holder shall thereafter, as an unsecured creditor, look only to the Company for payment thereof, and all liability of the Trustee or such Paying Agent with respect to such cash and securities, and all liability of the Company as Trustee thereof, shall thereupon cease; , , that the Trustee or such Paying Agent, before being required to make any such repayment, may at the expense of the Company cause to be published once, in and (national edition), notice that such cash and securities remains unclaimed and that, after a date specified therein, which shall not be less than 30 days from the date of such notification or publication, any unclaimed balance of such cash and securities then remaining shall be repaid to the Company.
Repayment to Company
provided
however
The New York Times
The Wall Street Journal
 
Section 8.7. . If the Trustee or Paying Agent is unable to apply any cash or non-callable Government Securities in accordance with , or , as the case may be, by reason of any order or judgment of any court or governmental authority enjoining, restraining or otherwise prohibiting such application, then the Company's obligations under this Indenture and the Securities of such series shall be revived and reinstated as though no deposit had occurred pursuant to until such time as the Trustee or Paying Agent is permitted to apply all such cash and securities in accordance with , or , as the case may be; , , that, if the Company makes any payment of principal of, premium, if any, on, or interest or Additional Amounts, if any, on, any Security of such series following the reinstatement of its obligations, the Company shall be subrogated to the rights of the Holders of such series to receive such payment from the cash and securities held by the Trustee or Paying Agent.
Reinstatement
Section 8.2
Section 8.3
Section 8.5
Section 8.4
Section 8.2
Section 8.3
Section 8.5
provided
however
Section 9.1. . Except as otherwise provided as contemplated by with respect to the Securities of any series and notwithstanding , the Company and the Trustee may amend or supplement this Indenture or the Securities without notice to or consent of any Holder:
Without Consent of Holders
Section 2.1
Section 9.2
(a) to cure any ambiguity, defect or inconsistency;
(b) to make any such changes as are required for this Indenture to comply with the Trust Indenture Act;
(c) to add to the covenants of the Company for the benefit of the Holders of all or any series of Securities (and if such covenants are to be for the benefit of less than all series of Securities, stating that such covenants are expressly being included solely for the benefit of such series), or to surrender any right or power herein conferred upon the Company;
(d) to comply with hereof;
Article IV
(e) to provide for uncertificated Securities in addition to or in place of certificated Securities;
(f) to add any additional Events of Default with respect to all or any series of the Securities (and, if any such Event of Default is applicable to less than all series of Securities, specifying the series to which such Event of Default is applicable);
(g) to change or eliminate any of the provisions of this Indenture; provided that any such change or elimination shall become effective only when there is no outstanding Security of any series created prior to the execution of such amendment or supplemental indenture that is affected in any material respect by such change in or elimination of such provision;
 
(h) to establish the form or terms of Securities of any series as permitted by ;
Section 2.1
(i) to supplement any of the provisions of this Indenture to such extent as shall be necessary to permit or facilitate the defeasance and discharge of any series of Securities pursuant to ; provided, however, that any such action shall not adversely affect the interest of the Holders of Securities of such series or any other series of Securities in any material respect;
Section 8.1
(j) to evidence and provide for the acceptance under this Indenture of a successor trustee;
(k) to conform the text of this Indenture or any Securities to the description thereof in any prospectus or prospectus supplement of the Company with respect to the offer and sale of Securities of any series, to the extent that such provision is inconsistent with a provision of this Indenture or the Securities;
(l) to secure the Securities of any series or to provide that any of our obligations to any Holder will be guaranteed and the terms of such guarantees; or
(m) to make any change that would provide any additional rights or benefits to the Holders of Securities of any series or that does not adversely affect the legal rights under this Indenture of any such Holder in any material respect.
After an amendment under this Indenture becomes effective, the Company is required to mail to the Holders of each Security affected thereby a notice briefly describing such amendment. However, the failure to give such notice to all the Holders of each Security affected thereof, or any defect therein, will not impair or affect the validity of the amendment or supplemental indenture under this .
Section 9.1
Section 9.2. . Except as otherwise provided as contemplated by with respect to the Securities of any series, except as provided below in this , the Company and the Trustee may amend or supplement this Indenture with the written consent (including consents obtained in connection with a tender offer or exchange offer for Securities) of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the then outstanding Securities of each series affected by such amendment or supplement (acting as a single class).
With Consent of Holders
Section 2.1
Section 9.2
Upon the request of the Company, accompanied by a Board Resolution, and upon the filing with the Trustee of evidence of the written consent of the Holders as aforesaid, and upon receipt by the Trustee of the documents described in , the Trustee shall, subject to , join with the Company in the execution of such amendment or supplemental indenture.
Section 9.5
Section 9.6
Except as otherwise provided as contemplated by with respect to the Securities of any series, the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the then outstanding Securities of one or more series or of all series affected by such waiver (acting as a single class) may waive compliance in a particular instance by the Company with any provision of this Indenture with respect to Securities of such series (including waivers obtained in connection with a tender offer or exchange offer for Securities of such series).
Section 2.1
 
However, except as otherwise provided as contemplated by with respect to the Securities of any series, without the consent of each Holder affected, an amendment, supplement or waiver may not (with respect to any Securities held by a non-consenting Holder):
Section 2.1
(a) reduce the percentage of principal amount of Securities whose Holders must consent to an amendment, supplement or waiver;
(b) reduce the rate of or change the time for payment of interest, including default interest on any Security;
(c) reduce the principal of, or any installment of principal of or interest or Additional Amounts, if any, on, any Security or reduce the amount of principal that would be due and payable upon declaration of acceleration of maturity;
(d) waive a Default or Event of Default in the payment of principal of, or interest or premium, or Additional Amounts, if any, on the Securities (except a rescission of acceleration of the Securities by the Holders of at least a majority in aggregate principal amount of the then outstanding Securities and a waiver of the payment default that resulted from such acceleration);
(e) make any Security payable in currency other than that stated in the Securities;
(f) impair the right of a Holder of Securities to institute suit for the enforcement of any payment on the Securities;
(g) make any change in the provisions of this Indenture relating to waivers of past Defaults or the rights of Holders of Securities to receive payments of principal of, or interest or premium, if any, on the Securities (other than as permitted in ); or
Section 9.2(h)
(h) waive a redemption payment with respect to any Security.
It shall not be necessary for the consent of the Holders under this to approve the particular form of any proposed amendment, but it shall be sufficient if such consent approves the substance of the proposed amendment.
Section 9.2
A supplemental indenture which changes or eliminates any covenant or other provision of this Indenture which has expressly been included solely for the benefit of one or more particular series of Securities, or which modifies the rights of the Holders of such series with respect to such covenant or other provision, shall be deemed not to affect the rights under this Indenture of the Holders of any other series.
A consent to any amendment or waiver under this Indenture by any Holder of the Securities given in connection with a tender of such Holder's Securities will not be rendered
 
invalid by such tender. After an amendment under this Section becomes effective, the Company shall mail to Holders of each Security affected thereby a notice briefly describing such amendment. The failure to give such notice to all Holders of each Security affected thereby, or any defect therein, shall not impair or affect the validity of an amendment, supplemental indenture or waiver under this .
Section 9.2
Section 9.3. . Every amendment or supplement to this Indenture or the Securities shall comply with the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 as then in effect.
Compliance with Trust Indenture Act
Section 9.4. . A consent to an amendment or a waiver by a Holder of a Security shall be in writing and bind the Holder and every subsequent Holder of that Security or portion of the Security that evidences the same debt as the consenting Holder's Security, even if notation of the consent or waiver is not made on the Security. However, any such Holder or subsequent Holder may revoke the consent or waiver as to such Holder's Security or portion of the Security if the Trustee receives the notice of revocation before the date the amendment or waiver becomes effective. After an amendment or waiver becomes effective with respect to a series of Securities, it shall bind every Holder of Securities of such series.
Revocation and Effect of Consents and Waivers
For purposes of this Indenture, the written consent of the Holder of a Global Security shall be deemed to include any consent delivered by an Agent Member by electronic means in accordance with the Automated Tender Offer Procedures system or other customary procedures of, and pursuant to authorization by, DTC.
The Company may, but shall not be obligated to, fix a record date for the purpose of determining the Holders entitled to give their consent or take any other action described above or required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this Indenture. The Trustee may, but shall not be obligated to, fix a record date for the purpose of determining the Holders of Securities of any series entitled to join in the giving, making or taking of (a) any notice permit to or otherwise of any Default, (b) any declaration of acceleration pursuant to , (c) any request to institute proceedings pursuant to , or (d) any direction referred to in , in each case with respect to such series. If a record date is so fixed, then notwithstanding the second preceding paragraph, those Persons who were Holders at such record date (or their duly designated proxies), and only those Persons, shall be entitled to give such consent or to revoke any consent previously given or to take any such action, whether or not such Persons continue to be Holders after such record date. No such consent shall become valid or effective more than 180 days after such record date.
Section 6.1(c)
Section 6.2
Section 6.6(b)
Section 6.5
Section 9.5. . If an amendment changes the terms of a Security, the Trustee may require the Holder of the Security to deliver it to the Trustee. The Trustee may place an appropriate notation on the Security regarding the changed terms and return it to the Holder. Alternatively, if the Company or the Trustee so determines, the Company in exchange for the Security shall issue and the Trustee shall authenticate a new Security that reflects the changed terms. Failure to make the appropriate notation or to issue a new Security shall not affect the validity of such amendment.
Notation on or Exchange of Securities
 
Section 9.6. . The Trustee shall sign any amendment authorized pursuant to this if the amendment does not adversely affect the rights, duties, liabilities or immunities of the Trustee. If it does, the Trustee may but need not sign it. In signing such amendment the Trustee shall receive indemnity reasonably satisfactory to it and to receive, and (subject to and ) shall be fully protected in relying upon an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel stating that the execution of such amendment is authorized or permitted by this Indenture, that such amendment is the legal, valid and binding obligation of the Company enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms, subject to customary exceptions, and that such amendment complies with the provisions hereof (including ).
Trustee To Sign Amendments
Article IX
Section 7.1
Section 7.2
Section 9.3
Section 10.1. . This Indenture will be discharged and will cease to be of further effect as to all Securities of any series issued hereunder (except as to surviving rights of registration of transfer or exchange of such Securities and as otherwise specified hereunder), when:
Satisfaction and Discharge
(a) either:
(1) all outstanding Securities of such series that have been authenticated, except lost, stolen or destroyed Securities that have been replaced or paid and Securities of such series for whose payment money has been deposited in trust and thereafter repaid to the Company, have been delivered to the Trustee for cancellation; or
(2) all outstanding Securities of such series that have not been delivered to the Trustee for cancellation have become due and payable or will become due and payable within one year by reason of the mailing of a notice of redemption or otherwise and the Company has irrevocably deposited or caused to be deposited with the Trustee as trust funds in trust solely for the benefit of the Holders of Securities of such series, cash in U.S. dollars, non-callable Government Securities, or a combination of cash in U.S. dollars and non-callable Government Securities, in amounts as will be sufficient without consideration of any reinvestment of interest, to pay and discharge the entire indebtedness on such Securities not delivered to the Trustee for cancellation for principal, premium, if any, and accrued interest and Additional Amounts, if any, to the date of maturity or redemption;
(b) no Default or Event of Default with respect to such series has occurred and is continuing on the date of the deposit (other than a Default or Event of Default resulting from the borrowing of funds to be applied to such deposit) and the deposit will not result in a breach or violation of, or constitute a default under, any other instrument to which the Company or any of its Subsidiaries is a party or by which the Company or any of its Subsidiaries is bound;
 
(c) the Company has paid or caused to be paid all sums payable by it hereunder with respect to such series;
(d) the Company has delivered irrevocable instructions to the Trustee hereunder to apply the deposited money toward the payment of such Securities at fixed maturity or the Redemption Date, as the case may be; and
(e) the Company has delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, which state that all conditions precedent under this Indenture relating to the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture with respect to such series have been satisfied.
Section 11.1. . If any provision of this Indenture limits, qualifies or conflicts with another provision which is required to be included in this Indenture by the TIA, the provision required by the TIA shall control.
Trust Indenture Act Controls
Section 11.2. . Any notice or communication shall be in writing and delivered in person, by facsimile or overnight air courier guaranteeing next day delivery or mailed by first-class mail addressed as follows:
Notices
if to the Company:
Computer Sciences Corporation
3170 Fairview Park Drive
Falls Church, VA 22042
Attention: General Counsel
if to the Trustee:
The Bank of New York Mellon
400 South Hope Street
Suite 400
Los Angeles, CA 90071
Facsimile Number: (213) 630-6298
Attention: Corporate Unit
The Company or the Trustee by notice to the others may designate additional or different addresses for subsequent notices or communications.
Any notice or communication mailed to a registered Holder shall be mailed to the Holder at the Holder's address as it appears on the registration books of the Registrar and shall be sufficiently given if so mailed within the time prescribed. The Registrar shall provide the Company with address information with respect to the Holders as promptly as practicable following the Company's request therefor. Any notice or communication shall also be mailed to any Person described in TIA  3.13(c), to the extent required by the TIA.
 
Failure to mail a notice or communication to a Holder or any defect in it shall not affect its sufficiency with respect to other Holders. If a notice or communication is mailed in the manner provided above to the Holders, it is duly given, whether or not the addressee receives it.
Section 11.3. . Holders may communicate pursuant to TIA  312(b) with other Holders with respect to their rights under this Indenture or the Securities. The Company, the Trustee, the Registrar and anyone else shall have the protection of TIA  312(c).
Communication by Holders with other Holders
Section 11.4. . Upon any request or application by the Company to the Trustee to take or refrain from taking any action under this Indenture, the Company shall furnish to the Trustee:
Certificate and Opinion as to Conditions Precedent
(a) an Officers' Certificate in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee (which shall include the statements set forth in ) stating that, in the opinion of the signers, all conditions precedent, if any, provided for in this Indenture relating to the proposed action have been complied with; and
Section 11.5
(b) an Opinion of Counsel in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee (which shall include the statements set forth in ) stating that, in the opinion of such counsel, all such conditions precedent have been complied with.
Section 11.5
In any case where several matters are required to be certified by, or covered by an opinion of, any specified Person, it is not necessary that all such matters be certified by, or covered by the opinion of, only one such Person, or that they be so certified or covered by only one document, but one such Person may certify or give an opinion as to such matters in one or several documents.
Any certificate or opinion of an Officer of the Company may be based, insofar as it relates to legal matters, upon a certificate or opinion of, or representations by, counsel, unless such Officer knows, or in the exercise of reasonable care should know, that the certificate or opinion or representations with respect to the matters upon which his certificate or opinion is based are erroneous. Any such certificate or Opinion of Counsel may be based, and may state that it is so based, insofar as it relates to factual matters, upon a certificate or opinion of, or representations by, an Officer or Officers of the Company stating that the information with respect to such factual matters known to the Company, unless such counsel knows that the certificate or opinion or representations with respect to such matters are erroneous.
Where any Person is required to make, give or execute two or more applications, requests, consents, certificates, statements, opinions or other instruments under this Indenture, they may, but need not, be consolidated and form one instrument.
Section 11.5. . Each certificate or opinion with respect to compliance with a covenant or condition provided for in this Indenture (except for the Certificate specified in ) shall include:
Statements Required in Certificate or Opinion
Section 3.5
(a) a statement that the individual making such certificate or opinion has read such covenant or condition;
 
(b) a brief statement as to the nature and scope of the examination or investigation upon which the statements or opinions contained in such certificate or opinion are based;
(c) a statement that, in the opinion of such individual, he has made such examination or investigation as is necessary to enable him to express an informed opinion as to whether or not such covenant or condition has been complied with; and
(d) a statement as to whether or not, in the opinion of such individual, such covenant or condition has been complied with.
Section 11.6. . In determining whether the Holders of the required principal amount of Securities of any series have concurred in any direction, waiver or consent, Securities owned by the Company or by any Person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with the Company shall be disregarded and deemed not to be outstanding, except that, for the purpose of determining whether the Trustee shall be protected in relying on any such direction, waiver or consent, only Securities which the Trustee knows are so owned shall be so disregarded. Also, subject to the foregoing, only Securities outstanding at the time shall be considered in any such determination.
When Securities Disregarded
Section 11.7. . The Trustee may make reasonable rules for action by, or a meeting of, Holders. The Registrar and the Paying Agent may make reasonable rules for their functions.
Rules by Trustee, Paying Agent and Registrar
Section 11.8. . A "" is a Saturday, a Sunday or other day on which commercial banking institutions are authorized or required to be closed in New York, New York. If a payment date is a Legal Holiday, payment shall be made on the next succeeding day that is not a Legal Holiday, and no interest shall accrue for the intervening period. If a regular record date is a Legal Holiday, the record date shall not be affected.
Legal Holidays
Legal Holiday
Section 11.9. . THIS INDENTURE AND THE SECURITIES SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
GOVERNING LAW
Section 11.10. . No director, officer, employee, stockholder or other owner of Capital Stock of the Company, as such, will have any liability for any obligations of the Company under the Securities, this Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of, or by reason of such obligations or their creation. Each Holder of Securities by accepting a Security waives and releases all such liability. The waiver and release are part of the consideration for issuance of the Securities.
No Recourse Against Others
Section 11.11. . All agreements of the Company in this Indenture and the Securities shall bind its successors. All agreements of the Trustee in this Indenture shall bind its successors.
Successors
Section 11.12. . The parties may sign any number of copies of this Indenture. Each signed copy shall be an original, but all of them together represent the same agreement. One signed copy is enough to prove this Indenture.
Multiple Originals
 
Section 11.13. . In case any provision in this Indenture or in the Securities shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
Severability
Section 11.14. . This Indenture may not be used to interpret any other indenture, loan or debt agreement of the Company or any Subsidiary or any other Person. Any such indenture, loan or debt agreement may not be used to interpret this Indenture.
No Adverse Interpretation of Other Agreements
Section 11.15. . The table of contents, cross-reference sheet and headings of the Articles and Sections of this Indenture have been inserted for convenience of reference only, are not intended to be considered a part hereof and shall not modify or restrict any of the terms or provisions hereof.
Table of Contents; Headings
Section 11.16. . EACH OF THE COMPANY AND THE TRUSTEE HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY AND ALL RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS INDENTURE, THE NOTES OR THE TRANSACTION CONTEMPLATED HEREBY.
Waiver of Jury Trial
Section 11.17. . In no event shall the Trustee be responsible or liable for any failure or delay in the performance of its obligations hereunder arising out of or caused by, directly or indirectly, forces beyond its control, including, without limitation, strikes, work stoppages, accidents, acts of war or terrorism, civil or military disturbances, nuclear or natural catastrophes or acts of God, and interruptions, loss or malfunctions of utilities, communications or computer (software and hardware) services; it being understood that the Trustee shall use reasonable efforts which are consistent with accepted practices in the banking industry to resume performance as soon as practicable under the circumstances.
Force Majeure
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have caused this Indenture to be duly executed as of the date first written above.
 

Exhibit 4.2
EXECUTION VERSION
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
First Supplemental Indenture dated as of September 18, 2012 between Computer Sciences Corporation, a Nevada corporation (the "") and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. ("").
Company
Trustee
A. The Company and the Trustee executed and delivered an Indenture, dated as of September 18, 2012 (the ""), to provide for the issuance by the Company from time to time of debentures, notes or other debt instruments evidencing its indebtedness. The Base Indenture, as supplemented and amended by this First Supplemental Indenture, is herein referred to as the ""
Base Indenture
Indenture.
B. The Company has authorized the issuance of $350,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 2.500% Senior Notes due 2015 (the "") and $350,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 4.450% Senior Notes due 2022 (the "" and, together with the 2015 Notes, the "")
2015 Notes
2022 Notes
Notes
C. The Company desires to enter into this First Supplemental Indenture pursuant to Section 9.1 of the Base Indenture to establish the form and terms of the Notes in accordance with Section 2.1 of the Base Indenture.
D. All things necessary to make this First Supplemental Indenture a valid and legally binding agreement according to its terms have been done.
NOW, THEREFORE, for and in consideration of the foregoing premises, the Company and the Trustee mutually covenant and agree for the equal and proportionate benefit of the respective Holders from time to time of the Notes as follows:
Section 1.1. .
Terms of the Notes
The following terms relate to the Notes:
(1) The 2015 Notes shall constitute a separate series of Securities under the Base Indenture having the title "2.500% Senior Notes due 2015" and the 2022 Notes shall constitute a separate series of Securities under the Base Indenture having the title "4.450% Senior Notes due 2022."
(2) Each of the 2015 Notes and the 2022 Notes shall be issued at a price of one hundred percent (100%) of the principal amount thereof, other than any offering discounts pursuant to the initial offering and resale of the Notes.
(3) The aggregate principal amount of the 2015 Notes (the "") and the 2022 Notes (the "" and, together with the Initial 2015 Notes, the "") that may be initially authenticated and delivered under the Indenture shall be $350,000,000 and $350,000,000, respectively. The Company may from time to time, without the consent of the Holders of Notes, issue additional 2015 Notes (in any such case "
Initial 2015 Notes
Initial 2022 Notes
Initial Notes
Additional 2015
 
") or additional 2022 Notes (in any such case "") having the same ranking and the same interest rate, maturity and other terms (except for the issue date and, in some cases, the public offering price and the first interest payment date) as the Initial 2015 Notes or the Initial 2022 Notes, as the case may be. Any Additional 2015 Notes and the Initial 2015 Notes shall constitute a single series under the Indenture and all references to the 2015 Notes shall include the Initial 2015 Notes and any Additional 2015 Notes unless the context otherwise requires. Any Additional 2022 Notes and the Initial 2022 Notes shall constitute a single series under the Indenture and all references to the 2022 Notes shall include the Initial 2022 Notes and any Additional 2022 Notes unless the context otherwise requires The aggregate principal amount of each of the Additional 2015 Notes and Additional 2022 Notes shall be unlimited.
Notes
Additional 2022 Notes
(4) The entire outstanding principal of the 2015 Notes shall be payable on September 18, 2015, and the entire outstanding principal of the 2022 Notes shall be payable on September 18, 2022.
(5) The rate at which the 2015 Notes shall bear interest shall be 2.500% per year. The rate at which the 2022 Notes shall bear interest shall be 4.450% per year The date from which interest shall accrue on the Notes shall be September 18, 2012, or the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or provided for. The Interest Payment Dates for the Notes shall be March 15 and September 15 of each year, beginning March 15, 2013. Interest shall be payable on each Interest Payment Date to the holders of record at the close of business on the March 1 and September 1 prior to each Interest Payment Date (in connection with the Notes, a ""). The basis upon which interest shall be calculated shall be that of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months.
regular record date
(6) The Notes shall be issuable in whole in the form of one or more registered Global Securities, and the Depositary for such Global Securities shall be The Depository Trust Company, New York, New York (""). The Notes shall be substantially in the form attached hereto as Exhibit A in the case of the 2015 Notes and Exhibit B in the case of the 2022 Notes, the terms of which are herein incorporated by reference. The Notes shall be denominated in Dollars and shall be issuable in minimum denominations of $2,000 or any integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof.
DTC
(7) The Notes may be redeemed at the option of the Company prior to the maturity date, as provided in Section 1.4.
(8) The Notes will not have the benefit of any sinking fund.
(9) Except as provided herein, the Holders of the Notes shall have no special rights in addition to those provided in the Base Indenture upon the occurrence of any particular events.
(10) The Notes will be senior unsecured obligations of the Company and will rank equal in right of payment to all of the Company's other existing and future senior unsecured indebtedness and among themselves.
(11) The Notes are not convertible into shares of common stock or other securities of the Company.
 
(12) The restrictive covenants set forth in Section 1.5 shall be applicable to the Notes.
Section 1.2. .
Additional Defined Terms
As used herein, the following defined terms shall have the following meanings with respect to the Notes only:
"" means, with respect to any transfer or exchange of or for beneficial interests in any Global Security, the rules and procedures of the Depositary, Euroclear and Clearstream that apply to such transfer or exchange at the relevant time.
Applicable Procedures
"" means, with respect to any Sale/Leaseback Transaction, the present value of the minimum rental payments called for during the term of the lease (including any period for which such lease has been extended), determined in accordance with GAAP, discounted at a rate that, at the inception of the lease, the lessee would have incurred to borrow over a similar term the funds necessary to purchase the leased assets.
Attributable Debt
"" means, at the time any determination is to be made, the amount of the liability in respect of a capital lease that would at that time be required to be capitalized on a balance sheet prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Capital Lease Obligation
"" means the occurrence of any of the following:
Change of Control
(1) the direct or indirect sale, transfer, conveyance or other disposition (other than by way of merger or consolidation), in a single transaction or a series of related transactions, of all or substantially all of the Company's assets and the assets of its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, to one or more "persons" (as that term is defined in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act) (other than to the Company or one of its Subsidiaries);
(2) the consummation of any transaction (including, without limitation, any merger or consolidation) as a result of which any "person" (as that term is used in Section 13(d) (3) of the Exchange Act) becomes the beneficial owner (as defined in Rules 13d-3 and 13d-5 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the Voting Stock of the Company, measured by voting power rather than number of shares;
(3) the Company consolidates with, or merges with or into any Person, or any Person consolidates with, or merges with or into the Company, in any such event pursuant to a transaction in which any of the outstanding Voting Stock of the Company or such other person is converted into or exchanged for cash, securities or other property, other than any such transaction where the shares of Voting Stock of the Company outstanding immediately prior to such transaction constitute, or are converted into or exchanged for, a majority of the Voting Stock of the surviving Person immediately after giving effect to such transaction;
 
(4) the first day on which a majority of the members of the Board of Directors of the Company are not Continuing Directors; or
(5) the adoption of a plan relating to the liquidation or dissolution of the Company.
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.5.4.
Change of Control Offer
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.5.4.
Change of Control Payment
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.5.4.
Change of Control Payment Date
"" means the occurrence of both a Change of Control and a Rating Event.
Change of Control Triggering Event
"" means Clearstream Bank, S.A., or its successors.
Clearstream
"" means the United States Treasury security selected by the Independent Investment Banker as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term of the Notes to be redeemed that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of such Notes.
Comparable Treasury Issue
"" means, with respect to any Redemption Date, (A) the average of the Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such Redemption Date, after excluding the highest and lowest of the Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, or (B) if the Independent Investment Banker obtains fewer than four such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations.
Comparable Treasury Price
"" means, as of any particular time, the aggregate amount of the Company's assets and the assets of the Company's Subsidiaries (in each case, less applicable reserves and other properly deductible items) after deducting from such amount:
Consolidated Net Tangible Assets
(1) all current liabilities other than (A) notes and loans payable, (B) current maturities of long-term debt and (C) current maturities of Capital Lease Obligations, and
(2) intangible assets, to the extent included in such aggregate assets, all as set forth on the Company's then most recent consolidated balance sheet and computed in accordance with GAAP.
"" means, as of any date of determination, any member of the Company's Board of Directors who (1) was a member of such Board of Directors on the date the Notes were issued or (2) was nominated for election, elected or appointed to such Board of Directors with the approval of a majority of the Continuing Directors who were members of such Board of Directors at the time of such nomination, election or appointment (either by a specific vote or by approval of the proxy statement of the Company in which such member was named as a nominee for election as a director, without objection to such nomination).
Continuing Directors
 
"" means a certificated Note registered in the name of the Holder thereof and issued in accordance with Section 2.16 of the Base Indenture.
Definitive Security
"" means Euroclear Bank S.A./N.V., or its successor.
Euroclear
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.6.1
Event of Default
"" means Fitch Inc., a subsidiary of Fimalac, S.A., and its successors.
Fitch
"" means, individually and collectively, each of the Notes in global form issued to the Depositary or its nominee.
Global Security
"" means, with respect to any Person, and without duplication:
Indebtedness
(1) any liability of such Person
(a) for borrowed money; or
(b) for any letter of credit for the account of such Person supporting obligations of such Person or other Persons; or
(c) evidenced by a bond, note, debenture or similar instrument (including a purchase money obligation) given in connection with the acquisition of any businesses, properties or assets of any kind (other than a trade payable or a current liability arising in the ordinary course of business); or
(d) for the payment of money relating to a capitalized lease; and
(2) any liability of others described in the preceding clause (1) that the Person has guaranteed or that is otherwise its legal liability; and
(3) any amendment, supplement, modification, deferral, renewal, extension or refunding of any liability of the types referred to in the clauses (1) and (2) above.
"" means an independent investment institution of national standing, which may be one of the Reference Treasury Dealers or their respective affiliates, selected by the Company.
Independent Investment Banker
"" means any entity that, with respect to DTC, clears through or maintains a direct or indirect custodial relationship with a Participant.
Indirect Participant
"" means the stated due date of an installment of interest on the Notes.
Interest Payment Date
 
"" means a rating equal to or higher than Baa3 (or the equivalent) by Moody's; BBB (or the equivalent) by S&P; and BBB- (or the equivalent) by Fitch, and the equivalent investment grade credit rating from any additional rating agency or Rating Agencies selected by the Company.
Investment Grade Rating
"" means any lien, security interest, charge, mortgage, pledge or other encumbrance of any kind (including any conditional sale or other title retention agreement, any lease in the nature thereof, and any agreement to give any security interest).
Lien
"" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc.
Moody's
"" means, with respect to the Depositary, Euroclear or Clearstream, a person who has an account with the Depositary, Euroclear or Clearstream, respectively (and, with respect to DTC, shall include Euroclear and Clearstream).
Participant
"" means (1) each of Moody's, S&P and Fitch; and (2) if any of Moody's, S&P or Fitch ceases to rate the 2015 Notes or the 2022 Notes or fails to make a rating of such Notes publicly available for reasons outside of the control of the Company, a "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" within the meaning of Rule 15c3-1(c)(2)(vi)(F) under the Exchange Act selected by the Company (as certified by a resolution of the Board of Directors) as a replacement agency for Moody's, S&P or Fitch, as the case may be.
Rating Agencies
"" means, with respect to the either series of Notes, the rating on such Notes is lowered by at least two of the three Rating Agencies and such Notes are rated below an Investment Grade Rating by at least two of the three Rating Agencies on any day during the period (which period will be extended so long as the rating of the applicable Notes is under publicly announced consideration for a possible downgrade by any of the Rating Agencies) commencing on the earlier of the date of the first public occurrence of a Change of Control or the date of public notice of an agreement that, if consummated, would result in a Change of Control and ending 60 days following consummation of such Change of Control.
Rating Event
"" means, when used with respect to any Note to be redeemed, the date fixed for such redemption by or pursuant to this Indenture.
Redemption Date
"" means, when used with respect to any Note to be redeemed, the price at which it is to be redeemed pursuant to this Indenture.
Redemption Price
"" means each of: (1) Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, Barclays Capital Inc., Citigroup Global Markets Inc., and their successors; provided, however, that if any of the foregoing ceases to be a primary U.S. government securities dealer in New York City (a ""), the Company shall substitute another Primary Treasury Dealer; and (2) any other Primary Treasury Dealers selected by the Company.
Reference Treasury Dealer
Primary Treasury Dealer
"" means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer at any Redemption Date, the average, as determined by the Independent Investment Banker, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Independent Investment Banker by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 3:30 p.m., New York City time, on the third Business Day preceding such Redemption Date.
Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations
 
"" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
S&P
"" means any arrangement with any Person (other than the Company or any of its Subsidiaries) providing for a capitalized lease by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries of any property which has been or is to be sold or transferred by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries to such Person or to any Person (other than the Company or any of its Subsidiaries) by whom funds have been or are to be advanced on the security of the leased property.
Sale/Leaseback Transaction
"" means, with respect to any Redemption Date, the rate per annum equal to the semi-annual equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, assuming a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such Redemption Date.
Treasury Rate
"" of any specified person as of any date means the Capital Stock of such person that is at the time entitled to vote generally in the election of the board of directors of such person.
Voting Stock
Section 1.3. .
Payment, Transfer and Exchange
1.3.1. . To permit registrations of transfers and exchanges, the Company shall execute a new Note or Notes of the same series as the Note presented for a like aggregate principal amount and in authorized denominations and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver such Note or Notes upon receipt of a Company Order for the authentication and delivery of such Notes.
Registration of Transfer and Exchange
All Notes issued upon any registration of transfer or exchange of Notes shall be the valid obligations of the Company, evidencing the same indebtedness, and entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture, as the Notes surrendered upon such registration of transfer or exchange. Prior to such due presentment for the registration of a transfer of any Note, the Trustee, the Company, any Paying Agent and the Registrar may deem and treat the person in whose name any Note is registered as the absolute owner of such Note for the purpose of receiving payment of principal of and interest on such Notes and for all other purposes, and none of the Trustee, the Company, the Paying Agent or the Registrar shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
All certifications, certificates and opinions of counsel which may be required to be submitted to the Trustee to effect a registration of transfer or exchange may be submitted by facsimile, to be followed by originals.
1.3.2. . The principal and interest on Notes represented by Global Securities will be payable to the Depositary or its nominee, as the case may be, as the sole registered owner and the sole Holder of the Global Securities represented thereby.
Payment
 
1.3.3. . The transfer and exchange of beneficial interests in the Global Securities shall be effected through the Depositary, in accordance with the provisions of this Indenture and the Applicable Procedures. Beneficial interests in any Global Security may be transferred to persons who take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in a Global Security.
Transfer and Exchange of Beneficial Interests in the Global Securities
Section 1.4. .
Optional Redemption
1.4.1. The provisions of Article V of the Base Indenture, as amended by the provisions of this First Supplemental Indenture, shall apply to the Notes.
1.4.2. Each series of Notes shall be redeemable as a whole or in part, at the Company's option, at any time or from time to time, at a Redemption Price equal to the greater of:
(a) 100% of the principal amount of such Notes; and
(b) as determined by the Independent Investment Banker, the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest thereon (not including any portion of such interest payments accrued as of the Redemption Date), discounted to the Redemption Date on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the Treasury Rate plus 35 basis points in the case of the 2015 Notes and 45 basis points in the case of the 2022 Notes,
plus, in either of the above cases, accrued and unpaid interest to the Redemption Date.
1.4.3. Unless the Company defaults in payment of the Redemption Price, on and after the Redemption Date for the Notes, interest shall cease to accrue on the Notes or portions thereof called for redemption.
1.4.4. With respect to the Notes only, the first sentence of Section 5.4 of the Base Indenture shall be replaced as follows: "Notice of any redemption shall be given in the manner provided for in Section 11.2 not less than 30 nor more than 90 days prior to the Redemption Date, to each Holder of Notes to be redeemed, except that redemption notices may be mailed more than 90 days prior to a Redemption Date if such notice is issued in connection with a defeasance of the Notes or a satisfaction and discharge of the Indenture."
1.4.5. At any time, the Company may repurchase Notes in the open market and may hold such Notes or surrender such Notes to the Trustee for cancellation pursuant to Section 2.11 of the Base Indenture.
1.4.6. For the avoidance of doubt, the Trustee shall not be required to calculate the Redemption Price or the Treasury Rate.
 
Section 1.5. .
Additional Covenants
The following additional covenants shall apply with respect to the Notes so long as any of the Notes remain outstanding:
1.5.1. .
Limitation on Liens
Other than as provided in Section 1.5.3 below, neither the Company nor any of its Subsidiaries may create, incur, assume or suffer to exist any Lien upon any of the Company's property to secure any Indebtedness, except for:
(a) Liens existing on the date hereof and any extension, renewal or replacement (or successive extensions, renewals or replacements) of any such Lien; provided that no such extension, renewal or replacement will extend to or cover any property other than the property covered by such existing Lien;
(b) Liens on property existing at the time the Company or any of its Subsidiaries acquires such property, provided that such Liens:
(i) are not incurred in connection with, or in contemplation of the acquisition of the property acquired; and
(ii) do not extend to or cover any of the Company's property or any of its Subsidiaries' property other than the property so acquired;
(c) Liens on any property of a corporation or other entity existing at the time such corporation or entity becomes the Company's Subsidiary or is merged into or consolidated with the Company or a Subsidiary or at the time of a sale, lease or other disposition of the properties of such corporation or entity as an entirety or substantially as an entirety to the Company or a Subsidiary, provided that such Liens:
(i) are not incurred in connection with or in contemplation of such corporation or entity becoming a Subsidiary or merging or consolidating with the Company or a Subsidiary or are not incurred in connection with or in contemplation of the sale, lease or other disposition of the properties of such corporation or other entity; and
(ii) do not extend to or cover any of the Company's property or any of its Subsidiaries' property other than the property of such corporation or other entity; and
(d) purchase money Liens upon or in any real or personal property (including fixtures and other equipment) the Company or any of its Subsidiaries hold or have acquired to secure the purchase price of such property or to secure Indebtedness incurred solely to finance or refinance the acquisition or improvement of such property and incurred within 180 days after completion of such acquisition or improvement, provided that no such Lien will extend to or cover any property other than the property being acquired or improved.
 
1.5.2. .
Limitation on Sale and Leaseback Transactions
Other than as provided in Section 1.5.3 below, neither the Company nor any of its Subsidiaries may enter into any Sale/Leaseback Transaction unless the Company or such Subsidiary would be entitled, pursuant to Section 1.5.1, to create, incur, assume or suffer to exist any Lien upon any of the Company's property subject to such Sale/Leaseback Transaction.
1.5.3. .
Permitted Liens and Permitted Sale and Leaseback Transactions
(a) Notwithstanding the restrictions set forth under Section 1.5.1 and Section 1.5.2, the Company or any of its Subsidiaries may create, incur, assume or suffer to exist any Lien or enter into any Sale/Leaseback Transaction not otherwise permitted pursuant to Section 1.5.1 or Section 1.5.2; provided that, at the time of such event, and after giving effect to that event, the aggregate amount of all Indebtedness secured by Liens permitted by this Section 1.5.3 (excluding the Liens permitted pursuant to Section 1.5.1) and the aggregate amount of all Attributable Debt in respect of Sale/Leaseback Transactions permitted by this Section 1.5.3 (excluding Sale/Leaseback Transactions permitted under Section 1.5.2) measured, in each case, at the time any such Lien is incurred or any such Sale/Leaseback Transaction is entered into, by the Company or any Subsidiary does not exceed 20% of the Company's Consolidated Net Tangible Assets.
(b) Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company or any of its Subsidiaries may create, incur, assume or suffer to exist Indebtedness secured by Liens not otherwise permitted by Section 1.5.3(a) if the Company first makes effective provisions whereby each series of Notes (together with any other Indebtedness of the Company then existing or thereafter created ranking equally with such Notes and similarly entitled to be equally and ratably secured) shall be secured equally and ratably with such Indebtedness for so long as such Indebtedness shall so be secured.
1.5.4. .
Purchase of Notes upon a Change of Control Triggering Event
(a) If a Change of Control Triggering Event occurs with respect to a particular series of Notes, unless the Company has exercised its option to redeem such Notes as described in Section 1.4 hereof, the Company will make an offer (a "") to each Holder of such Notes to repurchase all or any part (equal to $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof) of that Holder's Notes at a repurchase price, payable in cash, equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of Notes repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest, on the Notes repurchased to the date of repurchase (the ""). Within 30 days following any Change of Control Triggering Event or, at the Company's option, prior to any Change of Control, but after public announcement of the transaction that constitutes or may constitute the Change of Control, a notice will be sent to Holders of the Notes, with a copy to the Trustee, describing the transaction that constitutes or may constitute the Change of Control Triggering Event and offering to repurchase such Notes on the date specified in the notice, which date will be no earlier than 30 days and no later than 90 days from the date such notice is mailed (the ""). The notice will, if
Change of Control Offer
Change of Control Payment
Change of Control Payment Date
 
mailed prior to the date of consummation of the Change of Control, state that the offer to purchase is conditioned on the Change of Control Triggering Event occurring on or prior to the Change of Control Payment Date and shall state the following:
(i) that the Change of Control Offer is being made pursuant to this Section 1.5.4 and that all Notes tendered will be accepted for payment;
(ii) the purchase price and the purchase date, which shall be no earlier than 30 days and no later than 90 days from the date such notice is mailed;
(iii) that any Note not tendered will continue to accrue interest;
(iv) that, unless the Company defaults in the payment of the Change of Control Payment, all Notes accepted for payment pursuant to the Change of Control Offer will cease to accrue interest after the Change of Control Payment Date;
(v) that Holders electing to have any Notes purchased pursuant to a Change of Control Offer will be required to surrender the Notes, with the form entitled "Option of Holder to Elect Purchase" attached to the Notes completed, or transfer by book-entry transfer, to the Paying Agent at the address specified in the notice prior to the close of business on the third Business Day preceding the Change of Control Payment Date;
(vi) that Holders will be entitled to withdraw their election if the Paying Agent receives, not later than the close of business on the second Business Day preceding the Change of Control Payment Date, a telegram, telex, facsimile transmission or letter setting forth the name of the Holder, the principal amount of Notes delivered for purchase, and a statement that such Holder is withdrawing his election to have the Notes purchased; and
(vii) that Holders whose Notes are being purchased only in part will be issued new Notes equal in principal amount to the unpurchased portion of the Notes surrendered, which unpurchased portion must be equal to $2,000 in principal amount or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof.
The Company will comply with the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the Exchange Act and any other securities laws and regulations thereunder to the extent those laws and regulations are applicable in connection with the repurchase of the Notes as a result of a Change in Control Triggering Event. To the extent that the provisions of any securities laws or regulations conflict with the provisions of this Section 1.5.4, the Company will comply with the applicable securities laws and regulations and will not be deemed to have breached its obligations under this Section 1.5.4 by virtue of such compliance.
 
(b) On the Change of Control Payment Date, the Company will, to the extent lawful:
(i) accept for payment all Notes or portions of Notes properly tendered pursuant to the Change of Control Offer;
(ii) deposit with the Paying Agent an amount equal to the Change of Control Payment in respect of all Notes or portions of Notes properly tendered; and
(iii) deliver or cause to be delivered to the Trustee the Notes properly accepted together with an Officers' Certificate stating the aggregate principal amount of Notes or portions of Notes being repurchased.
The Paying Agent will promptly mail (but in any case not later than five days after the Change of Control Payment Date) to each Holder of Notes properly tendered the Change of Control Payment for such Notes, and the Trustee will promptly authenticate and mail (or cause to be transferred by book entry) to each Holder a new Note equal in principal amount to any unpurchased portion of the Notes surrendered, if any. The Company will publicly announce the results of the Change of Control Offer on or as soon as practicable after the Change of Control Payment Date.
(c) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Section 1.5.4, the Company will not be required to make a Change of Control Offer upon the occurrence of a Change of Control Triggering Event if (1) a third party makes such an offer in the manner, at the times and otherwise in compliance with the requirements set forth in this Section 1.5.4 and the third party repurchases all Notes properly tendered and not withdrawn under its offer, or (2) notice of redemption has been given pursuant to Section 1.4 hereof, unless and until there is a default in payment of the applicable Redemption Price.
(d)
Section 1.6. .
Defaults and Remedies
1.6.1. .
Events of Default
This Section 1.6.1 shall replace Section 6.1 of the Base Indenture with respect to the Notes only.
Each of the following is an "" with respect to a particular series of Notes:
Event of Default
(a) default for 90 days in the payment when due of interest on such series of Notes so long as the period within which such payment is due has not been extended or deferred;
(b) default in the payment when due (at maturity, upon redemption or otherwise) of the principal of, or premium, if any, on, such series of Notes;
 
(c) failure by the Company for 90 days after notice to the Company by the Trustee or the Holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Notes of such series then outstanding voting as a single class to perform or observe any of the other covenants or agreements in this Indenture applicable to such series;
(d) any of the Company's Indebtedness in the aggregate outstanding principal amount of $125 million or more either:
(i) becomes due and payable prior to the due date for payment of such Indebtedness following the Company's default with respect to the terms of such Indebtedness; or
(ii) is not repaid at, and remains unpaid after, maturity as extended by any applicable period of grace or any guarantee given by the Company in respect of Indebtedness of any other Person in the aggregate outstanding principal amount of $125 million or more is not honored when, and remains dishonored after, becoming due;
(e) the Company pursuant to or within the meaning of any Bankruptcy Law (i) commences a voluntary case, (ii) consents to the entry of an order for relief against it in an involuntary case, (iii) consents to the appointment of a Custodian of it or for all or substantially all of its property or (iv) makes a general assignment for the benefit of its creditors; or
(f) a court of competent jurisdiction enters an order under any Bankruptcy Law that (i) is for relief against the Company in an involuntary case, (ii) appoints a Custodian of the Company for all or substantially all of the Company's properties, or (iii) orders the liquidation of the Company, and, in either of the above cases, the order or decree remains unstayed and in effect for 90 days.
1.6.2. .
Acceleration of Maturity
This Section 1.6.2 shall replace Section 6.2 of the Base Indenture with respect to the Notes only.
In the case of an Event of Default specified in clause (e) or (f) of Section 1.6.1 hereof, all outstanding Notes will become due and payable immediately without further action or notice. If any other Event of Default occurs and is continuing, the Trustee or the Holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of the then outstanding Notes of a particular series may declare all the Notes of such series to be due and payable immediately by notice in writing to the Company (and to the Trustee if notice is given by such Holders).
Upon any such declaration, the Notes shall become due and payable immediately.
The Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the then outstanding Notes of a particular series by written notice to the Trustee may, on behalf of all of the Holders of such series, rescind an acceleration and its consequences with respect to such series of Notes, if the rescission would not conflict with any judgment or decree and if all existing Events of Default with respect to such series of Notes (except nonpayment of principal, interest or premium that has become due solely because of the acceleration) have been cured or waived.
 
Section 1.7. .
Successors
This Section 1.7 shall replace Article IV of the Base Indenture with respect to the Notes only.
Without the consent of any Holder of Notes, the Company may consolidate with, or merge into, or sell, transfer, lease or convey its assets substantially as an entirety to any entity, provided that:
(a) the entity formed by or surviving any such consolidation or merger (if other than the Company) or to which such sale, transfer, lease or conveyance shall have been made, is a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the United States of America, any state, or the District of Columbia;
(b) the corporation formed by or surviving any such consolidation or merger (if other than the Company), or to which such sale, transfer, lease or conveyance shall have been made, expressly assumes all of the Company's obligations under the Notes and this Indenture pursuant to agreements reasonably acceptable to the Trustee; and
(c) immediately before and after giving effect to the transaction, no Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing.
The Company shall deliver to the Trustee prior to the consummation of the proposed transaction an Officers' Certificate to the foregoing effect and an Opinion of Counsel stating that the proposed transaction and such supplemental indenture comply with this Indenture.
Upon any consolidation or merger, or any sale, transfer, lease, conveyance or other disposition of the assets of the Company substantially as an entirety in a transaction that is subject to, and that complies with the provisions of, this Section 1.7, the successor Person formed by such consolidation or into or with which the Company is merged or to which such sale, lease, transfer, conveyance or other disposition is made shall succeed to, and be substituted for (so that from and after the date of such consolidation, merger, sale, lease, transfer, conveyance or other disposition, the provisions of this Indenture referring to the "Company" shall refer instead to the successor Person and not to the Company), and may exercise every right and power of the Company under this Indenture with the same effect as if such successor Person had been named as the Company herein; provided, however, that the predecessor Company shall not be relieved from the obligation to pay the principal of and interest on the Notes except in the case of a sale of all of the Company's assets in a transaction that is subject to, and that complies with the provisions of, this Section 1.7.
 
Section 2.1. .
Definitions
Capitalized terms used but not defined in this First Supplemental Indenture shall have the meanings ascribed thereto in the Base Indenture.
Section 2.2. .
Confirmation of Indenture
The Base Indenture, as supplemented and amended by this First Supplemental Indenture, is in all respects ratified and confirmed, and the Base Indenture, this First Supplemental Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto shall be read, taken and construed as one and the same instrument.
Section 2.3. .
Governing Law
THIS INDENTURE AND THE NOTES, INCLUDING ANY CLAIM OR CONTROVERSY ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THE INDENTURE OR THE NOTES, SHALL BE GOVERNED BY THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK WITHOUT REGARD TO CONFLICT OF LAW PRINCIPLES THAT WOULD RESULT IN THE APPLICATION OF ANY LAW OTHER THAN THE LAW OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
Section 2.4. .
Severability
In case any provision in this First Supplemental Indenture or in the Notes shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
Section 2.5. .
Counterparts
This First Supplemental Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts and by the parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement.
Section 2.6. .
No Benefit
Nothing in this First Supplemental Indenture, express or implied, shall give to any person other than the parties hereto and their successors or assigns, and the Holders of the Notes, any benefit or legal or equitable rights, remedy or claim under this First Supplemental Indenture or the Base Indenture.
Section 2.7. .
Trustee
The Trustee makes no representations or warranties as to the validity or sufficiency of this First Supplemental Indenture.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this First Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed all as of the day and year first above written.
 
[Insert the Global Security legend]
 
CUSIP No. 205363AM6
Computer Sciences Corporation, a Nevada corporation (the "Company"), promises to pay to [            ] or registered assigns, the principal sum of [        ] Dollars ($[        ]) on September 15, 2015.
Interest Payment Dates: March 15 and September 15
Record Dates: March 1 and September 1
Each holder of this Note (as defined below), by accepting the same, agrees to and shall be bound by the provisions hereof and of the Indenture described herein, and authorizes and directs the Trustee described herein on such holder's behalf to be bound by such provisions. Each holder of this Note hereby waives all notice of the acceptance of the provisions contained herein and in the Indenture and waives reliance by such holder upon said provisions.
This Note shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture, or be valid or become obligatory for any purpose, until the Certificate of Authentication hereon shall have been manually signed by or on behalf of the Trustee. The provisions of this Note are continued on the reverse side hereof, and such continued provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as though fully set forth at this place.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Note to be signed in accordance with Section 2.4 of the Base Indenture.
Date: [                    ]
 
 
This is one of the 2.500% Senior Notes due 2015 issued by Computer Sciences Corporation of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
Date: [                    ]
 
 
This note is one of a duly authorized series of debt securities of Computer Sciences Corporation, a Nevada corporation (the ""), issued or to be issued in one or more series under and pursuant to an Indenture for the Company's debentures, notes or other debt instruments evidencing its Indebtedness, dated as of September 18, 2012 (the ""), duly executed and delivered by and among the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (the ""), as supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of September 18, 2012 (the ""), by and between the Company and the Trustee. The Base Indenture as supplemented and amended by the First Supplemental Indenture is referred to herein as the "." By the terms of the Base Indenture, the debt securities issuable thereunder are issuable in series that may vary as to amount, date of maturity, rate of interest and in other respects as provided in the Base Indenture. This note is one of the series designated on the face hereof (individually, a "," and collectively, the ""), and reference is hereby made to the Indenture for a description of the rights, limitations of rights, obligations, duties and immunities of the Trustee, the Company and the Holders of the Notes (the ""). Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined shall have the meanings given them in the Base Indenture or the First Supplemental Indenture, as applicable.
Company
Base Indenture
Trustee
First Supplemental Indenture
Indenture
Note
Notes
Holders
1. . The rate at which the Notes shall bear interest shall be 2.500% per year. The date from which interest shall accrue on the Notes shall be September 18, 2012, or the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or provided for. The Interest Payment Dates for the Notes shall be March 15 and September 15 of each year, beginning March 15, 2013. Interest shall be payable on each Interest Payment Date to the holders of record at the close of business on the March 1 and September 1 prior to each Interest Payment Date. The basis upon which interest shall be calculated shall be that of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months.
Interest
2. . The Company will pay interest on the Notes (except defaulted interest), if any, to the persons in whose name such Notes are registered at the close of business on the regular record date referred to on the facing page of this Note for such interest installment. In the event that the Notes or a portion thereof are called for redemption and the Redemption Date is subsequent to a regular record date with respect to any Interest Payment Date and prior to such Interest Payment Date, interest on such Notes will be paid upon presentation and surrender of such Notes as provided in the Indenture. The principal of and the interest on the Notes shall be payable in Dollars, at the office or agency of the Company maintained for that purpose in accordance with the Indenture.
Method of Payment
3. . Initially, the Trustee will act as Paying Agent and Registrar. The Company may change or appoint any Paying Agent or Registrar without notice to any Holder.
Paying Agent and Registrar
4. . The terms of the Notes include those stated in the Indenture and those made part of the Indenture by reference to the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 ("") as in effect on
Indenture
TIA
 
the date the Indenture is qualified. The Notes are subject to all such terms, and Holders are referred to the Indenture and TIA for a statement of such terms. The Notes are senior unsecured obligations of the Company and constitute the series designated on the face hereof as the "2.500% Senior Notes due 2015", initially limited to $350,000,000 in aggregate principal amount. The Company will furnish to any Holders upon written request and without charge a copy of the Base Indenture and the First Supplemental Indenture. Requests may be made to: Computer Sciences Corporation, 3170 Fairview Park Drive, Falls Church, VA 22042, Attention: General Counsel.
5. . The Notes shall be redeemable as a whole or in part, at the Company's option, at any time or from time to time, as provided in Section 1.4 of the First Supplemental Indenture.
Redemption
The Notes will not have the benefit of any sinking fund.
6. . If a Change of Control Triggering Event occurs with respect to a particular series of Notes, unless the Company has exercised its option to redeem such Notes as described in Section 1.4 of the First Supplemental Indenture, the Company will make an offer to each Holder of such Notes to repurchase all or any part (equal to $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof) of that Holder's Notes at a repurchase price, payable in cash, equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of Notes repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest, on the Notes repurchased to the date of repurchase. Within 30 days following any Change of Control Triggering Event or, at the Company's option, prior to any Change of Control, but after public announcement of the transaction that constitutes or may constitute the Change of Control, a notice will be sent to Holders of the Notes, with a copy to the Trustee, describing the transaction that constitutes or may constitute the Change of Control Triggering Event and offering to repurchase such Notes on the date specified in the notice, which date will be no earlier than 30 days and no later than 90 days from the date such notice is mailed, in accordance with Section 1.5.4 of the First Supplemental Indenture.
Change of Control Triggering Event
7. . The Notes are in registered form without coupons in minimum denominations of $2,000 or any integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof. The transfer of Notes may be registered and Notes may be exchanged as provided in Section 1.3 of the First Supplemental Indenture and Sections 2.8 and 2.16 of the Base Indenture. The Notes may be presented for exchange or for registration of transfer at the office of the Company or its agency designated by the Company for such purpose.
Denominations, Transfer, Exchange
8. . The person in whose name this Note is registered may be treated as its owner for all purposes.
Persons Deemed Owners
9. . The Trustee and the Paying Agent shall pay to the Company upon request any money held by them for the payment of principal and interest that remains unclaimed for two years. After that, Holders entitled to the money must look to the Company for payment as general creditors unless an applicable abandoned property law designates another person.
Repayment to the Company
 
10. . Subject to certain exceptions, the Company and the Trustee may amend or supplement the Indenture and the Notes with the written consent (including consents obtained in connection with a tender offer or exchange offer for Notes) of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the then outstanding Notes, and compliance with any provision of the Indenture and the Notes may be waived with the written consent (including consents obtained in connection with a tender offer or exchange offer for Notes) of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the then outstanding Notes. The Company and the Trustee may amend or supplement the Indenture and the Notes without notice to or consent of any Holder as provided in the Indenture, including, without limitation, to cure any ambiguity, defect or inconsistency or make any change that would not adversely affect the legal rights under the Indenture of any Holder in any material respect.
Amendments, Supplements and Waivers
11. . If an Event of Default with respect to the Notes occurs and is continuing (other than an Event of Default in Sections 1.6.1(e) or 1.6.1(f) of the First Supplemental Indenture), then in every such case the Trustee or the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the outstanding Notes may declare the principal amount of and accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on all the Notes to be due and payable immediately, by a notice in writing to the Company (and to the Trustee if given by the Holders), and upon such declaration such principal amount and accrued and unpaid interest, if any, shall become immediately due and payable. If an Event of Default specified in Sections 1.6.1(e) or 1.6.1(f) of the First Supplemental Indenture shall occur, the principal of and accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on all outstanding Notes shall become and be immediately due and payable without any declaration or other act on the part of the Trustee or any Holder of outstanding Notes. Subject to the terms of the Indenture, if an Event of Default under the Indenture shall occur and be continuing, the Trustee will be under no obligation to exercise any of the rights or powers vested in it by the Indenture at the request or direction of any of the Holders unless such Holders shall have offered the Trustee security or indemnity satisfactory to it. Upon satisfaction of certain conditions set forth in the Indenture, the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the outstanding Notes shall have the right to direct the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee, or exercising any trust or power conferred on the Trustee, with respect to the Notes.
Defaults and Remedies
ipso facto
12. . The Trustee, subject to certain limitations imposed by the TIA, in its individual or any other capacity, may become the owner or pledgee of Notes with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee, Paying Agent or Registrar.
Trustee May Hold Securities
13. . A director, officer, employee or stockholder (past or present), as such, of the Company shall not have any liability for any obligations of the Company under the Notes or the Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of or by reason of such obligations or their creation. Each Holder by accepting a Note waives and releases all such liability. The waiver and release are part of the consideration for the issue of the Notes.
No Recourse Against Others
14. . The Indenture contains certain provisions pertaining to discharge and defeasance, which provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth herein.
Discharge of Indenture
 
15. . This Note shall not be valid until the Trustee manually signs the certificate of authentication attached to the other side of this Note.
Authentication
16. . Customary abbreviations may be used in the name of a Holder or an assignee, such as: TEN COM (= tenants in common), TEN ENT (= tenants by the entireties), JT TEN (= joint tenants with right of survivorship and not as tenants in common), CUST (= Custodian), and U/G/M/A (= Uniform Gifts to Minors Act).
Abbreviations
17. . THE INDENTURE AND THIS NOTE, INCLUDING ANY CLAIM OR CONTROVERSY ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THE INDENTURE OR THIS NOTE, SHALL BE GOVERNED BY THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK WITHOUT REGARD TO CONFLICT OF LAW PRINCIPLES THAT WOULD RESULT IN THE APPLICATION OF ANY LAW OTHER THAN THE LAW OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
Governing Law
 
To assign this Note, fill in the form below: (I) or (we) assign and transfer this Note to:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Date:                     
 
 
 
If you want to elect to have this Note purchased by the Company pursuant to Section 1.5.4 of the First Supplemental Indenture, check the box:
 
If you want to elect to have only part of this Note purchased by the Company pursuant to Section 1.5.4 of the First Supplemental Indenture, state the amount: $        .
 
 
 
The following exchanges of a part of this Global Security for an interest in another Global Security or for a Definitive Security, or exchanges of a part of another Global Security or Definitive Security for an interest in this Global Security, have been made:
 
 
[Insert the Global Security legend]
 
CUSIP No. 205363AN4
Computer Sciences Corporation, a Nevada corporation (the "Company"), promises to pay to [            ] or registered assigns, the principal sum of [            ] Dollars ($[            ]) on September 15, 2022.
Interest Payment Dates: March 15 and September 15
Record Dates: March 1 and September 1
Each holder of this Note (as defined below), by accepting the same, agrees to and shall be bound by the provisions hereof and of the Indenture described herein, and authorizes and directs the Trustee described herein on such holder's behalf to be bound by such provisions. Each holder of this Note hereby waives all notice of the acceptance of the provisions contained herein and in the Indenture and waives reliance by such holder upon said provisions.
This Note shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture, or be valid or become obligatory for any purpose, until the Certificate of Authentication hereon shall have been manually signed by or on behalf of the Trustee. The provisions of this Note are continued on the reverse side hereof, and such continued provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as though fully set forth at this place.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Note to be signed in accordance with Section 2.4 of the Base Indenture.
Date: [                    ]
 
 
This is one of the 4.450% Senior Notes due 2022 issued by Computer Sciences Corporation of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
Date: [                    ]
 
 
This note is one of a duly authorized series of debt securities of Computer Sciences Corporation, a Nevada corporation (the ""), issued or to be issued in one or more series under and pursuant to an Indenture for the Company's debentures, notes or other debt instruments evidencing its Indebtedness, dated as of September 18, 2012 (the ""), duly executed and delivered by and among the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (the ""), as supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of September 18, 2012 (the ""), by and between the Company and the Trustee. The Base Indenture as supplemented and amended by the First Supplemental Indenture is referred to herein as the "." By the terms of the Base Indenture, the debt securities issuable thereunder are issuable in series that may vary as to amount, date of maturity, rate of interest and in other respects as provided in the Base Indenture. This note is one of the series designated on the face hereof (individually, a "," and collectively, the ""), and reference is hereby made to the Indenture for a description of the rights, limitations of rights, obligations, duties and immunities of the Trustee, the Company and the Holders of the Notes (the ""). Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined shall have the meanings given them in the Base Indenture or the First Supplemental Indenture, as applicable.
Company
Base Indenture
Trustee
First Supplemental Indenture
Indenture
Note
Notes
Holders
1. . The rate at which the Notes shall bear interest shall be 4.450% per year. The date from which interest shall accrue on the Notes shall be September 18, 2012, or the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or provided for. The Interest Payment Dates for the Notes shall be March 15 and September 15 of each year, beginning March 15, 2013. Interest shall be payable on each Interest Payment Date to the holders of record at the close of business on the March 1 and September 1 prior to each Interest Payment Date. The basis upon which interest shall be calculated shall be that of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months.
Interest
2. . The Company will pay interest on the Notes (except defaulted interest), if any, to the persons in whose name such Notes are registered at the close of business on the regular record date referred to on the facing page of this Note for such interest installment. In the event that the Notes or a portion thereof are called for redemption and the Redemption Date is subsequent to a regular record date with respect to any Interest Payment Date and prior to such Interest Payment Date, interest on such Notes will be paid upon presentation and surrender of such Notes as provided in the Indenture. The principal of and the interest on the Notes shall be payable in Dollars, at the office or agency of the Company maintained for that purpose in accordance with the Indenture.
Method of Payment
3. . Initially, the Trustee will act as Paying Agent and Registrar. The Company may change or appoint any Paying Agent or Registrar without notice to any Holder.
Paying Agent and Registrar
4. . The terms of the Notes include those stated in the Indenture and those made part of the Indenture by reference to the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 ("") as in effect on
Indenture
TIA
 
the date the Indenture is qualified. The Notes are subject to all such terms, and Holders are referred to the Indenture and TIA for a statement of such terms. The Notes are senior unsecured obligations of the Company and constitute the series designated on the face hereof as the "4.450% Senior Notes due 2022", initially limited to $350,000,000 in aggregate principal amount. The Company will furnish to any Holders upon written request and without charge a copy of the Base Indenture and the First Supplemental Indenture. Requests may be made to: Computer Sciences Corporation, 3170 Fairview Park Drive, Falls Church, VA 22042, Attention: General Counsel.
5. . The Notes shall be redeemable as a whole or in part, at the Company's option, at any time or from time to time, as provided in Section 1.4 of the First Supplemental Indenture.
Redemption
The Notes will not have the benefit of any sinking fund.
6. . If a Change of Control Triggering Event occurs with respect to a particular series of Notes, unless the Company has exercised its option to redeem such Notes as described in Section 1.4 of the First Supplemental Indenture, the Company will make an offer to each Holder of such Notes to repurchase all or any part (equal to $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof) of that Holder's Notes at a repurchase price, payable in cash, equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of Notes repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest, on the Notes repurchased to the date of repurchase. Within 30 days following any Change of Control Triggering Event or, at the Company's option, prior to any Change of Control, but after public announcement of the transaction that constitutes or may constitute the Change of Control, a notice will be sent to Holders of the Notes, with a copy to the Trustee, describing the transaction that constitutes or may constitute the Change of Control Triggering Event and offering to repurchase such Notes on the date specified in the notice, which date will be no earlier than 30 days and no later than 90 days from the date such notice is mailed, in accordance with Section 1.5.4 of the First Supplemental Indenture.
Change of Control Triggering Event
7. . The Notes are in registered form without coupons in minimum denominations of $2,000 or any integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof. The transfer of Notes may be registered and Notes may be exchanged as provided in Section 1.3 of the First Supplemental Indenture and Sections 2.8 and 2.16 of the Base Indenture. The Notes may be presented for exchange or for registration of transfer at the office of the Company or its agency designated by the Company for such purpose.
Denominations, Transfer, Exchange
8. . The person in whose name this Note is registered may be treated as its owner for all purposes.
Persons Deemed Owners
9. . The Trustee and the Paying Agent shall pay to the Company upon request any money held by them for the payment of principal and interest that remains unclaimed for two years. After that, Holders entitled to the money must look to the Company for payment as general creditors unless an applicable abandoned property law designates another person.
Repayment to the Company
 
10. . Subject to certain exceptions, the Company and the Trustee may amend or supplement the Indenture and the Notes with the written consent (including consents obtained in connection with a tender offer or exchange offer for Notes) of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the then outstanding Notes, and compliance with any provision of the Indenture and the Notes may be waived with the written consent (including consents obtained in connection with a tender offer or exchange offer for Notes) of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the then outstanding Notes. The Company and the Trustee may amend or supplement the Indenture and the Notes without notice to or consent of any Holder as provided in the Indenture, including, without limitation, to cure any ambiguity, defect or inconsistency or make any change that would not adversely affect the legal rights under the Indenture of any Holder in any material respect.
Amendments, Supplements and Waivers
11. . If an Event of Default with respect to the Notes occurs and is continuing (other than an Event of Default in Sections 1.6.1(e) or 1.6.1(f) of the First Supplemental Indenture), then in every such case the Trustee or the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the outstanding Notes may declare the principal amount of and accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on all the Notes to be due and payable immediately, by a notice in writing to the Company (and to the Trustee if given by the Holders), and upon such declaration such principal amount and accrued and unpaid interest, if any, shall become immediately due and payable. If an Event of Default specified in Sections 1.6.1(e) or 1.6.1(f) of the First Supplemental Indenture shall occur, the principal of and accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on all outstanding Notes shall become and be immediately due and payable without any declaration or other act on the part of the Trustee or any Holder of outstanding Notes. Subject to the terms of the Indenture, if an Event of Default under the Indenture shall occur and be continuing, the Trustee will be under no obligation to exercise any of the rights or powers vested in it by the Indenture at the request or direction of any of the Holders unless such Holders shall have offered the Trustee security or indemnity satisfactory to it. Upon satisfaction of certain conditions set forth in the Indenture, the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the outstanding Notes shall have the right to direct the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee, or exercising any trust or power conferred on the Trustee, with respect to the Notes.
Defaults and Remedies
ipso facto
12. . The Trustee, subject to certain limitations imposed by the TIA, in its individual or any other capacity, may become the owner or pledgee of Notes with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee, Paying Agent or Registrar.
Trustee May Hold Securities
13. . A director, officer, employee or stockholder (past or present), as such, of the Company shall not have any liability for any obligations of the Company under the Notes or the Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of or by reason of such obligations or their creation. Each Holder by accepting a Note waives and releases all such liability. The waiver and release are part of the consideration for the issue of the Notes.
No Recourse Against Others
14. . The Indenture contains certain provisions pertaining to discharge and defeasance, which provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth herein.
Discharge of Indenture
 
15. . This Note shall not be valid until the Trustee manually signs the certificate of authentication attached to the other side of this Note.
Authentication
16. . Customary abbreviations may be used in the name of a Holder or an assignee, such as: TEN COM (= tenants in common), TEN ENT (= tenants by the entireties), JT TEN (= joint tenants with right of survivorship and not as tenants in common), CUST (= Custodian), and U/G/M/A (= Uniform Gifts to Minors Act).
Abbreviations
17. . THE INDENTURE AND THIS NOTE, INCLUDING ANY CLAIM OR CONTROVERSY ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THE INDENTURE OR THIS NOTE, SHALL BE GOVERNED BY THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK WITHOUT REGARD TO CONFLICT OF LAW PRINCIPLES THAT WOULD RESULT IN THE APPLICATION OF ANY LAW OTHER THAN THE LAW OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
Governing Law
 
To assign this Note, fill in the form below: (I) or (we) assign and transfer this Note to:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Date:                     
 
 
 
If you want to elect to have this Note purchased by the Company pursuant to Section 1.5.4 of the First Supplemental Indenture, check the box:
 
If you want to elect to have only part of this Note purchased by the Company pursuant to Section 1.5.4 of the First Supplemental Indenture, state the amount: $        .
 
 
 
The following exchanges of a part of this Global Security for an interest in another Global Security or for a Definitive Security, or exchanges of a part of another Global Security or Definitive Security for an interest in this Global Security, have been made:
 
 

Exhibit 4.3
THIS GLOBAL NOTE IS HELD BY THE DEPOSITARY (AS DEFINED IN THE INDENTURE GOVERNING THIS NOTE) OR ITS NOMINEE IN CUSTODY FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE BENEFICIAL OWNERS HEREOF. UNLESS AND UNTIL IT IS EXCHANGED IN WHOLE OR IN PART FOR NOTES IN DEFINITIVE FORM, THIS NOTE MAY NOT BE TRANSFERRED EXCEPT AS A WHOLE BY THE DEPOSITARY TO A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY OR BY A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY TO THE DEPOSITARY OR ANOTHER NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY OR BY THE DEPOSITARY OR ANY SUCH NOMINEE TO A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE OF SUCH SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY. UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY (55 WATER STREET, NEW YORK, NEW YORK) ("DTC"), TO THE COMPANY OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR SUCH OTHER NAME AS MAY BE REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS MAY BE REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN
 
Computer Sciences Corporation, a Nevada corporation (the "Company"), promises to pay to Cede & Co. or registered assigns, the principal sum of Three Hundred Fifty Million Dollars ($350,000,000) on September 15, 2015.
Interest Payment Dates: March 15 and September 15
Record Dates: March 1 and September 1
Each holder of this Note (as defined below), by accepting the same, agrees to and shall be bound by the provisions hereof and of the Indenture described herein, and authorizes and directs the Trustee described herein on such holder's behalf to be bound by such provisions. Each holder of this Note hereby waives all notice of the acceptance of the provisions contained herein and in the Indenture and waives reliance by such holder upon said provisions.
This Note shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture, or be valid or become obligatory for any purpose, until the Certificate of Authentication hereon shall have been manually signed by or on behalf of the Trustee. The provisions of this Note are continued on the reverse side hereof, and such continued provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as though fully set forth at this place.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Note to be signed in accordance with Section 2.4 of the Base Indenture.
Date: September 18, 2012
 
This is one of the 2.500% Senior Notes due 2015 issued by Computer Sciences Corporation of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
Date: September 18, 2012
 
This note is one of a duly authorized series of debt securities of Computer Sciences Corporation, a Nevada corporation (the ""), issued or to be issued in one or more series under and pursuant to an Indenture for the Company's debentures, notes or other debt instruments evidencing its Indebtedness, dated as of September 18, 2012 (the ""), duly executed and delivered by and among the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (the ""), as supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of September 18, 2012 (the ""), by and between the Company and the Trustee. The Base Indenture as supplemented and amended by the First Supplemental Indenture is referred to herein as the "." By the terms of the Base Indenture, the debt securities issuable thereunder are issuable in series that may vary as to amount, date of maturity, rate of interest and in other respects as provided in the Base Indenture. This note is one of the series designated on the face hereof (individually, a "," and collectively, the ""), and reference is hereby made to the Indenture for a description of the rights, limitations of rights, obligations, duties and immunities of the Trustee, the Company and the Holders of the Notes (the ""). Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined shall have the meanings given them in the Base Indenture or the First Supplemental Indenture, as applicable.
Company
Base Indenture
Trustee
First Supplemental Indenture
Indenture
Note
Notes
Holders
1. . The rate at which the Notes shall bear interest shall be 2.500% per year. The date from which interest shall accrue on the Notes shall be September 18, 2012, or the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or provided for. The Interest Payment Dates for the Notes shall be March 15 and September 15 of each year, beginning March 15, 2013. Interest shall be payable on each Interest Payment Date to the holders of record at the close of business on the March 1 and September 1 prior to each Interest Payment Date. The basis upon which interest shall be calculated shall be that of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months.
Interest
2. . The Company will pay interest on the Notes (except defaulted interest), if any, to the persons in whose name such Notes are registered at the close of business on the regular record date referred to on the facing page of this Note for such interest installment. In the event that the Notes or a portion thereof are called for redemption and the Redemption Date is subsequent to a regular record date with respect to any Interest Payment Date and prior to such Interest Payment Date, interest on such Notes will be paid upon presentation and surrender of such Notes as provided in the Indenture. The principal of and the interest on the Notes shall be payable in Dollars, at the office or agency of the Company maintained for that purpose in accordance with the Indenture.
Method of Payment
3. . Initially, the Trustee will act as Paying Agent and Registrar. The Company may change or appoint any Paying Agent or Registrar without notice to any Holder.
Paying Agent and Registrar
4. . The terms of the Notes include those stated in the Indenture and those made part of the Indenture by reference to the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 ("") as in effect on the date the Indenture is qualified. The Notes are subject to all such terms, and Holders are referred to the Indenture and TIA for a statement of such terms. The Notes are senior unsecured obligations of the Company and constitute the series designated on the face hereof as the "2.500% Senior Notes due 2015", initially limited to $350,000,000 in aggregate principal amount. The Company will furnish to any Holders upon written request and without charge a copy of the Base Indenture and the First Supplemental Indenture. Requests may be made to: Computer Sciences Corporation, 3170 Fairview Park Drive, Falls Church, VA 22042, Attention: General Counsel.
Indenture
TIA
5. . The Notes shall be redeemable as a whole or in part, at the Company's option, at any time or from time to time, as provided in Section 1.4 of the First Supplemental Indenture.
Redemption
The Notes will not have the benefit of any sinking fund.
6. . If a Change of Control Triggering Event occurs with respect to a particular series of Notes, unless the Company has exercised its option to redeem such Notes as described in Section 1.4 of the First Supplemental Indenture, the Company will make an offer to each Holder of such Notes to repurchase all or any part (equal to $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof) of that Holder's Notes
Change of Control Triggering Event
 
at a repurchase price, payable in cash, equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of Notes repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest, on the Notes repurchased to the date of repurchase. Within 30 days following any Change of Control Triggering Event or, at the Company's option, prior to any Change of Control, but after public announcement of the transaction that constitutes or may constitute the Change of Control, a notice will be sent to Holders of the Notes, with a copy to the Trustee, describing the transaction that constitutes or may constitute the Change of Control Triggering Event and offering to repurchase such Notes on the date specified in the notice, which date will be no earlier than 30 days and no later than 90 days from the date such notice is mailed, in accordance with Section 1.5.4 of the First Supplemental Indenture.
7. . The Notes are in registered form without coupons in minimum denominations of $2,000 or any integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof. The transfer of Notes may be registered and Notes may be exchanged as provided in Section 1.3 of the First Supplemental Indenture and Sections 2.8 and 2.16 of the Base Indenture. The Notes may be presented for exchange or for registration of transfer at the office of the Company or its agency designated by the Company for such purpose.
Denominations, Transfer, Exchange
8. . The person in whose name this Note is registered may be treated as its owner for all purposes.
Persons Deemed Owners
9. . The Trustee and the Paying Agent shall pay to the Company upon request any money held by them for the payment of principal and interest that remains unclaimed for two years. After that, Holders entitled to the money must look to the Company for payment as general creditors unless an applicable abandoned property law designates another person.
Repayment to the Company
10. . Subject to certain exceptions, the Company and the Trustee may amend or supplement the Indenture and the Notes with the written consent (including consents obtained in connection with a tender offer or exchange offer for Notes) of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the then outstanding Notes, and compliance with any provision of the Indenture and the Notes may be waived with the written consent (including consents obtained in connection with a tender offer or exchange offer for Notes) of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the then outstanding Notes. The Company and the Trustee may amend or supplement the Indenture and the Notes without notice to or consent of any Holder as provided in the Indenture, including, without limitation, to cure any ambiguity, defect or inconsistency or make any change that would not adversely affect the legal rights under the Indenture of any Holder in any material respect.
Amendments, Supplements and Waivers
11. . If an Event of Default with respect to the Notes occurs and is continuing (other than an Event of Default in Sections 1.6.1(e) or 1.6.1(f) of the First Supplemental Indenture), then in every such case the Trustee or the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the outstanding Notes may declare the principal amount of and accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on all the Notes to be due and payable immediately, by a notice in writing to the Company (and to the Trustee if given by the Holders), and upon such declaration such principal amount and accrued and unpaid interest, if any, shall become immediately due and payable. If an Event of Default specified in Sections 1.6.1(e) or 1.6.1(f) of the First Supplemental Indenture shall occur, the principal of and accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on all outstanding Notes shall become and be immediately due and payable without any declaration or other act on the part of the Trustee or any Holder of outstanding Notes. Subject to the terms of the Indenture, if an Event of Default under the Indenture shall occur and be continuing, the Trustee will be under no obligation to exercise any of the rights or powers vested in it by the Indenture at the request or direction of any of the Holders unless such Holders shall have offered the Trustee security or indemnity satisfactory to it. Upon satisfaction of certain conditions set forth in the Indenture, the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the outstanding Notes shall have the right to direct the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee, or exercising any trust or power conferred on the Trustee, with respect to the Notes.
Defaults and Remedies
ipso facto
12. . The Trustee, subject to certain limitations imposed by the TIA, in its individual or any other capacity, may become the owner or pledgee of Notes with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee, Paying Agent or Registrar.
Trustee May Hold Securities
13. . A director, officer, employee or stockholder (past or present), as such, of the Company shall not have any liability for any obligations of the Company under the Notes or the
No Recourse Against Others
 
Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of or by reason of such obligations or their creation. Each Holder by accepting a Note waives and releases all such liability. The waiver and release are part of the consideration for the issue of the Notes.
14. . The Indenture contains certain provisions pertaining to discharge and defeasance, which provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth herein.
Discharge of Indenture
15. . This Note shall not be valid until the Trustee manually signs the certificate of authentication attached to the other side of this Note.
Authentication
16. . Customary abbreviations may be used in the name of a Holder or an assignee, such as: TEN COM (= tenants in common), TEN ENT (= tenants by the entireties), JT TEN (= joint tenants with right of survivorship and not as tenants in common), CUST (= Custodian), and U/G/M/A (= Uniform Gifts to Minors Act).
Abbreviations
17. . THE INDENTURE AND THIS NOTE, INCLUDING ANY CLAIM OR CONTROVERSY ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THE INDENTURE OR THIS NOTE, SHALL BE GOVERNED BY THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK WITHOUT REGARD TO CONFLICT OF LAW PRINCIPLES THAT WOULD RESULT IN THE APPLICATION OF ANY LAW OTHER THAN THE LAW OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
Governing Law
 
To assign this Note, fill in the form below: (I) or (we) assign and transfer this Note to:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Date:                     
 
 
If you want to elect to have this Note purchased by the Company pursuant to Section 1.5.4 of the First Supplemental Indenture, check the box:
 
If you want to elect to have only part of this Note purchased by the Company pursuant to Section 1.5.4 of the First Supplemental Indenture, state the amount: $        .
 
 
The following exchanges of a part of this Global Security for an interest in another Global Security or for a Definitive Security, or exchanges of a part of another Global Security or Definitive Security for an interest in this Global Security, have been made:
 

Exhibit 4.4
THIS GLOBAL NOTE IS HELD BY THE DEPOSITARY (AS DEFINED IN THE INDENTURE GOVERNING THIS NOTE) OR ITS NOMINEE IN CUSTODY FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE BENEFICIAL OWNERS HEREOF. UNLESS AND UNTIL IT IS EXCHANGED IN WHOLE OR IN PART FOR NOTES IN DEFINITIVE FORM, THIS NOTE MAY NOT BE TRANSFERRED EXCEPT AS A WHOLE BY THE DEPOSITARY TO A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY OR BY A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY TO THE DEPOSITARY OR ANOTHER NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY OR BY THE DEPOSITARY OR ANY SUCH NOMINEE TO A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE OF SUCH SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY. UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY (55 WATER STREET, NEW YORK, NEW YORK) ("DTC"), TO THE COMPANY OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR SUCH OTHER NAME AS MAY BE REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS MAY BE REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN
 
Computer Sciences Corporation, a Nevada corporation (the "Company"), promises to pay to Cede & Co. or registered assigns, the principal sum of Three Hundred Fifty Million Dollars ($350,000,000) on September 15, 2022.
Interest Payment Dates: March 15 and September 15
Record Dates: March 1 and September 1
Each holder of this Note (as defined below), by accepting the same, agrees to and shall be bound by the provisions hereof and of the Indenture described herein, and authorizes and directs the Trustee described herein on such holder's behalf to be bound by such provisions. Each holder of this Note hereby waives all notice of the acceptance of the provisions contained herein and in the Indenture and waives reliance by such holder upon said provisions.
This Note shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture, or be valid or become obligatory for any purpose, until the Certificate of Authentication hereon shall have been manually signed by or on behalf of the Trustee. The provisions of this Note are continued on the reverse side hereof, and such continued provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as though fully set forth at this place.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Note to be signed in accordance with Section 2.4 of the Base Indenture.
Date: September 18, 2012
 
This is one of the 4.450% Senior Notes due 2022 issued by Computer Sciences Corporation of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
Date: September 18, 2012
 
This note is one of a duly authorized series of debt securities of Computer Sciences Corporation, a Nevada corporation (the ""), issued or to be issued in one or more series under and pursuant to an Indenture for the Company's debentures, notes or other debt instruments evidencing its Indebtedness, dated as of September 18, 2012 (the ""), duly executed and delivered by and among the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (the ""), as supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of September 18, 2012 (the ""), by and between the Company and the Trustee. The Base Indenture as supplemented and amended by the First Supplemental Indenture is referred to herein as the "." By the terms of the Base Indenture, the debt securities issuable thereunder are issuable in series that may vary as to amount, date of maturity, rate of interest and in other respects as provided in the Base Indenture. This note is one of the series designated on the face hereof (individually, a "," and collectively, the ""), and reference is hereby made to the Indenture for a description of the rights, limitations of rights, obligations, duties and immunities of the Trustee, the Company and the Holders of the Notes (the ""). Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined shall have the meanings given them in the Base Indenture or the First Supplemental Indenture, as applicable.
Company
Base Indenture
Trustee
First Supplemental Indenture
Indenture
Note
Notes
Holders
1. . The rate at which the Notes shall bear interest shall be 4.450% per year. The date from which interest shall accrue on the Notes shall be September 18, 2012, or the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or provided for. The Interest Payment Dates for the Notes shall be March 15 and September 15 of each year, beginning March 15, 2013. Interest shall be payable on each Interest Payment Date to the holders of record at the close of business on the March 1 and September 1 prior to each Interest Payment Date. The basis upon which interest shall be calculated shall be that of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months.
Interest
2. . The Company will pay interest on the Notes (except defaulted interest), if any, to the persons in whose name such Notes are registered at the close of business on the regular record date referred to on the facing page of this Note for such interest installment. In the event that the Notes or a portion thereof are called for redemption and the Redemption Date is subsequent to a regular record date with respect to any Interest Payment Date and prior to such Interest Payment Date, interest on such Notes will be paid upon presentation and surrender of such Notes as provided in the Indenture. The principal of and the interest on the Notes shall be payable in Dollars, at the office or agency of the Company maintained for that purpose in accordance with the Indenture.
Method of Payment
3. . Initially, the Trustee will act as Paying Agent and Registrar. The Company may change or appoint any Paying Agent or Registrar without notice to any Holder.
Paying Agent and Registrar
4. . The terms of the Notes include those stated in the Indenture and those made part of the Indenture by reference to the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 ("") as in effect on the date the Indenture is qualified. The Notes are subject to all such terms, and Holders are referred to the Indenture and TIA for a statement of such terms. The Notes are senior unsecured obligations of the Company and constitute the series designated on the face hereof as the "4.450% Senior Notes due 2022", initially limited to $350,000,000 in aggregate principal amount. The Company will furnish to any Holders upon written request and without charge a copy of the Base Indenture and the First Supplemental Indenture. Requests may be made to: Computer Sciences Corporation, 3170 Fairview Park Drive, Falls Church, VA 22042, Attention: General Counsel.
Indenture
TIA
5. . The Notes shall be redeemable as a whole or in part, at the Company's option, at any time or from time to time, as provided in Section 1.4 of the First Supplemental Indenture.
Redemption
The Notes will not have the benefit of any sinking fund.
6. . If a Change of Control Triggering Event occurs with respect to a particular series of Notes, unless the Company has exercised its option to redeem such Notes as described in Section 1.4 of the First Supplemental Indenture, the Company will make an offer to each Holder of such Notes to repurchase all or any part (equal to $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof) of that Holder's Notes
Change of Control Triggering Event
 
at a repurchase price, payable in cash, equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of Notes repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest, on the Notes repurchased to the date of repurchase. Within 30 days following any Change of Control Triggering Event or, at the Company's option, prior to any Change of Control, but after public announcement of the transaction that constitutes or may constitute the Change of Control, a notice will be sent to Holders of the Notes, with a copy to the Trustee, describing the transaction that constitutes or may constitute the Change of Control Triggering Event and offering to repurchase such Notes on the date specified in the notice, which date will be no earlier than 30 days and no later than 90 days from the date such notice is mailed, in accordance with Section 1.5.4 of the First Supplemental Indenture.
7. . The Notes are in registered form without coupons in minimum denominations of $2,000 or any integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof. The transfer of Notes may be registered and Notes may be exchanged as provided in Section 1.3 of the First Supplemental Indenture and Sections 2.8 and 2.16 of the Base Indenture. The Notes may be presented for exchange or for registration of transfer at the office of the Company or its agency designated by the Company for such purpose.
Denominations, Transfer, Exchange
8. . The person in whose name this Note is registered may be treated as its owner for all purposes.
Persons Deemed Owners
9. . The Trustee and the Paying Agent shall pay to the Company upon request any money held by them for the payment of principal and interest that remains unclaimed for two years. After that, Holders entitled to the money must look to the Company for payment as general creditors unless an applicable abandoned property law designates another person.
Repayment to the Company
10. . Subject to certain exceptions, the Company and the Trustee may amend or supplement the Indenture and the Notes with the written consent (including consents obtained in connection with a tender offer or exchange offer for Notes) of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the then outstanding Notes, and compliance with any provision of the Indenture and the Notes may be waived with the written consent (including consents obtained in connection with a tender offer or exchange offer for Notes) of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the then outstanding Notes. The Company and the Trustee may amend or supplement the Indenture and the Notes without notice to or consent of any Holder as provided in the Indenture, including, without limitation, to cure any ambiguity, defect or inconsistency or make any change that would not adversely affect the legal rights under the Indenture of any Holder in any material respect.
Amendments, Supplements and Waivers
11. . If an Event of Default with respect to the Notes occurs and is continuing (other than an Event of Default in Sections Sections 1.6.1(e) or 1.6.1(f) of the First Supplemental Indenture), then in every such case the Trustee or the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the outstanding Notes may declare the principal amount of and accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on all the Notes to be due and payable immediately, by a notice in writing to the Company (and to the Trustee if given by the Holders), and upon such declaration such principal amount and accrued and unpaid interest, if any, shall become immediately due and payable. If an Event of Default specified in Sections Sections 1.6.1(e) or 1.6.1(f) of the First Supplemental Indenture shall occur, the principal of and accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on all outstanding Notes shall become and be immediately due and payable without any declaration or other act on the part of the Trustee or any Holder of outstanding Notes. Subject to the terms of the Indenture, if an Event of Default under the Indenture shall occur and be continuing, the Trustee will be under no obligation to exercise any of the rights or powers vested in it by the Indenture at the request or direction of any of the Holders unless such Holders shall have offered the Trustee security or indemnity satisfactory to it. Upon satisfaction of certain conditions set forth in the Indenture, the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the outstanding Notes shall have the right to direct the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee, or exercising any trust or power conferred on the Trustee, with respect to the Notes.
Defaults and Remedies
ipso facto
12. . The Trustee, subject to certain limitations imposed by the TIA, in its individual or any other capacity, may become the owner or pledgee of Notes with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee, Paying Agent or Registrar.
Trustee May Hold Securities
13. . A director, officer, employee or stockholder (past or present), as such, of the Company shall not have any liability for any obligations of the Company under the Notes or the
No Recourse Against Others
 
Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of or by reason of such obligations or their creation. Each Holder by accepting a Note waives and releases all such liability. The waiver and release are part of the consideration for the issue of the Notes.
14. . The Indenture contains certain provisions pertaining to discharge and defeasance, which provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth herein.
Discharge of Indenture
15. . This Note shall not be valid until the Trustee manually signs the certificate of authentication attached to the other side of this Note.
Authentication
16. . Customary abbreviations may be used in the name of a Holder or an assignee, such as: TEN COM (= tenants in common), TEN ENT (= tenants by the entireties), JT TEN (= joint tenants with right of survivorship and not as tenants in common), CUST (= Custodian), and U/G/M/A (= Uniform Gifts to Minors Act).
Abbreviations
17. . THE INDENTURE AND THIS NOTE, INCLUDING ANY CLAIM OR CONTROVERSY ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THE INDENTURE OR THIS NOTE, SHALL BE GOVERNED BY THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK WITHOUT REGARD TO CONFLICT OF LAW PRINCIPLES THAT WOULD RESULT IN THE APPLICATION OF ANY LAW OTHER THAN THE LAW OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
Governing Law
 
To assign this Note, fill in the form below: (I) or (we) assign and transfer this Note to:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Date:                     
 
 
 
If you want to elect to have this Note purchased by the Company pursuant to Section 1.5.4 of the First Supplemental Indenture, check the box:
 
If you want to elect to have only part of this Note purchased by the Company pursuant to Section 1.5.4 of the First Supplemental Indenture, state the amount: $        .
 
 
 
The following exchanges of a part of this Global Security for an interest in another Global Security or for a Definitive Security, or exchanges of a part of another Global Security or Definitive Security for an interest in this Global Security, have been made:
 

Exhibit 5.1
 
September 18, 2012
Computer Sciences Corporation
3170 Fairview Park Drive
Falls Church, Virginia 22042
Ladies and Gentlemen:
In connection with the issuance by Computer Sciences Corporation, a Nevada corporation (the ""), of $350,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 2.500% Senior Notes due 2015 (the "") and $350,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 4.450% Senior Notes due 2022 (the "" and, together with the 2015 Notes, the "") pursuant to the Registration Statement on Form S-3 (Registration No. 333-183518) (the ""), certain legal matters with respect to the Notes are being passed upon for the Company by us. At your request, this opinion is being furnished to you for filing as Exhibit 5.1 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "") on the date hereof (the "").
Company
2015 Notes
2022 Notes
Notes
Registration Statement
Commission
Form 8-K
The Registration Statement has been filed with the Commission and became effective under the Act upon filing. A related prospectus dated August 23, 2012, as supplemented by the final prospectus supplement relating to the Notes dated September 11, 2012 (as so supplemented, the ""), was filed by the Company on September 13, 2012 with the Commission pursuant to Rule 424(b)(5) under the Act.
Prospectus
The Notes are to be issued pursuant to the Indenture (the ""), dated September 18, 2012, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as trustee (the ""), as supplemented by a supplemental indenture (the "," and together with the Base Indenture, the ""), dated September 18, 2012.
Base Indenture
Trustee
Supplemental Indenture
Indenture
In our capacity as your counsel in the connection referred to above, we have examined originals, or copies certified or otherwise identified, of (i) the Underwriting Agreement, dated September 11, 2012 (the ""), among the Company and the several Underwriters named in Schedule A to the Underwriting Agreement (the ""), relating to the issuance and sale of the Notes; (ii) the Indenture, (iii) the global notes representing the Notes, (iv) the Registration Statement and the Prospectus, (v) the Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation and Amended and Restated Bylaws of the Company, each as amended to date, (vi) certain corporate records of the Company, including certain resolutions of the Board of Directors and the Capital Transaction Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company, as furnished to us by the Company, (vii) certificates of public
Underwriting Agreement
Underwriters
officials and of representatives of the Company, (viii) statutes and (ix) other instruments and documents, all as a basis for the opinions hereinafter expressed. In giving such opinions, we have relied upon certificates, statements or other representations of officers or authorized agents of the Company and of governmental and public officials with respect to the accuracy of the factual matters contained therein or covered thereby.
In making our examination, we have assumed the due execution and delivery of the Indenture, and we have assumed, without independent investigation, that the signatures on all documents examined by us are genuine, all documents submitted to us as originals are authentic and complete, that all documents submitted to us as copies are true and correct copies of the originals thereof and that all information submitted to us was accurate and complete.
In connection with this opinion, we have also assumed that (i) the Company has been duly incorporated and is validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of Nevada and (ii) the Notes will be issued and sold in compliance with applicable federal and state securities laws and in the manner set forth in the Registration Statement and the Prospectus.
On the basis of the foregoing, and subject to the assumptions, limitations, qualifications and exceptions set forth herein, we are of the opinion that the Notes will, when duly executed, issued and delivered by the Company and authenticated and delivered by the Trustee in accordance with the terms of the Indenture and duly purchased and paid for by the Underwriters in accordance with the terms of the Underwriting Agreement, constitute legal, valid and binding obligations of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms, except as that the enforcement thereof may be subject to (a) any bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium, fraudulent conveyance or other similar laws now or hereafter in effect relating to creditors' rights generally, (b) general principles of equity and public policy (regardless of whether enforcement is sought in a proceeding at law or in equity) and (c) any implied covenants of good faith and fair dealing.
We express no opinion as to the enforceability of any provision in the Indenture, to the extent relating to: (i) any failure to comply with requirements concerning notices, relating to delay or omission to enforce rights or remedies or purporting to waive or affect rights, claims, defenses or other benefits to the extent that any of the same cannot be waived or so affected under applicable law or (ii) indemnities or exculpation from liability to the extent prohibited by federal or state laws and the public policies underlying those laws or that might require indemnification for, or exculpation from liability on account of, negligence, willful misconduct, unlawful acts, fraud or illegality of an indemnified or exculpated party.
We limit the opinions set forth above in all respects to matters of the contract law of the State of New York and federal law of the United States, each as in effect on the date hereof. Insofar as the opinions expressed above relate to matters that are governed by the laws of the State of Nevada, we have relied upon the opinion, including the limitations and qualifications set forth therein, of even date herewith of Woodburn and Wedge, Nevada counsel to the Company, as evidenced by the opinion of such firm to be filed with the Form 8-K and the consent contained in such opinion. No opinion is expressed herein as to any matters governed by the law of any other jurisdiction.
We hereby consent to the filing of this opinion of counsel as Exhibit 5.1 to the Form 8-K. We also consent to the reference to our Firm under the heading "Legal Matters" in the Prospectus. In giving this consent, we do not hereby admit that we are in the category of persons whose consent is required under Section 7 of the Act or the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder.
 

Exhibit 5.2
Computer Sciences Corporation
3170 Fairview Park Drive
Falls Church, Virginia 22042
Ladies and Gentlemen:
In connection with the issuance by Computer Sciences Corporation, a Nevada corporation (the "Company"), of $350,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 2.500% Senior Notes due 2015 (the "2015 Notes") and $350,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 4.450% Senior Notes due 2022 (the "2022 Notes" and, together with the 2015 Notes, the "Notes") pursuant to the Registration Statement on Form S-3 (Registration No. 333-183518) (the "Registration Statement"), certain legal matters with respect to the Notes are being passed upon for the Company by us. At your request, this opinion is being furnished to you for filing as Exhibit 5.1 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") on the date hereof (the "Form 8-K").
The Registration Statement has been filed with the Commission and became effective under the Act upon filing. A related prospectus dated August 23, 2012, as supplemented by the final prospectus supplement relating to the Notes dated September 11, 2012 (as so supplemented, the "Prospectus"), was filed by the Company on September 13, 2012 with the Commission pursuant to Rule 424(b)(5) under the Act.
The Notes are to be issued pursuant to the Indenture (the "Base Indenture"), dated September 18, 2012, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as trustee (the "Trustee"), as supplemented by a supplemental indenture (the "Supplemental Indenture," and together with the Base Indenture, the "Indenture"), dated September 18, 2012.
In our capacity as your counsel in the connection referred to above, we have examined originals, or copies certified or otherwise identified, of:
1. the Underwriting Agreement, dated September 11, 2012 (the "Underwriting Agreement"), among the Company and the several Underwriters named in Schedule A to the Underwriting Agreement (the "Underwriters"), relating to the issuance and sale of the Notes;
Computer Sciences Corporation
September 18, 2012
Page 2 of 3
 
2. the Indenture,
3. the Registration Statement and the Prospectus;
4. the Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation and Amended and Restated Bylaws of the Company, each as amended to date,
5. Certificate of Good Standing for the Company issued by the Nevada Secretary of State on September 17, 2012; .
6. Resolutions of the Board of Directors of the Company adopted on August 7 and August 23, 2012, authorizing and empowering officers of the Company to prepare, execute and file the Registration Statement and pre- and post-effective amendments thereto, adopting and authorizing the execution and delivery of the Indenture, and matters related thereto and creating the Capital Transaction Committee;
7. Resolutions of the Company's Capital Transaction Committee dated September 11, 2012, approving and authorizing issuance and sale of the Notes, approving the terms thereof, the terms of the Underwriting Agreement, the Indenture and the Supplemental Indenture and matters related thereto;
8. Officer's Certificate of M. Louise Turilli, Senior Deputy General Counsel and Secretary of the Company, dated September 18, 2012, certifying copies of various documents and as to certain facts.
In making our examination, we have assumed the due execution and delivery of all documents described herein, and we have assumed, without independent investigation, that the signatures on all documents examined by us are genuine, all documents submitted to us as originals are authentic and complete, that all documents submitted to us as copies are true and correct copies of the originals thereof and that all information submitted to us was accurate and complete.
Computer Sciences Corporation
September 18, 2012
Page 3 of 3
 
Based on the foregoing and subject to the assumptions, limitations, qualifications and exceptions set forth herein, we are of the opinion that, under Nevada law:
1. The Company has been duly incorporated and is validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of Nevada; and
2. The Notes have been duly authorized by the Company.
We limit the opinions set forth above in all respects to matters of the law of the State of Nevada as in effect on the date hereof. No opinion is expressed herein as to any matters governed by the law of any other jurisdiction. The firm of Baker Botts L.L.P. may rely on this letter for the purposes of rendering its opinions on the transactions described herein.
We hereby consent to the filing of this opinion of counsel as Exhibit 5.1 to the Form 8-K. We also consent to the reference to our Firm under the heading "Legal Matters" in the Prospectus. In giving this consent, we do not hereby admit that we are in the category of persons whose consent is required under Section 7 of the Act or the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder.
 
JPF:jan

Exhibit 10.1
EXECUTION COPY
 
 
 
 
This TERM LOAN AGREEMENT is entered into as of September 18, 2012, among Computer Sciences Corporation, a Nevada corporation (the ""), the financial institutions (the "") listed on Schedule II hereof, and The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd. (""), as administrative agent (the "") for the Lenders hereunder.
Borrower
Banks
BTMU
Agent
In consideration of the premises and the agreements, provisions and covenants herein contained, the Borrower, the Lenders and the Agent agree as follows:
. As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the following meanings (such meanings to be equally applicable to both the singular and plural forms of the terms defined):
Section 1.01
Certain Defined Terms
"" means an advance by a Lender to the Borrower as part of a Borrowing and refers to a Base Rate Advance or a Eurodollar Rate Advance, each of which shall be a "" of Advance.
Advance
Type
"" means, as to any Person, any other Person that, directly or indirectly, controls, is controlled by or is under common control with such Person or is a director or executive officer (as such term is used in Regulation S-K promulgated under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended) of such Person.
Affiliate
"" means this Term Loan Agreement, as this Term Loan Agreement may be amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time.
Agreement
"" means, with respect to each Lender, such Lender's Domestic Lending Office in the case of a Base Rate Advance, and such Lender's Eurodollar Lending Office in the case of a Eurodollar Rate Advance.
Applicable Lending Office
"" means, for any period for which any interest payment is to be made with respect to any Advance, the interest rate per annum derived by dividing (i) the sum of the Daily Margins for each of the days included in such period by (ii) the number of days included in such period.
Applicable Margin
"" means an assignment and acceptance entered into by a Lender and an Eligible Assignee, and accepted by the Agent, in substantially the form of Exhibit B hereto.
Assignment and Acceptance
"" means February 16, 2013 (or if such date is not a Business Day, the immediately preceding Business Day).
Availability Termination Date
 
"" means the Banks listed on Schedule II hereof.
Banks
"" means, for any period, a fluctuating interest rate per annum as shall be in effect from time to time which rate per annum shall at all times be equal to the highest of:
Base Rate
(a) the Prime Rate;
(b) 1/2 of one percent per annum above the Federal Funds Rate; and
(c) the rate equal to the Eurodollar Rate based on an Interest Period of one month determined for each day that a Base Rate Advance is outstanding (and in respect of any day that is not a London Banking Day, such rate as in effect on the immediately preceding London Banking Day) 1.00% per annum.
plus
"" means an Advance which bears interest as provided in Section 2.07(a).
Base Rate Advance
"" means Computer Sciences Corporation, a Nevada corporation.
Borrower
"" means a borrowing consisting of Advances of the same Type made by each of the Lenders pursuant to Section 2.01 on the same day to the Borrower pursuant to the same Notice of Borrowing.
Borrowing
"" means The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd.
BTMU
"" means a day of the year on which banks are not required or authorized to close in New York City and, if the applicable Business Day relates to any Eurodollar Rate Advances, on which dealings are carried on in the London interbank market.
Business Day
"" means, with respect to any Person, any lease of any property by that Person as lessee which would, in conformity with GAAP, be required to be accounted for as a capital lease on the balance sheet of that Person.
Capital Lease
"" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Code
"" means, as to each Lender, the amount set opposite such Lender's name on Schedule II hereto or, if such Lender has entered into any Assignment and Acceptance, set forth for such Lender in the Register maintained by the Agent pursuant to Section 8.07(c), as such amount may be reduced pursuant to Section 2.05 or increased pursuant to Section 2.16.
Commitment
"" means, for any period the sum of (a) net income, (b) taxes on income, (c) Consolidated Interest Expense, (d) depreciation expense, (e) amortization expense of goodwill, financing costs and other intangibles, (f) extraordinary losses, (g) other non-cash charges to the extent deducted from net income, extraordinary gains.
Consolidated EBITDA
plus
plus
plus
plus
plus
plus
minus
 
"" means, for any period, total interest expense (including that portion attributable to Capital Leases in accordance with GAAP and capitalized interest) of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis with respect to all outstanding Debt of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, including all commissions, discounts and other fees and charges owed with respect to letters of credit and bankers' acceptance financing, net costs under Interest Rate Agreements and amounts referred to in Section 2.04 payable to the Agent and the Lenders that are considered interest expense in accordance with GAAP, but excluding, however, any such amounts referred to in Section 2.04 payable on or before the Effective Date.
Consolidated Interest Expense
"" means, as of any date of determination, all Debt (excluding Equity-linked Debt) of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis.
Consolidated Total Debt
"," "" and "" each refers to a conversion of Advances of one Type into Advances of another Type pursuant to Section 2.09.
Convert
Conversion
Converted
"" means, with respect to any Person, any of the following Liens:
Customary Permitted Liens
(a) Liens with respect to the payment of taxes, assessments or governmental charges in each case that are not yet due or that are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings and with respect to which adequate reserves or other appropriate provisions are being maintained to the extent required by GAAP;
(b) Liens of landlords arising by statute or lease contracts entered into in the ordinary course, inchoate, statutory or construction liens, and liens of suppliers, mechanics, carriers, materialmen, warehousemen, producers, operators or workmen and other liens imposed by law created in the ordinary course of business for amounts not yet due or that are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings and with respect to which adequate reserves or other appropriate provisions are being maintained to the extent required by GAAP;
(c) liens, pledges or deposits made in the ordinary course of business in connection with workers' compensation, unemployment insurance or other types of social security benefits, taxes, assessments, statutory obligations or other similar charges or to secure the performance of bids, tenders, sales, leases, contracts (other than for the repayment of borrowed money) or in connection with surety, appeal, customs or performance bonds or other similar instruments;
(d) encumbrances arising by reason of zoning restrictions, easements, licenses, reservations, covenants, rights-of-way, utility easements, building restrictions and other similar encumbrances on the use of real property not materially detracting from the value of such real property and not materially interfering with the ordinary conduct of the business conducted at such real property;
 
(e) encumbrances arising under leases or subleases of real property that do not, individually or in the aggregate, materially detract from the value of such real property or materially interfere with the ordinary conduct of the business conducted at such real property; and
(f) financing statements with respect to a lessor's rights in and to personal property leased to such Person in the ordinary course of such Person's business.
"" means, for any date of determination, the interest rate per annum set forth in the table below that corresponds to (i) the Level applicable to the Borrower in respect of its Rating established by S&P and Moody's as set forth below for such date of determination and (ii) the Type of Advance:
Daily Margin
 
For purposes of this definition, (a) if any change in the Rating established by S&P or Moody's shall result in a change in the Level, the change in the Daily Margin shall be effective as of the date on which such rating change is publicly announced by S&P or Moody's, as the case may be, (b) if Ratings are available from only one of S&P or Moody's, then the applicable Level shall be set by reference to this one Rating, (c) if Ratings are available from each of S&P and Moody's and such Ratings fall within two different Levels, then the higher of such Ratings shall apply, unless there is a split in such Ratings of more than one Level, in which case the Level that is one Level higher than the Level of the lower Rating shall apply, (d) if Ratings are unavailable from S&P and Moody's for any reason other than such agencies cease providing public debt ratings generally for any day, then the applicable Level for such day shall be deemed to be Level 5; and (e) if either of S&P or Moody's change the basis on which their ratings are established and or described, each reference in this Agreement to a Rating announced by S&P or Moody's, as the case may be, shall be deemed to refer to the then equivalent rating established by S&P or Moody's.
"" means, with respect to any Person, (a) indebtedness of such Person for borrowed money, (b) obligations of such Person evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes or other similar instruments and (c) obligations of such Person as lessee under Capital Leases; that "Debt" shall not include borrowings against the cash surrender value of life insurance policies covering employees of the Borrower or its Affiliates and
Debt
provided
 
owned by the Borrower so long as (i) recourse for such borrowings is limited to such policies and the proceeds thereof and (ii) any value assigned to such policies on the consolidated financial statements of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries is net of the amount of such borrowings.
"" means at any time, subject to Section 2.18(c), (i) any Lender that has failed for three or more Business Days to comply with its obligations under this Agreement to make an Advance, unless such Lender has notified the Agent and the Borrower in writing that such failure is the result of such Lender's determination that one or more conditions precedent to funding has not been satisfied (which conditions precedent, together with the applicable default, if any, will be specifically identified in such writing), (ii) any Lender that has notified the Agent or the Borrower in writing, or has stated publicly, that it does not intend to comply with its funding obligations hereunder, (iii) any Lender that has defaulted on its funding obligations under other loan agreements or credit agreements generally under which it has commitments to extend credit or that has notified, or whose Parent Company has notified, the Agent or the Borrower in writing, or has stated publicly, that it does not intend to comply with its funding obligations under loan agreements or credit agreements generally, (iv) any Lender that has, for three or more Business Days after written request of the Agent or the Borrower, failed to confirm in writing to the Agent and the Borrower that it will comply with its prospective funding obligations hereunder (provided that such Lender will cease to be a Defaulting Lender pursuant to this clause (iv) upon the Agent's and the Borrower's receipt of such written confirmation), or (v) any Lender with respect to which a Lender Insolvency Event has occurred and is continuing with respect to such Lender or its Parent Company; that a Lender Insolvency event shall not be deemed to occur with respect to a Lender or its Parent Company solely as a result of the acquisition or maintenance of an ownership interest in such Lender or Parent Company by a governmental authority or instrumentality thereof. Any determination by the Agent that a Lender is a Defaulting Lender under any of clauses (i) through (v) above will be conclusive and binding absent manifest error, and such Lender will be deemed to be a Defaulting Lender (subject to Section 2.18(c)) upon notification of such determination by the Agent to the Borrower and the Lenders.
Defaulting Lender
provided
"" means, with respect to any Lender, the office of such Lender specified as its "Domestic Lending Office" opposite its name on Schedule I hereto or in the Assignment and Acceptance pursuant to which it became a Lender, or such other office of such Lender as such Lender may from time to time specify to the Borrower and the Agent.
Domestic Lending Office
"" means September 18, 2012, so long as the conditions precedent set forth in Section 3.01 have been satisfied or waived by the Banks and the Agent.
Effective Date
"" means any financial institution or entity engaged in the business of extending revolving credit approved in writing by the Borrower (so long as no Potential Event of Default or Event of Default then exists and is continuing) and the Agent as an Eligible Assignee for purposes of this Agreement; that (i) the Borrower shall be deemed to have approved an assignment unless it shall have objected
Eligible Assignee
provided
 
to such assignment within five Business Days after having notice thereof, and (ii) the Borrower's and the Agent's approval shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed; that no such approval shall be required in the case of an assignment by a Lender to an Affiliate of such Lender or to another Lender; notwithstanding the foregoing, "Eligible Assignee" shall not include the Borrower or any of the Borrower's Affiliates or Subsidiaries.
provided
further
provided
further
that
"" means any "employee benefit plan" as defined in Section 3(3) of ERISA which is or was maintained or contributed to by the Borrower, its Subsidiaries or any of its ERISA Affiliates.
Employee Benefit Plan
"" means any and all statutes, laws, regulations, ordinances, rules, judgments, orders, decrees, permits, concessions, grants, franchises, licenses, agreements or other governmental restrictions of any federal, state or local governmental authority within the United States or any State or territory thereof and which relate to the pollution or protection of the environment or the release of any hazardous materials into the environment.
Environmental Law
"" means Debt that is required to be converted at, or prior to, maturity into equity securities of the Borrower.
Equity-linked Debt
"" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from time to time, and the regulations promulgated and rulings issued thereunder.
ERISA
"" means any Person who for purposes of Title IV of ERISA is a member of the Borrower's controlled group, or under common control with the Borrower, within the meaning of Section 414 of the Code and the regulations promulgated and rulings issued thereunder. Any former ERISA Affiliate of the Borrower or its Subsidiaries shall continue to be considered an ERISA Affiliate within the meaning of this definition with respect to the period such entity was an ERISA Affiliate of the Borrower or its Subsidiaries and with respect to liabilities arising after such period for which the Borrower or its Subsidiaries could be liable under the Code or ERISA.
ERISA Affiliate
"" means (a) the occurrence of a reportable event, within the meaning of Section 4043 of ERISA, unless the 30-day notice requirement with respect thereto has been waived by the PBGC; (b) the provision by the administrator of any Pension Plan of a notice of intent to terminate such Pension Plan pursuant to Section 4041(a)(2) of ERISA (including any such notice with respect to a plan amendment referred to in Section 4041(e) of ERISA); (c) the cessation of operations at a facility in the circumstances described in Section 4062(e) of ERISA; (d) the withdrawal by the Borrower or an ERISA Affiliate from a Multiple Employer Plan during a plan year for which it was a substantial employer, as defined in Section 4001(a)(2) of ERISA; (e) the failure by the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate to make a payment to a Pension Plan required under Section 303(k) of ERISA, which Section imposes a lien for failure to make required payments; (f) the institution by the PBGC of proceedings to terminate a Pension Plan, pursuant to Section 4042 of ERISA, or the occurrence of any event or condition which, in the reasonable judgment of the Borrower, might constitute grounds
ERISA Event
 
under Section 4042 of ERISA for the termination of, or the appointment of a trustee to administer, a Pension Plan; (g) the withdrawal by the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate from any Multiemployer Plan or the termination of such Multiemployer Plan resulting in liability pursuant to Title IV of ERISA; or (h) a determination that any Pension Plan is, or is expected to be, in "at-risk" status (within the meaning of Section 303(i)(4)(A) of ERISA or Section 430(i)(4)(A) of the Code).
"" has the meaning assigned to that term in Regulation D of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, as in effect from time to time.
Eurocurrency Liabilities
"" means, with respect to any Lender, the office of such Lender specified as its "Eurodollar Lending Office" opposite its name on Schedule I hereto or in the Assignment and Acceptance pursuant to which it became a Lender (or, if no such office is specified, its Domestic Lending Office), or such other office of such Lender as such Lender may from time to time specify to the Borrower and the Agent.
Eurodollar Lending Office
"" means, for any Interest Period for each Eurodollar Rate Advance comprising part of the same Borrowing, an interest rate per annum equal to (a) the rate determined by the Agent to be the offered rate that appears on the page of the Reuters screen that displays an average British Bankers Association Interest Settlement Rate for deposits in U.S. dollars (for delivery on the first day of such Interest Period) with a term equivalent to such Interest Period, determined as of approximately 11:00 a.m. (London time) on the date two Business Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period; (b) in the event the rate referenced in the preceding clause (a) does not appear on such page or service or such page or service shall cease to be available, the rate per annum equal to the rate determined by the Agent to be the offered rate on such other page or other service that displays an average British Bankers Association Interest Settlement Rate for deposits in U.S. dollars (for delivery on the first day of such Interest Period) with a term equivalent to such Interest Period, determined as of approximately 11:00 a.m. (London time) on the date two Business Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period, or (c) in the event the rates referenced in the preceding clauses (a) and (b) are not available, the rate per annum determined by the Agent as the rate of interest (rounded upward to the next 1/100th of 1%) at which deposits in U.S. dollars for delivery on the first day of such Interest Period in same day funds in the approximate amount of the Eurodollar Rate Advance being made, continued or converted by BTMU and with a term equivalent to such Interest Period would be offered by BTMU to major banks in the London interbank market at their request at approximately 11:00 a.m. (London time) on the date two Business Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period.
Eurodollar Rate
"" means an Advance which bears interest as provided in Section 2.07(b).
Eurodollar Rate Advance
"" of any Lender for any Interest Period for any Eurodollar Rate Advance means the reserve percentage applicable during such Interest Period (or if more than one such percentage shall be so applicable, the daily average of such percentages for those days in such Interest Period during which any such percentage shall be so applicable) under regulations issued from time to time by the
Eurodollar Rate Reserve Percentage
 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (or any successor) for determining the maximum reserve requirements (including, without limitation, any emergency, supplemental or other marginal reserve requirement) for such Lender with respect to liabilities or assets consisting of or including Eurocurrency Liabilities having a term equal to such Interest Period.
"" has the meaning specified in Section 6.01.
Events of Default
"" means, collectively, the Annual Reports of the Borrower on Form 10-K, from time to time, and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, from time to time, and Reports on Form 8-K of the Borrower filed with or furnished to the SEC from time to time.
Exchange Act Report
"" has the meaning specified in Section 2.12.
Excluded Taxes
"" means Sections 1471 though 1474 of the Code, as of the date hereof, and any Treasury regulations promulgated with respect thereto and official interpretations thereof.
FATCA
"" means, for any period, a fluctuating interest rate per annum equal for each day during such period to the weighted average of the rates on overnight Federal funds transactions with members of the Federal Reserve System arranged by Federal funds brokers, as published for such day (or, if such day is not a Business Day, for the next preceding Business Day) by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, or, if such rate is not so published for any day which is a Business Day, the average of the quotations for such day on such transactions received by the Agent from three Federal funds brokers of recognized standing selected by it.
Federal Funds Rate
"" means generally accepted accounting principles set forth in the opinions and pronouncements of the Accounting Principles Board of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and statements and pronouncements of the Financial Accounting Standards Board or in such other statements by such other entity as may be approved by a significant segment of the accounting profession, which are applicable to the circumstances as of the date of determination.
GAAP
"" has the meaning specified in Section 2.19.
Granting Lender
"" has the meaning specified in Section 2.12.
Indemnified Taxes
"" has the meaning specified in Section 2.16(c).
Increase Effective Date
"" means, with respect to any Pension Plan, the amount, if any, of its unfunded benefit liabilities, as defined in Section 4001(a)(18) of ERISA.
Insufficiency
"" means, for each Eurodollar Rate Advance comprising part of the same Borrowing, the period commencing on the date of such Eurodollar Rate Advance, or on the date of continuation of such Advance as a Eurodollar Rate Advance upon expiration of successive Interest Periods applicable thereto, or on the date of Conversion
Interest Period
 
of a Base Rate Advance into a Eurodollar Rate Advance, and ending on the last day of the period selected by the Borrower pursuant to the provisions hereof. The duration of each such Interest Period shall be one, two, three or six months, as the Borrower may select in the Notice of Borrowing or the Notice of Conversion/Continuation for such Advance; , , that:
provided
however
(a) the Borrower may not select any Interest Period which ends after the Maturity Date;
(b) Interest Periods commencing on the same date for Advances comprising part of the same Borrowing shall be of the same duration; and
(c) whenever the last day of any Interest Period would otherwise occur on a day other than a Business Day, the last day of such Interest Period shall be extended to occur on the next succeeding Business Day, , that if such extension would cause the last day of such Interest Period to occur in the next following calendar month, the last day of such Interest Period shall occur on the next preceding Business Day.
provided
"" means any interest rate swap agreement, interest rate cap agreement, interest rate collar agreement or other similar agreement or arrangement to which the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries is a party.
Interest Rate Agreement
"" means that (i) a Lender or its Parent Company is insolvent, or is generally unable to pay its debts as they become due, or admits in writing its inability to pay its debts as they become due, or makes a general assignment for the benefit of its creditors, or (ii) such Lender or its Parent Company is the subject of a bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, liquidation or similar proceeding, or a receiver, trustee, conservator, intervenor or sequestrator or the like has been appointed for such Lender or its Parent Company, or such Lender or its Parent Company has taken any action in furtherance of or indicating its consent to or acquiescence in any such proceeding or appointment.
Lender Insolvency Event
"" means the Banks listed on Schedule II hereof and each Eligible Assignee that shall become a party hereto pursuant to Section 8.07.
Lenders
"" means Level 1, Level 2, Level 3, Level 4 or Level 5, as the case may be.
Level
"" means that, as of any date of determination, the applicable Rating is equal to or better than A- (in the case of a Rating from S&P) or A3 (in the case of a Rating from Moody's), as applicable, as of such date of determination.
Level 1
"" means that, as of any date of determination, the applicable Rating is equal to BBB+ (in the case of a Rating from S&P) or Baa1 (in the case of a Rating from Moody's), as applicable, as of such date of determination.
Level 2
 
"" means that, as of any date of determination, the applicable Rating is equal to BBB (in the case of a Rating from S&P) or Baa2 (in the case of a Rating from Moody's), as applicable, as of such date of determination.
Level 3
"" means that, as of any date of determination, the applicable Rating is equal to BBB- (in the case of a Rating from S&P) or Baa3 (in the case of a Rating from Moody's), as applicable, as of such date of determination.
Level 4
"" means that, as of any date of determination, the applicable Rating is equal to or below BB+ (in the case of a Rating from S&P) or, Ba1 (in the case of a Rating from Moody's), as applicable, as of such date of determination, or the only Rating is a private rating and the Borrower will not authorize the applicable rating agency to make such Rating available to the Agent and the Lenders.
Level 5
"" means any lien, mortgage, pledge, security interest, charge or encumbrance of any kind (including any interest of a vendor or lessor under any conditional sale or other title retention agreement and any lease in the nature thereof).
Lien
"" means senior, unsecured, non-credit enhanced, long-term debt securities of the Borrower.
Long-Term Debt
"" means at any time Lenders holding greater than 50% of the then aggregate unpaid principal amount of the Advances held by all Lenders, or, if no such principal amount is then outstanding, Lenders having greater than 50% of the all of the Commitments ( that, for purposes hereof, neither the Borrower, nor any of its Affiliates, if a Lender, nor any Defaulting Lender, shall be included in (a) the Lenders holding such amount of the Advances or having such amount of the Commitments or (b) determining the aggregate unpaid principal amount of the Advances or the total Commitments).
Majority Lenders
provided
"" means September 18, 2016 (or if such date is not a Business Day, the immediately preceding Business Day).
Maturity Date
"" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc. and any successor thereto.
Moody's
"" means a "multiemployer plan" as defined in Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA to which the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate of the Borrower is making, or is obligated to make, contributions or has within any of the preceding six plan years been obligated to make or accrue contributions.
Multiemployer Plan
"" means a single employer plan, as defined in Section 4001(a)(15) of ERISA, which (a) is maintained for employees of the Borrower or an ERISA Affiliate and at least one Person other than the Borrower and its ERISA Affiliates or (b) was so maintained and in respect of which the Borrower or an ERISA Affiliate could have liability under Section 4063, 4064 or 4069 of ERISA in the event such plan has been or were to be terminated.
Multiple Employer Plan
 
"" means any Lender that does not approve any consent, waiver or amendment that (i) requires the approval of all affected Lenders in accordance with the terms of Section 8.01 and (ii) has been approved by the Majority Lenders.
Non-Consenting Lender
"" means, at any time, a Lender that is not a Defaulting Lender.
Non-Defaulting Lender
"" has the meaning specified in Section 2.02(a).
Notice of Borrowing
"" has the meaning specified in Section 2.09.
Notice of Conversion/Continuation
"" means, with respect to a Lender, the bank holding company (as defined in Federal Reserve Board Regulation Y), if any, of such Lender, or if such Lender does not have a bank holding company, then any corporation, association, partnership or other business entity owning, beneficially or of record, directly or indirectly, a majority of the shares of such Lender.
Parent Company
"" means the U.S. Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation.
PBGC
"" means the Pension Protection Act of 2006, as amended.
Pension Act
"" means a Single Employer Plan or a Multiple Employer Plan or both.
Pension Plan
"" means an individual, partnership, corporation, business trust, joint stock company, trust, unincorporated association, joint venture or other entity, or a government or any political subdivision or agency thereof.
Person
"" means a condition or event which, after notice or lapse of time or both, would constitute an Event of Default if that condition or event were not cured or removed within any applicable grace or cure period.
Potential Event of Default
"" means the rate of interest quoted in The Wall Street Journal, Money Rates Section as the prime rate, as in effect from time to time. If the Wall Street Journal ceases publication of such rate, then the Prime Rate means such rate listed in a publication or service and selected by BTMU in its reasonable judgment as most nearly approximates the foregoing (which rate is not intended to be the lowest rate of interest charged by BTMU in connection with extensions of credit to debtors).
Prime Rate
"" means as of any date, the public rating that has been most recently announced by any of S&P or Moody's, as the case may be, with respect to the Long-Term Debt, or if any such rating agency shall have issued more than one such public rating, the lowest such public rating issued by such rating agency.
Rating
"" has the meaning specified in Section 8.07(c).
Register
 
"" means, with respect to any Person, such Person's Affiliates and the partners, directors, officers, employees, agents and advisors of such Person and of such Person's Affiliates.
Related Parties
"" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Group and any successor thereto.
S&P
"" means the Securities and Exchange Commission and any successor agency.
SEC
"" means, at any time, any Subsidiary of the Borrower which accounts for more than 5% of consolidated total assets or 5% of consolidated revenue of the Borrower determined in accordance with GAAP.
Significant Subsidiary
"" means a single employer plan, as defined in Section 4001(a)(15) of ERISA, which (a) is maintained for employees of the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate and no Person other than the Borrower and its ERISA Affiliates or (b) was so maintained and in respect of which the Borrower or an ERISA Affiliate could have liability under Section 4062 or 4069 of ERISA in the event such plan has been or were to be terminated.
Single Employer Plan
"" has the meaning specified in Section 2.19.
SPC
"" of any Person means any corporation, association, partnership or other business entity of which at least 50% of the total voting power of shares of stock or other securities entitled to vote in the election of directors, managers or trustees thereof is at the time owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by such Person or one or more of the other Subsidiaries of that Person or a combination thereof. Unless otherwise specified, all references herein to a "Subsidiary" or to "Subsidiaries" shall refer to a Subsidiary or Subsidiaries of the Borrower.
Subsidiary
"" has the meaning specified in Section 2.12.
Taxes
"" means, with reference to an Advance, a Base Rate Advance or a Eurodollar Rate Advance.
Type
"" has the meaning given such term under Part I of Subtitle E of Title IV of ERISA.
Withdrawal Liability
. In this Agreement in the computation of periods of time from a specified date to a later specified date, the word "from" means "from and including" and the words "to" and "until" each means "to but excluding".
Section 1.02
Computation of Time Periods
. All accounting terms not specifically defined herein shall be construed in accordance with GAAP consistent with those applied in the preparation of the financial statements referred to in Section 4.01(e). All computations determining compliance with financial covenants or terms, including definitions used therein, shall be prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in effect at the time of the preparation of, and in conformity with those used to prepare, the historical financial
Section 1.03
Accounting Terms
 
statements delivered to the Lenders pursuant to Section 4.01(e). If at any time the computations for determining compliance with financial covenants or provisions relating thereto utilize generally accepted accounting principles different than those then being utilized in the financial statements being delivered to the Lenders, such financial statements shall be accompanied by a reconciliation statement. If at any time any change in GAAP or the required adoption by the Borrower of international financial reporting standards would affect the computation of any financial ratio or requirement set forth in this Agreement, and either the Borrower or the Majority Lenders shall so request, the Agent, the Lenders and the Borrower shall negotiate in good faith to amend such ratio or requirement to preserve the original intent thereof in light of such change in GAAP or the adoption of such international financial reporting standards (subject to the approval of the Majority Lenders); provided that, until so amended, (i) such ratio or requirement shall continue to be computed in accordance with GAAP prior to such change therein or the adoption of such international financial reporting standards and (ii) the Borrower shall provide to the Agent and the Lenders financial statements and other documents required under this Agreement or as reasonably requested hereunder setting forth a reconciliation between calculations of such ratio or requirement made before and after giving effect to such change in GAAP or the adoption of such international financial reporting standards.
Each Lender severally agrees, on the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth, to make Advances to the Borrower from time to time on any Business Day during the period from the Effective Date until the Availability Termination Date if such Lender has any unused Commitment on any such date, and, thereafter, on each Increase Effective Date and, in respect of any Increase Effective Date, within 3 Business Days after such Increase Effective Date, in each case, in an aggregate amount not to exceed at any time outstanding such Lender's Commitment at such time. Each Borrowing shall be in an aggregate amount not less than $5,000,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof and shall consist of Advances of the same Type made on the same day to the Borrower by the Lenders ratably according to their respective unused Commitments. Amounts borrowed under this Section 2.01 and prepaid or repaid may not be reborrowed.
.
Section 2.01
The Advances
.
Section 2.02
Making the Advances
(a) Each Borrowing shall be made on notice, given not later than (x) 10:00 A.M. (New York City time) on the date of a proposed Borrowing consisting of Base Rate Advances and (y) 12:00 noon (New York City time) on the third Business Day prior to the date of a proposed Borrowing consisting of Eurodollar Rate Advances, in each case by the Borrower to the Agent, which shall give to each Lender prompt notice thereof by telecopier or e-mail. Each such notice of a Borrowing (a "") shall be by e-mail or telephone, confirmed immediately in writing by hand delivery or e-mail, in substantially the form of Exhibit A hereto, specifying therein the requested (i) date of such Borrowing, (ii) Type of Advances comprising such Borrowing, (iii) aggregate amount of such Borrowing, and (iv) in the case of a Borrowing comprised of Eurodollar Rate Advances, the initial Interest Period for each such Advance. The Borrower may,
Notice of Borrowing
 
subject to the conditions herein provided, borrow more than one Borrowing on any Business Day. Each Lender shall, before 1:00 P.M. (New York City time) in the case of a Borrowing consisting of Base Rate Advances and before 11:00 A.M. (New York City time) in the case of a Borrowing consisting of Eurodollar Rate Advances, in each case on the requested date of such Borrowing, make available for the account of its Applicable Lending Office to the Agent at its address referred to in Section 8.02, in same day funds, such Lender's ratable portion of such Borrowing. Upon fulfillment of the applicable conditions set forth in Section 3.02, the Agent will make such funds available to the Borrower in like funds as received by the Agent either by (i) crediting the account of the Borrower on the books of the Agent with the amount of such funds or (ii) wire transfer of such funds, in each case in accordance with instructions provided to (and reasonably acceptable to) the Agent by the Borrower.
(b) Anything in subsection (a) above to the contrary notwithstanding,
(i) the Borrower may not select Eurodollar Rate Advances for any Borrowing or with respect to the Conversion or continuance of any Borrowing if the aggregate amount of such Borrowing or such Conversion or continuance is less than $5,000,000;
(ii) there shall be no more than five Interest Periods relating to Eurodollar Rate Advances outstanding at any time;
(iii) if any Lender shall notify the Agent that the introduction of or any change in or in the interpretation of any law or regulation makes it unlawful, or that any central bank or other governmental authority asserts that it is unlawful, for such Lender or its Eurodollar Lending Office to perform its obligations hereunder to make Eurodollar Rate Advances or to fund or maintain Eurodollar Rate Advances hereunder, the Commitment of such Lender to make Eurodollar Rate Advances or to Convert all or any portion of Base Rate Advances shall forthwith be suspended until the Agent shall notify the Borrower that such Lender has determined that the circumstances causing such suspension no longer exist and such Lender's then outstanding Eurodollar Rate Advances, if any, shall be Base Rate Advances; to the extent that such affected Eurodollar Rate Advances become Base Rate Advances, all payments of principal that would have been otherwise applied to such Eurodollar Rate Advances shall be applied instead to such Lender's Base Rate Advances; that if Majority Lenders are subject to the same illegality or assertion of illegality, then the right of the Borrower to select Eurodollar Rate Advances for such Borrowing or any subsequent Borrowing or to Convert all or any portion of Base Rate Advances shall forthwith be suspended until the Agent shall notify the Borrower that the circumstances causing such suspension no longer exist, and each Advance comprising such Borrowing shall be a Base Rate Advance; provided further that if, at any time after a Lender gives notice under this Section 2.02(b)(iii), such Lender determines that it may lawfully make Eurodollar Rate Advances, such Lender shall promptly give notice of that determination to the Borrower and the Agent, and the Agent shall promptly transmit the notice to each other Lender. The Borrower's right to request, and such Lender's obligation, if any, to make Eurodollar Rate Advances shall thereupon be restored; and
provided
 
(iv) if the Majority Lenders shall notify the Agent that (A) the Eurodollar Rate for Eurodollar Rate Advances comprising such Borrowing will not adequately reflect the cost to such Majority Lenders of making, funding or maintaining their respective Eurodollar Rate Advances for such Borrowing or (B) dollar deposits are not being offered to banks in the London interbank market for the applicable amount and Interest Period of such Borrowing or (C) reasonable and adequate means do not exist for ascertaining the Eurodollar Rate for such Interest Period, the right of the Borrower to select Eurodollar Rate Advances for such Borrowing or any subsequent Borrowing shall be suspended until the Agent shall notify the Borrower and the Lenders that the circumstances causing such suspension no longer exist, and each Advance comprising such Borrowing shall be made as a Base Rate Advance.
(c) Each Notice of Borrowing shall be irrevocable and binding on the Borrower. In the case of any Borrowing which the related Notice of Borrowing specifies is to be comprised of Eurodollar Rate Advances, the Borrower shall indemnify each Lender against any loss, cost or expense incurred by such Lender by reason of the liquidation or reemployment of deposits or other funds acquired by such Lender to fund the Advance to be made by such Lender as part of such Borrowing or by reason of the termination of hedging or other similar arrangements, in each case when such Advance is not made on such date, including without limitation, as a result of any failure to fulfill on or before the date specified in such Notice of Borrowing for such Borrowing the applicable conditions set forth in Article III. The Lender making demand for such indemnification shall deliver to the Borrower concurrently with such demand a written statement as to such losses, expenses and liabilities, and this statement shall be conclusive as to the amount of compensation due to such Lender, absent manifest error.
(d) Unless the Agent shall have received notice from a Lender prior to any Borrowing that such Lender will not make available to the Agent such Lender's ratable portion of such Borrowing, the Agent may assume that such Lender has made such portion available to the Agent on the date of such Borrowing in accordance with subsection (a) of this Section 2.02 and the Agent may, in reliance upon such assumption, make available to the Borrower on such date a corresponding amount. If and to the extent that such Lender shall not have so made such ratable portion available to the Agent, such Lender and the Borrower severally agrees to repay to the Agent forthwith on demand such corresponding amount together with interest thereon, for each day from the date such amount is made available to the Borrower until the date such amount is repaid to the Agent, at (i) in the case of the Borrower, the interest rate applicable at the time to Advances comprising such Borrowing and (ii) in the case of such Lender, the Federal Funds Rate. If such Lender shall repay to the Agent such corresponding amount, such amount so repaid shall constitute such Lender's Advance as part of such Borrowing for purposes of this Agreement.
(e) The failure of any Lender to make the Advance to be made by it as part of any Borrowing shall not relieve any other Lender of its obligation, if any, hereunder to make its Advance on the date of such Borrowing, but no Lender shall be responsible for the failure of any other Lender to make the Advance to be made by such other Lender on the date of any Borrowing.
 
.
Section 2.03
[Reserved]
.
Section 2.04
Fees
(a) . The Borrower agrees to pay to the Agent for the account of each Lender a commitment fee on the amount of such Lender's unused Commitment from the Effective Date, in the case of each Bank, and, to the extent not paid by the Borrower to any other Lender in respect of the same Commitment for the same period, from the effective date specified in the Assignment and Acceptance pursuant to which a successor to any Bank or other Lender becomes a Lender hereunder, in each case until the Availability Termination Date, payable in arrears on the last day of each March, June, September and December, commencing September 30, 2012, and on the Availability Termination Date, in an amount equal to the product of (i) the average daily amount of such Lender's unused Commitment in effect during the period for which such payment that is to be made times (ii) 0.250% per annum, that no Defaulting Lender shall be entitled to receive any commitment fee in respect of its unused Commitment for any period during which that Lender is a Defaulting Lender (and the Borrower shall not be required to pay such fee that otherwise would have been required to have been paid to that Defaulting Lender).
Commitment Fees
provided
(b) . The Borrower agrees to pay to the Agent the fees payable pursuant to the fee letter dated as of September 6, 2012 between the Borrower and BTMU, in the amounts and at the times specified in such letter.
Agents' Fees
.
Section 2.05
Optional Reduction of the Commitments
The Borrower shall have the right, upon at least three Business Days' notice to the Agent by the Borrower, such notice to be received by the Agent not later than 12:00 noon (New York City time), to terminate in whole or permanently reduce ratably in part the unused portions of the respective Commitments of the Lenders, that the aggregate amount of the Commitments of the Lenders shall not be reduced to an amount which is less than the aggregate principal amount of the Advances then outstanding, and , , that each partial reduction shall be in the aggregate amount of $5,000,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof.
provided
provided
further
.
Section 2.06
Repayment and Prepayment of Advances
(a) . The Borrower shall repay the aggregate principal amount of Advances outstanding on the following dates in the respective amounts set opposite such dates:
Scheduled Repayments
 
 
(b) . The Borrower shall repay the outstanding principal amount of each Lender's Advances on the Maturity Date.
Mandatory Repayment on Maturity Date
(c) . The Borrower shall not have any right to prepay any principal amount of any Advances other than as provided in this subsection (c). The Borrower may, on any Business Day, upon notice to the Agent not later than 9:00 A.M. (New York City time) on such Business Day, in the case of Base Rate Advances, and at least three Business Days' notice to the Agent, in the case of Eurodollar Rate Advances, in each case stating the proposed date and aggregate principal amount of the prepayment, and if such notice is given the Borrower shall prepay such stated amount; , , that (i) each partial prepayment shall be in an aggregate principal amount not less than $5,000,000 and integral multiples of $1,000,000 in excess thereof and (ii) in the case of any such prepayment of any Eurodollar Rate Advance, the Borrower shall pay all accrued interest to the date of such prepayment on the portion of such Eurodollar Rate Advance being prepaid and shall be obligated to reimburse the Lenders in respect thereof pursuant to Section 8.04(b).
Voluntary Prepayments of Borrowings
provided
however
. The Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount of each Advance outstanding from time to time from the date of such Advance until such principal amount shall be paid in full, at the following rates per annum:
Section 2.07
Interest on Advances
(a) . If such Advance is a Base Rate Advance, a rate per annum equal at all times to the sum of the Base Rate in effect from time to time plus the Applicable Margin, payable in arrears on the last day of each March, June, September and December during the term of this Agreement, commencing December 31, 2012, and on the Maturity Date; that the Agent may, upon the request of the Majority Lenders, require that the Borrower pay interest ("") on any amount of principal, interest, fees and other amounts payable under this Agreement (including, without limitation, the principal amount of Base Rate Advances, but excluding the principal amount of Eurodollar Rate Advances) which is not paid when due (whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise) from the date on which such amount is due until such amount is paid in full, payable on demand, at a rate per annum equal at all times to 2% per annum above the Base Rate in effect from time to time; , , that following the making of the request or the granting of the consent specified by Section 6.01 to authorize the Agent to declare the Advances due and payable pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.01, and upon acceleration of the Advances, Base Default Interest shall accrue and be payable hereunder whether or not previously required by the Majority Lenders.
Base Rate Advances
provided
Base Default Interest
provided
however
 
(b) . If such Advance is a Eurodollar Rate Advance, a rate per annum equal at all times during the Interest Period for such Advance to the sum of the Eurodollar Rate for such Interest Period plus the Applicable Margin, payable in arrears on the last day of such Interest Period and, if such Interest Period has a duration of more than three months, on the day which occurs during such Interest Period three months from the first day of such Interest Period; that the Agent may, upon the request of the Majority Lenders, require that the Borrower pay interest ("") on any principal amount of any Eurodollar Rate Advance which is not paid when due (whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise) from the date on which such amount is due until such amount is paid in full, payable on demand, at a rate per annum equal at all times to (A) during the Interest Period applicable to such Eurodollar Rate Advance, the greater of (x) 2% per annum above the Base Rate in effect from time to time and (y) 2% per annum above the rate per annum required to be paid on such amount immediately prior to the date on which such amount became due and (B) after the expiration of such Interest Period, 2% per annum above the Base Rate in effect from time to time; , , that following the making of the request or the granting of the consent specified by Section 6.01 to authorize the Agent to declare the Advances due and payable pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.01, and upon acceleration of the Advances, Eurodollar Default Interest shall accrue and be payable hereunder whether or not previously required by the Majority Lenders.
Eurodollar Rate Advances
provided
Eurodollar Default Interest
provided
however
(c) . The Borrower shall pay to each Lender, as long as such Lender shall be required to maintain reserves with respect to liabilities or assets consisting of or including Eurocurrency funds or deposits (currently known as "Eurocurrency liabilities"), additional interest on the unpaid principal amount of each Eurodollar Rate Advance equal to the actual costs of such reserves allocated to such Advance by such Lender (as determined by such Lender in good faith, which determination shall be conclusive), which shall be due and payable on each date on which interest is payable on such Advance, the Borrower shall have received at least 10 days' prior notice (with a copy to the Agent) of such additional interest from such Lender. If a Lender fails to give notice 10 days prior to the relevant Interest Payment Date, such additional interest shall be due and payable 10 days from receipt of such notice.
Reserves on Eurodollar Rate Advances
provided
. The Agent shall give prompt notice to the Borrower and the Lenders of the applicable interest rate determined by the Agent for purposes of Section 2.07(a) or 2.07(b).
Section 2.08
Interest Rate Determination
.
Section 2.09
Voluntary Conversion or Continuation of Advances
(a) The Borrower may on any Business Day, upon notice given to the Agent not later than 12:00 noon (New York City time) on the third Business Day prior to the date of the proposed Conversion or continuance (a "") and subject to the provisions of Section 2.02(b), (i) Convert Advances of one Type comprising the same Borrowing into Advances of another Type and (ii) upon the expiration of any Interest Period applicable to Advances which are Eurodollar Rate Advances made to the Borrower, continue all (or, subject to Section 2.02(b), any portion
Notice of Conversion/Continuation
 
of) such Advances as Eurodollar Rate Advances and the succeeding Interest Period(s) of such continued Advances shall commence on the last day of the Interest Period of the Advances to be continued; , , that any Conversion of any Eurodollar Rate Advances into Base Rate Advances shall be made on, and only on, the last day of an Interest Period for such Eurodollar Rate Advances. Each such Notice of Conversion/Continuation shall, within the restrictions specified above, specify (A) the date of such continuation or Conversion, (B) the Advances (or, subject to Section 2.02(b), any portion thereof) to be continued or Converted, (C) if such continuation is of, or such Conversion is into, Eurodollar Rate Advances, the duration of the Interest Period for each such Advance and (D) that no Potential Event of Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing. The Borrower may elect different options with respect to different portions of the affected Borrowing, in which case each such portion shall be allocated ratably among the Lenders holding the Advances comprising such Borrowing, and the Advances comprising each such portion shall be considered a separate Borrowing.
provided
however
(b) If upon the expiration of the then existing Interest Period applicable to any Advance which is a Eurodollar Rate Advance made to the Borrower, the Borrower shall not have delivered a Notice of Conversion/Continuation in accordance with this Section 2.09, then such Advance shall upon such expiration automatically be Converted to a Base Rate Advance.
(c) After the occurrence of and during the continuance of a Potential Event of Default or an Event of Default, the Borrower may not elect to have an Advance be made or continued as, or Converted into, a Eurodollar Rate Advance after the expiration of any Interest Rate then in effect for that Advance.
.
Section 2.10
Increased Costs
(a) If, due to either (i) the introduction of or any change (other than any change by way of imposition or increase of reserve requirements in the case of Eurodollar Rate Advances included in the Eurodollar Rate Reserve Percentage) in or in the interpretation of any law or regulation or (ii) the compliance with any guideline or request from any central bank or other governmental authority (whether or not having the force of law), there shall be any increase in the cost (other than with respect to Taxes) to any Lender of agreeing to make or making, funding or maintaining Eurodollar Rate Advances made to the Borrower, then the Borrower shall from time to time, upon demand by such Lender (with a copy of such demand to the Agent), pay to the Agent for the account of such Lender additional amounts sufficient to compensate such Lender for such increased cost. A reasonably detailed certificate as to the amount and manner of calculation of such increased cost, submitted to the Borrower and the Agent by such Lender, shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes, absent manifest error.
(b) If any Lender determines that compliance with any law or regulation or any guideline or request from any central bank or other governmental authority (whether or not having the force of law) affects or would affect the amount of capital or liquidity required or expected to be maintained by such Lender or any corporation controlling such
 
Lender and that the amount of such capital or liquidity is increased by or based upon the existence of such Lender's commitment to lend hereunder and other commitments of this type, then, upon demand by such Lender (with a copy of such demand to the Agent), the Borrower shall immediately pay to the Agent for the account of such Lender, from time to time as specified by such Lender, additional amounts sufficient to compensate such Lender or such corporation in the light of such circumstances, to the extent that such Lender reasonably determines such increase in capital or liquidity to be allocable to the existence of such Lender's commitment to lend hereunder. A reasonably detailed certificate as to such amounts and the manner of calculation thereof submitted to the Borrower and the Agent by such Lender shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes, absent manifest error. For the avoidance of doubt, this Section 2.10(b) shall apply to all requests, rules, guidelines or directives concerning capital adequacy issued in connection with the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, regardless of the date adopted, issued, promulgated or implemented and this Section 2.10(b) shall apply to all requests, rules, guidelines or directives promulgated by the Bank for International Settlements, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (or any successor or similar authority) or the United States regulatory authorities, in each case pursuant to Basel III, regardless of the date enacted, adopted or issued or implemented.
(c) If a Lender shall change its Applicable Lending Office, such Lender shall not be entitled to receive any greater payment under Sections 2.10 and 2.12 than the amount such Lender would have been entitled to receive if it had not changed its Applicable Lending Office, unless such change was made at the request of the Borrower or at a time when the circumstances giving rise to such greater payment did not exist.
(d) If any Lender requests compensation under this Section 2.10, or if the Borrower is required to pay additional amounts with respect to a Lender pursuant to Section 2.12(a), such Lender shall use reasonable efforts to designate another lending office for funding or booking its Advances hereunder or to assign its rights and obligations hereunder to another of its offices, branches or Affiliates if, in the judgment of such Lender, such designation or assignment (i) would eliminate or reduce amounts payable pursuant to Section 2.10 or Section 2.12(a), as the case may be, in the future and (ii) would not subject such Lender to any unreimbursed cost or expense and would not otherwise be disadvantageous to such Lender.
.
Section 2.11
Payments and Computations
(a) The Borrower shall make each payment hereunder not later than 1:00 P.M. (New York City time) on the day when due in U.S. dollars to the Agent at its address referred to in Section 8.02 in same day funds, without setoff, deduction or counterclaim. Subject to the immediately succeeding sentence, the Agent will promptly thereafter cause to be distributed like funds relating to the payment of principal or interest or commitment fees ratably (other than amounts payable pursuant to Section 2.10 or 2.12) to the Lenders for the account of their respective Applicable Lending Offices, and like funds relating to the payment of any other amount payable to any Lender to such Lender for the account of its Applicable Lending Office, in each case to be applied in accordance with the terms of this Agreement. Upon receipt of principal or interest paid after an Event of Default and
 
an acceleration or a deemed acceleration of amounts due hereunder, the Agent will promptly thereafter cause to be distributed like funds relating to the payment of principal or interest ratably in accordance with each Lender's outstanding Advances (other than amounts payable pursuant to Section 2.10 or 2.12) to the Lenders for the account of their respective Applicable Lending Offices. Upon its acceptance of an Assignment and Acceptance and recording of the information contained therein in the Register pursuant to Section 8.07(c), from and after the effective date specified in such Assignment and Acceptance, the Agent shall make all payments hereunder in respect of the interest assigned thereby to the Lender assignee thereunder, and the parties to such Assignment and Acceptance shall make all appropriate adjustments in such payments for periods prior to such effective date directly between themselves.
(b) All computations of interest based on the Base Rate shall be made by the Agent on the basis of a year of 365 or 366 days, as the case may be, and all computations of interest based on the Eurodollar Rate or the Federal Funds Rate and of commitment fees shall be made by the Agent on the basis of a year of 360 days, in each case for the actual number of days (including the first day but excluding the last day) occurring in the period for which such interest or such fees are payable. Each determination by the Agent of an interest rate hereunder shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes, absent manifest error.
(c) Whenever any payment hereunder shall be stated to be due on a day other than a Business Day, such payment shall be made on the next succeeding Business Day, and such extension of time shall in such case be included in the computation of payment of interest or commitment fee, as the case may be; , , if such extension would cause payment of interest on or principal of Eurodollar Rate Advances to be made in the next following calendar month, such payment shall be made on the next preceding Business Day.
provided
however
(d) Unless the Agent shall have received notice from the Borrower prior to the date on which any payment is due to the Lenders hereunder that the Borrower will not make such payment in full, the Agent may assume that the Borrower has made such payment in full to the Agent on such date and the Agent may, in reliance upon such assumption, cause to be distributed to each Lender on such due date an amount equal to the amount then due such Lender. If and to the extent that the Borrower shall not have so made such payment in full to the Agent, each Lender shall repay to the Agent forthwith on demand such amount distributed to such Lender together with interest thereon, for each day from the date such amount is distributed to such Lender until the date such Lender repays such amount to the Agent, at the Federal Funds Rate.
.
Section 2.12
Taxes
(a) Any and all payments by the Borrower hereunder shall be made, in accordance with Section 2.11, free and clear of and without deduction for any and all present or future taxes, levies, imposts, deductions, charges or withholdings imposed by a governmental authority, and all interest, additions to tax and penalties with respect thereto (hereinafter referred to as ""), , in the case of each Lender, SPC
Taxes
excluding
 
and the Agent, (i) Taxes imposed on (or measured by) its income or gross margin, and franchise and branch profits or similar taxes imposed on it, by the jurisdiction under the laws of which such Lender, SPC or the Agent (as the case may be) is organized or any political subdivision thereof or in which its principal office is located, (ii) Taxes imposed on (or measured by) its income, and franchise and branch profits or similar taxes imposed on it, by the jurisdiction of such Lender's Applicable Lending Office or such SPC's lending office or any political subdivision thereof, (iii) Taxes imposed upon or measured by all or a part of the net income or gross margin of such Lender, SPC or the Agent, and branch profits or similar taxes imposed on such Lender, SPC or the Agent, by the United States or any political subdivision or taxing authority thereof or therein, (iv) United States income Taxes (including withholding taxes with respect to payments hereunder) payable with respect to payments hereunder under laws (including without limitation any statute, treaty, ruling, determination or regulation) in effect on the date hereof in the case of each Bank and on the effective date of the Assignment and Acceptance pursuant to which it became a Lender in the case of each other Lender and on the date that it funded its first Advance hereunder in the case of an SPC, or, in the case of any Lender or SPC, on the date such Lender or SPC designated a new lending office, except to the extent that such Lender or SPC (or its assignor, if any) was entitled, at the time of designation of an Applicable Lending Office (or assignment), to receive additional amounts from the Borrower with respect to such Taxes pursuant to this Section 2.12, and (v) any United States federal withholding tax to the extent imposed as a result of a failure to satisfy the applicable requirements of FATCA (that are necessary to avoid withholding) after December 31, 2012, or such later date on which the requirements become effective (all such non-excluded Taxes being hereafter referred to as ""; and all such excluded Taxes being hereinafter referred to as ""). Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, if the Borrower shall be required by law to deduct any Taxes from or in respect of any sum payable hereunder to any Lender, any SPC or the Agent, (i) unless such Taxes are Excluded Taxes, the sum payable shall be increased as may be necessary so that after making all required deductions (including deductions applicable to additional sums payable under this Section 2.12) such Lender, SPC or the Agent (as the case may be) receives an amount equal to the sum it would have received had no such deductions been made, (ii) the Borrower shall make such deductions and (iii) the Borrower shall pay the full amount deducted to the relevant taxation authority or other authority in accordance with applicable law.
Indemnified Taxes
Excluded Taxes
(b) In addition, the Borrower agrees to pay any present or future stamp or documentary taxes or any other excise or property taxes, charges or similar levies which arise from the execution, delivery or registration of, or otherwise with respect to, this Agreement (hereinafter referred to as "").
Other Taxes
(c) The Borrower will indemnify each Lender and the Agent for the full amount of Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes, in each case with respect to this Agreement or payments hereunder (including, without limitation, any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes imposed by any jurisdiction on amounts payable under this Section 2.12), and in each case paid by such Lender or the Agent (as the case may be) and any liability (including penalties, interest and reasonable expenses) arising therefrom or with respect thereto, whether or not such Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes were correctly or legally
 
asserted. This indemnification shall be made within 30 days from the date such Lender or the Agent (as the case may be) makes written demand therefor and provides the Borrower with a certificate setting forth, in reasonable detail (without disclosing any confidential information), the calculation of the amount of such payment or liability.
(d) Within 30 days after the date of any payment by the Borrower of Taxes pursuant to Section 2.12(a), 2.12(b) or 2.12(c), the Borrower will furnish to the Agent, at its address referred to in Section 8.02, the original or a certified copy of a receipt evidencing payment thereof, a copy of any return required by law or regulation to report such payment or other evidence of such payment reasonably satisfactory to the Agent.
(e) (i) Each Lender organized under the laws of a jurisdiction outside the United States, on or prior to the date of its execution and delivery of this Agreement in the case of each Bank and on the date of the Assignment and Acceptance pursuant to which it becomes a Lender in the case of each other Lender, and from time to time thereafter if requested in writing by the Borrower (but only so long as such Lender remains lawfully able to do so), shall provide the Borrower with either (A) two (2) duly completed and executed originals of Internal Revenue Service form W-8BEN or W-8ECI, as appropriate, or any successor form prescribed by the Internal Revenue Service, to establish that such Lender is not subject to, or is subject to a reduced rate of, United States withholding Tax with respect to any payments to such Lender of interest payable under this Agreement or (B) if such Lender claims the benefits of the exemption for portfolio interest under section 881(c) of the Code, (1) a certificate to the effect that such Lender is not (x) a "bank" within the meaning of section 881(c)(3)(A) of the Code, (y) a "10 percent shareholder" of the Borrower within the meaning of section 881(c)(3)(B) of the Code, or (z) a "controlled foreign corporation" described in section 881(c)(3)(C) of the Code and two (2) duly completed and executed originals of Internal Revenue Service Form W-8BEN.
(ii) If a payment made to a Lender would be subject to United States federal withholding tax imposed by FATCA if such Lender were to fail to comply with the applicable reporting requirements of FATCA (including those contained in Section 1471(b) or 1472(b) of the Code, as applicable), such Lender shall deliver to the Borrower, at the time or times prescribed by law and at such time or times reasonably requested in writing by the Borrower, such documentation prescribed by applicable law (including as prescribed by Section 1471(b)(3)(C)(i) of the Code) and such additional documentation reasonably requested in writing by the Borrower as may be necessary for the Borrower to comply with its obligations under FATCA, to determine that such Lender has complied with such Lender's obligations under FATCA or to determine the amount to deduct and withhold from such payment.
(iii) In addition, each Lender organized under the laws of a jurisdiction outside the United States, to the extent it does not act or ceases to act for its own account with respect to any portion of any sums paid or payable to such Lender under this Agreement (for example, in the case of a typical participation by such Lender), on or prior to the date of its execution and delivery of this Agreement in
 
the case of each Bank and on the date of the Assignment and Acceptance pursuant to which it becomes a Lender in the case of each other Lender, on or prior to such later date when such Lender ceases to act for its own account with respect to any portion of any such sums paid or payable, and from time to time thereafter if requested in writing by the Borrower (but only so long as such Lender remains lawfully able to do so), shall provide the Borrower with two (2) duly completed and executed originals of Internal Revenue Service form W-8IMY, or any successor form prescribed by the Internal Revenue Service, together with any information, if any, such Lender chooses to transmit with such form, and any other certificate or statement of exemption required under the Code or the regulations thereunder, to establish that such Lender is not acting for its own account with respect to a portion of any such sums payable to such Lender.
(iv) Each Lender that is a U.S. person, on or prior to the date of its execution and delivery of this Agreement in the case of each Bank and on the date of the Assignment and Acceptance pursuant to which it becomes a Lender in the case of each other Lender, and from time to time thereafter if requested in writing by the Borrower, shall provide the Borrower with two (2) duly completed and executed originals of Internal Revenue Service Form W-9, certifying that such Lender is exempt from U.S. backup withholding tax.
(f) For any period during which any Tax is required to be deducted or withheld (i) on the basis of the information, certificates or statements of exemption a Lender chooses to transmit with an Internal Revenue Service Form W-8IMY pursuant to subsection 2.12(e)(iii), or (ii) due solely to a Lender's failure to provide the Borrower with the appropriate form described in Section 2.12(e) (other than if such failure is due to a change in law occurring subsequent to the date on which a form originally was required to be provided and except to the extent that such Lender (or its assignor, if any) was entitled, at the time of designation of a new Applicable Lending Office (or assignment), to receive additional amounts from the Borrower with respect to such withholding taxes pursuant to Section 2.12(a) above), such Tax shall be considered an Excluded Tax for purposes of Section 2.12(a); , , that should a Lender become subject to Taxes because of its failure to deliver a form required hereunder, the Borrower shall, at the expense of such Lender, take such steps as the Lender shall reasonably request to assist the Lender to recover such Taxes.
provided
however
(g) If any Person determines, in its sole discretion exercised in good faith, that it has received a refund of any Taxes as to which it has been indemnified pursuant to this Section 2.12 (including by means of additional amounts paid pursuant to Section 2.12(a)), it shall pay to the Borrower an amount equal to such refund (but only to the extent of indemnity payments made, or additional amounts paid, under this Section 2.12 with respect to the Taxes giving rise to such refund), net of all out-of-pocket expenses (including any Taxes) of such indemnified Person with respect to such refund and without interest (other than any interest paid by the relevant governmental authority with respect to such refund). Upon reasonable written request of such indemnified Person, the Borrower shall repay to such indemnified Person the amount paid to the Borrower by such indemnified Person pursuant to the previous sentence to the extent such indemnified
 
Person is required to repay such refund to such governmental authority. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Section 2.12(g), in no event will any indemnified Person be required to pay any amount to the Borrower pursuant to this Section 2.12(g) to the extent that such payment would place such indemnified Person in a less favorable position (on a net after-Tax basis) than such indemnified Person would have been in if the indemnification payments or additional amounts giving rise to such refund had never been paid. This Section 2.12(g) shall not be construed to require any indemnified Person to make available its Tax returns (or any other information relating to its Taxes which it deems confidential) to the Borrower.
(h) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, the Borrower shall not be required to indemnify any Person for Excluded Taxes.
(i) Without prejudice to the survival of any other agreement hereunder, the agreements and obligations of the Borrower contained in this Section 2.12, and the agreements and obligations of all Persons under Section 2.12(g), shall survive the payment in full of principal and interest hereunder.
If any Lender shall obtain any payment (whether voluntary, involuntary, through the exercise of any right of set-off, or otherwise) on account of the Advances made by it (other than pursuant to Section 2.10 or 2.12) in excess of its ratable share of payments on account of the Advances obtained by all the Lenders, such Lender shall forthwith purchase from the other Lenders such participations in the Advances made by them as shall be necessary to cause such purchasing Lender to share the excess payment ratably with each of them, , , that if all or any portion of such excess payment is thereafter recovered from such purchasing Lender, such purchase from each Lender shall be rescinded and such Lender shall repay to the purchasing Lender the purchase price to the extent of such recovery together with an amount equal to such Lender's ratable share (according to the proportion of (a) the amount of such Lender's required repayment to (b) the total amount so recovered from the purchasing Lender) of any interest or other amount paid or payable by the purchasing Lender in respect of the total amount so recovered. The Borrower agrees that any Lender so purchasing a participation from another Lender pursuant to this Section 2.13 may, to the fullest extent permitted by law, exercise all its rights of payment (including the right of set-off) with respect to such participation as fully as if such Lender were the direct creditor of the Borrower in the amount of such participation.
S.
Section 2.13
haring of Payments, Etc
provided
however
Section 2.14
.
Evidence of Debt
(a) Each Lender shall maintain in accordance with its usual practice an account or accounts evidencing the indebtedness of the Borrower to such Lender resulting from each Advance owing to such Lender from time to time, including the amounts of principal and interest payable and paid to such Lender from time to time hereunder. The Borrower agrees that upon notice by any Lender to the Borrower (with a copy of such notice to the Agent) to the effect that a promissory note or other evidence of indebtedness is required or appropriate in order for such Lender to evidence (whether for purposes of pledge, enforcement or otherwise) the Advances owing to, or to be made by, such Lender, the Borrower shall promptly execute and deliver to such Lender promissory
 
notes or other evidence of such indebtedness, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Borrower and such Lender, payable to the order of such Lender in a principal amount equal, in the case of the Advances, to the aggregate principal amount of the Commitment of such Lender; , that the execution and delivery of such promissory note or other evidence of indebtedness shall not be a condition precedent to the making of any Advance under this Agreement.
provided, however
(b) The Register maintained by the Agent pursuant to Section 8.07(c) shall include a control account, and a subsidiary account for each Lender, in which accounts (taken together) shall be recorded (i) the date, amount and tenor, as applicable, of each Borrowing, the Borrower that received the proceeds of such Borrowing, the Type of Advances comprising such Borrowing and the Interest Period applicable thereto, (ii) the terms of each Assignment and Acceptance delivered to and accepted by it, if any, (iii) the amount of any principal or interest due and payable or to become due and payable from the Borrower to each Lender hereunder, and (iv) the amount of any sum received by the Agent from the Borrower hereunder and each Lender's share thereof.
(c) The entries made in the Register shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes, absent manifest error.
Section 2.15
.
Use of Proceeds
(a) Advances shall be used by the Borrower for refinancing of existing Debt and for general corporate purposes.
(b) No portion of the proceeds of any Advances under this Agreement shall be used by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries in any manner which might cause the Advances or the application of such proceeds to violate, or require any Lender to make any filing or take any other action under, Regulation T, Regulation U or Regulation X of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System or any other regulation of such Board or to violate the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, in each case as in effect on the date or dates of such Advances and such use of proceeds.
Section 2.16
.
Increased Commitments; Additional Lenders
(a) No more than three separate times, the Borrower may, upon at least thirty (30) days notice to the Agent (which shall promptly provide a copy of such notice to the Lenders), propose to increase the aggregate amount of the Commitments in increments of $10,000,000, the total amount of all such increases not to exceed $350,000,000 (the amount of any such increase, the ""); that at the time of and after giving effect to any increase in the Commitments (and the delivery of the applicable commitment increase notice shall constitute a representation and warranty by the Borrower that on the effective date of such increase such statements are true) (i) the representations and warranties of the Borrower contained in Article IV are correct on and as of the date of such increase, before and after giving effect to such increase, as though made on and as of such date, except to the extent that any such representation or warranty expressly relates only to an earlier date, in which case they were correct as of such earlier date; and (ii) no Event of Default exists and is continuing. Each Lender party to this
Increased Commitments
provided
 
Agreement at such time shall have the right (but no obligation), for a period of fifteen (15) days following receipt of such notice, to elect by notice to the Borrower and the Agent to increase its Commitment by a principal amount which bears the same ratio to the Increased Commitments as its then Commitment bears to the aggregate Commitments then existing.
(b) If any Lender party to this Agreement shall not elect to increase its Commitment pursuant to subsection (a) of this Section, the Borrower may designate another lender or other lenders (which may be, but need not be, one or more of the existing Lenders) which at the time agree to (i) in the case of any such lender that is an existing Lender, increase its Commitment and (ii) in the case of any other such lender (an ""), become a party to this Agreement. The sum of the increases in the Commitments of the existing Lenders pursuant to this subsection (b) plus the Commitments of the Additional Lenders shall not in the aggregate exceed the unsubscribed amount of the Increased Commitments.
Additional Lender
(c) An increase in the aggregate amount of the Commitments pursuant to this Section 2.16 shall become effective (the "") upon the receipt by the Agent of an agreement in form and substance satisfactory to the Agent signed by the Borrower, by each Additional Lender and by each other Lender whose Commitment is to be increased, setting forth the new Commitments of such Lenders and Additional Lenders on a revised Schedule II to this Agreement and setting forth the agreement of each Additional Lender to become a party to this Agreement and to be bound by all the terms and provisions hereof, together with such evidence of appropriate corporate authorization on the part of the Borrower with respect to the Increased Commitments and such opinions of counsel for the Borrower with respect to the Increased Commitments as the Agent may reasonably request.
Increase Effective Date
If any Lender requests compensation from the Borrower under Section 2.10(a) or (b), if the Borrower is required to pay any additional amounts with respect to any Lender or SPC under Section 2.12(a), or if any Lender shall become a Defaulting Lender or a Non-Consenting Lender, the Borrower shall have the right, with the assistance of the Agent, to seek one or more substitute banks or financial institutions (which may be one or more of the Lenders) reasonably satisfactory to the Agent and the Borrower to purchase the Advances and assume the Commitments of such Lender or SPC, as applicable, and the Borrower, the Agent, such Lender or such SPC, as applicable, and such substitute banks or financial institutions shall execute and deliver an appropriately completed Assignment and Acceptance pursuant to Section 8.07(a) hereof to effect the assignment of rights to and the assumption of obligations by such substitute banks or financial institutions; that (a) any such Lender or SPC, as applicable, shall be entitled to (i) if requesting compensation from the Borrower under Section 2.10(a) or (b), compensation under Section 2.10 for any costs incurred by it prior to its replacement, (ii) payment of all Advances of such Lender then outstanding and all interest and fees accrued to the date of such payment, and (iii) if any Eurodollar Rate Advances of such Lender are then outstanding, any reimbursement which would be payable under Section 8.04(b) in connection with a prepayment of such Eurodollar Rate Advances on such date, (b) in the case of any assignment resulting from a Lender becoming a Non-Consenting Lender, the applicable assignee shall have consented to the applicable amendment, waiver or consent and (c) no Event of Default shall then exist and be continuing.
Section 2.17
.
Substitution of Lenders
provided
 
.
Section 2.18
Defaulting Lenders
(a) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, any payment of principal, interest, fees or other amounts received by the Agent for the account of any Defaulting Lender under this Agreement (whether voluntary or mandatory, at maturity, pursuant to Article VI or otherwise) by the Borrower for the account of a Defaulting Lender under this Agreement will not be required to be paid or distributed to such Defaulting Lender, but will instead be applied at such time or times as may be determined by the Agent as follows: , to the payment of any amounts owing by such Defaulting Lender to the Agent under this Agreement; , to the funding of any Advance in respect of which such Defaulting Lender has failed to fund its portion thereof as required by this Agreement, as determined by the Agent; , if so determined by the Agent and the Borrower, held in such account as cash collateral for future funding obligations of the Defaulting Lender in respect of any Advances under this Agreement. If such Lender is still a Defaulting Lender and any amounts remain in such account on the date that the Commitments are terminated and all payment obligations of the Borrower hereunder are paid in full, then such amounts will be applied by the Agent to the making of payments in the following order of priority: , to the payment of any amounts owing by such Defaulting Lender to the Agent hereunder; , to the payment of any amounts owing to the Lenders as a result of any judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction obtained by any Lender against such Defaulting Lender as a result of such Defaulting Lender's breach of its obligations under this Agreement; , to the payment of any amounts owing to the Borrower as a result of any judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction obtained by such Borrower against such Defaulting Lender as a result of such Defaulting Lender's breach of its obligations under this Agreement; and, , to pay amounts owing under this Agreement to such Defaulting Lender or as a court of competent jurisdiction may otherwise direct; that any amounts held as cash collateral for funding obligations of a Defaulting Lender shall be returned to such Defaulting Lender upon the termination of this Agreement and the satisfaction of such Defaulting Lender's obligations hereunder. Any payments, prepayments or other amounts paid or payable to a Defaulting Lender that are applied (or held) to pay amounts owed by a Defaulting Lender or to post cash collateral pursuant to this Section 2.18 shall be deemed paid to and redirected by such Defaulting Lender, and each Lender irrevocably consents hereto.
first
second
third
first
second
third
fourth
provided
(b) No Commitment of any Lender shall be increased or otherwise affected, and, except as otherwise expressly provided in this Section 2.18, performance by the Borrower of its obligations shall not be excused or otherwise modified as a result of the operation of this Section 2.18. The rights and remedies against a Defaulting Lender under this Section 2.18 are in addition to any other rights and remedies which the Borrower, the Agent or any Lender may have against such Defaulting Lender.
(c) If the Borrower and the Agent agree in writing in their reasonable determination that a Defaulting Lender should no longer be deemed to be a Defaulting Lender, the Agent will so notify the parties hereto, whereupon as of the effective date
 
specified in such notice and subject to any conditions set forth therein (which may include arrangements with respect to any cash collateral), that Lender will, to the extent applicable, purchase that portion of outstanding Advances of the other Lenders or take such other actions as the Agent may determine to be necessary to cause the Advances and funded and held on a pro rata basis by the Lenders in accordance with their pro rata share, whereupon such Lender will cease to be a Defaulting Lender; that no adjustments will be made retroactively with respect to fees accrued or payments made by or on behalf of the Borrower while that Lender was a Defaulting Lender; and , , that except to the extent otherwise expressly agreed by the affected parties, no change hereunder from Defaulting Lender to Lender will constitute a waiver or release of any claim of any party hereunder arising from such Lender's having been a Defaulting Lender.
provided
provided
further
.
Section 2.19
Special Purpose Funding Vehicles
(a) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, any Lender, (a "") may grant to a special purpose funding vehicle (an "") the option to fund all or any part of any Advance that such Granting Lender would otherwise be obligated to fund pursuant to this Agreement; , that (i) nothing herein shall constitute a commitment by an SPC to fund any Advance, and (ii) if an SPC elects not to exercise such option or otherwise fails to fund all or any part of such Advance, the Granting Lender shall be obligated to fund such Advance pursuant to the terms hereof. The funding of an Advance by an SPC hereunder shall utilize the Commitment of the Granting Lender to the same extent, and as if, such Advance were funded by such Granting Lender. Each party hereto hereby agrees that no SPC shall be liable for any indemnity or payment under this Agreement for which a Lender would otherwise be liable for so long as, and to the extent, the Granting Lender provides such indemnity or makes such payment. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, any SPC may disclose on a confidential basis any non-public information relating to its funding of Advances to any rating agency, commercial paper dealer or provider of any surety or guarantee to such SPC.
Granting Lender
SPC
provided
(b) Each Granting Lender, acting solely for this purpose on the Borrower's behalf, shall maintain a register comparable to the Register maintained by the Agent pursuant to Section 8.07(c) for purpose of recording the funding of Advances by SPCs.
(c) Assignments of and participations in Advances funded by SPCs shall be subject to the provisions of Section 8.07.
(d) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, (i) the Borrower shall not be required to pay any amount under Sections 2.10, 2.12 or 2.17 that is greater than the amount which the Borrower would have been required to pay had such SPC not provided the Borrower with any part of any Advance of such Granting Lender and (ii) an SPC shall not be entitled to any benefits under Section 2.12 unless such SPC agrees to be subject to the provisions of Sections 2.10(d), 2.12(e), 2.12(f), 2.12(g) and 2.17 as if it were an assignee (as of the date it funds its first Advance hereunder) under Section 8.07.
 
The effectiveness of this Agreement and the obligation of each Lender to make its initial Advance hereunder on and after the Effective Date are subject to the conditions precedent that (x) the Borrower shall have paid all documented accrued fees required by this Agreement and reasonable and documented out-of-pocket expenses of the Agent and the Lenders (including the reasonable and documented accrued fees and out-of-pocket expenses of counsel to the Agent) and (y) the Agent receive on or before the Effective Date the following, each dated the Effective Date, and each in form and substance satisfactory to the Agent and in sufficient copies for each Lender:
Section 3.01
.
Condition Precedent to Effective Date
(a) This Agreement, executed by the Borrower, the Agent and each Lender listed on Schedule II attached hereto;
(b) Copies of (i) the resolutions of the Board of Directors of the Borrower, approving this Agreement, and (ii) of all documents evidencing other necessary corporate action and governmental approvals, if any, with respect to this Agreement, in each case certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Borrower;
(c) A certificate of the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Borrower certifying the names and true signatures of the officers of the Borrower authorized to sign this Agreement and the other documents to be delivered by the Borrower hereunder;
(d) A certificate of the Secretary or Assistant Secretary of the Borrower, dated the Effective Date, certifying the correctness and completeness of the copies of Borrower's Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws previously delivered to the Agent, together with good standing certificates from the state of its incorporation, each to be dated a recent date prior to the Effective Date;
(e) A favorable opinion of M Louise Turilli, Esq., Vice President, Deputy General Counsel and Assistant Secretary of the Borrower, substantially in the form of Exhibit C hereto; and
(f) A certificate of an authorized officer of the Borrower, stating that the representations and warranties of the Borrower contained in Article IV are correct on and as of the Effective Date.
The obligation of each Lender to make an Advance on the occasion of each Borrowing (including the initial Borrowing) shall be subject to the further conditions precedent that (i) the Agent shall have received a Notice of Borrowing with respect thereto in accordance with Section 2.02 and (ii) on the date of such Borrowing the following statements shall be true (and each of the giving of the applicable Notice of Borrowing and the acceptance by the Borrower of the proceeds of such Borrowing shall constitute a representation and warranty by the Borrower that on the date of such Borrowing such statements are true):
Section 3.02
.
Conditions Precedent to Each Borrowing
 
(a) The representations and warranties of the Borrower contained in Article IV are correct on and as of the date of such Borrowing, before and immediately after giving effect to such Borrowing and to the application of the proceeds therefrom, as though made on and as of such date, except to the extent that any such representation or warranty expressly relates only to an earlier date, in which case they were correct as of such earlier date; and
(b) No event has occurred and is continuing, or would result from such Borrowing or from the application of the proceeds therefrom, which constitutes an Event of Default or a Potential Event of Default.
The Borrower represents and warrants as follows:
Section 4.01
.
Representations and Warranties of the Borrower
(a) . The Borrower is a corporation duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of its jurisdiction of organization. The Borrower is duly qualified to do business as a foreign corporation in good standing in all other jurisdictions which require such qualification, except to the extent that failure to so qualify would not have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition or operations of the Borrower and the Subsidiaries, taken as a whole. Each Significant Subsidiary of the Borrower is duly organized and validly existing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation or formation. Each such Subsidiary is duly qualified to do business in all other jurisdictions which require such qualification, except to the extent that failure to so qualify would not have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition or operations of the Borrower and the Subsidiaries, taken as a whole.
Due Organization, etc
(b) . The execution, delivery and performance by the Borrower of this Agreement are within the Borrower's corporate powers, have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action, and do not contravene (i) the Borrower's certificate of incorporation or bylaws or (ii) law or any material contractual restriction binding on or affecting the Borrower.
Due Authorization, etc
(c) . No authorization or approval or other action by, and no notice to or filing with, any governmental authority or regulatory body is required for the due execution, delivery and performance by the Borrower of this Agreement except for those which have been obtained prior to the Effective Date and remain in full force and effect.
Governmental Consent
(d) . This Agreement is the legal, valid and binding obligation of the Borrower enforceable against the Borrower in accordance with its terms, subject to the effect of applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, arrangement, moratorium and other similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally and to the application of general principles of equity.
Validity
 
(e) . The consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower as at March 30, 2012, and the related consolidated statements of income and stockholders' equity of the Borrower for the fiscal year then ended, copies of which have been furnished to each Bank, fairly present the consolidated financial condition of the Borrower as at such date and the consolidated results of the operations of the Borrower for the fiscal year ended on such date, all in accordance with GAAP consistently applied. There has been no material adverse change in the business, financial condition or operations of the Borrower and the Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, since March 30, 2012.
Condition of the Borrower
(f) . There is no pending or (to the knowledge of the Borrower) threatened investigation, action or proceeding against the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries before any court, governmental agency or arbitrator which (i) except as disclosed to the Lenders in the Exchange Act Reports filed prior to the Effective Date, would, if adversely determined, reasonably be expected to have a material adverse affect on the business, financial condition or operations of the Borrower and the Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, or (ii) purports to affect the legality, validity or enforceability of this Agreement.
Litigation
(g) . The Borrower is not engaged in the business of extending credit for the purpose of purchasing or carrying margin stock (within the meaning of Regulation U issued by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System), and no proceeds of any Advance will be used to purchase or carry any margin stock or to extend credit to others for the purpose of purchasing or carrying any margin stock in any manner that violates or would cause a violation of Regulation T, Regulation U or Regulation X.
Margin Regulations
(h) . Except as disclosed in the Exchange Act Reports prior to the Effective Date, the Borrower and each of its Significant Subsidiaries have filed or caused to be filed all Tax returns (federal, state, local and foreign) required to be filed and paid all amounts of Taxes shown thereon to be due, including interest and penalties, except (i) for such Taxes as are being contested in good faith and by proper proceedings and with respect to which appropriate reserves are being maintained by the Borrower or any such Subsidiary, as the case may be and (ii) to the extent that the failure to file such returns or pay such Taxes would not reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition or operations of the Borrower and the Subsidiaries, taken as a whole.
Payment of Taxes
(i) . The Borrower is not subject to regulation under the Federal Power Act, the Interstate Commerce Act or the Investment Company Act of 1940, each as amended, or to any Federal or state statute or regulation limiting its ability to incur indebtedness for money borrowed.
Governmental Regulation
(j) ERISA.
(i) No ERISA Event has occurred or is reasonably expected to occur (other than for premiums payable under Title IV of ERISA), that would reasonably be expected to result in a liability to the Borrower or its ERISA Affiliates of more than $125,000,000 over the amount previously reflected for any such liabilities, in accordance with GAAP, on the financial statements delivered pursuant to Section 4.01(e).
 
(ii) Schedule B (Actuarial Information) to the most recently completed annual report (Form 5500 Series) for each Pension Plan, copies of which have been filed with the Internal Revenue Service and furnished to the Agent, is complete and, to the best knowledge of the Borrower, accurate, and since the date of such Schedule B there has been no change in the funding status of any such Pension Plan except any change that would not reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition or operations of the Borrower and the Subsidiaries, taken as a whole.
(iii) As of the most recent valuation date for each Multiemployer Plan for which the actuarial report is available, the potential liability to the Borrower or any of its ERISA Affiliates for a complete withdrawal from such Multiemployer Plan, when aggregated with such potential liability for a complete withdrawal for all Multiemployer Plans, based on information available pursuant to Section 4221(e) of ERISA, does not exceed $125,000,000.
(iv) The Borrower and each of its ERISA Affiliates are in compliance with all applicable provisions and requirements of ERISA and the regulations and published interpretations thereunder with respect to each Employee Benefit Plan, and have performed all their obligations under each Employee Benefit Plan except for any suchfailure to perform or comply that would not reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition or operations of the Borrower and the Subsidiaries, taken as a whole. Each Employee Benefit Plan that is intended to qualify under Section 401(a) of the Code has received a determination letter from the Internal Revenue Service that the Employee Benefit Plan is so qualified (or a timely application for such a determination letter is pending), and to the best of the Borrower's knowledge, the Employee Benefit Plan has not been operated in any way that would result in the Employee Benefit Plan no longer being so qualified except as would not reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition or operations of the Borrower and the Subsidiaries, taken as a whole.
(v) Neither the Borrower nor any ERISA Affiliate has been notified by the sponsor of a Multiemployer Plan that such Multiemployer Plan is insolvent, in reorganization or has been terminated or has been determined to be in "endangered" or "critical" status, within the meaning of Title IV of ERISA, and, to the best knowledge of the Borrower, no Multiemployer Plan is reasonably expected to be insolvent, in reorganization or to be terminated or to be determined to be in "endangered" or "critical" status within the meaning of Title IV of ERISA, in each case, resulting in a liability to the Borrower or its ERISA Affiliates of more than $125,000,000.
(k) . No representation or warranty of the Borrower contained in this Agreement (including any Schedule furnished in connection herewith) contains any untrue statement of a material fact. No other document, certificate or written statement furnished to the Agent or any Lender by or, as authorized by the Borrower, on behalf of the Borrower for use in connection with the transactions contemplated in this Agreement,
Disclosure
 
taken as a whole with other documents, certificates or written statements furnished contemporaneously therewith, contains any untrue statement of fact or omits to state a material fact (known to the Borrower in the case of any documents, certificates or written statements not furnished by it) necessary in order to make the statements contained therein not misleading in light of the circumstances under which the same were made.
(l) . The Borrower and its Significant Subsidiaries (i) maintain insurance with responsible and reputable insurance companies or associations in such amounts and covering such risks as are usually insured by companies engaged in similar businesses or (ii) maintain a plan or plans of self-insurance to such extent and covering such risks as is usual for companies of comparable size engaged in the same or similar business, which plans shall include, among other things, adequate reserves for the risks that are self-insured.
Insurance
(m) . (i) The Borrower and each of its Subsidiaries is in compliance with all Environmental Laws except to the extent any non-compliance would not reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition or operations of the Borrower and the Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, and (ii) there has been no "release or threatened release of a hazardous substance" (as defined by the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended, 42 U.S.C.  9601 .) or any other release, emission or discharge into the environment of any hazardous or toxic substance, pollutant or other materials from the Borrower's or its Subsidiaries' property other than as permitted under applicable Environmental Law and other than those which would not have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition or operations of the Borrower and the Subsidiaries, taken as a whole. Other than disposals for which the Borrower has been indemnified in full, all "hazardous waste" (as defined by the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, 42 U.S.C.  6901 . (1976) and the regulations thereunder, 40 CFR Part 261 ("")) generated at the Borrower's or any Subsidiaries' properties have in the past been and shall continue to be disposed of at sites which maintain valid permits under RCRA and any applicable state or local Environmental Law, except to the extent where the failure to so dispose would not reasonably be expected have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition or operations of the Borrower and the Subsidiaries, taken as a whole.
Environmental Matters
et
seq
et
seq
RCRA
. The Borrower covenants and agrees that the Borrower will, unless and until all of the Advances shall have been paid in full and all of the Commitments of the Lenders shall have terminated, unless Majority Lenders shall otherwise consent in writing:
Section 5.01
Affirmative Covenants of the Borrower
(a) Comply, and cause each of its Subsidiaries to comply, with all applicable laws, rules, regulations and orders, such compliance to include, without limitation, (i) complying with all Environmental Laws and (ii) paying
Compliance with Laws, Etc.
 
before the same become delinquent all Taxes imposed upon it or upon its property except to the extent contested in good faith, except where failure to so comply would not reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition or operations of the Borrower and the Subsidiaries, taken as a whole.
(b) . Furnish to the Agent:
Reporting Requirements
(i) as soon as available and in any event within 60 days after the end of each of the first three fiscal quarters of each fiscal year of the Borrower, a copy of the quarterly report (x) for such quarter for the Borrower, containing a consolidated balance sheet and consolidated statements of income and (x) for the period consisting of the fiscal year then elapsed, for the Borrower, containing consolidated statements of stockholders' equity and cash flows;
(ii) as soon as available and in any event within 120 days after the end of each fiscal year of the Borrower, a copy of the consolidated annual audit report for such year for the Borrower, containing financial statements (including a consolidated balance sheet, consolidated statements of income, retained earnings and cash flows of the Borrower) for such year, accompanied by an opinion of Deloitte & Touche or other nationally recognized independent public accountants. The opinion shall be unqualified (as to going concern, scope of audit and disagreements over the accounting or other treatment of offsets) and shall state that such consolidated financial statements present fairly the consolidated financial position of the Borrower as at the dates indicated and the results of their operations and cash flow for the periods indicated in conformity with GAAP applied on a basis consistent with prior years (except as stated therein) and that the examination by such accountants in connection with such consolidated financial statements has been made in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards;
(iii) together with each delivery of the report of the Borrower pursuant to clause (i) or clause (ii) above, a compliance certificate for the quarter or year, as applicable, executed by an authorized financial officer of the Borrower (A) stating, in the case of the financial statements delivered under Section 5.01(b)(i) for such quarter, that such financial statements fairly present the consolidated financial condition of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, as at the dates indicated and the consolidated results of operations of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, and cash flow for the periods indicated in conformity with GAAP applied on a basis consistent with prior years (except as otherwise stated therein), subject to changes resulting from audit and normal year-end adjustment, (B) stating that such authorized financial officer has reviewed the terms of this Agreement and has made, or caused to be made under his or her supervision, a review in reasonable detail of the transactions and consolidated financial condition of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, during the accounting period covered by such financial statements and that such authorized financial officer does not have knowledge of the existence as at the date of the compliance certificate, of any condition or event that constitutes an Event of Default or a Potential Event of Default or, if any such condition or event exists, specifying the nature thereof and what action the Borrower has taken, is taking and proposes to take with respect thereto and (C) demonstrating in reasonable detail compliance at the end of such accounting periods with the restrictions contained in Section 5.02(c).
 
(iv) as soon as possible and in any event within five days after the occurrence of each Event of Default and each Potential Event of Default, continuing on the date of such statement, a statement of an authorized financial officer of the Borrower setting forth details of such Event of Default or Potential Event of Default and the action which the Borrower has taken and proposes to take with respect thereto;
(v) promptly after the sending or filing thereof, copies of all proxy statements, financial statements and reports that the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries sends to its stockholders generally, and copies of all regular, periodic and special reports, and all registration statements, that the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries files with the SEC or any governmental authority that may be substituted therefor, or with any national securities exchange;
(vi) promptly after the commencement thereof, notice of all material actions, suits and proceedings before any court or government department, commission, board, bureau, agency or instrumentality, domestic or foreign, affecting the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, of the type described in Section 4.01(f);
(vii) promptly after the occurrence thereof, notice of (A) any event which makes any of the representations contained in Section 4.01(m) inaccurate or (B) the receipt by the Borrower of any notice, order, directive or other communication from a governmental authority alleging violations of or noncompliance with any Environmental Law which could reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition or operations of the Borrower and the Subsidiaries, taken as a whole;
(viii) promptly after any change in any Rating, a notice of such change, which notice shall specify the new Rating, the date on which such change was publicly announced by S&P or Moody's, as the case may be, and such other information with respect to such change as any Lender through the Agent may reasonably request; and
(ix) such other information respecting the business, financial condition or operations of the Borrower and the Subsidiaries as any Lender through the Agent may from time to time reasonably request.
In lieu of furnishing to the Agent paper copies of the documents required to be delivered pursuant to Sections 5.01(b)(i), (ii), (v), (vi) and (ix), to the extent such documents are filed with the SEC, the Borrower shall notify the Agent when such documents are so filed and may make such documents available to the Agent and Lenders at its Internet website located at http://www.csc.com and through the SEC's EDGAR system. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Borrower shall deliver paper copies of such documents to any Lender that requests the Borrower to deliver such paper copies.
(c) The Borrower will, and will cause each of its Significant Subsidiaries to, at all times maintain its fundamental business and preserve
Corporate Existence, Etc.
 
and keep in full force and effect its corporate existence and all material rights, franchises and licenses necessary or desirable in the normal conduct of its business, in each case as applicable, except as permitted under Section 5.02(b) and except if, in the reasonable business judgment of the Borrower, it is in the business interest of the Borrower or such Subsidiary not to preserve and maintain such legal existence (except with respect to the Borrower), rights (charter and statutory) and franchises, and such failure to preserve the same would not reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition or operations of the Borrower and the Subsidiaries, taken as a whole.
(d) . The Borrower will and will cause each of its Significant Subsidiaries to maintain insurance with responsible and reputable insurance companies or associations in such amounts and covering such risks as are usually insured by companies engaged in similar businesses. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Borrower and such Subsidiaries may maintain a plan or plans of self-insurance to such extent and covering such risks as is usual for companies of comparable size engaged in the same or similar business, which plans shall include, among other things, adequate reserves for the risks that are self-insured. On request the Borrower will advise the Agent and the Lenders concerning any such plan or plans for self-insurance.
Maintenance of Insurance
(e) . At any reasonable time and from time to time during normal business hours and with reasonable prior notice, permit the Agent or any of the Lenders or any agents or representatives thereof (at their sole cost and expense), to visit the properties of, the Borrower and any of its Subsidiaries, and to discuss the affairs, finances and accounts of the Borrower and any of its Subsidiaries with any of their officers employees, or if an Event of Default is continuing, with their independent certified public accountants.
Visitation Rights
(f) . Keep, and will cause each of its Significant Subsidiaries to keep, in all material respects, proper books of record and account in accordance with GAAP.
Keeping of Books
. The Borrower covenants and agrees that, unless and until all of the Advances shall have been paid in full and the Commitments of all of the Lenders shall have terminated, unless Majority Lenders shall otherwise consent in writing:
Section 5.02
Negative Covenants of the Borrower
(a) The Borrower will not create or suffer to exist, or permit any of its Significant Subsidiaries to create or suffer to exist, any Lien, upon or with respect to any of its properties, whether now owned or hereafter acquired, or assign, or permit any of such Subsidiaries to assign, any right to receive income, in each case to secure or provide for the payment of any Debt of any Person, unless the Borrower's obligations hereunder shall be secured equally and ratably with, or prior to, any such Debt; that the foregoing restriction shall not apply to the following Liens which are permitted:
Liens, Etc.
provided
however
(i) Customary Permitted Liens;
 
(ii) Liens in favor of the United States to secure amounts paid to the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries as advance or progress payments under government contracts entered into by it so long as such Liens cover only (x) special bank accounts into which only such advance or progress payments are deposited and (y) supplies covered by such government contracts and material and other property acquired for or allocated to the performance of such government contracts;
(iii) attachment, judgment and other similar Liens arising in connection with legal proceedings, that any such judgment does not constitute an Event of Default;
provided
(iv) Liens on accounts receivable resulting from the sale of such accounts receivable;
(v) Liens on assets of any Significant Subsidiary of the Borrower existing at the time such Person becomes a Significant Subsidiary or is merged into or consolidated with the Borrower or a Significant Subsidiary (other than any such Lien created in contemplation of becoming a Significant Subsidiary);
(vi) purchase money Liens upon or in any asset acquired or held by the Borrower or any Significant Subsidiary (including any capital interest in any Person) to secure the purchase price of such asset or to secure Debt incurred solely for the purpose of financing the acquisition of or construction of improvements on or with respect to any such asset (provided that the amount of Debt secured by such Lien does not exceed 100% of the purchase price of such asset and transaction costs relating to such acquisition or the costs of such construction) and Liens existing on such asset at the time of its acquisition (other than any such Lien created in contemplation of such acquisition); and the interest of the lessor thereof in any asset that is subject to a Capital Lease;
(vii) Liens, other than Liens described in clauses (i) through (vi) and in clause (ix), to secure Debt not in excess of an aggregate of $100,000,000 principal amount at any time outstanding;
(viii) Liens resulting from any extension, renewal or replacement (or successive extensions, renewals or replacements), in whole or in part, of any Debt secured by any Lien referred to in clauses (v) and (vi) so long as (x) the aggregate principal amount of any such Debt shall not increase as a result of any such extension, renewal or replacement and (y) Liens resulting from any such extension, renewal or replacement shall cover only such property which secured the Debt that is being extended, renewed or replaced; and
(ix) Liens securing Debt owing to the Borrower or any of the Subsidiaries.
(b) . The Borrower will not, and will not permit any of its Significant Subsidiaries to, merge or consolidate with or into, or convey, transfer, lease or otherwise dispose of (whether in one transaction or in a series of transactions) all or a substantial portion of its assets (whether now owned or hereafter
Restrictions on Fundamental Changes
 
acquired) to any Person (other than the Borrower or any Subsidiary of the Borrower, so long as the Borrower, directly or indirectly, owns 80% or more of the voting stock thereof), or enter into any partnership, joint venture, syndicate, pool or other combination, unless (a) no Event of Default or Potential Event of Default has occurred and is continuing or would result therefrom and (b) in the case of any consolidation or merger involving the Borrower, either (i) the Borrower is the surviving entity or (ii) the Person surviving or resulting from such consolidation or merger shall have assumed the obligations of the Borrower hereunder in an agreement or instrument reasonably satisfactory in form and substance to the Agent and such surviving corporation shall have delivered, for the benefit of the Lenders and the Agent, such other documents as may reasonably be requested, including, without limitation, information in respect of "know your customer" and similar requirements, an incumbency certificate and an opinion of nationally recognized independent counsel, or other independent counsel reasonably satisfactory to the Majority Lenders, to the effect that all agreements or instruments effecting such assumption are enforceable in accordance with their terms and comply with the terms hereof.
(c) .
Financial Covenants
(i) . The Borrower will not permit at the end of any quarterly financial reporting period the ratio of Consolidated EBITDA to Consolidated Interest Expense for the period of four consecutive fiscal quarters ending on the last day of such quarterly financial reporting period, taken as a single period, to be less than 3.00 to 1.00.
Minimum Interest Coverage Ratio
(ii) The Borrower will not permit at the end of any quarterly financial reporting period the ratio of Consolidated Total Debt as of the last day of such quarterly financial reporting period to Consolidated EBITDA for the period of four consecutive fiscal quarters ending on the last day of such quarterly financial reporting period, taken as a single period, to exceed 3.00 to 1.00.
Consolidated Total Debt to Consolidated EBITDA Ratio.
. If any of the following events ("") shall occur and be continuing:
Section 6.01
Events of Default
Events of Default
(a) The Borrower shall fail to pay any principal of any Advance when the same becomes due and payable or the Borrower shall fail to pay any interest on any Advance or any fees or other amounts payable hereunder within five days after the date due; or
(b) Any representation or warranty made by the Borrower herein or in connection with this Agreement shall prove to have been incorrect in any material respect when made; or
 
(c) The Borrower shall fail to perform or observe (i) any term, covenant or agreement contained in Section 5.01(c) or 5.02, or (ii) any other term, covenant or agreement contained in this Agreement on its part to be performed or observed if the failure to perform or observe such other term, covenant or agreement shall remain unremedied for 30 days after the earlier to occur of (i) written notice thereof having been given to the Borrower by the Agent at the request of any Lender or (ii) actual knowledge thereof by the Borrower of such failure; or
(d) The Borrower or any of its Significant Subsidiaries shall fail to pay any principal of or premium or interest on any of its Debt or any payment obligations in respect of guarantees of the Borrower or any such Significant Subsidiary of Debt owed to any Person other than the Borrower and the Subsidiaries which is outstanding in a principal amount of at least $125,000,000 in the aggregate (but excluding Debt arising under this Agreement), when the same becomes due and payable (whether by scheduled maturity, required prepayment, acceleration, demand or otherwise), and such failure shall continue after the applicable grace period, if any, specified in the agreement or instrument relating to such Debt or guarantee; or any other event shall occur or condition shall exist under any agreement or instrument relating to any such Debt and shall continue after the applicable grace period, if any, specified in such agreement or instrument, if the effect of such event or condition is to accelerate, or to permit the acceleration of, the maturity of such Debt; or any such Debt shall be declared to be due and payable, or required to be prepaid (other than by a regularly scheduled required prepayment or by a required prepayment of insurance proceeds or by a required prepayment as a result of formulas based on asset sales or excess cash flow), redeemed, purchased or defeased, or an offer to prepay, redeem, purchase or defease such Debt shall be required to be made, in each case prior to the stated maturity thereof; or
(e) The Borrower or any of its Significant Subsidiaries shall generally not pay its debts as such debts become due, or shall admit in writing its inability to pay its debts generally, or shall make a general assignment for the benefit of creditors; or any proceeding shall be instituted by or against the Borrower or any of its Significant Subsidiaries seeking to adjudicate it a bankrupt or insolvent, or seeking liquidation, winding up, reorganization, arrangement, adjustment, protection, relief, or composition of it or its debts under any law relating to bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization or relief of debtors, or seeking the entry of an order for relief or the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian or other similar official for it or for substantial part of its property and, in the case of any such proceeding instituted against it (but not instituted by it), either such proceeding shall remain undismissed or unstayed for a period of 60 days, or any of the actions sought in such proceeding (including, without limitation, the entry of an order for relief against, or the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian or other similar official for, it or for any substantial part of its property) shall occur; or the Borrower or any of its Significant Subsidiaries shall take any corporate or partnership action to authorize any of the actions set forth above in this subsection (e); or
(f) Any judgment or order for the payment of money in excess of $125,000,000 shall be rendered against the Borrower or any of its Significant Subsidiaries and is not promptly paid by the Borrower or any of its Significant
 
Subsidiaries and either (i) enforcement proceedings shall have been commenced by any creditor upon such judgment or order or (ii) there shall be any period of 10 consecutive days during which a stay of enforcement of such judgment or order, by reason of a pending appeal or otherwise, shall not be in effect; or
(g)
(i) There occurs one or more ERISA Events which individually or in the aggregate results in or might reasonably be expected to result in liability to the Borrower or any of its ERISA Affiliates in excess of $125,000,000 over the amount previously reflected for any such liabilities, in accordance with GAAP, on the financial statements delivered pursuant to Section 4.01(e); or
(ii) The Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate shall have been notified by the sponsor of a Multiemployer Plan that it has incurred an aggregate Withdrawal Liability for all years to such Multiemployer Plan in an amount that, when aggregated with all other amounts required to be paid to Multiemployer Plans by the Borrower and its ERISA Affiliates as Withdrawal Liability (determined as of the date of such notification), exceeds $125,000,000; or
(iii) The Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate shall have been notified by the sponsor of a Multiemployer Plan that such Multiemployer Plan is insolvent, in reorganization or is being terminated or has been determined to be in "endangered" or "critical" status, within the meaning of Title IV or ERISA, if as a result of such event the aggregate annual contributions of the Borrower and its ERISA Affiliates to all Multiemployer Plans that are then insolvent, in reorganization or being terminated or have been determined to be in endangered or critical status have been or will be increased over the amounts contributed to such Multiemployer Plans for the plan year of such Multiemployer Plan immediately preceding the plan year in which the event occurs by an amount exceeding, in each case, resulting in a liability to the Borrower or its ERISA Affiliates of more than $125,000,000; or
(h) Any Person or two or more Persons acting in concert shall have acquired beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 of the SEC under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended), directly or indirectly, of securities of the Borrower (or other securities convertible into such securities) representing 35% or more of the combined voting power of all securities of the Borrower entitled to vote in the election of directors, other than securities having such power only by reason of the happening of a contingency.
then, and in any such event, the Agent (i) shall at the request, or may with the consent, of the Majority Lenders, by notice to the Borrower, declare the obligation of each Lender to make Advances to be terminated, whereupon the same shall forthwith terminate, and (ii) shall at the request, or may with the consent, of the Majority Lenders, by notice to the Borrower, declare the Advances, all interest thereon and all other amounts payable under this Agreement to be forthwith due and payable, whereupon the Advances, all such interest and all such amounts shall become and be forthwith due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or further notice of any kind, all of which are here expressly waived by the Borrower; , ,
provided
however
 
that in the event of an actual or deemed entry of an order for relief with respect to the Borrower or any of its Significant Subsidiaries under the Federal Bankruptcy Code, (A) the obligation of each Lender to make Advances shall automatically be terminated and (B) the Advances, all such interest and all such amounts shall automatically become and be due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or any notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived by the Borrower.
Each Lender hereby irrevocably appoints BTMU to act on its behalf as the Agent hereunder and authorizes the Agent to take such actions on its behalf and to exercise such powers as are delegated to the Agent by the terms hereof, together with such actions and powers as are reasonably incidental thereto. The provisions of this Article are solely for the benefit of the Agent and the Lenders, and the Borrower shall have no rights as a third party beneficiary of any of such provisions.
Section 7.01
Authorization and Authority
.
.
Section 7.02
Agent Individually
(a) The Person serving as the Agent hereunder shall have the same rights and powers in its capacity as a Lender as any other Lender and may exercise the same as though it were not the Agent and the term "Lender" or "Lenders" shall, unless otherwise expressly indicated or unless the context otherwise requires, include the Person serving as the Agent hereunder in its individual capacity. Such Person and its Affiliates may accept deposits from, lend money to, act as the financial advisor or in any other advisory capacity for and generally engage in any kind of business with the Borrower or any Subsidiary or other Affiliate thereof as if such Person were not the Agent hereunder and without any duty to account therefor to the Lenders.
(b) Each Lender understands that the Person serving as Agent, acting in its individual capacity, and its Affiliates (collectively, the "") are engaged in a wide range of financial services and businesses (including investment management, financing, securities trading, corporate and investment banking and research) (such services and businesses are collectively referred to in this Section 7.02 as "") and may engage in the Activities with or on behalf of the Borrower or its Affiliates. Furthermore, the Agent's Group may, in undertaking the Activities, engage in trading in financial products or undertake other investment businesses for its own account or on behalf of others (including the Borrower and its Affiliates and including holding, for its own account or on behalf of others, equity, debt and similar positions in the Borrower or its Affiliates), including trading in or holding long, short or derivative positions in securities, loans or other financial products of one or more of the Borrower and its Affiliates. Each Lender understands and agrees that in engaging in the Activities, the Agent's Group may receive or otherwise obtain information concerning the Borrower and its Affiliates (including information concerning the ability of the Borrower to perform its obligations hereunder) which information may not be available to any of the Lenders that are not members of the Agent's Group. None of the Agent nor any member of the
Agent's Group
Activities
 
Agent's Group shall have any duty to disclose to any Lender or use on behalf of the Lenders, and shall not be liable for the failure to so disclose or use, any information whatsoever about or derived from the Activities or otherwise (including any information concerning the business, prospects, operations, property, financial and other condition or creditworthiness of the Borrower) or to account for any revenue or profits obtained in connection with the Activities, except that the Agent shall deliver or otherwise make available to each Lender such documents as are expressly required by this Agreement to be transmitted by the Agent to the Lenders.
(c) Each Lender further understands that there may be situations where members of the Agent's Group or their respective customers (including the Borrower and its Affiliates) either now have or may in the future have interests or take actions that may conflict with the interests of any one or more of the Lenders (including the interests of the Lenders hereunder). Each Lender agrees that no member of the Agent's Group is or shall be required to restrict its activities as a result of the Person serving as Agent being a member of the Agent's Group, and that each member of the Agent's Group may undertake any Activities without further consultation with or notification to any Lender. None of (i) this Agreement, (ii) the receipt by the Agent's Group of information (including Information) concerning the Borrower or its Affiliates (including information concerning the ability of the Borrower to perform its obligations hereunder) nor (iii) any other matter shall give rise to any fiduciary, equitable or contractual duties (including without limitation any duty of trust or confidence) owing by the Agent or any member of the Agent's Group to any Lender including any such duty that would prevent or restrict the Agent's Group from acting on behalf of customers (including the Borrower or its Affiliates) or for its own account.
.
Section 7.03
Duties of Agent; Exculpatory Provisions
(a) The Agent's duties hereunder are solely ministerial and administrative in nature and the Agent shall not have any duties or obligations except those expressly set forth herein. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Agent shall not have any duty to take any discretionary action or exercise any discretionary powers, but shall be required to act or refrain from acting (and shall be fully protected in so acting or refraining from acting) upon the written direction of the Majority Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be expressly provided for herein), that the Agent shall not be required to take any action that, in its opinion or the opinion of its counsel, may expose the Agent or any of its Affiliates to liability or that is contrary to this Agreement or applicable law.
provided
(b) The Agent shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it (i) with the consent or at the request of the Majority Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be necessary, or as the Agent shall believe in good faith shall be necessary, under the circumstances as provided in Sections 8.01 or 6.01) or (ii) in the absence of its own gross negligence or willful misconduct. The Agent shall be deemed not to have knowledge of any Potential Event of Default or Event of Default or the event or events that give or may give rise to any Potential Event of Default or Event of Default unless and until the Borrower or any Lender shall have given notice to the Agent describing such Potential Event of Default or Event of Default and such event or events.
 
(c) Neither the Agent nor any member of the Agent's Group shall be responsible for or have any duty to ascertain or inquire into (i) any statement, warranty, representation or other information made or supplied in or in connection with this Agreement, (ii) the contents of any certificate, report or other document delivered hereunder or in connection herewith or the adequacy, accuracy and/or completeness of the information contained therein, (iii) the performance or observance of any of the covenants, agreements or other terms or conditions set forth herein or therein or the occurrence of any Potential Event of Default or Event of Default, (iv) the validity, enforceability, effectiveness or genuineness of this Agreement or any other agreement, instrument or document or the perfection or priority of any Lien or security interest created or purported to be created hereby or (v) the satisfaction of any condition set forth in Article III or elsewhere herein, other than (but subject to the foregoing clause (ii)) to confirm receipt of items expressly required to be delivered to the Agent.
(d) Nothing in this Agreement shall require the Agent or any of its Related Parties to carry out any "know your customer" or other checks in relation to any person on behalf of any Lender and each Lender confirms to the Agent that it is solely responsible for any such checks it is required to carry out and that it may not rely on any statement in relation to such checks made by the Agent or any of its Related Parties.
. The Agent shall be entitled to rely upon, and shall not incur any liability for relying upon, any notice, request, certificate, consent, statement, instrument, document or other writing (including any electronic message, Internet or intranet website posting or other distribution) believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed, sent or otherwise authenticated by the proper Person. The Agent also may rely upon any statement made to it orally or by telephone and believed by it to have been made by the proper Person, and shall not incur any liability for relying thereon. In determining compliance with any condition hereunder to the making of an Advance that by its terms must be fulfilled to the satisfaction of a Lender, the Agent may presume that such condition is satisfactory to such Lender unless an officer of the Agent responsible for the transactions contemplated hereby shall have received notice to the contrary from such Lender prior to the making of such Advance, and such Lender shall not have made available to the Agent such Lender's ratable portion of the applicable Borrowing. The Agent may consult with legal counsel (who may be counsel for the Borrower), independent accountants and other experts selected by it, and shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it in accordance with the advice of any such counsel, accountants or experts.
Section 7.04
Reliance by Agent
. The Lenders agree to indemnify the Agent (to the extent the Borrower is required to reimburse the Agent pursuant to Section 8.04 and only to the extent not reimbursed by the Borrower), ratably according to the respective principal amounts of the Advances then held by each of them (or if no Advances are at the time outstanding or if any Advances are held by Persons which are not Lenders, ratably according to the respective amounts of their Commitments), from and against any and all liabilities, obligations, losses, damages, penalties, actions, judgments, suits, costs, expenses or
Section 7.05
Indemnification
 
disbursements of any kind or nature whatsoever which may be imposed on, incurred by, or asserted against the Agent in any way relating to or arising out of this Agreement or any action taken or omitted by the Agent under this Agreement, that no Lender shall be liable for any portion of such liabilities, obligations, losses, damages, penalties, actions, judgments, suits, costs, expenses or disbursements resulting from the Agent's gross negligence or willful misconduct. Without limitation of the foregoing, each Lender agrees to reimburse the Agent promptly upon demand for its ratable share of any out-of-pocket expenses (including counsel fees) incurred by the Agent in connection with the preparation, execution, delivery, administration, syndication, modification, amendment or enforcement (whether through negotiations, legal proceedings or otherwise) of, or legal advice in respect of rights or responsibilities under, this Agreement, to the extent that the Agent is not reimbursed for such expenses by the Borrower.
provided
. The Agent may at any time give notice of its resignation to the Lenders and the Borrower. Upon receipt or giving of any such notice of resignation, the Majority Lenders shall have the right, in consultation with the Borrower, to appoint a successor, which shall be a bank with an office in New York, New York, or an Affiliate of any such bank with an office in New York, New York. If no such successor shall have been so appointed by the Majority Lenders and shall have accepted such appointment within 30 days after the retiring Agent gives notice of its resignation (such 30-day period, the ""), then the retiring Agent may on behalf of the Lenders, appoint a successor Agent meeting the qualifications set forth above. In addition and without any obligation on the part of the retiring Agent to appoint, on behalf of the Lenders, a successor Agent, the retiring Agent may at any time upon or after the end of the Lender Appointment Period notify the Borrower and the Lenders that no qualifying Person has accepted appointment as successor Agent and the effective date of such retiring Agent's resignation. Upon the resignation effective date established in such notice and regardless of whether a successor Agent has been appointed and accepted such appointment, the retiring Agent's resignation shall nonetheless become effective and (i) the retiring Agent shall be discharged from its duties and obligations as Agent hereunder and (ii) all payments, communications and determinations provided to be made by, to or through the Agent shall instead be made by or to each Lender directly and, during such period, the Borrower shall have no obligation to pay to any Person the fees described in Section 2.04(b), until such time as the Majority Lenders appoint a successor Agent as provided for above in this paragraph. Upon the acceptance of a successor's appointment as Agent hereunder, such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all of the rights, powers, privileges and duties as Agent of the retiring (or retired) Agent, and the retiring Agent shall be discharged from all of its duties and obligations as Agent hereunder (if not already discharged therefrom as provided above in this paragraph). The fees payable by the Borrower to a successor Agent shall be the same as those payable to its predecessor unless otherwise agreed between the Borrower and such successor. After the retiring Agent's resignation hereunder, the provisions of this Article and Section 8.04 shall continue in effect for the benefit of such retiring Agent, its sub-agents and their respective Related Parties in respect of any actions taken or omitted to be taken by any of them while the retiring Agent was acting as Agent.
Section 7.06
Resignation of Agent
Lender Appointment Period
. The Agent may perform any and all of its duties and exercise its rights and powers hereunder by or through any one or more sub-agents appointed by the Agent. The Agent and any such sub-agent may perform any and all of its duties
Section 7.07
Delegation of Duties
 
and exercise its rights and powers by or through their respective Related Parties. Each such sub-agent and the Related Parties of the Agent and each such sub-agent shall be entitled to the benefits of all provisions of this Article VII and Section 8.04 (as though such sub-agents were the "Agent" hereunder) as if set forth in full herein with respect thereto.
.
Section 7.08
Non-Reliance on Agent and Other Lenders
(a) Each Lender confirms to the Agent, each other Lender and each of their respective Related Parties that it (i) possesses (individually or through its Related Parties) such knowledge and experience in financial and business matters that it is capable, without reliance on the Agent, any other Lender or any of their respective Related Parties, of evaluating the merits and risks (including tax, legal, regulatory, credit, accounting and other financial matters) of (x) entering into this Agreement, (y) making Advances and other extensions of credit hereunder and (z) in taking or not taking actions hereunder and thereunder, (ii) is financially able to bear such risks and (iii) has determined that entering into this Agreement and making Advances and other extensions of credit hereunder is suitable and appropriate for it.
(b) Each Lender acknowledges that (i) it is solely responsible for making its own independent appraisal and investigation of all risks arising under or in connection with this Agreement, (ii) that it has, independently and without reliance upon the Agent, any other Lender or any of their respective Related Parties, made its own appraisal and investigation of all risks associated with, and its own credit analysis and decision to enter into, this Agreement based on such documents and information, as it has deemed appropriate and (iii) it will, independently and without reliance upon the Agent, any other Lender or any of their respective Related Parties, continue to be solely responsible for making its own appraisal and investigation of all risks arising under or in connection with, and its own credit analysis and decision to take or not take action under, this Agreement based on such documents and information as it shall from time to time deem appropriate, which may include, in each case:
(i) the financial condition, status and capitalization of the Borrower;
(ii) the legality, validity, effectiveness, adequacy or enforceability of this Agreement and any other agreement, arrangement or document entered into, made or executed in anticipation of, under or in connection with this Agreement;
(iii) determining compliance or non-compliance with any condition hereunder to the making of an Advance and the form and substance of all evidence delivered in connection with establishing the satisfaction of each such condition;
(iv) the adequacy, accuracy and/or completeness of the Information Memorandum and any other information delivered by the Agent, any other Lender or by any of their respective Related Parties under or in connection with this Agreement, the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby or any other agreement, arrangement or document entered into, made or executed in anticipation of, under or in connection with this Agreement.
 
. Each Lender hereby acknowledges that neither the syndication agent, the documentation agents nor any other Lender designated as any "Agent" on the signature pages hereof (other than the Agent) has any liability hereunder other than in its capacity as a Lender.
Section 7.09
Other Agents
.
Section 8.01
Amendments, Etc
No amendment or waiver of any provision of this Agreement, nor consent to any departure by the Borrower therefrom, shall in any event be effective unless the same shall be in writing and signed by the Majority Lenders, and then such waiver or consent shall be effective only in the specific instance and for the specific purpose for which given; , , that no amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by all the Lenders, do any of the following: (a) waive any of the conditions specified in Section 3.01, (b) except pursuant to Section 2.16, increase the Commitments of the Lenders or subject the Lenders to any additional obligations, (c) reduce the principal of, or interest on, the Advances or any fees or other amounts payable hereunder, (d) postpone any date fixed for any payment of principal of, or interest on, the Advances or any fees or other amounts payable hereunder, (e) change the percentage of the Commitments or of the aggregate unpaid principal amount of the Advances, or the number of Lenders, which shall be required for the Lenders or any of them to take any action hereunder, or (f) amend this Section 8.01; and , , that no amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by the Agent in addition to the Lenders required above to take such action, affect the rights or duties of the Agent under this Agreement; and that no amendment of Section 2.19 shall be effective without the written consent of each Granting Lender, all or any part of whose outstanding Advances is being funded by an SPC at the time of such amendment.
provided
however
provided
further
provided
further
.
Section 8.02
Notices, Etc
(a) . Unless otherwise expressly provided in this Agreement, all notices, requests, demands, directions and other communications provided for hereunder shall be in writing (including by facsimile transmission). All such written notices shall be mailed, faxed or delivered to the applicable address, facsimile number or (subject to Section 8.15) electronic mail address, and all notices and other communications expressly permitted hereunder to be given by telephone shall be made to the applicable telephone number, as follows:
General
 
(1) if to the Borrower or the Agent, to the address, facsimile number, electronic mail address or telephone number set forth below, or to such other address, facsimile number, electronic mail address or telephone number as shall be designated by such party in a notice to the other parties:
 
(2) if to any other Lender, to the address, facsimile number, electronic mail address or telephone number of its Domestic Lending Office as may be specified opposite its name on Schedule I hereto (or in the Assignment and Acceptance pursuant to which it became a Lender), or to such other address, facsimile number, electronic mail address or telephone number as shall be designated by such party in a notice to the Borrower and the Agent.
(b) . All such notices and other communications shall be deemed to be given or made upon the earlier to occur of (i) actual receipt by the relevant party hereto during the recipient's normal business hours (or if delivered after normal business hours shall be deemed to have been delivered on the next Business Day) and (ii) (A) if delivered by hand or by courier, when signed for by or on behalf of the relevant party hereto; (B) if delivered by mail, four Business Days after deposit in the United States mail, postage prepaid; (C) if delivered by facsimile, when sent and receipt has been confirmed by telephone; and (D) if delivered by electronic mail (subject to the provisions of Section 8.15(c)) when received; , , that notices and other communications to the Agent pursuant to Article II or VII shall not be effective until actually received by such Person. In no event shall a voicemail message be effective as a notice, communication or confirmation hereunder.
Timing
provided
however
(c) . This Agreement and, except as otherwise specified herein, any documents delivered pursuant to or in connection with this Agreement may be transmitted and/or signed by facsimile or other electronic delivery. The effectiveness of any such documents and signatures shall, subject to applicable law, have the same force and effect as manually-signed originals and shall be binding on the Borrower, the Agent and the Lenders. The Agent may also require that any such documents and signatures be confirmed by a manually-signed original thereof; , , that the failure to request or deliver the same shall not limit the effectiveness of any facsimile document or signature.
Effectiveness of Facsimile Documents and Signatures
provided
however
(d) . The Agent and the Lenders shall be entitled to rely and act upon any notices purportedly given by or on behalf of the Borrower even if (i) such notices were not made in a manner specified herein, were
Reliance by the Agent and Lenders
 
incomplete or were not preceded or followed by any other form of notice specified herein, or (ii) the terms thereof, as understood by the recipient, varied from any confirmation thereof. The Borrower shall indemnify each indemnified person from all losses, costs, expenses and liabilities resulting from the reliance by such Person on each notice purportedly given by or on behalf of the Borrower. All telephonic notices to and other communications with the Agent may be recorded by the Agent, and each of the parties hereto hereby consents to such recording.
No failure on the part of any Lender or the Agent to exercise, and no delay in exercising, any right hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof; nor shall any single or partial exercise of any such right preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right. The remedies herein provided are cumulative and not exclusive of any remedies provided by law.
Section 8.03
.
No Waiver; Remedies
Section 8.04
.
Costs, Expenses and Indemnification
(a) The Borrower agrees to pay promptly on demand all reasonable costs and out-of-pocket expenses (other than Taxes, for which the provisions of Section 2.12 shall apply instead) of Agent (in its capacity as such) in connection with the preparation, execution, delivery, administration, syndication, modification and amendment of this Agreement, and the other documents to be delivered hereunder or thereunder, including, without limitation, the reasonable fees and out-of-pocket expenses of a single counsel for the Agent with respect thereto and with respect to advising the Agent as to its rights and responsibilities hereunder. The Borrower further agrees to pay promptly on demand all costs and expenses of the Agent and of each Lender, if any (including, without limitation, reasonable counsel fees and out-of-pocket expenses), in connection with the enforcement (whether through negotiations, legal proceedings or otherwise) of this Agreement and the other documents to be delivered hereunder, including, without limitation, reasonable counsel fees and out-of-pocket expenses in connection with the enforcement of rights under this Section 8.04(a).
(b) If any payment of principal of any Eurodollar Rate Advance extended to the Borrower is made other than on the last day of the interest period for such Advance, as a result of a payment pursuant to Section 2.06 or acceleration of the maturity of the Advances pursuant to Section 6.01 or for any other reason, the Borrower shall, upon demand by any Lender (with a copy of such demand to the Agent), pay to the Agent for the account of such Lender any amounts required to compensate such Lender for any additional losses, costs or expenses which it may reasonably incur as a result of such payment, including, without limitation, any loss, cost or expense incurred by reason of the liquidation or reemployment of deposits or other funds acquired by any Lender to fund or maintain such Advance.
(c) The Borrower agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Agent (in its capacity as such), each Lender and each director, officer, employee, agent, attorney and affiliate of the Agent and each Lender (each an "") in connection with any expenses, losses, claims, damages or liabilities to which the Agent, a Lender or such indemnified persons may become subject (other than Taxes, for which the provisions of
indemnified person
 
Section 2.12 shall apply instead), insofar as such expenses, losses, claims, damages or liabilities (or actions or other proceedings commenced or threatened in respect thereof) arise out of the transactions referred to in this Agreement or arise from any use or intended use of the proceeds of the Advances, or in any way arise out of activities of the Borrower that violate Environmental Laws, and to reimburse the Agent, each Lender and each indemnified person, upon their demand, for any reasonable legal or other out-of-pocket expenses incurred in connection with investigating, defending or participating in any such loss, claim, damage, liability, or action or other proceeding, whether commenced or threatened (whether or not the Agent, such Lender or any such person is a party to any action or proceeding out of which any such expense arises); that nothing in this shall obligate the Borrower to pay the normal expenses of the Agent in the administration of this Agreement in the absence of pending or threatened litigation or other proceedings or the claims or threatened claims of others and then only to the extent arising therefrom. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Borrower shall have no obligation hereunder to an indemnified person with respect to indemnified liabilities which have resulted from the gross negligence, bad faith or willful misconduct of such indemnified person, as determined by a final and nonappealable judgment by a count of competent jurisdiction, or which have resulted from a claim brought by the Borrower against an indemnified person for breach in bad faith of such indemnified person's obligations hereunder in which the Borrower has obtained a final and nonappealable judgment in its favor on such claim as determined by a court of competent jurisdiction. In the case of an investigation, litigation or proceeding to which the indemnity in this paragraph applies, such indemnity shall be effective whether or not such investigation, litigation or proceeding is brought by the Borrower, any of the Borrower's equity holders or creditors, an indemnified person or any other person or entity, whether or not an indemnified person is otherwise a party thereto.
provided
Section 8.04(c)
(d) To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, the Borrower shall not assert, and the Borrower hereby waives, any claim against any indemnified person, on any theory of liability, for special, indirect, consequential or punitive damages (as opposed to direct or actual damages) arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of this Agreement, or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby, the transactions contemplated hereby, any Advance or the use of the proceeds thereof.
Upon (i) the occurrence and during the continuance of any Event of Default and (ii) the making of the request or the granting of the consent specified by Section 6.01 to authorize the Agent to declare the Advances due and payable pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.01, each Lender is hereby authorized at any time and from time to time, to the fullest extent permitted by law, to set off and apply any and all deposits (time or demand, provisional or final, or general, but not special) at any time held and other indebtedness at any time owing by such Lender or any Affiliate thereof to or for the credit or the account of the Borrower against any and all of the obligations of the Borrower now or hereafter existing under this Agreement that are then due and payable, whether or not such Lender shall have made any demand under this Agreement, and each such Affiliate is hereby irrevocably authorized to permit such setoff and application. Each Lender agrees promptly to notify the Borrower after any such set-off and application made by such Lender, that the failure to give such notice shall not affect the validity of such set-off and application. The rights of each Lender under this Section are in addition to other rights and remedies (including, without limitation, other rights of set-off) which such Lender may have.
Section 8.05
.
Right of Set-off
provided
 
This Agreement shall be deemed to have been executed and delivered when it shall have been executed by the Borrower and the Agent and when the Agent shall have been notified by each Bank that such Bank has executed it and thereafter shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Borrower, the Agent and each Lender and their respective successors and permitted assigns, except that the Borrower shall not, except as permitted in Section 5.02(b), have the right to assign its rights or obligations hereunder or any interest herein without the prior written consent of all Lenders. This Agreement and the fee letter referred to in Section 2.04(b) constitute the entire contract among the parties relating to the subject matter hereof and supersede any and all previous oral agreements and understandings relating to the subject matter hereof.
Section 8.06
.
Binding Effect
.
Section 8.07
Assignments and Participations
(a) Each Lender may assign to one or more Eligible Assignees all or a portion of its rights and obligations under this Agreement (including, without limitation, all or a portion of its Commitment and the Advances owing to it); , , that (i) each such assignment shall be of a constant, and not a varying, percentage of all rights and obligations under this Agreement, (ii) after giving effect to any such assignment, (1) the assigning Lender shall no longer have any Commitment or (2) the amount of the Commitment of each of the assigning Lender and the Eligible Assignee party to such assignment (in each case determined as of the date of the Assignment and Acceptance with respect to such assignment) shall not be less than $5,000,000 and increments of $1,000,000 in excess thereof (iii) each such assignment shall be to an Eligible Assignee, and (iv) the parties to each such assignment shall execute and deliver to the Agent, for its acceptance and recording in the Register, an Assignment and Acceptance, and a processing and recordation fee of $3,500 (unless the assignor is a Lender and the assignee is an Affiliate such Lender, in which case no fee shall be required)). Upon such execution, delivery, acceptance and recording, from and after the effective date specified in each Assignment and Acceptance, (x) the assignee thereunder shall be a party hereto and, to the extent that rights and obligations hereunder have been assigned to it pursuant to such Assignment and Acceptance, have the rights and obligations of a Lender hereunder and (y) the Lender assignor thereunder shall, to the extent that rights and obligations hereunder have been assigned by it pursuant to such Assignment and Acceptance, relinquish its rights and be released from its obligations under this Agreement (and, in the case of an Assignment and Acceptance covering all or the remaining portion of an assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement, such Lender shall cease to be a party hereto). Any Lender may at any time (i) upon notice to the Borrower and the Agent, assign all or any portion of its rights hereunder to an Affiliate of such Lender or to another Lender or (ii) without notice to or consent of the Borrower or the Agent, pledge as security all or any portion of its rights hereunder, including to any Federal Reserve Bank; , that no such pledge or assignment shall release such Lender from any of its obligations hereunder.
provided
however
provided
 
(b) By executing and delivering an Assignment and Acceptance, the Lender assignor thereunder and the assignee thereunder confirm to and agree with each other and the other parties hereto as follows: (i) other than as provided in such Assignment and Acceptance, such assigning Lender makes no representation or warranty and assumes no responsibility with respect to any statements, warranties or representations made in or in connection with this Agreement or the execution, legality, validity, enforceability, genuineness, sufficiency or value of this Agreement or any other instrument or document furnished pursuant hereto; (ii) such assigning Lender makes no representation or warranty and assumes no responsibility with respect to the financial condition of the Borrower or the performance or observance by the Borrower of any of its obligations under this Agreement or any other instrument or document furnished pursuant hereto; (iii) such assignee confirms that it has received a copy of this Agreement, together with copies of the financial statements referred to in Section 4.01, and such other documents and information as it has deemed appropriate to make its own credit analysis and decision to enter into such Assignment and Acceptance; (iv) such assignee will, independently and without reliance upon the Agent, such assigning Lender or any other Lender and based on such documents and information as it shall deem appropriate at the time, continue to make its own credit decisions in taking or not taking action under this Agreement; (v) such assignee confirms that it is an Eligible Assignee; (vi) such assignee appoints and authorizes the Agent to take such action as agent on its behalf and to exercise such powers under this Agreement as are delegated to the Agent by the terms hereof, together with such powers as are reasonably incidental thereto; and (vii) such assignee agrees that it will perform in accordance with their terms all of the obligations which by the terms of this Agreement are required to be performed by it as a Lender.
(c) The Agent, acting solely for this purpose on the Borrower's behalf, shall maintain at its address referred to in Section 8.02 a copy of each Assignment and Acceptance delivered to and accepted by it and a register for the recordation of the names and addresses of the Lenders and the Commitment of, and, with respect to the Borrower, principal amount of the Advances owing to, each Lender from time to time (the ""). In addition, the Agent shall maintain on the Register information regarding the designation and revocation of designation of any Lender as a Defaulting Lender. The entries in the Register shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes, absent manifest error, and the Borrower, the Agent and the Lenders may treat each Person whose name is recorded in the Register as a Lender hereunder for all purposes of this Agreement. The Register shall be available for inspection by the Borrower or any Lender at any reasonable time and from time to time upon reasonable prior notice.
Register
Within five days of its receipt of an Assignment and Acceptance executed by an assigning Lender and an assignee representing that it is an Eligible Assignee (together with a processing and recordation fee of $3,500 with respect thereto (unless the assignor is a Lender and the assignee is an Affiliate such Lender, in which case no fee shall be required)) and upon consent of the Agent and, so long as no Potential Event of Default or Event of Default then exists and is continuing (and except for assignments to an Affiliate of the Lender or to another Lender), the Borrower thereto, which consents shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed, the Agent shall, if such Assignment and Acceptance has been completed and is in substantially the form of Exhibit B hereto, (1) accept such Assignment and Acceptance and (2) record the information contained therein in the Register. All communications with the Borrower with respect to such consent of the Borrower shall be sent pursuant to Section 8.02.
 
(d) Each Lender may sell participations to one or more banks or other entities in or to all or a portion of its rights and obligations under this Agreement (including, without limitation, all or a portion of its Commitment and the Advances owing to it; , , that (i) such Lender's obligations under this Agreement (including, without limitation, its Commitment to the Borrower hereunder) shall remain unchanged, (ii) such Lender shall remain solely responsible to the other parties hereto for the performance of such obligations, (iii) such Lender shall remain the holder of any such Advance for all purposes of this Agreement, (iv) the Borrower, the Agent and the other Lenders shall continue to deal solely and directly with such Lender in connection with such Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement, and (v) no Lender shall grant any participation under which the participant shall have rights to require such Lender to take or omit to take any action hereunder or approve any amendment to or waiver of this Agreement, except to the extent such amendment or waiver would reduce the interest rate or the amount of principal or fees applicable to Advances or the Commitment in which such participant is participating.
provided
however
(e) Any Lender may, in connection with any assignment or participation or proposed assignment or participation pursuant to this Section 8.07, disclose to the assignee or participant or proposed assignee or participant, any information relating to the Borrower furnished to such Lender by or on behalf of the Borrower; that, prior to any such disclosure, the assignee or Participant or proposed assignee or participant shall agree to preserve the confidentiality of any confidential information relating to the Borrower received by it from such Lender.
provided
This Agreement shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
Section 8.08
Governing Law
.
This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts and by different parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement.
Section 8.09
Execution in Counterparts
.
The Borrower irrevocably and unconditionally agrees that it will not commence any action, litigation or proceeding of any kind or description, whether in law or equity, whether in contract or in tort or otherwise, against the Agent or any Lender, or any Related Party of the foregoing in any way relating to this Agreement or the transactions relating hereto, in each case in any forum other than the courts of the State of New York sitting in New York County, and of the United States District Court of the Southern District of New York, and any appellate court from any thereof and each of the parties hereto irrevocably and unconditionally submits to the exclusive jurisdiction of such courts and agrees that all claims in respect of any such action, litigation or proceeding may be heard and determined in such New York State court or, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, in such federal court. Each of the parties hereto agrees that a final judgment in any such action, litigation or proceeding shall be conclusive and may be enforced in
Section 8.10
Consent to Jurisdiction; Waiver of Immunities
.
 
other jurisdictions by suit on the judgment or in any other manner provided by law. Nothing in this Agreement shall affect any right that the Agent or any Lender may otherwise have to bring any action or proceeding relating to this Agreement against the Borrower or its properties in the courts of any jurisdiction. The Borrower irrevocably and unconditionally waives, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, any objection that it may now or hereafter have to the laying of venue of any action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement in any court referred to in this Section. Each of the parties hereto hereby irrevocably waives, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, the defense of an inconvenient forum to the maintenance of such action or proceeding in any such court. Each party hereto irrevocably consents to service of process in the manner provided for notices in Section 8.02. Nothing in this Agreement will affect the right of any party hereto to serve process in any other manner permitted by applicable law.
THE BORROWER, THE BANKS, THE AGENT AND, BY ITS ACCEPTANCE OF THE BENEFITS HEREOF, OTHER LENDERS EACH HEREBY AGREES TO WAIVE ITS RESPECTIVE RIGHTS TO A JURY TRIAL OF ANY CLAIM OR CAUSE OF ACTION BASED UPON OR ARISING OUT OF THIS AGREEMENT. The scope of this waiver is intended to be all-encompassing of any and all disputes that may be filed in any court and that relate to the subject matter of this transaction, including without limitation contract claims, tort claims, breach of duty claims and all other common law and statutory claims. The Borrower, the Banks, the Agent and, by its acceptance of the benefits hereof, other Lenders each (i) acknowledges that this waiver is a material inducement for the Borrower, the Lenders and the Agent to enter into a business relationship, that the Borrower, the Lenders and the Agent have already relied on this waiver in entering into this Agreement or accepting the benefits thereof, as the case may be, and that each will continue to rely on this waiver in their related future dealings and (ii) further warrants and represents that each has reviewed this waiver with its legal counsel, and that each knowingly and voluntarily waives its jury trial rights following consultation with legal counsel. In the event of litigation, this Agreement may be filed as a written consent to a trial by the court.
Section 8.11
Waiver of Trial by Jury
.
THIS WAIVER IS IRREVOCABLE, MEANING THAT IT MAY NOT BE MODIFIED EITHER ORALLY OR IN WRITING, AND THIS WAIVER SHALL APPLY TO ANY SUBSEQUENT AMENDMENTS, RENEWALS, SUPPLEMENTS OR MODIFICATIONS TO THIS AGREEMENT.
. All agreements, representations and warranties made in this Agreement shall survive the execution and delivery of this Agreement and any increase in the Commitments under this Agreement.
Section 8.12
Survival of Warranties
. In case any provision in or obligation under this Agreement shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any jurisdiction, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions or obligations, or of such provision or obligation in any other jurisdiction, shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
Section 8.13
Severability
. Section and subsection headings in this Agreement are included herein for convenience of reference only and shall not constitute a part of this Agreement for any other purpose or be given any substantive effect.
Section 8.14
Headings
 
.
Section 8.15
Website Communications
(a) The Borrower hereby agrees that it will provide to the Agent all information, documents and other materials that it is obligated to furnish to the Agent pursuant to this Agreement, including, without limitation, all notices, requests, financial statements, financial and other reports, certificates and other information materials, but excluding any such communication that (i) relates to a request for a new, or a conversion of an existing, borrowing or other extension of credit (including any election of an interest rate or interest period relating thereto), (ii) relates to the payment of any principal or other amount due under this Agreement prior to the scheduled date therefor, (iii) provides notice of any default or event of default under this Agreement or (iv) is required to be delivered to satisfy any condition precedent to the effectiveness of this Agreement and/or any borrowing or other extension of credit thereunder (all such non-excluded communications being referred to herein collectively as ""), by transmitting the Communications in an electronic/soft medium in a format acceptable to the Agent to lblat@us.mufg.jp (with a copy to: AgencyDesk@us.mufg.jp) or as otherwise specified in Section 5.01(b). In addition, the Borrower agrees to continue to provide the Communications to the Agent in the manner specified in this Agreement but only to the extent requested by the Agent.
Communications
(b) The Borrower further agrees that the Agent may make the Communications available to the Lenders by posting the Communications on Intralinks or a substantially similar electronic transmission systems (the "").
Platform
THE PLATFORM IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND "AS AVAILABLE". THE AGENT PARTIES (AS DEFINED BELOW) DO NOT WARRANT THE ACCURACY OR COMPLETENESS OF THE COMMUNICATIONS, OR THE ADEQUACY OF THE PLATFORM AND EXPRESSLY DISCLAIM LIABILITY FOR ERRORS OR OMISSIONS IN THE COMMUNICATIONS. NO WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR STATUTORY, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS OR FREEDOM FROM VIRUSES OR OTHER CODE DEFECTS, IS MADE BY THE AGENT PARTIES IN CONNECTION WITH THE COMMUNICATIONS OR THE PLATFORM. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AGENT OR ANY OF ITS AFFILIATES OR ANY OF THEIR RESPECTIVE OFFICERS, DIRECTORS, EMPLOYEES, AGENTS, ADVISORS OR REPRESENTATIVES (COLLECTIVELY, "AGENT PARTIES") HAVE ANY LIABILITY TO THE BORROWER, ANY LENDER OR ANY OTHER PERSON OR ENTITY FOR DAMAGES OF ANY KIND, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, DIRECT OR INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, LOSSES OR EXPENSES (WHETHER IN TORT, CONTRACT OR OTHERWISE) ARISING OUT OF THE BORROWER'S OR THE AGENT'S TRANSMISSION OF COMMUNICATIONS THROUGH THE INTERNET, EXCEPT TO THE EXTENT THE LIABILITY OF ANY AGENT PARTY IS FOUND IN A FINAL NON-APPEALABLE JUDGMENT BY A COURT OF COMPETENT JURISDICTION TO HAVE RESULTED PRIMARILY FROM SUCH AGENT PARTY'S GROSS NEGLIGENCE OR WILLFUL MISCONDUCT.
 
(c) The Agent agrees that the receipt of the Communications by the Agent at its e-mail address set forth above shall constitute effective delivery of the Communications to the Agent for purposes of this Agreement. Each Lender agrees that notice to it (as provided in the next sentence) specifying that the Communications have been posted to the Platform shall constitute effective delivery of the Communications to such Lender for purposes of this Agreement. Each Lender agrees to notify the Agent in writing (including by electronic communication) from time to time of such Lender's e-mail address to which the foregoing notice may be sent by electronic transmission and that the foregoing notice may be sent to such e-mail address.
Nothing herein shall prejudice the right of the Borrower or any Lender to give any notice or other communication pursuant to this Agreement in any other manner specified in this Agreement.
. Each Lender that is subject to the Act (as hereinafter defined) and the Agent (for itself and not on behalf of any Lender) hereby notifies the Borrower that pursuant to the requirements of the USA Patriot Act (Title III of Pub. L. 107-56 (signed into law October 26, 2001)) (the ""), it is required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies the Borrower, which information includes the name and address of the Borrower and other information that will allow such Lender or the Agent, as applicable, to identify the Borrower in accordance with the Act.
Section 8.16
USA PATRIOT Act Notice
Act
. Each of the Agent and the Lenders agrees to maintain the confidentiality of the Information (as defined below), except that Information may be disclosed (a) to its Affiliates and to its and its Affiliates' respective managers, administrators, trustees, partners, directors, officers, employees, agents, advisors and other representatives (it being understood that the Persons to whom such disclosure is made will be informed of the confidential nature of such Information and instructed to keep such Information confidential), (b) to the extent requested by any regulatory authority purporting to have jurisdiction over it or its Affiliates (including any self-regulatory authority, such as the National Association of Insurance Commissioners), (c) to the extent required by applicable laws or regulations or by any subpoena or similar legal process, provided, however, that, except in the case of disclosure to bank regulators or examiners in accordance with customary banking practices, if legally permitted written notice of each instance in which Information is required or requested to be disclosed shall be furnished to the Borrower not less than 30 days prior to the expected date of such disclosure or, if 30 days' notice is not practicable under the circumstances, as promptly as practicable under the circumstances, (d) to any other party hereto, (e) in connection with the exercise of any remedies hereunder or any action or proceeding relating to this Agreement or the enforcement of rights hereunder, (f) subject to an agreement containing provisions substantially the same as those of this Section 8.17, to (i) any assignee of or participant in, or any prospective assignee of or participant in, any of its rights or obligations under this Agreement or (ii) any actual or prospective party (or its managers, administrators, trustees, partners, directors, officers, employees, agents, advisors and other representatives) to any swap or derivative or similar transaction under which payments are to be made by reference to the Borrower and its obligations, this Agreement or payments hereunder, (iii) any rating agency, or (iv) the CUSIP Service Bureau or any similar organization, (g) with the consent of the Borrower or (h) to the extent such Information (x) becomes publicly available other than as a result of a breach of this Section or (y) becomes available to the Agent or any Lender or any of their respective Affiliates on a nonconfidential basis from a source other than the Borrower.
Section 8.17
Confidentiality
 
For purposes of this Section, "" means all information received from the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries relating to the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries or any of their respective businesses, other than any such information that is available to the Agent or any Lender on a nonconfidential basis prior to disclosure by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, that, in the case of information received from the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries after the date hereof, such information is clearly identified at the time of delivery as confidential. Any Person required to maintain the confidentiality of Information as provided in this Section 8.17 shall be considered to have complied with its obligation to do so if such Person has exercised the same degree of care to maintain the confidentiality of such Information as such Person would accord to its own confidential information.
Information
provided
. The Borrower acknowledges that the Agent, each Lender and their Affiliates (collectively, solely for purposes of this paragraph, the ""), each Lender Party is acting pursuant to a contractual relationship on an arm's length basis, and the parties hereto do not intend that any Lender Party act or be responsible as a fiduciary to the Borrower, its management, stockholders, creditors or any other person. The Borrower and each Lender Party hereby expressly disclaims any fiduciary relationship and agrees they are each responsible for making their own independent judgments with respect to any transactions entered into between them. The Borrower also hereby acknowledges that no Lender Party has advised nor is advising the Borrower as to any legal, accounting, regulatory or tax matters, and that the Borrower is consulting its own advisors concerning such matters to the extent it deems appropriate.
Section 8.18
No Fiduciary Duty
Lender Parties
 
the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed and delivered by their respective authorized officers as of the date first written above.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF,
 
 
 
 
 


