FILE:CSC/CSC-8K-20120907141310.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
Item 8.01. Other Information.
Reference is hereby made to Computer Sciences Corporations (the Company) Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 30, 2012 and its Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 29, 2012 for previously disclosed information concerning a class action complaint styled
In re Computer Sciences Corporation Securities Litigation
(No. 1:11-cv-610-TSE-IDD). The disclosures set forth in this Form 8-K supplement and update the Companys prior disclosures concerning such matters as set forth in such prior filings.
As previously disclosed, on September 22, 2011, the lead plaintiff filed a motion for class certification with the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia, and on October 18, 2011, the Company and the other defendants filed a motion to dismiss the case with the court. On August 29, 2012, the court issued a Memorandum Opinion and Order granting in part and denying in part the motion to dismiss. The court granted the motion to dismiss with respect to the plaintiffs claims in connection with alleged misrepresentations and omissions concerning the Companys operations in the Nordic Region. The court granted in part and denied in part the motion to dismiss with respect to the plaintiffs claims in connection with alleged misrepresentations and omissions concerning the Companys internal controls and the Companys contract with the U.K.s National Health Service. The court also granted the lead plaintiff leave to amend its complaint by September 12, 2012, and maintained the stay of discovery until the sufficiency of the amended complaint has been decided. The court further denied lead plaintiffs motion for class certification without prejudice.
The defendants deny the allegations and intend to defend their position vigorously. The Company is unable to estimate any possible loss or range of loss associated with this matter at this time.
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereto duly authorized.
            


