FILE:M/M-8K-20051024172900.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
See Notes to Unaudited Pro Forma Consolidated Balance Sheet
Notes Relating to Merger Adjustments
(a) Certain reclassifications have been made to the historical presentation of May to conform to the presentation used in the unaudited pro forma consolidated balance sheet.
(b) The consideration payable to May stockholders in connection with the Merger consisted of 0.3115 shares of Federated common stock and $17.75 in cash for each May share of common stock.
Under the purchase method of accounting, the total consideration payable in the Merger will be allocated to May's tangible and intangible assets and liabilities based on their estimated fair values as of the date of the Merger. The total consideration is calculated for this purpose as follows:
The unaudited pro forma consolidated balance sheet reflects the application of $1,445 million of Federated and May cash and $4,338 million of commercial paper borrowings to the payment of cash consideration payable to May stockholders and estimated transaction costs. For purposes of the unaudited pro forma consolidated financial statements, the commercial paper is assumed to bear interest at the rate of 3.81% per annum. Pending the issuance of the commercial paper, access to May's cash and the receipt of additional cash from operations, Federated borrowed $4,580 million under its 364-day bridge credit agreement, which borrowing was fully repaid by September 1, 2005.
The total consideration is preliminarily allocated as follow:
Federated has not completed an assessment of the fair values of assets and liabilities of May and has not finalized its plans regarding the integration of May's businesses with Federated's businesses. Although certain assets are expected to be sold, with the exception of the May Credit Assets, the May stores included in the previously announced divestiture plan and the bridal group business, the identification of such assets will not be made until Federated's review of May's assets has been completed. Federated expects that the final purchase price allocation will include adjustments to the fair values of depreciable tangible assets, identifiable intangible assets (some of which will have indefinite lives) and liabilities, including the establishment of any potential liabilities associated with business integration plans, sales of assets or operations, and termination and change in control benefits. To the extent such assessments indicate that the fair value of t he assets and liabilities differ from their net book values, such differences would be allocated to those assets and liabilities.
For purposes of the allocation above, Federated has allocated $785 million to property and equipment. This allocation has been preliminarily assigned to land and buildings and improvements. The purchase price was allocated to property and equipment, with the exception of recent May acquisitions, using an industry-specific income capitalization approach. Furniture, fixtures and equipment, which generally have short lives and relatively modest residual values were determined to have fair values that approximated book values. The preliminary allocation to property and equipment included in these pro forma financial statements is as follows:
For purposes of the allocation above, Federated has allocated $260 million to identifiable intangible assets. The values assigned to tradenames and customer relationships were estimated using relative value comparisons with prior acquisitions adjusted for the anticipated utility to Federated. The preliminary allocation to identifiable intangible assets included in these pro forma financial statements is as follows:
(c) To reflect the reclassification of the bridal group business acquired in the Merger to discontinued operations. On September 20, 2005, Federated announced its intention to dispose of this acquired business.
Notes Relating to Credit Sale Adjustments
(A) To reflect the pay down of Merger-related indebtedness with the cash reserve associated with debt secured by Federated's proprietary credit card receivables portfolio.
(B) To reflect the sale of Federated's proprietary and non-proprietary credit card receivables portfolios (including credit balance reclassifications).
(C) To reflect the elimination of debt secured by Federated's proprietary and non-proprietary credit card receivables portfolios.
(D) To reflect the pay down of Merger-related indebtedness with the net cash proceeds resulting from the sale of Federated's proprietary and non-proprietary credit card receivables portfolios.
(E) To reflect the estimated income taxes directly related to the sale of Federated's proprietary and non-proprietary credit card receivables portfolios.
(F) To reflect the estimated after-tax gain on the sale of Federated's proprietary and non-proprietary credit card receivables portfolios.
Notes Relating to Merger Adjustments
(a) Certain reclassifications have been made to the historical presentation of May to conform to the presentation used in the unaudited pro forma consolidated condensed statement of income. May's historical buying and occupancy costs of $987 million were reclassified from cost of sales to selling, general and administrative expenses.
(b) Represents the elimination of non-recurring charges directly related to the Merger, including $57 million of accelerated stock compensation expense triggered by shareholder approval of the Merger.
(c) Represents the elimination of compensation expense for employee stock options recorded by May under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation," to conform to Federated's accounting principles. Federated accounts for its stock-based employee compensation plan in accordance with Accounting Principles Board ("APB") Opinion No. 25 and related interpretations, so that no stock-based employee compensation cost related to stock options is reflected in net income.
(d) Represents an increase in depreciation and amortization expense resulting from the adjustment to May's property and equipment and identifiable intangible assets based on the adjustment of such assets to their fair value as described in Note b of the Notes to Unaudited Pro Forma Consolidated Balance Sheet. The increase in depreciation and amortization expense has been estimated as follows:
   The unaudited pro forma consolidated financial statements reflect a preliminary allocation to tangible assets, liabilities, goodwill and other intangible assets. The final purchase price allocation may result in a different allocation for tangible and intangible assets than that presented in these unaudited pro forma consolidated financial statements. An increase or decrease in the amount or purchase price allocated to amortizable assets would impact the amount of annual amortization expense. The following table shows the effect on pro forma net income and diluted earnings per share for every $100 million of purchase price allocated to property and equipment and amortizing intangible assets at a range of weighted-average useful lives:
 
(e) Represents the increase in interest expense as a result of the cash funding of the Merger as described in Note b of the Notes to Unaudited Pro Forma Consolidated Balance Sheet.
(f) Represents the decrease in interest expense resulting from the adjustment of May's long-term debt to its fair value as described in Note b of the Notes to Unaudited Pro Forma Consolidated Balance Sheet. The difference between the fair value and recorded value of each borrowing is amortized as a reduction to interest expense over the remaining term of the borrowing.
(g) Represents the shares of Federated Common Stock issued to May stockholders in connection with the Merger as described in Note b of the Notes to Unaudited Pro Forma Consolidated Balance Sheet.
(h) Represents the impact of the dilutive May stock options assumed by Federated as described in Note b of the Notes to Unaudited Pro Forma Consolidated Balance Sheet.
(i) To reflect the reclassification of the bridal group business acquired in the Merger to discontinued operations.
Notes Relating to Credit Sale Adjustments
(A) To reflect the net effect of the elimination of historical operating results of Federated's proprietary and non-proprietary credit card receivables portfolios and the recordation of estimated operating profit under the Program Agreement
(B) To reflect the elimination of historical interest expense related to debt secured by Federated's proprietary and non-proprietary credit card receivables portfolios.
(C) To reflect the elimination of interest expense related to the pay down of acquisition related borrowings with the proceeds from the sale of Federated's proprietary and non-proprietary credit card receivables portfolios.
Notes Relating to Merger Adjustments
(a) Certain reclassifications have been made to the historical presentation of Federated to conform to the classifications of such amounts for the most recent period.
(b) Historical May results have been adjusted to reflect May's acquisition of the Marshall Field's department store group as if it had occurred as of February 1, 2004 rather than effective July 31, 2004. See the unaudited pro forma consolidated statement of income of May for the fiscal year ended January 29, 2005 included elsewhere in this report.
(c) Represents the elimination of compensation expense for employee stock options recorded by May under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation," to conform to Federated's accounting principles. Federated accounts for its stock-based employee compensation plan in accordance with Accounting Principles Board ("APB") Opinion No. 25 and related interpretations, so that no stock-based employee compensation cost related to stock options is reflected in net income.
(d) Represents the impact on operating income of the adjustment of May's merchandise inventories to fair value as described in Note b of the Notes to Unaudited Pro Forma Consolidated Balance Sheet.
(e) Represents an increase in depreciation and amortization expense resulting from the adjustment to May's property and equipment and identifiable intangible assets based on the adjustment of such assets to their fair value as described in Note b of the Notes to Unaudited Pro Forma Consolidated Balance Sheet. The increase in depreciation and amortization expense has been estimated as follows:
 
   The unaudited pro forma consolidated financial statements reflect a preliminary allocation to tangible assets, liabilities, goodwill and other intangible assets. The final purchase price allocation may result in a different allocation for tangible and intangible assets than that presented in these unaudited pro forma consolidated financial statements. An increase or decrease in the amount or purchase price allocated to amortizable assets would impact the amount of annual amortization expense. The following table shows the effect on pro forma net income and diluted earnings per share for every $100 million of purchase price allocated to property and equipment and amortizing intangible assets at a range of weighted-average useful lives:
(f) Represents the increase in interest expense as a result of the cash funding of the Merger as described in Note b of the Notes to Unaudited Pro Forma Consolidated Balance Sheet.
(g) Represents the decrease in interest expense resulting from the adjustment of May's long-term debt to its fair value as described in Note b of the Notes to Unaudited Pro Forma Consolidated Balance Sheet. The difference between the fair value and recorded value of each borrowing is amortized as a reduction to interest expense over the remaining term of the borrowing.
(h) Represents the shares of Federated Common Stock issued to May stockholders in connection with the Merger as described in Note b of the Notes to Unaudited Pro Forma Consolidated Balance Sheet.
(i) Represents the impact of the dilutive May stock options assumed by Federated as described in Note b of the Notes to Unaudited Pro Forma Consolidated Balance Sheet.
(j) To reflect the reclassification of the bridal group business acquired in the Merger to discontinued operations. Selling, general and administrative expenses included $3 million of integration costs related to a prior acquisition.
Notes Relating to Credit Sale Adjustments
(A) To reflect the net effect of the elimination of historical operating results of Federated's proprietary and non-proprietary credit card receivables portfolios and the recordation of estimated operating profit under the Program Agreement.
(B) To reflect the elimination of historical interest expense related to debt secured by Federated's proprietary and non-proprietary credit card receivables portfolios.
(C) To reflect the elimination of interest expense related to the pay down of acquisition related borrowings with the proceeds from the sale of Federated's proprietary and non-proprietary credit card receivables portfolios.
Notes:
(a) Certain reclassifications have been made to the historical presentation of May to conform to the presentation used in the Federated Unaudited Pro Forma Consolidated Statement of Income. May's historical buying and occupancy costs of $1,877 million were reclassified from cost of sales to selling, general and administrative expenses.
(b) Adjustments give effect to the results of operations for the Marshall Field's department store group for the 26 weeks ended July 31, 2004 as if May had acquired the Marshall Field's department store group as of February 1, 2004, including pro forma adjustments to reflect depreciation and amortization using the asset values recognized after applying purchase accounting adjustments and interest expense on borrowings used to finance the acquisition. May acquired Marshall Field's department store group effective July 31, 2004 and included Marshall Field's results of operations in May's consolidated financial statements only from and after that date.
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 10.1
    This SECOND AMENDMENT TO PURCHASE, SALE AND SERVICING TRANSFER AGREEMENT, dated as of June 1, 2005, (this "") is made and entered into as of October 24, 2005,
Amendment
by and among Federated Department Stores, Inc., a Delaware corporation (""), FDS Bank, a federally-chartered stock savings bank (""), Prime II Receivables Corporation, a Delaware corporation (""), Macy's Department Stores, Inc., an Ohio corporation and a wholly-owned subsidiary of FDS (""), Bloomingdale's, Inc., an Ohio corporation and a wholly-owned subsidiary of FDS (""), and Citibank, N.A., a national banking association (the "").
FDS
FDS Bank
Prime II
Macy's
Bloomingdale's
Purchaser
    WHEREAS, FDS, FDS Bank, Prime II and Purchaser are parties to that certain Purchase, Sale and Servicing Transfer Agreement dated as of June 1, 2005, as amended by the letter agreement (the "") dated August 22, 2005 (the "");
First Amendment
Purchase Agreement
    WHEREAS, the parties hereto have agreed that Macy's and Bloomingdale's shall be parties to the Purchase Agreement and to make certain other changes to the Purchase Agreement as set forth herein; and
    WHEREAS, the parties hereto desire to amend the Purchase Agreement in accordance with Section 13.4 of the Purchase Agreement.
    NOW, THEREFORE, for good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto, intending to be legally bound, agree as follows:
Capitalized terms used without definition in this Amendment have the meanings assigned to them in the Purchase Agreement.
        1. .
Defined Terms
        2. .
Amendment of Section 1.1
            (a) The definition of "Charged Off Accounts" in Section 1.1 of the Purchase Agreement is
hereby amended by replacing such definition in its entirety with the following definition:
"" means, collectively, all Credit Card Accounts that (a) would constitute FDS Accounts, but for clause () of the definition of FDS Accounts, (b) would constitute GE/Macy's Accounts but for clause () of the definition of GE/Macy's Accounts, and (c) would constitute May Accounts but for clause (ii) of the definition of May Accounts.
Charged Off Accounts
iii
iii
            (b) The definition of "Credit Card Account" in Section 1.1 of the Purchase Agreement is hereby amended by adding the words "or an Employee Account" immediately after the words "which is recorded as an Account" and immediately before the words "on the computer system".
            (c) The following definition is hereby added to Section 1.1 of the Purchase Agreement immediately before the defined term "Employees":
"" has the meaning set forth in the Program Agreement.
Employee Accounts
            (d) The definition of "FDS Account" in Section 1.1 of the Purchase Agreement is hereby amended by replacing such definition in its entirety with the following definition:
"" means any Credit Card Account that exists and is owned by FDS or one of its Subsidiaries as of the First Cut-Off Time, other than (i) GE/Macy's Account or May Account and () any Credit Card Account that, as of the First Cut-Off Time, has been (or should have been) charged off in accordance with the Sellers' standard policies and procedures as in effect on the date of this Agreement.
FDS Account
any
any
, (ii) any Employee Account
iii
            (e) Clause (2) of the definition of "FDS Assets" in Section 1.1 of the Purchase Agreement is hereby amended by replacing such clause in its entirety with the following:
, the Gross Receivables (other than Prime Securitization Receivables) on the FDS Accounts;
(2) as of the First Cut-Off Time
and the Employee Accounts that but for clause (ii) of the definition of FDS Account would be FDS Accounts
            (f) The definition of "First Cut-Off Time" in Section 1.1 of the Purchase Agreement is hereby amended by replacing such definition in its entirety with the following definition:
"" means the close of business of the Sellers on the date that is one day prior to the First Closing Date. At least two Business Days prior to the First Closing Date, the parties hereto shall agree upon the time zone cut-offs and systemic cut-off procedures applicable to the First Cut-Off Time.
First Cut-Off Time
            (g) The definition of "GE/Macy's Account" in Section 1.1 of the Purchase Agreement is hereby amended by replacing such definition in its entirety with the following definition:
"" means a Credit Card Account owned by GE Bank or one of its Affiliates as of the Second Cut-Off Time and governed by the GE/Macy's Program Agreement that exists as of the Second Cut-Off Time, other than (i) May Account (ii) any Credit Card Account that, as of the Second Cut-Off Time, has been (or should have been) charged off in accordance with the standard policies and procedures of GE Bank as in effect as of the date of this Agreement.
GE/Macy's Account
any
,
) any Employee Account and (iii
            (h) Clause (2) of the definition of "GE/Macy's Assets" in Section 1.1 of the Purchase Agreement is hereby amended by replacing such clause in its entirety with the following:
, the Gross Receivables on the GE/Macy's Accounts ;
(2) as of the Second Cut-Off Time
and the Employee Accounts that but for clause (ii) of the definition of GE/Macy's Account would be GE/Macy's Accounts
            (i) The definition of "Gross Receivables" in Section 1.1 of the Purchase Agreement is hereby amended by replacing such definition in its entirety with the following definition:
"" means amounts owing (net of credit balances) to the Sellers from Cardholders with respect to Accounts including outstanding loans, cash advances, balance consolidation receivables and other extensions of credit, accrued finance charges and late charges, whether or not posted, and any other accrued fees, charges and interest assessed on such Accounts, whether or not posted).
Gross Receivables
and Employee Accounts (in each case,
Accounts and Employee
            (j) The definition of "May Account" in Section 1.1 of the Purchase Agreement is hereby amended by replacing such definition in its entirety with the following definition:
"" means a Credit Card Account owned by FDS or a Subsidiary of FDS prior to the Third Closing and associated with a retail division of May Co. as conducted as of the closing of May Merger (or a successor to such business as conducted by FDS and its Subsidiaries following the May Merger) that exists as of the Third Cut-Off Time, other than any Credit Card Account that, as of the Third Cut-Off Time, has been (or should have been) charged off in accordance with May Bank's or the Sellers' standard policies and procedures as in effect on the date of this Agreement.
May Account
(i) any Employee Account and (ii)
            (k) Clause (2) of the definition of "May Assets" in Section 1.1 of the Purchase Agreement is hereby amended by replacing such clause in its entirety with the following:
, the Gross Receivables on the May Accounts
(2) as of the Third Cut-Off Time
and the Employee Accounts that but for clause (i) of the definition of May Account would be May Accounts;
Section 2.1 of the Purchase Agreement is hereby amended by replacing such Section in its entirety with the following:
        3. .
Amendment to Section 2.1
On the terms and subject to the conditions of this Agreement, at the First Closing and effective from and after the First Closing Date, the Sellers shall sell, convey and assign (or cause their Subsidiaries to sell, convey and assign) to the Purchaser, or in the case of the Prime Stock, to an Affiliate of the Purchaser, free and clear of all Liens, except Permissible Liens, and the Purchaser or an Affiliate of the Purchaser shall purchase, the FDS Assets and the Prime Stock. Immediately following receipt of the FDS Assets, the Purchaser shall transfer, contribute or otherwise assign to CEBA Bank the FDS Assets other than those assets described in clauses (2) and (8) of the definition of FDS Assets and clause (13) of such definition to the extent relating principally to the assets listed in clauses (2) and (8) of such definition.
Section 2.4(a) of the Purchase Agreement is hereby amended by replacing such Section in its entirety with the following:
        4. .
Amendment to Section 2.4
(a) The closing (the "") of the purchase and sale of the FDS Assets and the Prime Stock and the assumption of the FDS Liabilities hereunder (collectively, the "") shall take place at the offices of Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP, 425 Lexington Avenue, New York, New York, or by facsimile transmission on October 24, 2005 or at such other date or location as the parties hereto jointly designate in writing (the "").
First Closing
First Purchase and Assumption
First Closing Date
. Clauses (1) and (2) of Section 5.1(l) of the Purchase Agreement are hereby amended by replacing such clauses in their entirety as follows:
        5.
Amendment of Section 5.1(l)
(1) FDS Bank, Prime or Prime II is the sole owner of and has good and marketable title to the FDS Accounts, the Gross Receivables on the FDS Accounts and the Prime Securitization Assets (subject in each case to the rights, claims and interests arising under the Securitization Documents). Upon the First Closing, subject to the filing of appropriate financing statements and all required continuations, amendments and replacements thereof, all right, title and interest in and to the FDS Accounts, the Gross Receivables on the FDS Accounts the Employee Accounts that but for clause (ii) of the definition of FDS Accounts would be FDS Accounts, and (Z) the Prime Securitization Assets shall vest or be vested in the Purchaser free and clear of all Liens other than Permissible Liens (and subject in each case to the rights, claims and interests arising under the Securitization Documents).
(X)
(Y)
the Employee Accounts that but for clause (ii) of the definition of FDS Accounts would be FDS Accounts, and (Z)
(X)
(Y)
and
(2) As of the Second Closing, FDS Bank shall be the sole owner of and have good and marketable title to the GE/Macy's Accounts and the Gross Receivables on the GE/Macy's Accounts. This Agreement shall, following the Second Closing Date, and subject to the filing of appropriate financing statements and all required continuations, amendments and replacements thereof, vest in the Purchaser all right, title and interest in and to the GE/Macy's Accounts and the Gross Receivables on the GE/Macy's Accounts, free and clear of all Liens other than Permissible Liens.
(Y)
(Z)
GE/Macy's Accounts and the Employee Accounts that but for clause (ii) of the definition of GE/Macy's Accounts would be
(Y)
(Z)
GE/Macy's Accounts and the Employee Accounts that but for clause (ii) of the definition of GE/Macy's Accounts would be
. Section 6.4(g) of the Purchase Agreement is hereby amended by replacing such Section in its entirety as follows:
        6.
Amendment of Section 6.4(g)
(g) The parties agree that if so requested by FDS not later than the earlier to occur of (i) fifteen (15) days prior to the First Closing Date and (ii) the date on which the Purchaser has received all Requisite Regulatory Approvals required to be obtained by it, the parties will negotiate in good faith with respect to such mutually acceptable changes to the terms of this Agreement and the Program Agreement as FDS may reasonably request in order to maintain the status of FDS Bank as a savings association in good standing with the Office of Thrift Supervision, including without limitation amending such agreements to provide that some or all of the Employee Accounts shall be retained following the First Closing at FDS Bank; , , that, in the event FDS Bank is liquidated or voluntarily dissolved, the parties agree that the Employee Accounts will be transferred to CEBA Bank prior to such liquidation or dissolution; ,, that n o such changes shall be made to the extent they would affect the ability of the Purchaser and the CEBA Bank to file a consolidated federal income Tax Return following the First Closing Date in accordance with Section 6.14 (d).
provided
however
provided
further however
Section 6.17 of the Purchase Agreement is hereby amended by replacing clause (ii) of the second sentence of such Section in its entirety with the following:
        7. .
Amendment of Section 6.17
(ii) prepare all daily and monthly reports required in accordance with the Prime Pooling and Servicing Agreement (it being understood that the annual servicer's certificate and the annual independent accounts' report otherwise required to be delivered under the Prime Pooling and Servicing Agreement shall be waived by Bank following repayment of the investor certificates issued by Prime Master Trust in full)
Section 7.1(i) of the Purchase Agreement is hereby amended by replacing the words "Participating Member in the VISA Partnership Program" with the words "member of the Cardholder Association".
        8. .
Amendment to Section 7.1(i)
Section 7.2(c) of the Purchase Agreement is hereby amended by replacing the words "each Sellers' behalf by an executive officer of each Seller" with "FDS's behalf by an executive officer of FDS".
        9. .
Amendment to Section 7.2(c)
Schedule 1.1(a) of the Purchase Agreement is hereby amended by replacing such Schedule in its entirety with Schedule 1.1(a) attached hereto.
        10. .
Amendment of Schedule 1.1(a)
Schedule 1.1(b)(1) of the Purchase Agreement is hereby amended by replacing such Schedule in its entirety with Schedule 1.1(b)(1) attached hereto.
        11. .
Amendment of Schedule 1.1(b)(1)
Schedule 1.1(b)(2) of the Purchase Agreement is hereby amended by replacing such Schedule in its entirety with Schedule 1.1(b)(2) attached hereto.
        12. .
Amendment of Schedule 1.1(b)(2)
        Schedule 1.1(b)(3) of the Purchase Agreement is hereby amended by replacing such Schedule in its entirety with Schedule 1.1(b)(3) attached hereto.
13. .
Amendment of Schedule 1.1(b)(3)
Schedule 5.1(c) of the Purchase Agreement is hereby amended by replacing such Schedule in its entirety with Schedule 5.1(c) attached hereto.
        14. .
Amendment of Schedule 5.1(c)
The parties hereto hereby agree that Macy's and Bloomingdale's shall be parties to the Purchase Agreement.
        15. .
Macy's and Bloomingdales
        16. .
Capacity; Authorization; Validity
            (a) FDS hereby represents and warrants to Bank as of the date hereof:
                (i) Each FDS Company has all necessary corporate or similar power and authority to (A) execute and enter into this Amendment and (B) perform the obligations required of such FDS Company hereunder and the other documents, instruments and agreements to be executed and delivered by such FDS Company pursuant hereto.
                (ii) The execution and delivery by the FDS Companies of this Amendment and all documents, instruments and agreements executed and delivered by the FDS Companies pursuant hereto, and the consummation by the FDS Companies of the transactions specified herein, have been duly and validly authorized and approved by all necessary corporate or similar actions of the FDS Companies.
                (iii) This Amendment (A) has been duly executed and delivered by the FDS Companies, (B) constitutes the valid and legally binding obligation of the FDS Companies, and (C) is enforceable against the FDS Companies in accordance with its terms (subject to applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, receivership or other laws affecting the rights of creditors generally and by general equity principles including those respecting the availability of specific performance).
            (b) Bank hereby represents and warrants to the Sellers as of the date hereof:
                (i) Bank has all necessary corporate or similar power and authority to (A) execute and enter into this Amendment and (B) perform the obligations required of it hereunder and the other documents, instruments and agreements to be executed and delivered by Bank pursuant hereto.
                (ii) The execution and delivery by Bank of this Amendment and all documents, instruments and agreements executed and delivered by Bank pursuant hereto, and the consummation by Bank of the transactions specified herein, has been duly and validly authorized and approved by all necessary corporate or similar actions of Bank.
                (iii) This Amendment (A) has been duly executed and delivered by Bank, (B) constitutes the valid and legally binding obligation of Bank and (C) is enforceable against Bank in accordance with its terms (subject to applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, receivership or other laws affecting the rights of creditors generally and by general equity principles including those respecting the availability of specific performance).
This Amendment is hereby incorporated into and made a part of the Purchase Agreement. Except as amended by this Amendment, all terms and provisions of the Purchase Agreement shall continue and remain in full force and effect and binding upon the parties thereto.
        17. .
Effect of Amendment
This Amendment shall be binding in all respects and inure to the benefit of the successors and permitted assigns of the parties hereto.
        18. .
Binding Effect
This Amendment and all rights and obligations hereunder, including matters of construction, validity and performance, shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware applicable to contracts made to be performed within such State and applicable federal law.
        19. .
Governing Law
This Amendment may be executed in any number of counterparts, all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument, but in making proof of this Amendment, it shall not be necessary to produce or account for more than one such counterpart. Any facsimile of an executed counterpart shall be deemed an original.
        20.
.
Counterparts/Facsimiles
         IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the parties hereto has caused this Amendment to be duly executed as of the date first above written.

EXHIBIT 10.2
        This FIRST AMENDMENT TO CREDIT CARD PROGRAM AGREEMENT, dated as of June 1, 2005, (this "") is made and entered into as of October 24, 2005, by and among Federated Department Stores, Inc., a Delaware corporation, (""), FDS Bank, a federally-chartered stock savings bank (""), FACS Group, Inc., an Ohio corporation ("", and together with FDS and FDS Bank, the ""), Macy's Department Stores, Inc., an Ohio corporation (""), Bloomingdale's, Inc., an Ohio corporation (""), and Citibank, N.A., a national banking association ("").
Amendment
FDS
FDS Bank
FACS
FDS Companies
Macy's
Bloomingdale's
Bank
        WHEREAS, the FDS Companies and Bank parties hereto are parties to that certain Credit Card Program Agreement dated as of June 1, 2005 (the "");
Program Agreement
        WHEREAS, the parties hereto have agreed that Macy's and Bloomingdale's shall be parties to the Program Agreement and to make certain other changes to the Program Agreement as set forth herein; and
        WHEREAS, the parties hereto desire to amend the Program Agreement in accordance with Section 18.5 of the Program Agreement.
        NOW, THEREFORE, for good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto, intending to be legally bound, agree as follows:
Capitalized terms used without definition in this Amendment have the meanings assigned to them in the Program Agreement.
            1. .
Defined Terms
            2. .
Amendment of Section 1.1
                (a) Clause (ii) of the definition of "Account" in Section 1.1 of the Program Agreement is hereby amended by adding "(subject to Schedule 2.1(b))" immediately before the words "the Employee Accounts".
                (b) The definition of "Business Plan" in Section 1.1 of the Program Agreement is hereby amended by replacing the words "on or prior to" with the words "within 120 days after".
                (c) The definition of "Cardholder Indebtedness" in Section 1.1 of the Program Agreement is
hereby amended by replacing such definition in its entirety with the following definition:
"" means all amounts charged and owing to Bank or FDS Bank (subject to Schedule 2.1(b) with respect to the Employee Accounts) by Cardholders with respect to Accounts (including principal balances from outstanding charges, charges for Approved Ancillary Products, balance transfers, convenience checks, cash advances, finance charges, NSF fees, late charges, pay-by-phone fees and any other fees and charges), whether or not billed, less the amount of any credit balances owing by Bank and FDS Bank (subject to Schedule 2.1(b) with respect to the Employee Accounts) to Cardholders, including in respect of any payments and any credits associated with returns of goods and/or services and other credits and adjustments, whether or not billed.
Cardholder Indebtedness
                (d) The definition of "Credit Card Agreement" in Section 1.1 of the Program Agreement is hereby amended by replacing such definition in its entirety with the following definition:
"" means the Credit Card agreement between Bank (including as an assignee of FDS Bank, GE Bank or May Bank (as defined in the Purchase Agreement)) or FDS Bank (subject to Schedule 2.1(b) with respect to the Employee Accounts) on the one hand and a Cardholder on the other hand (and any replacement of such agreement), governing the use of an Account, together with any amendments, modifications or supplements that now or hereafter may be made to such Credit Card Agreement (and any replacement of such agreement).
Credit Card Agreement
                (e) The following definition is hereby added to Section 1.1 of the Purchase Agreement immediately before the defined term "Parties":
"" means this Agreement without giving effect to any modifications, alterations, supplements or amendments hereto.
Original Agreement
                (f) The definition of "Program Assets" in Section 1.1 of the Program Agreement is hereby amended by adding ", except to the extent owned by FDS Bank" immediately after the parenthetical clause and before the period.
                (g) The definition of "Transition Plan" in Section 1.1 of the Program Agreement is hereby amended by replacing the words "on or before" with the words "within 120 days after".
          . Section 2.1 of the Program Agreement is hereby amended by replacing such section in its entirety as follows:
   
3.
Amendment of Section 2.1
                   
Section 2.1 .
Credit Program
(a) Beginning as of the Effective Date, Bank shall offer and issue the FDS Credit Cards (other than the Employee Accounts, which shall be offered and issued by FDS Bank and administered in accordance with this Agreement), and shall issue (or arrange to be issued by an Affiliate or another third party acceptable to FDS or currently offering such products on Bank's behalf) the Approved Ancillary Products. Bank shall promptly open a new Account and issue a new Private Label Credit Card or Co-Branded Credit Card with respect to each Credit Card Application approved in accordance with the Risk Management Policies.
(b) The credit program with respect to all Employee Accounts is set forth in Schedule 2.1(b).
(c) To the extent approved in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, in addition to the FDS Credit Cards and Approved Ancillary Products, the Program shall include such other Ancillary Products and other payment products as shall be incorporated in the Program in the future.
. Section 2.2(a) of the Program Agreement is hereby amended by adding "Section 2.1(b), Schedule 2.1(b) and" immediately after "Except as otherwise provided in" and immediately before "this Section 2.2".
            4.
Amendment of Section 2.2(a)
. Section 4.3(a)(i) of the Program Agreement is hereby amended by adding the following words immediately after the semicolon:
            5.
Amendment of Section 4.3(a)(i)
that, with respect to the Employee Accounts, FDS Bank shall establish all FDS Bank Policies and Terms as set forth in Schedule 2.1(b);
provided
Section 4.7(b) of the Program Agreement is hereby amended by deleting the second sentence in such section in its entirety.
            6. .
Amendment of Section 4.7(b)
Section 9.3(c) of the Program Agreement is hereby amended by replacing such Section in its entirety with the following:
            7. .
Amendment of Section 9.3(c)
(c) . The Parties hereby agree to the terms and conditions set forth on Schedule 9.3(c).
Card Association Compensation
         Section 11.4(g) of the Program Agreement is hereby amended by adding the following sentence at the end of such Section immediately after the last sentence thereof:
   
8. .
Amendment of Section 11.4(g)
For the avoidance of doubt, "Special Condition" shall not include any Applicable Order or any other requirement of Applicable Law affecting the operation of the Program to the extent relating to or resulting from actions taken to maintain the existence of FDS Bank with the Office of Thrift Supervision.
Section 12.1 of the Program Agreement is hereby amended by adding the words ", including, without limitation, the facilities of any third-party collection agency utilized in connection with the Program," immediately after the word "facility" and immediately prior to the word "related."
            9. .
Amendment of Section 12.1
Section 12.2 of the Program Agreement is hereby amended by adding the words ", including any third-party collection agency utilized by such Party in connection with the Program," immediately after the word "Party" and immediately prior to the words "to ensure" in clause (ii) of Section 12.2.
            10. .
Amendment of Section 12.2
. Section 16.2(d) of the Program Agreement is hereby amended by adding the words "constituting Program Assets" immediately after the words "Cardholder Indebtedness" in each instance in which the words "Cardholder Indebtedness" appear. Section 16.2(d) of the Program Agreement is hereby further amended by adding the words "under any Employee Account owned by FDS Bank at any time after the Effective Time or under any Account" immediately after the words "was outstanding" and immediately before the words "at the time of the First Closing" in the last sentence of Section 16.2(d).
            11.
Amendment of Section 16.2(d)
            12. .
Amendment to Section 18.2
                (a) Section 18.2 of the Program Agreement is hereby amended by adding the words "(a) the rights and obligations of Citibank, N.A. set forth in Schedule 2.1(b) (including the exhibits thereto) shall not be assigned to CEBA Bank, and (b)" immediately after the words "consent, provided, however, that" and immediately before the words "the indemnification obligations".
                (b) Section 18.2 of the Program Agreement is hereby further amended by replacing the words "provided, further, that FDS Bank may assign" with the words "provided, further, that each of FDS Bank, Macy's and Bloomingdales may assign".
. Section 18.3 of the Program Agreement is hereby amended by adding "2.1(b)," immediately after "set forth in Sections" and immediately before "18.1 or 18.2".
            13.
Amendment of Section 18.3
            14. .
Amendment of Schedule 1.1(i)
                (a) Schedule 1.1(i) of the Program Agreement is hereby amended by adding the following text (formatted flush left) below the definition of "FDS Profit Share" and above the definition of "Pre-Tax Adjusted ROAA":
The FDS Profit Share will be calculated monthly based on the sum of the monthly Pre-Tax Profit for the period from the beginning of the then-current Fiscal Year through the end of the preceding Fiscal Month.
                (b) Schedule 1.1(i) of the Program Agreement is hereby further amended by replacing the definition of "Pre-Tax Adjusted ROAA" in its entirety with the following:
"" equals (a) Pre-Tax Profit by (b) an amount equal to the product of (i) Average Receivables divided by the total number of days in the applicable Fiscal Year by (ii) the number of days to date in the applicable Fiscal Year.
Pre-Tax Adjusted ROAA
divided
multiplied
The Program Agreement is hereby amended by adding a new Schedule 2.1(b) attached hereto.
            15. .
New Schedule 2.1(b)
Section (i) of Schedule 9.3(a) of the Program Agreement is hereby amended by replacing such section in its entirety with the following:
            16. .
Amendment of Schedule 9.3(a)
(i) . The amounts payable to FDS Bank pursuant to Section 9.3(c) for the prior Fiscal Month.
Card Association Arrangements
The Program Agreement is hereby amended by adding a new Schedule 9.3(c) attached hereto.
            17. .
New Schedule 9.3(c)
The parties hereto hereby agree that Macy's and Bloomingdale's shall be parties to the Program Agreement.
            18. .
Macy's and Bloomingdales
            19. .
Capacity; Authorization; Validity
                (a) FDS hereby represents and warrants to Bank as of the date hereof:
                    (i) Each FDS Company has all necessary corporate or similar power and authority to (A) execute and enter into this Amendment and (B) perform the obligations required of such FDS Company hereunder and the other documents, instruments and agreements to be executed and delivered by such FDS Company pursuant hereto.
                    (ii) The execution and delivery by the FDS Companies of this Amendment and all documents, instruments and agreements executed and delivered by the FDS Companies pursuant hereto, and the consummation by the FDS Companies of the transactions specified herein, have been duly and validly authorized and approved by all necessary corporate or similar actions of the FDS Companies.
                    (iii) This Amendment (A) has been duly executed and delivered by the FDS Companies, (B) constitutes the valid and legally binding obligation of the FDS Companies, and (C) is enforceable against the FDS Companies in accordance with its terms (subject to applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, receivership or other laws affecting the rights of creditors generally and by general equity principles including those respecting the availability of specific performance).
                (b) Bank hereby represents and warrants to the FDS Companies as of the date hereof:
                    (i) Bank has all necessary corporate or similar power and authority to (A) execute and enter into this Amendment and (B) perform the obligations required of it hereunder and the other documents, instruments and agreements to be executed and delivered by Bank pursuant hereto.
                    (ii) The execution and delivery by Bank of this Amendment and all documents, instruments and agreements executed and delivered by Bank pursuant hereto, and the consummation by Bank of the transactions specified herein, has been duly and validly authorized and approved by all necessary corporate or similar actions of Bank.
                    (iii) This Amendment (A) has been duly executed and delivered by Bank, (B) constitutes the valid and legally binding obligation of Bank and (C) is enforceable against Bank in accordance with its terms (subject to applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, receivership or other laws affecting the rights of creditors generally and by general equity principles including those respecting the availability of specific performance).
This Amendment is hereby incorporated into and made a part of the Program Agreement. Except as amended by this Amendment, all terms and provisions of the Program Agreement shall continue and remain in full force and effect and binding upon the parties thereto.
            20. .
Effect of Amendment
This Amendment shall be binding in all respects and inure to the benefit of the successors and permitted assigns of the parties hereto.
            21. .
Binding Effect
This Amendment and all rights and obligations hereunder, including matters of construction, validity and performance, shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware applicable to contracts made to be performed within such State and applicable federal law.
            22. .
Governing Law
This Amendment may be executed in any number of counterparts, all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument, but in making proof of this Amendment, it shall not be necessary to produce or account for more than one such counterpart. Any facsimile of an executed counterpart shall be deemed an original.
            23.
.
Counterparts/Facsimiles
         IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the parties hereto has caused this Amendment to be duly executed as of the date first above written.

        SECTION 2.    . The Servicer hereby provides written notice to the Trustee and the Investor Certificateholders of the Termination Payment Date and the Trust Termination Date in accordance with Section 12.3(d) of the Pooling Agreement and attaches as Exhibit A hereto the information required to be delivered by such section. The Trustee confirms receipt of such information, and agrees that it will comply with the requirements applicable to it under the Pooling Agreement concerning the release of security interests and the termination of the Trust. Each Investor Certificateholder agrees with the terms of the proposed Termination Payment Date provided in Exhibit A hereto, and further agrees to comply with any requirements of the Pooling Agreement concerning the termination of the Trust.
EXHIBIT 10.3
        This Amendment and Notice of Termination, dated as of October 24, 2005 (this ""), is among Prime II Receivables Corporation, a Delaware corporation in its capacity as transferor (the "") under the Pooling and Servicing Agreement dated as of January 22, 1997 (as amended, waived or otherwise modified from time to time, the ""); FDS Bank, as successor in interest to FDS National Bank in its capacity as servicer (the "") under the Pooling Agreement; and JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, as successor in interest to The Chase Manhattan Bank in its capacity as trustee (the "") under the Pooling Agreement. Capitalized terms used in this Amendment and not otherwise defined have the meanings assigned to them in the Pooling Agreement.
Amendment
Transferor
Pooling Agreement
Servicer
Trustee
        1. The Transferor, the Servicer and the Trustee (collectively, the "") are parties to the Pooling Agreement (a) as supplemented by the Series 1997-1 Variable Funding Supplement, dated as of January 22, 1997, by and among the Parties (as modified by the First Amendment to Series 1997-1 Variable Funding Supplement, dated as of June 19, 2000, among the Parties and the Second Amendment to Series 1997-1 Variable Funding Supplement, dated as of July 5, 2002, among the Parties, the ""); (b) as further supplemented by the Series 1999-1 Variable Funding Supplement, dated as of July 6, 1999, by and among the Parties (as modified by the First Amendment to Series 1999-1 Variable Funding Supplement, dated as of August 1, 2000, among the Parties and the Second Amendment to Series 1999-1 Variable Funding Supplement, dated as of July 5, 2002, among the Parties, the ""); and (c) as further supplemented by the Series 2002-1 Variable Funding Supplement, dated as of November 6, 2002, by and among the Parties (the "").
Parties
1997 Supplement
1999 Supplement
2002 Supplement
        2. The parties hereto desire to amend the Pooling Agreement to permit the final distribution to the Investor Certificateholders under the Trust to be made on a date other than a Distribution Date and permit the termination of the Trust on a date other than the day following a Distribution Date. The Transferor and the Servicer also desire to provide notification to the Trustee of the termination of the Trust. Each Investor Certificateholder desires to evidence its agreement with the terms of the final distributions with respect to its Certificate(s) and the termination of the Trust in connection with the effectiveness of this Amendment.
        3. Section 13 of the Pooling Agreement permits such amendment of the Pooling Agreement subject to the conditions included in this Amendment.
        The parties hereto agree to the following terms and conditions:
        SECTION 1.    . On the date of this Amendment, the Pooling Agreement is amended as follows:
Amendment of Pooling Agreement
            1.01    .
Amendments to Section 1.1 of the Pooling Agreement
. Section 1.1 of the Pooling Agreement is amended by deleting clause (i) of the definition of "Trust Termination Date" in its entirety and is replacing such clause with the following:
Amendment to Definition of Trust Termination Date
"(i) unless a Trust Extension shall have occurred, upon notice given by the Servicer to the Trustee in accordance with Section 12.3(a) or (d), the date (such date, the "") on which funds shall have been deposited in the Distribution Account or the applicable Series Account for the payment of Investor Certificateholders of each Series then issued and outstanding sufficient to pay in full the Aggregate Invested Amount interest accrued at the applicable Certificate Rate through the end of the day prior to the Termination Payment Date with respect to each such Series and certain other amounts as may be specified in any Series Supplement,".
Termination Payment Date
plus
. Section 1.1 of the Pooling Agreement is amended by adding in appropriate alphabetical order the following defined term:
Addition of Defined Term
""" shall have the meaning specified in clause (i) of the definition of "Trust Termination Date"."
Termination Payment Date
            1.02    . A new Section 12.3(d) is added to the Pooling Agreement after Section 12.3(c) as follows:
Amendment to Section 12 of the Pooling Agreement
"(d) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, the Trust shall terminate on any date selected by the Servicer for payment in full of the Investor Certificates upon (i) written notice to the Trustee and the Investor Certificateholders accompanied by calculations necessary to determine the amounts due to the relevant Investor Certificateholders on the proposed Termination Payment Date and (ii) the agreement of the Investor Certificateholders of each Series issued and outstanding with the terms of such proposed Termination Payment Date. Final distributions under this section may be made to the Investor Certificateholders regardless of whether the Investor Certificates are surrendered to the Trustee in connection therewith."
Notice of Trust Termination Date; Confirmation of Trustee and Agreement of Investor Certificateholders
        SECTION 3.   . All provisions of the Pooling Agreement, as expressly amended and modified by this Amendment, shall remain in full force and effect. After this Amendment becomes effective, all references in the Pooling Agreement (or in any related document) to "this Agreement", "hereof", "herein", or words of similar effect referring to the Pooling Agreement shall be deemed to be references to the Pooling Agreement as amended by this Amendment. This Amendment shall not be deemed, either expressly or impliedly, to waive, amend or supplement any provision of the Pooling Agreement other than as set forth herein.
Effect of Amendment
        SECTION 4.    . This Amendment, including the notice of termination described in Section 2 above, shall become effective as of the date hereof upon (a) receipt by the Trustee and the Investor Certificateholders of counterparts of this Amendment (whether by facsimile or otherwise) executed by each of the Servicer and the Transferor and (b) execution and delivery to the other parties hereto of a counterpart of this Amendment by the Trustee and the Investor Certificateholders.
Conditions to Effectiveness
        SECTION 5.  . This Amendment may be executed in any number of counterparts and by different parties on separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to an original and all of which when taken together shall constitute but one and the same instrument.
Counterparts
        SECTION 6.    . This Amendment shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
Governing Law
        SECTION 7.    . The various headings of this Amendment are included for convenience only and shall not affect the meaning or interpretation of this Amendment, the Pooling Agreement or any provision hereof or thereof.
Section Headings
Delivered as of the day and the year first above written.



