FILE:TJX/TJX-8K-20031224134810.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
SECURITY AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION WASHINGTON, DC 20549 ---------- FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(D) of The Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Date of Report (Date of Earliest Event Reported): December 24, 2003 ---------- THE TJX COMPANIES, INC. (Exact name of Registrant as specified in charter) DELAWARE 1-4908 44-2207613 - -------- ------ ---------- (State or other jurisdiction (Common File (I.R.S. employer of incorporation) Number) identification No.) ---------- 770 Cochituate Road, Framingham, MA 01701 --------------------------------------------------- (Address of Principal Executive Offices) (Zip Code) (508) 390-1000 Registrant's Telephone Number (including area code) N/A --- (Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
ITEM 5. OTHER EVENTS On December 24, 2003, The TJX Companies, Inc. announced that it had completed the purchase of substantially all of the assets of Bob's Stores, Inc. and its subsidiaries, pursuant to an agreement previously announced on October 22, 2003. ITEM 7. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS (c) EXHIBITS Exhibit Number Title - -------------- ----- 99.1 Press Release, dated December 24, 2003 of The TJX Companies, Inc. 2
SIGNATURES ---------- Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized. THE TJX COMPANIES, INC. /s/ Donald G. Campbell ------------------------------- Donald G. Campbell Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Dated: December 24, 2003 3
EXHIBIT INDEX Exhibit Number Description - -------------- ----------- 99.1 Press Release, dated December 24, 2003 of The TJX Companies, Inc. 4

Exhibit 99.1 The TJX Companies, Inc. Completes Acquisition of Bob's Stores FRAMINGHAM, Mass.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Dec. 24, 2003--The TJX Companies, Inc. (NYSE: TJX), the leading off-price retailer of apparel and home fashions in the U.S. and worldwide, today announced that it has completed its acquisition of Bob's Stores, a Connecticut-based, value-oriented retail chain in the Northeast. TJX has purchased substantially all of the assets of Bob's Stores and its subsidiaries and assumed leases for 31 of Bob's Stores' locations, its Meriden, Connecticut, office and warehouse lease, along with specified operating contracts, and customer, vendor and employee obligations. The estimated purchase price of $59 million is subject to final adjustments, including a physical inventory, and is net of funds provided by a third party. Edmond J. English, President and Chief Executive Officer of The TJX Companies, Inc., stated, "I am very pleased with the addition of Bob's Stores to the TJX family of companies, which represents another prospect for our Company's growth well into the future. With our excellent track record of starting and acquiring businesses, we believe Bob's Stores will be a significant long-term growth vehicle for TJX, with the potential over time of providing a multi-billion-dollar revenue stream and growing to be a chain of 400 stores in the U.S. While we see significant long-term potential with Bob's Stores, this acquisition is expected to have only a minimal impact on TJX's earnings per share over the next few years. We welcome Bob's Stores' management team and organization to TJX and look forward to working with them." The TJX Companies, Inc. is the leading off-price retailer of apparel and home fashions in the U.S. and worldwide. The Company operates 749 T.J. Maxx, 674 Marshalls, 182 HomeGoods, 99 A.J. Wright, and 31 Bob's stores in the United States. In Canada, the Company operates 160 Winners and 25 HomeSense stores, and in Europe, 147 T.K. Maxx stores. TJX's press releases and financial information are also available on the Internet at www.tjx.com. For more detailed information about Bob's Stores, its strategic fit with TJX, and TJX's future plans for this business, you may access a recorded message from October 2003, when TJX originally announced its plan to purchase Bob's Stores, via the Internet at www.tjx.com. SAFE HARBOR STATEMENTS UNDER THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995: Various statements made in this release are forward-looking and involve a number of risks and uncertainties. All statements that address activities, events or developments that we intend, expect or believe may occur in the future are forward-looking statements. The following are some of the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements: general economic conditions including effects of wars, other military actions and terrorist incidents; consumer confidence, demand and preferences; weather patterns; competitive factors, including continuing pressure from pricing and promotional activities of competitors; the impact of excess retail capacity and the availability of desirable store and distribution center locations on suitable terms; recruiting quality sales associates and other associates; the availability, selection and purchasing of attractive merchandise on favorable terms and the effective management of inventory levels; import risks, including potential disruptions in supply and duties, tariffs and quotas on imported merchandise, including economic, political or other problems in countries from which merchandise is imported; currency and exchange rate factors in our foreign and buying operations; ability to continue successful expansion of our store base at the rate projected; risks in the development of new businesses and application of our off-price strategies in additional foreign countries; factors affecting expenses including pressure on wages and benefits; our acquisition and divestment activities; our ultimate liability with respect to leases relating to discontinued operations including indemnification and other factors affecting or mitigating our liability; changes in laws and regulations; factors which affect our ability to execute our business plan for Bob's Stores and achieve profitability; and other factors that may be described in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We do not undertake to publicly update or revise our forward-looking statements even if experience or future changes make it clear that any projected results expressed or implied therein will not be realized. CONTACT: The TJX Companies, Inc. Sherry Lang, Vice President Investor and Public Relations (508) 390-2323


