FILE:TJX/TJX-8K-20051019140719.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
ITEM 1.01 ENTRY INTO A MATERIAL DEFINITIVE AGREEMENT
     On October 14, 2005, The TJX Companies, Inc., or TJX, entered into a Separation Agreement (the "Agreement") with Peter Maich, Senior Executive Vice President of TJX and Chairman of the Winners/HomeSense division. A copy of the Agreement is attached as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated herein by reference. Pursuant to the Agreement, Mr. Maich has resigned all of his positions as an officer or director of TJX and its subsidiaries, as applicable, and his employment will terminate on November 29, 2005. He will receive payments in the form of severance and salary continuation of $760,000 (subject to reduction based on earnings through other employment or self-employment) and payments of $34,750 in lieu of a car allowance, each payable one-half in June 2006 and one-half over the following six-month period. Under the Agreement, Mr. Maich will be paid a pro-rated amount for service through November 2005 under TJX's Management Incentive Plan and Long-Range Performance Incentive Plan on the dates on which he would have received payments if he were still employed by TJX. In addition, Mr. Maich will receive a lump-sum payment of approximately $3.5 million in June 2006, representing his accrued benefit under TJX's Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan calculated on an assumed continuation of base pay through December 31, 2005, subject to certain offsets as provided in the Plan. Mr. Maich will receive payments under TJX's General Deferred Compensation Plan and Executive Savings Plan, which have been amended to reflect guidance issued under Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code. All of Mr. Maich's unvested restricted stock and unvested stock options will be forfeited upon termination of his employment. Mr. Maich has agreed not to disclose certain confidential information, to non-competition and non-solicitation undertakings through November 29, 2006, and to a general release of claims against TJX.
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
(D) EXHIBITS
Table of Contents
SIGNATURES
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents
EXHIBIT INDEX

 
Exhibit 10.1
     This Separation Agreement (hereinafter the "Agreement") is made and entered into this 14th day of October, 2005 between The TJX Companies, Inc. (hereinafter referred to collectively with its subsidiaries and affiliates as "TJX"), and Peter Maich (hereinafter the "Executive").
     1. . The Executive hereby (i) resigns from all officerships and directorships with TJX and its subsidiaries, effective immediately, and (ii) terminates his employment with TJX, effective November 29, 2005, after giving effect to unused vacation that the Executive will use beginning with the week of October 30, 2005. During the period from the date hereof through November 29, 2005 the Executive shall be entitled to (A) use such office space and secretarial support as TJX may specify, and (B) participate in the TJX employee benefit programs in which he currently participates, subject to the terms and conditions of such programs.
Termination of Employment
     2. . On or before December 9, 2005, TJX will pay to the Executive any base salary (including vacation pay) owing but previously unpaid to the Executive for the period of his employment through and including November 29, 2005.
Base Salary
     3. . Subject to and conditioned upon his compliance with the terms of this Agreement, TJX shall provide to the Executive the following payments and benefits:
Other Benefits
 
 
 
     4. . The Executive agrees that some restrictions on his activities during and after his employment are necessary to protect the goodwill, Confidential Information (as defined in Section 6 below) and other legitimate business interests of TJX:
Restricted Activities
     5. . Until the conclusion of the Non-Competition Period, the Executive shall give notice to TJX of each new business activity he has agreed or plans to undertake, at least fifteen (15) days prior to commencing any such activity. Such notice shall state the name and address of the Person for whom such activity is undertaken and the nature of the Executive's business relationship(s) and position(s) with such Person. The Executive shall provide TJX with such other pertinent information concerning such business activity as TJX may reasonably request in order to determine the Executive's continued compliance with his obligations under Sections 4 and 6 hereof.
Notification Requirement
     6. . The Executive agrees that, except as required by applicable law, rule, regulation or legal process, he will never, directly or indirectly, use or disclose any Confidential Information belonging to TJX. For purposes of this Agreement,
Confidential Information
 
"Confidential Information" means any and all proprietary or confidential information of TJX contained in documents or writings (the term "documents or writings" for purposes of this Section 6 includes actual documents and writings as well as email and other electronically formulated or transmitted writing and data) that is not generally known by others with whom it competes or does business, including but not limited to documents and writings relating to (a) products and services, technical data, financial information, methods, processes, trade secrets, know-how, developments, inventions, and formulae of TJX, (b) the development, research, testing, marketing, financial activities and strategic plans of TJX, (c) the manner in which TJX operates, (d) TJX's actual and projected financial performance, and (e) the substance of the relationships with the people and organizations with whom TJX has business relationships. Confidential Information also includes documents and writings that TJX has received from investors, business partners or others with any understanding, express or implied, that the information would not be publicly disclosed. Notwithstanding the foregoing, "Confidential Information" does not include any documents or writings (i) that are currently or become publicly available or a matter of public knowledge or domain through no wrongful act or omission by the Executive, or (ii) that are received by the Executive from a third party who is not known by the Executive to be bound by an obligation of confidentiality to TJX not to disclose that information. Upon execution of this Agreement, the Executive shall immediately return all writings and documents, including all copies, relating to TJX's business, and shall execute a certificate certifying that he has returned all such items in his possession or under his control.
     7. . TJX and the Executive agree without reservation that the restraints set forth in Sections 4 and 6 hereof are necessary for the reasonable and proper protection of TJX; that each and every one of the restraints is reasonable with respect to subject matter, length of time, and geographic area; and that these restraints will not prevent the Executive from obtaining other suitable employment, if he wishes to do so, during the Non-Competition Period. The Executive further agrees that, were he to breach any of the covenants contained in Section 4 or Section 6, the damage to TJX would be irreparable. The Executive therefore agrees that TJX, in addition to any other remedies available to it, shall be entitled to preliminary and permanent injunctive relief against any breach or threatened breach by the Executive of any of those covenants. TJX shall also be entitled to recover all attorney's fees and expenses reasonably incurred by TJX relating to any successful effort to enforce the terms of this Agreement. It is expressly agreed that TJX will not have to post bond in connection with any injunction it secures, and that the Executive will not take, and will not permit anyone else to take on his behalf, any position in a court or any other forum inconsistent with any of his covenants and agreements herein. In addition to the foregoing, TJX and the Executive agree that, in the event of any breach of the Executive's covenants hereunder, the Executive shall immediately forfeit any and all rights or interests in the compensation, retirement benefits and other benefits described in Section 3 hereof, to the fullest extent permitted by law, and shall promptly pay over to TJX all amounts previously paid to him thereunder. TJX and the Executive further agree that, in the event that any provision of Section 4 or Section 6 of this Agreement is determined by any court of competent jurisdiction to be unenforceable by reason of its being extended over too great a time, too large a geographic area, or too great a range of activities, that provision shall be
Remedies
 
deemed to be modified to permit its enforcement to the maximum extent permitted by law. Further, TJX and the Executive agree that the period of restriction described in Section 4 shall be tolled, and shall not run, during any period of time in which the Executive is in breach of the terms of Section 4 or Section 6 of this Agreement.
     8. . In consideration of the benefits to be provided the Executive hereunder, which benefits the Executive acknowledges are not otherwise due, the Executive hereby releases, waives and forever discharges TJX and all those persons, employees, directors, agents and entities (including benefit plans) affiliated with it from and against any and all claims, rights and causes of action now existing, both known and unknown, including but not limited to all claims for breach of contract or misrepresentation, wrongful discharge, breach of fiduciary duty, and claims of alleged violations of Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, the Fair Labor Standards Act, the Employee Retirement Income Security Act, the Americans With Disabilities Act, Massachusetts G.L. c. 151B, Massachusetts G.L. c. 149,  148, and any other local, state, or federal law, regulation or other requirement or any other claim relating to or arising out of the Executive's employment with TJX and/or his ownership of TJX stock. The Executive hereby covenants that he will not institute any charge, complaint, or lawsuit to challenge the validity of this release or to otherwise assert claims against TJX that have been waived hereunder.
The Executive's Release of Claims
     9. . This Agreement, together with all other plans, agreements and documents referred to herein and as modified hereby, constitute the entire agreement between TJX and the Executive, and supersede any other contracts or commitments with respect to the Executive's employment with TJX, and/or the termination of his employment, except to the extent expressly provided for herein.
Entire Agreement
     10. . This Agreement may only be amended, modified or waived by a writing signed by parties duly authorized to do so.
Modification of Agreement
     11. . It is agreed and understood that this Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the parties' successors and assigns. If the Executive dies prior to the payment of all remuneration specified in Section 3(a), the balance shall be paid to his estate. If the Executive dies prior to the payment of other benefits hereunder, the heirs or beneficiaries of the Executive or the executors, personal representatives or administrators of the Executive's estate shall be entitled only to such death benefits and other rights and benefits, if any, as are provided under the terms of the applicable plan or program.
Successors and Assigns; Death Benefits
     12. . All notices and other communications hereunder shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been given three days after having been mailed by first-class mail or registered or certified mail, or twelve hours after having been delivered or sent by facsimile, to (a) in the case of the Executive, to his address as shown in the records of TJX (or such other address as he may specify by notice given in accordance with this Section), and (b) in the case of TJX, to The TJX Companies, Inc., Attn: Chief Executive Officer, 770 Cochituate Road, Framingham, MA 01701.
Notices
 
     13. .
Miscellaneous
 
 
: 11-22-47
Date of Birth
: 3-11-85
Date of Hire
Pay History (Includes Assumed Pay Through Year-End Calendar 2005)
Target benefit is subject to offsets. All offsets shown are estimates; actual offsets will be determined at time of payment. Accordingly, both the SERP value at age 58 and the lump sum present value are estimates only. Once all inputs, including the discount rate, are finalized, the lump sum will be determined using the mortality assumptions used under the SERP (1983 Group Annuity Mortality Table (Unisex)) and, as a discount factor, the interest rate being credited to accounts in calendar 2006 under TJX's General Deferred Compensation Plan.
Note
:


