FILE:TJX/TJX-8K-20070831130044.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
     
ITEM 8.01.
OTHER EVENTS.
On August 24, 2007 and August 27, 2007, certain executive officers of The TJX Companies, Inc. ("TJX") entered into trading plans in accordance with Rule 10b5-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The executive officers who entered into trading plans are Arnold Barron, Senior Executive Vice President, Group President; Ernie Herrman, Senior Executive Vice President, The Marmaxx Group; Jerome Rossi, Senior Executive Vice President, Group President; and Paul Sweetenham, Senior Executive Vice President, Group President Europe. Options will be exercised and shares will be sold under the plans on the open market over the periods of time and according to the other parameters set forth under each executive officer's plan. Rule 10b5-1 allows individuals when they are not in possession of material nonpublic information to adopt written, pre-arranged trading plans to sell securities under specified conditions.
Sales of shares by the executive officers pursuant to the trading plans will be in compliance with TJX's stock ownership guidelines. Rule 10b5-1 trading plans are permitted under TJX's insider trading policy, and transactions under the trading plans will be disclosed publicly through Form 144 and/or Form 4 filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The information in this Form 8-K shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated:  August 31, 2007


