FILE:TJX/TJX-8K-20070118163535.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
ITEM 8.01. OTHER EVENTS.
The TJX Companies, Inc. announced on January 17, 2007 that it has suffered an unauthorized intrusion into its computer systems that process and store information related to customer transactions. The intrusion involves the portion of TJX's computer network that handles customer transactions for its T.J. Maxx, Marshalls, HomeGoods and A.J. Wright stores in the U.S. and Puerto Rico, and its Winners and HomeSense stores in Canada. The intrusion may extend to the portions of its computer systems that process and store information related to customer transactions for T.K. Maxx stores in the U.K. and Ireland, although TJX's investigation has not yet been able to confirm any such intrusion. It is possible that the intrusion may extend to Bob's Stores.
A copy of the press release describing the computer system intrusion is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
ITEM 9.01. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
(d) EXHIBITS.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: January 18, 2007
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
THE TJX COMPANIES, INC. VICTIMIZED BY COMPUTER SYSTEMS INTRUSION;
PROVIDES INFORMATION TO HELP PROTECT CUSTOMERS
     Framingham, MAThe TJX Companies, Inc. (NYSE:TJX) today announced that it has suffered an unauthorized intrusion into its computer systems that process and store information related to customer transactions. While TJX has specifically identified some customer information that has been stolen from its systems, the full extent of the theft and affected customers is not yet known. This intrusion involves the portion of TJX's computer network that handles credit card, debit card, check, and merchandise return transactions for customers of its T.J. Maxx, Marshalls, HomeGoods and A.J. Wright stores in the U.S. and Puerto Rico, and its Winners and HomeSense stores in Canada, and may involve customers of its T.K. Maxx stores in the U.K. and Ireland. The intrusion could also extend to TJX's Bob's Stores in the U.S. The Company immediately alerted law enforcement authorities of the crime and is working closely with them to help identify those responsible. TJX is also cooperating with credit and debit card issuers and providing them with information on the intrusion.
     TJX is conducting a full investigation of the intrusion with the assistance of several leading computer security and incident response firms and is seeking to determine what customer information may have been compromised. The Company is committed to providing its customers with more information when it becomes available.
     With the help of leading computer security experts, TJX has significantly strengthened the security of its computer systems. While no computer security can completely guarantee the safety of data, these experts have confirmed that the containment plan adopted by TJX is appropriate to prevent future intrusions and to protect the safety of credit card, debit card and other customer transactions in its stores.
     Ben Cammarata, Chairman and Acting Chief Executive Officer of The TJX Companies, Inc., stated, "We are deeply concerned about this event and the difficulties it may cause our customers. Since discovering this crime, we have been working diligently to further protect our customers and strengthen the security of our computer systems and we believe customers should feel safe shopping in our stores. Our first concern is the potential impact of this crime on our customers, and we strongly recommend that they carefully review their credit card and debit card statements and other account information for unauthorized use. We want to assure our customers that this issue has the highest priority at TJX."
 
Wednesday, January 17, 2007 Page 2
THE TJX COMPANIES, INC. VICTIMIZED BY COMPUTER SYSTEMS INTRUSION;
PROVIDES INFORMATION TO HELP PROTECT CUSTOMERS
Important Information for Customers
Actions Taken By TJX
 
Wednesday, January 17, 2007 Page 3
THE TJX COMPANIES, INC. VICTIMIZED BY COMPUTER SYSTEMS INTRUSION;
PROVIDES INFORMATION TO HELP PROTECT CUSTOMERS
Information About the Intrusion
Through its investigation, TJX has learned the following with respect to the intrusion:
     The Company does not yet have enough information to estimate the extent of the financial cost it will incur as a result of this situation, and does not expect to be able to quantify the estimated financial impact of this issue at the time TJX announces January 2007 sales.
     The TJX Companies, Inc. is the leading off-price retailer of apparel and home fashions in the U.S. and worldwide. The Company operates 826 T.J. Maxx, 751 Marshalls, 271 HomeGoods, and 162 A.J. Wright stores, as well as 36 Bob's Stores, in the United States. In Canada, the Company operates 184 Winners and 68 HomeSense stores, and in Europe, 212 T.K. Maxx stores. TJX's press releases and financial information are also available on the Internet at .
www.tjx.com
 
Wednesday, January 17, 2007 Page 4
THE TJX COMPANIES, INC. VICTIMIZED BY COMPUTER SYSTEMS INTRUSION;
PROVIDES INFORMATION TO HELP PROTECT CUSTOMERS
SAFE HARBOR STATEMENTS UNDER THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995: Various statements made in this release are forward-looking and involve a number of risks and uncertainties. All statements that address activities, events or developments that we intend, expect or believe may occur in the future, including projections of earnings per share and same store sales, are forward-looking statements. The following are some of the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements: the results and effects of the intrusion into our computer system including the outcome of our investigation, the extent of customer information compromised and consequences to our business including effects on sales and liabilities and costs in connection with this intrusion; our ability to successfully expand our store base and increase same store sales; risks of expansion and costs of contraction; our ability to successfully implement our opportunistic inventory strategies and to effectively manage our inventories; successful advertising and promotion; consumer confidence, demand, spending habits and buying preferences; effects of unseasonable weather; competitive factors; factors affecting availability of store and distribution center locations on suitable terms; factors affecting our recruitment and employment of associates; factors affecting expenses; success of our acquisition and divestiture activities; our ability to successfully implement technologies and systems and protect data; our ability to continue to generate adequate cash flows; availability and cost of financing; general economic conditions, including gasoline prices; potential disruptions due to wars, natural disasters and other events beyond our control; changes in currency and exchange rates; import risks; adverse outcomes for any significant litigation; changes in laws and regulations and accounting rules and principles; adequacy of reserves; closing adjustments; effectiveness of internal controls; and other factors that may be described in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We do not undertake to publicly update or revise our forward-looking statements even if experience or future changes make it clear that any projected results expressed or implied in such statements will not be realized.


