FILE:TJX/TJX-8K-20080407162117.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
o
o
o
 
 
Table of Contents
     The TJX Companies, Inc. and Jeffrey Naylor, Senior Executive Vice President, entered into a new employment agreement, effective as of April 5, 2008 (the "Employment Agreement"). The term of the Employment Agreement continues until January 29, 2011, unless terminated earlier in accordance with its provisions. The Employment Agreement provides for a minimum base salary of $700,000, participation in specified benefit programs at levels commensurate with his position and responsibilities, including the Stock Incentive Plan, the Management Incentive Plan (MIP) and the Long Range Performance Incentive Plan (LRPIP) and provision of an automobile allowance. If Mr. Naylor's employment terminates prior to the end of the term by reason of death, disability, incapacity, termination by the Company without cause, or following his relocation more than forty miles from the Company's current headquarters, he is entitled to continuation of base salary for a period of eighteen months; a cash payment sufficient to cover, on an after-tax basis, the cost of COBRA continuation of medical benefits for the salary continuation period, unless Mr. Naylor obtains no less favorable coverage from another employer; a lump sum cash payment equal to prorated MIP and LRPIP target awards outstanding at the time of termination (plus an additional amount equal to the full MIP target award for the year of termination in the case of death, disability or incapacity), but solely to the extent that the performance period in respect of the MIP or LRPIP award, as the case may be, began on or before January 1, 2009; and to any other applicable benefits provided in any plan or award. The Employment Agreement includes a non-competition undertaking by Mr. Naylor during the employment period and for eighteen months thereafter, and a non-solicitation undertaking by Mr. Naylor during the employment period and for twenty-four months thereafter. Upon a change of control as defined in the Employment Agreement, Mr. Naylor is no longer subject to the non-competition undertaking and will receive a payment equal to his target MIP award plus a prorated MIP target award for the year in which the change of control occurs and the maximum award payable with respect to LRPIP for cycles in progress at the time of the change of control. If Mr. Naylor's employment terminates for various reasons within twenty-four months following a change of control (and prior to January 29, 2011), instead of the severance benefits described above, he is entitled to receive a payment equal to two times his then current base salary plus continued medical and life insurance for two years, except to the extent Mr. Naylor has coverage from another employer, and continued use of an automobile for that two-year period. TJX is obligated to pay Mr. Naylor a tax gross-up payment in respect of any change of control-related excise tax incurred in connection with the change of control and all legal fees and expenses reasonably incurred by Mr. Naylor in seeking enforcement of his contractual rights following a change of control.
     On April 3, 2008, TJX entered into a letter agreement with Arnold Barron extending the term of his employment agreement, dated April 5, 2005 (as subsequently amended), until January 31, 2009.
     The description of the agreements set forth above is qualified in its entirety by reference to the actual terms of the agreements filed as Exhibits 10.1 and 10.2 and are incorporated herein by reference.
     The Board of Directors approved an amendment to Article XXV of the bylaws of TJX, effective April 1, 2008, to increase the period of time by which a record date may precede a shareholder meeting from fifty days to sixty days. A copy of the bylaws of TJX, as amended, is attached hereto as Exhibit 3(ii).1.
Table of Contents
(d) Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: April 7, 2008
Table of Contents

 
EXHIBIT 3(ii).1
[As amended through 4/1/08]
     The name, location of the principal office or place of business in the State of Delaware, and the nature of the business or objects or purposes of the corporation shall be as set forth in its certificate of incorporation. These by-laws, the powers of the corporation and of its directors and stockholders, and all matters concerning the management of the business and conduct of the affairs of the corporation shall be subject to such provisions in regard thereto, if any, as are set forth in the certificate of incorporation; and the certificate of incorporation is hereby made a part of these by-laws. In these by-laws, references to the certificate of incorporation mean the provisions of the certificate of incorporation (as that term is defined in the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware) of the corporation as from time to time in effect, and references to these by-laws or to any requirement or provision of law mean these by-laws or such requirement or provision of law as from time to time in effect.
     (a) The annual meeting of stockholders shall be held either (i) at 11:00 a.m. on the first Tuesday in June in each year, unless that day be a legal holiday at the place where the meeting is to be held, in which case the meeting shall be held at the same hour on the next succeeding day not a legal holiday, or (ii) at such other date and time as shall be designated from time to time by the board of directors and stated in the notice of the meeting, at which the stockholders shall elect a board of directors and transact such other business as may be required by law or these by-laws or as may properly come before the meeting.
     (b) Except as otherwise fixed pursuant to the provisions of Article FOURTH of the certificate of incorporation relating to the rights of holders of any class or series of stock having a preference over the Common Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation, nominations of persons for election to the board of directors of the corporation may be made at a meeting of stockholders by or at the direction of the board of directors or a committee appointed by the board of directors or by any stockholder of the corporation entitled to vote for the election of directors at the meeting who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Article II. Such nominations, other than those made by or at the direction of the board of directors or such committee, shall be made pursuant to timely notice in writing to the secretary of the corporation. To be timely, a stockholder's notice shall be delivered to or mailed and received by the secretary at the principal executive offices of the corporation not less than 90 days nor more than 120 days prior to the
 
first anniversary of the prior year's annual meeting. Such stockholder's notice shall set forth (a) as to each person whom the stockholder proposes to nominate for election or re-election as a director, (i) the name, age, business address and residence address of such person, (ii) the principal occupation or employment of such person, (iii) the class and number of shares of the corporation which are beneficially owned by such person, and (iv) any other information relating to such person that is required to be disclosed in solicitations of proxies for election of directors, or is otherwise required, in each case pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act") (including without limitation such person's written consent to being named in the proxy statement as the nominee and to serving as a director if elected); and (b) as to the stockholder giving the notice and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination is made (i) the name and address of such stockholder, as they appear on the corporation's books, and of such beneficial owner, (ii) the class and number of shares of the corporation which are owned beneficially and of record by such stockholder and such beneficial owner, (iii) a representation that the stockholder is a holder of record of stock of the corporation entitled to vote at such meeting and intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to propose such nomination, and (iv) a representation whether the stockholder or the beneficial owner, if any, intends or is part of a group which intends to (a) deliver a proxy statement and/or form of proxy to holders of at least the percentage of the corporation's outstanding capital stock required to elect the nominee and/or (b) otherwise solicit proxies from stockholders in support of such nomination. The corporation may require any proposed nominee to furnish such other information as it may reasonably require to determine the eligibility of such proposed nominee to serve as a director of the corporation. No person shall be eligible for election as a director of the corporation unless nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Article II. The chairman of the meeting shall, if the facts warrant, determine and declare to the meeting that a nomination was not made in accordance with the procedures prescribed by the by-laws, and if he should so determine, he shall so declare to the meeting and the defective nomination shall be disregarded.
     (c) At an annual meeting of the stockholders, only such business shall be conducted as shall have been properly brought before the meeting. To be properly brought before an annual meeting business must be (a) specified in the notice of meeting (or any supplement thereto) given by or at the direction of the board of directors, or (b) otherwise properly brought before the meeting by a stockholder. For business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a stockholder, the stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in writing to the secretary of the corporation. To be timely, a stockholder's notice shall be delivered to or mailed and received by the secretary at the principal executive offices of the corporation not less than 90 days nor more than 120 days prior to the first anniversary of the prior year's annual meeting. A stockholder's notice to the secretary shall set forth as to each matter the stockholder proposes to bring before the annual meeting (a) a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the annual meeting, (b) the text of the proposal or business (including the text of any resolutions proposed for consideration and in the event that such business includes a proposal to amend the By-laws of the corporation, the language of the proposed amendment), the reasons for conducting such business at the meeting and any material interest in such business of such stockholder and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the proposal is made, (c) as to the stockholder giving the notice and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the proposal is made, (i) the name and address of such stockholder, as they appear on the corporation's books, and of such beneficial owner, (ii) the class and number of shares of the corporation which are owned beneficially and of record by such stockholder and such beneficial owner, (iii) a representation that the stockholder is a holder of record of stock of the corporation entitled to vote at such meeting and intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to propose such business, and (iv) a representation whether the stockholder or the beneficial owner, if any, intends or is part of a group which intends to (a) deliver a proxy statement and/or form of proxy
 
to holders of at least the percentage of the corporation's outstanding capital stock required to approve or adopt the proposal and/or (b) otherwise solicit proxies from stockholders in support of such proposal. Notwithstanding anything in the by-laws to the contrary, no business shall be conducted at any annual meeting except in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Article II. The chairman of the meeting shall, if the facts warrant, determine and declare to the meeting that business was not properly brought before the meeting and in accordance with the provisions of this Article II, and if he should so determine, he shall so declare to the meeting and any such business not properly brought before the meeting shall not be transacted.
     Except as otherwise required by law and or as fixed pursuant to the provisions of Article FOURTH of the certificate of incorporation relating to the rights of the holders of any class or series of stock having a preference over the Common Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation, special meetings of the stockholders may be called only by the chairman of the board, the president, or the board of directors pursuant to a resolution approved by a majority of the entire board of directors. Such call shall state the time, place and purposes of the meeting.
     The annual meeting of the stockholders, for the annual election of directors and other purposes, shall be held at such place within or without the State of Delaware as the board of directors shall fix for such meeting. Adjourned meetings of the stockholders shall be held at such places and at such times as the board of directors shall fix. Special meetings of the stockholders, and adjourned special meetings of the stockholders, shall be held at such places within or without the State of Delaware and such time as the board of directors shall fix.
     Except as may be otherwise required by law, by the certificate of incorporation or by other provisions of these by-laws, and subject to the provisions of Article XXII, a written notice of each meeting of stockholders, stating the place, day and hour thereof and the purposes for which the meeting is called, shall be given, at least ten days before the meeting, to each stockholder entitled to vote thereat, by leaving such notice with him or at his residence or usual place of business, or by mailing it, postage prepaid, addressed to such stockholder at his address as it appears upon the books of the corporation. Such notice shall be given by the secretary, or in case of the death, absence, incapacity or refusal of the secretary, by some other officer or by a person designated by the board of directors.
 
     Any action required or permitted to be taken by the stockholders of the corporation must be effected at a duly called annual or special meeting of such holders and may not be effected by any consent in writing by such holders.
     At any meeting of the stockholders, a quorum for the election of directors or for the consideration of any question shall consist of a majority of the stock issued and outstanding; except in any case where a larger quorum is required by law, by the certificate of incorporation or by these by-laws. Stock owned by the corporation, if any, shall not be deemed outstanding for this purpose. In any case any meeting may be adjourned from time to time by a majority of the votes properly cast upon the question, whether or not a quorum is present, and the meeting may be held as adjourned without further notice.
     When a quorum for the election of any director is present at any meeting, a plurality of the votes properly cast for election to such office shall elect to such office. When a quorum for the consideration of a question is present at any meeting, a majority of the votes properly cast upon the question shall decide the question; except in any case where a larger vote is required by law, by the certificate of incorporation or by these by-laws.
     Except as otherwise provided in the certificate of incorporation, and subject to the provisions of Article XXV, each stockholder shall at every meeting of the stockholders be entitled to one vote in person or by proxy for each share of the capital stock held by such stockholder, but no proxy shall be voted on after three years from its date, unless the proxy provides for a longer period; and except where the transfer books of the corporation shall have been closed or a date shall have been fixed as a record date for the determination of the stockholders entitled to vote, as provided in Article XXV, no share of stock shall be voted on at any election for directors which has been transferred on the books of the corporation within twenty days next preceding such election of directors. Shares of the capital stock of the corporation belonging to the corporation shall not be voted upon directly or indirectly.
     Persons holding stock in a fiduciary capacity shall be entitled to vote the shares so held, or to give any consent permitted by law, and persons whose stock is pledged shall be entitled to vote, or to give any consent permitted by law, unless in the transfer by the pledgor on the books of the corporation he shall have expressly empowered the pledgee to vote thereon, in which case only the pledgee or his proxy may represent said stock and vote thereon or give any such consent.
     The secretary shall prepare and make, at least ten days before every election of directors, a complete list of the stockholders entitled to vote at said election, arranged in alphabetical order, and showing the address of each stockholder and the number of shares registered in the name of each stockholder. Such list shall be open to the examination of any stockholder during ordinary business hours, at the place where said election is to be held, for said ten days, and shall be produced and kept at the time and place of election during the whole time thereof, and subject to the inspection of any stockholder who may be present. The original or duplicate stock ledger
 
shall be the only evidence as to who are stockholders entitled to examine such list or to vote in person or by proxy at such election.
     The whole board of directors shall consist of not less than three nor more than fifteen directors. Within such limits the whole number of directors shall be fixed from time to time, subject to the provisions of Article XXI hereof, by action of the board of directors.
     Except as otherwise fixed pursuant to the provisions of Article FOURTH of the certificate of incorporation relating to the rights of the holders of any class or series of stock having a preference over the Common Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation to elect additional directors under specified circumstances, the number of directors of the corporation shall be fixed from time to time by or pursuant to these by-laws. The term of office of all directors who are in office immediately prior to the closing of the polls for the election of Directors at the 2006 annual meeting of stockholders shall expire at such time. From and after the election of directors at the 2006 annual meeting of stockholders, the directors shall be elected to hold office until the next annual meeting of stockholders and until their respective successors shall have been duly elected and qualified, subject, however, to prior death, resignation, disqualification or removal from office.
     References in these by-laws to the whole board of directors mean the whole number fixed as herein or in the certificate of incorporation provided, irrespective of the number at the time in office.
     Each newly created directorship resulting from any increase in the number of directors may be filled only as provided in Article XXI for the filling of a vacancy in the office of a director.
     No director need be a stockholder.
     The board of directors shall have and may exercise all the powers of the corporation; except such as are conferred upon the stockholders by law, by the certificate of incorporation or by these by-laws.
 
     The board of directors may at any time and from time to time, by resolution adopted by a majority of the whole board, designate, change the membership of or terminate the existence of any committee or committees, including if desired any executive committee, each committee to consist of two or more of the directors of the corporation. Each such committee shall have such name as may be determined from time to time by resolution adopted by a majority of the whole board of directors and shall have and may exercise such powers of the board of directors in the management of the business and affairs of the corporation, including power to authorize the seal of the corporation to be affixed to all papers which may require it, as may be determined from time to time by resolution adopted by a majority of the whole board. All minutes of proceedings of committees shall be available to the board of directors on its request.
     In the absence or disqualification of any member of such committee or committees the member or members thereof present at any meeting and not disqualified from voting, whether or not he or they constitute a quorum, may unanimously appoint another member of the board of directors to act at the meeting in place of such absent or disqualified member.
     Regular meetings of the board of directors may be held without call or formal notice at such places either within or without the State of Delaware and at such times as the board may from time to time determine. A regular meeting of the board of directors may be held without call or formal notice immediately after and at the same place as the annual meeting of the stockholders.
     Special meetings of the board of directors may be held at any time and at any place either within or without the State of Delaware when called by the chairman of the board (if any), the president, the treasurer or two or more directors, reasonable notice thereof being given to each director by the secretary, or in the case of the death, absence, incapacity or refusal of the secretary, by the officer or directors calling the meeting, or without call or formal notice if each director then in office is either present or waives notice as provided in Article XXII. In any case it shall be deemed sufficient notice to a director to send notice by mail at least forty-eight hours or by telegram at least twenty-four hours before the meeting addressed to him at his usual or last known business or residence address or to give notice to him in person either by telephone or by handing him a written notice at least twenty-four hours before the meeting.
     At any meeting of the board of directors, except in any case where a larger quorum or the vote of a larger number of directors is required by law, by the certificate of incorporation or by these by-laws, a quorum for any election or for the consideration of any question shall consist of a majority of the directors then in office, but in any case not less than two directors; but any meeting may be adjourned from time to time by a majority of the votes cast upon the question,
 
whether or not a quorum is present, and the meeting may be held as adjourned without further notice. When a quorum is present at any meeting, the votes of a majority of the directors present and voting shall be requisite and sufficient for election to any office, and a majority of the directors present and voting shall decide any question brought before such meeting, except in any case where a larger vote is required by law, by the certificate of incorporation or by these by-laws.
     To the extent permitted by law, whenever a vote or resolution at a meeting of the board of directors or of any committee thereof is required or permitted to be taken in connection with any corporate action by any provision of law or of the certificate of incorporation or of these by-laws, such meeting and such vote or resolution may be dispensed with and such corporate action may be taken without such meeting, vote or resolution, if a written consent to such corporate action is signed by all members of the board or of such committee, as the case may be, and such written consent is filed with the minutes of the proceedings of the board or of such committee.
     A chairman of the board may be elected annually from among the directors by the board of directors at its first meeting following the annual meeting of the stockholders and shall serve until the first meeting of the board of directors following the next annual meeting of the stockholders and until his successor is elected, or until he dies, resigns, is removed or replaced or becomes disqualified.
     The chairman of the board (if any) shall preside at all meetings of the stockholders and of the board of directors at which he is present, except that if there is no chairman or in the absence of the chairman, or at the request of the chairman, the president shall preside. The chairman (if any) shall have such other duties and powers as may be designated from time to time by the board of directors.
     The officers of the corporation shall be a president, a treasurer, a secretary, and such other officers, if any, as the board of directors may in its discretion elect. The board of directors may designate the chairman of the board or the president as chief executive officer. The chief executive officer shall have ultimate responsibility for the corporation's planning and operations, both financial and operational, subject to the policies and direction of the board of directors. The board of directors may delegate to the chief executive officer the authority to appoint assistant vice presidents, assistant treasurers, assistant secretaries and such agents, if any, as he may in his discretion determine to appoint. So far as is permitted by law any two or more offices may be held by the same person. The chief executive officer may appoint such officers of the divisions of the corporation as he in his discretion shall determine, the officers of divisions not being
 
officers of the corporation. Officers of the divisions may also be appointed officers of the corporation by the board of directors or by the chief executive officer as above provided.
     Subject to law, to the certificate of incorporation and to the other provisions of these by-laws, each officer elected by the board of directors or appointed by the chief executive officer shall have, in addition to the duties and powers herein set forth, such duties and powers as are commonly incident to his office and such duties and powers as the board of directors or the chief executive officer may from time to time designate.
     Officers elected by the board of directors shall be elected annually at its first meeting following the annual meeting of the stockholders. Officers appointed by the chief executive officer shall be appointed annually by the chief executive officer on the day of the annual meeting of the stockholders. Additional officers may be elected by the board of directors or appointed by the chief executive officer at any time.
     Each officer elected by the board of directors shall hold office until the first meeting of the board of directors following the next annual meeting of the stockholders and until his successor is elected or appointed and qualified, or until he sooner dies, resigns, is removed or replaced or becomes disqualified. Each officer and agent appointed by the chief executive officer shall retain his authority at the pleasure of the chief executive officer.
     The president shall have such duties and powers as may be designated from time to time by the board of directors.
     The chief financial officer is responsible for execution of all financial policies, plans, procedures and controls of the corporation, and the maintenance of books and records with respect thereto, including accounting and treasury functions, internal audit, budgets, borrowings, securities offerings, investments, tax reporting and financial reporting all subject to the control of the board of directors and the president. The chief financial officer shall have such other duties and powers as may be designated from time to time by the board of directors and the president.
     The secretary shall record all the proceedings of the meetings of the stockholders and the board of directors, in a book or books to be kept for that purpose, and in his absence from any such meeting a temporary secretary shall be chosen who shall record the proceedings thereof.
     The secretary shall have charge of the stock ledger (which may, however, be kept by any transfer agent or agents of the corporation), an original or duplicate of which shall at all times
 
during the usual hours for business be open to the examination of every stockholder at the principal office of the corporation. The secretary shall have such other duties and powers as may be designated from time to time by the board of directors or by the chief executive officer.
     The treasurer shall be in charge of the funds and valuable papers of the corporation and shall have such other duties and powers as may be designated from time to time by the board of directors, by the chief executive officer or by the chief financial officer.
     Any director or officer may resign at any time by delivering his resignation in writing to the president or the secretary or to a meeting of the board of directors, and such resignation shall take effect at the time stated therein, or if no time be so stated then upon its delivery, and without the necessity of its being accepted unless the resignation shall so state. Except as otherwise fixed pursuant to the provisions of Article FOURTH of the certificate of incorporation relating to the rights of the holders of any class or series of stock having a preference over the Common Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation to elect directors under specified circumstances, any director may be removed from office with or without cause by the holders of a majority of shares then entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, voting together as a single class. The board of directors may at any time, by vote of a majority of the directors present and voting, terminate or modify the authority of any agent.
     Except as otherwise fixed pursuant to the provisions of Article FOURTH of the certificate of incorporation relating to the rights of the holders of any class or series of stock having a preference over the Common Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation to elect directors under specified circumstances, newly created directorships resulting from any increase in the number of directors and any vacancies on the board of directors resulting from death, resignation, disqualification, removal or other cause shall be filled solely by the affirmative vote of a majority of the remaining directors then in office, even though less than a quorum of the board of directors, or by a sole remaining director. Any director elected in accordance with the preceding sentence shall hold office until the next annual meeting of stockholders and until such director's successor shall have been elected and qualified. No decrease in the number of directors constituting the board of directors shall shorten the term of any incumbent director. If the office of any officer becomes vacant, by reason of death, resignation, removal or disqualification, a successor may be elected or appointed by the board of directors by vote of a majority of the directors present and voting. Each such successor officer shall hold office for the unexpired term or such other term specified by the board, and until his successor shall be elected or appointed and qualified, or until he sooner dies, resigns, is removed or replaced or becomes disqualified. The board of directors shall have and may exercise all its powers notwithstanding the existence of one or more vacancies in the whole board, subject to any requirements of law or of the certificate of incorporation or of these by-laws as to the number of directors required for a quorum or for any vote, resolution or other action.
 
     Whenever any notice is required to be given by law or under the provisions of the certificate of incorporation or of these by-laws, a waiver thereof in writing, signed by the person or persons entitled to such notice, whether before or after the time stated therein or otherwise fixed for the meeting or other event for which notice is waived, shall be deemed equivalent to such notice.
     Every holder of stock in the corporation shall be entitled to have a certificate, signed by, or in the name of the corporation by, the president or a vice president and by the treasurer or an assistant treasurer or the secretary or an assistant secretary of the corporation, certifying the number of shares owned by him in the corporation; provided, however, that where such certificate is signed (1) by a transfer agent or an assistant transfer agent or (2) by a transfer clerk acting on behalf of the corporation and a registrar, the signature of the president, vice president, treasurer, assistant treasurer, secretary or assistant secretary may be facsimile. In case any officer or officers who shall have signed or whose facsimile signature or signatures shall have been used on, any such certificate or certificates shall cease to be such officer or officers of the corporation, whether because of death, resignation or otherwise, before such certificate or certificates shall have been delivered by the corporation, such certificate or certificates may nevertheless be adopted by the corporation and be issued and delivered as though the person or persons who signed such certificate or certificates or whose facsimile signature or signatures have been used thereon had not ceased to be such officer or officers of the corporation, and any such issue and delivery shall be regarded as an adoption by the corporation of such certificate or certificates. Certificates of stock shall be in such form as shall, in conformity to law, be prescribed from time to time by the board of directors.
     Subject to applicable restrictions upon transfer, if any, title to a certificate of stock and to the shares represented thereby shall be transferred only by delivery of the certificate properly endorsed, or by delivery of the certificate accompanied by a written assignment of the same, or a written power of attorney to sell, assign or transfer the same or the shares represented thereby, properly executed; but the person registered on the books of the corporation as the owner of shares shall have the exclusive right to receive the dividends thereon and, except as provided in Article VII with respect to stock which has been pledged, to vote thereon as such owner or to give any consent permitted by law, and shall be held liable for such calls and assessments, if any, as may lawfully be made thereon, and except only as may be required by law, may in all respects be treated by the corporation as the exclusive owner thereof. It shall be the duty of each stockholder to notify the corporation of his post office address.
 
     The board of directors shall have power to close the stock transfer books of the corporation for a period not exceeding sixty days preceding the date of any meeting of stockholders or the date for payment of any dividend or the date for the allotment of rights or the date when any change or conversion or exchange of capital stock shall go into effect or for a period of not exceeding sixty days in connection with obtaining the consent of stockholders for any purpose; provided, however, that in lieu of closing the stock transfer books as aforesaid, the board of directors may fix in advance a date, not exceeding sixty days preceding the date of any meeting of stockholders, or any other of the above mentioned events, or a date in connection with obtaining such consent, as a record date for the determination of the stockholders entitled to notice of, and to vote at, any such meeting and any adjournment thereof, or entitled to receive payment of any such dividend, or to any such allotment of rights, or to exercise the rights in respect of any such change, conversion or exchange of capital stock, or to give such consent, and in such case such stockholders and only such stockholders as shall be stockholders of record on the date so fixed shall be entitled to such notice of, and to vote at, such meeting and any adjournment thereof, or to receive payment of such dividend, or to receive such allotment of rights, or to exercise such rights, or to give such consent, as the case may be, notwithstanding any transfer of any stock on the books of the corporation after any such record date fixed as aforesaid.
     In the case of the alleged loss or destruction or the mutilation of a certificate of stock, a duplicate certificate may be issued in place thereof, upon such terms in conformity with law as the board of directors may prescribe.
     The corporate seal of the corporation shall, subject to alteration by the board of directors, consist of a flat-faced circular die with the word "Delaware", together with the name of the corporation and the year of its organization, cut or engraved thereon. The corporate seal of the corporation may be used by causing it or a facsimile thereof to be impressed or affixed or reproduced or otherwise.
 
     Except as the board of directors may generally or in particular cases authorize the execution thereof in some other manner, all deeds, leases, transfers, contracts, bonds, notes, checks, drafts and other obligations made, accepted or endorsed by the corporation shall be signed by the president or by one of the vice presidents or by the treasurer.
     Except as from time to time otherwise provided by the board of directors, the fiscal year of the corporation shall terminate on the last Saturday in January of each year.
     The board of directors and the stockholders shall each have the power to adopt, alter, amend and repeal these by-laws; and any by-laws adopted by the directors or the stockholders under the powers conferred hereby may be altered, amended or repealed by the directors or by the stockholders.

 
EXHIBIT 10.1
 
 
JEFFREY NAYLOR
     AGREEMENT dated as of April 5, 2008 between Jeffrey Naylor ("Executive") and The TJX Companies, Inc., a Delaware corporation whose principal office is in Framingham, Massachusetts 01701(the "Company").
     The Company and Executive intend that Executive shall be employed by the Company on the terms set forth below and, to that end, deem it desirable to enter into this Agreement.
     The parties hereto, in consideration of the mutual agreements hereinafter contained, agree as follows:
     1. EFFECTIVE DATE; TERM OF AGREEMENT. This Agreement shall become effective as of April 5, 2008 (the "Effective Date"). Executive's employment hereunder shall continue on the terms provided herein until January 29, 2011 (the "End Date"), subject to earlier termination as provided herein. The period of Executive's employment by the Company from and after the Effective Date, whether under this Agreement or otherwise, is referred to in this Agreement as the "Employment Period," it being understood that nothing in this Agreement shall be construed as entitling Executive to continuation of his employment beyond the End Date and that any such continuation shall be subject to the agreement of the parties.
     2. SCOPE OF EMPLOYMENT.
     (a) . Executive shall diligently perform the duties and responsibilities of Senior Executive Vice President, Chief Administrative and Business Development Officer and such additional executive duties and responsibilities as shall from time to time be assigned to him by the Company.
Nature of Services
     (b) . Except for illnesses and vacation periods, Executive shall devote substantially all his working time and attention and his best efforts to the performance of his duties and responsibilities under this Agreement. However, Executive may (i) make any passive investments where he is not obligated or required to, and shall not in fact, devote any managerial efforts, (ii) subject to Board approval (which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld or withdrawn), participate in charitable or community activities or in trade or professional organizations, or (iii) subject to Board approval (which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld or withdrawn), hold directorships in public companies, except only that the Board shall have the right to limit such services as a director or such participation whenever the Board shall believe that the time spent on such activities infringes in any material respect upon the time
Extent of Services
 
required by Executive for the performance of his duties under this Agreement or is otherwise incompatible with those duties.
     3. COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS.
     (a) . Executive shall be paid a base salary at the rate hereinafter specified, such Base Salary to be paid in the same manner and at the same times as the Company shall pay base salary to other executive employees. The rate at which Executive's Base Salary shall be paid shall be $700,000 per year or such other rate (not less than $700,000 per year) as the Board may determine after Board review not less frequently than annually.
Base Salary
     (b) . Reference is made to outstanding awards of stock options and of performance-based restricted stock made prior to the Effective Date under the Company's Stock Incentive Plan (including any successor, the "Stock Incentive Plan"), to the award opportunity granted to Executive for FYE 2008 under the Company's Management Incentive Plan ("MIP") and to the award opportunity granted to Executive under the Company's Long Range Performance Incentive Plan ("LRPIP") for cycles beginning before the Effective Date. Each of the foregoing awards shall continue for such period or periods and in accordance with such terms as are set out in the grant and other governing documents relating to such awards and shall not be affected by the terms of this Agreement except as otherwise expressly provided herein.
Existing Awards
     (c) . Consistent with the terms of the Company's Stock Incentive Plan (including any successor, the "Stock Incentive Plan"), during the Employment Period, Executive will be entitled to stock-based awards under the Stock Incentive Plan at levels commensurate with his position and responsibilities and subject to such terms as shall be established by the Committee.
New Stock Awards
     (d) . During the Employment Period, Executive shall be eligible to participate in annual grants under LRPIP at a level commensurate with his position and responsibilities and subject to such terms as shall be established by the Committee.
LRPIP
     (e) . During the Employment Period, Executive shall be eligible to participate in annual grants under MIP at a level commensurate with his position and responsibilities and subject to such terms as shall be established by the Committee.
MIP
     (f) . Executive shall be entitled during the Employment Period to participate in the Company's tax-qualified retirement and profit-sharing plans and its nonqualified deferred compensation plans, including the GDCP (with respect to amounts deferred in respect of services rendered prior to January 1, 2008) and ESP (but not including the Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan), in each case in accordance with the terms of the applicable plan (including, for the avoidance of doubt and without limitation, the amendment and termination provisions thereof).
Qualified Plans; Other Deferred Compensation Plans
     (g) . Executive shall be subject to Company policies applicable to its executives generally and shall be entitled to receive an automobile allowance commensurate with his position and all such other fringe benefits as the Company shall from time to time make available to other executives generally (subject to the terms of any applicable fringe benefit plan).
Policies and Fringe Benefits
 
     (h) . The Company is entitled to terminate Executive's employment notwithstanding the fact that Executive may lose entitlement to benefits under the arrangements described above. Upon termination of his employment, Executive shall have no claim against the Company or Parent for loss arising out of ineligibility to exercise any stock options granted to him or otherwise in relation to any of the stock options or other stock-based awards granted to Executive, and the rights of Executive shall be determined solely by the rules of the relevant award document and plan.
Other
     4. TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT; IN GENERAL.
     (a) The Company shall have the right to end Executive's employment at any time and for any reason, with or without Cause.
     (b) To the extent consistent with applicable law, Executive's employment shall terminate when Executive becomes Disabled. In addition, if by reason of Incapacity Executive is unable to perform his duties for at least six continuous months, upon written notice by the Company to Executive, and to the extent consistent with applicable law, the Employment Period will be terminated for Incapacity.
     (c) Whenever his employment shall terminate, Executive shall resign all offices or other positions he shall hold with the Company and any affiliated corporations. For the avoidance of doubt, the Employment Period shall terminate upon termination of Executive's employment for any reason.
     5. BENEFITS UPON NON-VOLUNTARY TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT OR UPON EXPIRATION OF THE AGREEMENT.
     (a) . If the Employment Period shall have terminated prior to the End Date by reason of (i) death, Disability or Incapacity of Executive, (ii) termination by the Company for any reason other than Cause or (iii) termination by Executive in the event that Executive is relocated more than forty (40) miles from the current corporate headquarters of the Company, in either case without his prior written consent (a "Constructive Termination"), then all compensation and benefits for Executive shall be as follows:
Certain Terminations Prior to the End Date
     (i) For a period of eighteen (18) months after the Date of Termination (the "termination period"), the Company will pay to Executive or his legal representative, without reduction for compensation earned from other employment or self employment, continued Base Salary at the rate in effect at termination of employment; , that if Executive is eligible for long-term disability compensation benefits under the Company's long-term disability plan, the amount payable under this clause shall be paid at a rate equal to the excess of (a) the rate of Base Salary in effect at termination of employment over (b) the long-term disability compensation benefits for which Executive is approved under such plan.
provided
     (ii) If Executive elects so-called "COBRA" continuation of group health plan coverage provided pursuant to Part 6 of Subtitle B of Title I of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, there shall be added to the amounts otherwise payable under Section 5(a)(i) above, during the continuation of such coverage, an amount
 
(grossed up for federal and state income taxes) equal to the participant cost of such coverage, except to the extent that Executive shall obtain no less favorable coverage from another employer or from self-employment in which case such additional payments shall cease immediately.
     (iii) The Company will pay to Executive or his legal representative, without offset for compensation earned from other employment or self-employment, (A) any unpaid amounts to which Executive is entitled under MIP for the fiscal year of the Company ended immediately prior to Executive's termination of employment (B) any unpaid amounts owing with respect to LRPIP cycles in which Executive participated and which were completed prior to termination of employment. These amounts will be paid at the same time as other awards for such prior year or cycle are paid.
plus
     (iv) The Company will pay to Executive or his legal representative, without offset for compensation earned from other employment or self-employment, an amount equal to the sum of (A) Executive's MIP Target Award, if any, for the year of termination, (but only if the performance period in respect of such MIP award began on or before January 1, 2009) multiplied by a fraction the numerator of which is three hundred and sixty-five (365) the number of days during such year prior to termination, and the denominator of which is seven hundred and thirty (730), , (B) with respect to each LRPIP cycle in which Executive participated that began on or before January 1, 2009 and that had not ended prior to termination, if any, an amount equal to Executive's LRPIP Target Award for such cycle multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of full months in such cycle completed prior to termination and the denominator of which is the number of full months in such cycle. The amount, if any, described in clause (a)(iv)(A) above will be paid not later than MIP awards for the year of termination are paid. The amount, if any, described in clause (a)(iv)(B) above, to the extent measured by the LRPIP Target Award for any cycle, will be paid not later than the date on which LRPIP awards for such cycle are paid or would have been paid. The Company and Executive agree to negotiate in good faith an amendment of this Section 5(a)(iv) in respect of any termination described in this Section 5(a) occurring after January 31, 2009 and on or prior to the End Date, with a view to providing Executive separation pay determined in a manner (taking into account other payments to Executive) that is consistent in approach with the separation pay arrangements made with other senior executive officers of the Company and with the objective of qualifying any MIP, LRPIP or similar awards to Executive that are intended so to qualify with the performance-based compensation exception rules under Section 162(m) of the Code.
plus
plus
     (v) In addition, Executive or his legal representative shall be entitled to the Stock Incentive Plan benefits described in Section 3(b) (Existing Awards) and Section 3(c) (New Stock Awards), in each case in accordance with and subject to the terms of the applicable arrangement, and to the payment of his vested benefits under the plans described in Section 3(f) (Qualified Plans; Other Deferred Compensation Plans).
 
     (vi) If termination occurs by reason of Incapacity or Disability, Executive shall also be entitled to such compensation, if any, as is payable pursuant to the Company's long-term disability plan. If for any period Executive receives long-term disability compensation payments under a long-term disability plan of the Company as well as payments under (a)(i) above, and if the sum of such payments (the "combined salary/disability benefit") exceeds the payment for such period to which Executive is entitled under (a)(i) above (determined without regard to the proviso set forth therein), he shall promptly pay such excess in reimbursement to the Company; that in no event shall application of this sentence result in reduction of Executive's combined salary/disability benefit below the level of long-term disability compensation payments to which Executive is entitled under the long-term disability plan or plans of the Company.
provided,
     (vii) If termination occurs by reason of death, Incapacity or Disability, Executive shall also be entitled to an amount equal to Executive's MIP Target Award for the year of termination, without proration. This amount will be paid at the same time as the amount payable under paragraph (iv) above.
     (i) Except as expressly set forth above or as required by law, Executive shall not be entitled to continue participation during the termination period in any employee benefit or fringe benefit plan, except that during the termination period the Company shall continue to provide the Executive with an automobile or automobile allowance.
     (b) . Unless earlier terminated or except as otherwise mutually agreed by Executive and the Company, Executive's employment with the Company shall terminate on the End Date. Unless the Company in connection with such termination shall offer to Executive continued service in a position on reasonable terms, Executive shall be treated as having terminated under Section 5(a) on the day immediately preceding the End Date and shall be entitled to the pay and benefits described therein. If the Company in connection with such termination offers to Executive continued service in a position on reasonable terms, and Executive declines such service, he shall be treated for all purposes of this Agreement as having terminated his employment voluntarily on the End Date and he shall be entitled only to those benefits to which he would be entitled under Section 6(a). For purposes of the two preceding sentences, "service in a position on reasonable terms" shall mean service in a position comparable to the position in which Executive was serving immediately prior to the End Date, as reasonably determined by the Board.
Termination on the End Date
     6. OTHER TERMINATION; VIOLATION OF CERTAIN AGREEMENTS.
     (a) . If Executive terminates his employment voluntarily, Executive or his legal representative shall be entitled (in each case in accordance with and subject to the terms of the applicable arrangement) to any Stock Incentive Plan benefits described in Section 3(b) (Existing Awards) or Section 3(c) (New Stock Awards) and to any vested benefits under the plans described in Section 3(f) (Qualified Plans; Other Deferred Compensation Plans). In addition, the Company will pay to Executive or his legal representative any unpaid amounts to which Executive is entitled under MIP for the fiscal year of the Company ended immediately prior to Executive's termination of employment, plus any unpaid amounts owing with respect to LRPIP cycles in which Executive participated and which were completed
Voluntary termination of employment
 
prior to termination, in each case at the same time as other awards for such prior year or cycle are paid. No other benefits shall be paid under this Agreement upon a voluntary termination of employment.
     (b) . If the Company should end Executive's employment for Cause or, notwithstanding Section 5 and Section 6(a) above, if Executive should violate the protected persons or noncompetition provisions of Section 8, all compensation and benefits otherwise payable pursuant to this Agreement shall cease, other than (x) such vested amounts as are credited to Executive's account (but not received) under GDCP and ESP in accordance with the terms of those programs; (y) any vested benefits to which Executive is entitled by law under the Company's tax-qualified plans; and (z) Stock Incentive Plan benefits, if any, to which Executive may be entitled (in each case in accordance with and subject to the terms of the applicable arrangement) under Sections 3(b) (Existing Awards) and 3(c) (New Stock Awards). The Company does not waive any rights it may have for damages for injunctive relief.
Termination for Cause; Violation of Certain Agreements
     7. BENEFITS UPON CHANGE OF CONTROL. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, in the event of a Change of Control, the determination and payment of any benefits payable thereafter with respect to Executive shall be governed exclusively by the provisions of Exhibit C.
     8. AGREEMENT NOT TO SOLICIT OR COMPETE
     (a) During the Employment Period and for a period of twenty-four (24) months thereafter (the "Nonsolicitation Period"), Executive shall not, and shall not direct any other individual or entity to, directly or indirectly (including as a partner, shareholder, joint venturer or other investor) (i) hire, offer to hire, attempt to hire or assist in the hiring of, any protected person as an employee, director, consultant, advisor or other service provider, (ii) recommend any protected person for employment or other engagement with any person or entity other than the Company and its Subsidiaries, (iii) solicit for employment or other engagement any protected person, or seek to persuade, induce or encourage any protected person to discontinue employment or engagement with the Company or its Subsidiaries, or recommend to any protected person any employment or engagement other than with the Company or its Subsidiaries, (iv) accept services of any sort (whether for compensation or otherwise) from any protected person, or (v) participate with any other person or entity in any of the foregoing activities. Any individual or entity to which Executive provides services (as an employee, director, consultant, advisor or otherwise) or in which Executive is a shareholder, member, partner, joint venturer or investor, excluding interests in the common stock of any publicly traded corporation of one percent (1%) or less), and any individual or entity that is affiliated with any such individual or entity, shall, for purposes of the preceding sentence, be irrebuttably presumed to have acted at the direction of Executive with respect to any "protected person" who worked with Executive at any time during the six (6) months prior to termination of the Employment Period. A "protected person" is a person who at the time of termination of the Employment Period, or within six (6) months prior thereto, is or was employed by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries either in a position of Assistant Vice President or higher, or in a salaried position in any merchandising group. As to (I) each "protected person" to whom the foregoing applies, (II) each subcategory of "protected person," as defined above, (III) each limitation on (A)
 
employment or other engagement, (B) solicitation and (C) unsolicited acceptance of services, of each "protected person" and (IV) each month of the period during which the provisions of this subsection (a) apply to each of the foregoing, the provisions set forth in this subsection (a) shall be deemed to be separate and independent agreements. In the event of unenforceability of any one or more such agreement(s), such unenforceable agreement(s) shall be deemed automatically reformed in order to allow for the greatest degree of enforceability authorized by law or, if no such reformation is possible, deleted from the provisions hereof entirely, and such reformation or deletion shall not affect the enforceability of any other provision of this subsection (a) or any other term of this Agreement.
     (b) During the course of his employment, Executive will have learned vital trade secrets of the Company and its Subsidiaries and will have access to confidential and proprietary information and business plans of the Company and its Subsidiaries. Therefore, during the Employment Period and for a period of eighteen (18) months thereafter (the "Noncompetition Period"), Executive will not, directly or indirectly, be a shareholder, member, partner, joint venturer or investor (disregarding in this connection passive ownership for investment purposes of common stock representing one percent (1%) or less of the voting power or value of any publicly traded corporation) in, serve as a director or manager of, be engaged in any employment, consulting, or fees-for-services relationship or arrangement with, or advise with respect to the organization or conduct of, or any investment in, any "competitive business" as hereinafter defined or any Person that engages in any "competitive business" as hereinafter defined, nor shall Executive undertake any planning to engage in any such activities. The term "competitive business" (i) shall mean any business (however organized or conducted) that competes with a business in which the Company or any of its Subsidiaries was engaged, or in which the Company or any Subsidiary was planning to engage, at any time during the 12-month period immediately preceding the date on which the Employment Period ends, and (ii) shall conclusively be presumed to include, but shall not be limited to, (A) any business specified on Schedule I to this Agreement, and (B) any other off-price, promotional, or warehouse-club-type retail business, however organized or conducted, that sells apparel, footwear, home fashions, home furnishings, jewelry, accessories, or any other category of merchandise sold by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries at the termination of the Employment Period. For purposes of this subsection (b), a "Person" means an individual, a corporation, a limited liability company, an association, a partnership, an estate, a trust and any other entity or organization, other than the Company or its Subsidiaries, and reference to any Person (the "first Person") shall be deemed to include any other Person that controls, is controlled by or is under common control with the first Person. If, at any time, pursuant to action of any court, administrative, arbitral or governmental body or other tribunal, the operation of any part of this subsection shall be determined to be unlawful or otherwise unenforceable, then the coverage of this subsection shall be deemed to be reformed and restricted as to substantive reach, duration, geographic scope or otherwise, as the case may be, to the extent, and only to the extent, necessary to make this paragraph lawful and enforceable to the greatest extent possible in the particular jurisdiction in which such determination is made.
     (c) Executive shall never use or disclose any confidential or proprietary information of the Company or its Subsidiaries other than as required by applicable law or during the Employment Period for the proper performance of Executive's duties and responsibilities to the Company and its Subsidiaries. This restriction shall continue to apply after Executive's
 
employment terminates, regardless of the reason for such termination. All documents, records and files, in any media, relating to the business, present or otherwise, of the Company and its Subsidiaries and any copies ("Documents"), whether or not prepared by Executive, are the exclusive property of the Company and its Subsidiaries. Executive must diligently safeguard all Documents, and must surrender to the Company at such time or times as the Company may specify all Documents then in Executive's possession or control. In addition, upon termination of employment for any reason other than the death of Executive, Executive shall immediately return all Documents, and shall execute a certificate representing and warranting that he has returned all such Documents in Executive's possession or under his control.
     (d) If, during the Employment Period or at any time following termination of the Employment Period, regardless of the reason for such termination, Executive breaches any provision of this Section 8, the Company's obligation, if any, to pay benefits under Section 5 hereof shall forthwith cease and Executive shall immediately forfeit and disgorge to the Company, with interest at the prime rate in effect at Bank of America, or its successor, all of the following: (i) any benefits theretofore paid to Executive under Section 5; (ii) any unexercised stock options and stock appreciation rights held by Executive; (iii) if any other stock-based award vested in connection with termination of the Employment Period, whether occurring prior to, simultaneously with, or following such breach, or subsequent to such breach and prior to termination of the Employment Period, the value of such stock-based award at time of vesting plus any additional gain realized on a subsequent sale or disposition of the award or the underlying stock; and (iv) in respect of each stock option or stock appreciation right exercised by Executive within six (6) months prior to any such breach or subsequent thereto and prior to the forfeiture and disgorgement required by this Section 8(d), the excess over the exercise price (or base value, in the case of a stock appreciation right) of the greater of (A) the fair market value at time of exercise of the shares of stock subject to the award, or (B) the number of shares of stock subject to such award multiplied by the per-share proceeds of any sale of such stock by Executive.
     (e) Executive shall notify the Company immediately upon securing employment or becoming self-employed at any time within the Noncompetition Period, and shall provide to the Company such details concerning such employment or self-employment as it may reasonably request in order to ensure compliance with the terms hereof.
     (f) Executive hereby advises the Company that Executive has carefully read and considered all the terms and conditions of this Agreement, including the restraints imposed on Executive under this Section 8, and agrees without reservation that each of the restraints contained herein is necessary for the reasonable and proper protection of the good will, confidential information and other legitimate business interests of the Company and its Subsidiaries, that each and every one of those restraints is reasonable in respect to subject matter, length of time and geographic area; and that these restraints will not prevent Executive from obtaining other suitable employment during the period in which Executive is bound by them. Executive agrees that Executive will never assert, or permit to be asserted on his behalf, in any forum, any position contrary to the foregoing. Executive also acknowledges and agrees that, were Executive to breach any of the provisions of this Section 8, the harm to the Company and its Subsidiaries would be irreparable. Executive therefore agrees that, in the event of such a breach or threatened breach, the Company shall, in addition to any other remedies available to it,
 
have the right to obtain preliminary and permanent injunctive relief against any such breach or threatened breach without having to post bond, and will additionally be entitled to an award of attorney's fees incurred in connection with enforcing its rights hereunder. Executive further agrees that, in the event that any provision of this Agreement shall be determined by any court of competent jurisdiction to be unenforceable by reason of its being extended over too great a time, too large a geographic area or too great a range of activities, such provision shall be deemed to be modified to permit its enforcement to the maximum extent permitted by law. Finally, Executive agrees that the Noncompetition Period and the Nonsolicitation Period shall be tolled, and shall not run, during any period of time in which Executive is in violation of any of the terms of this Section 8, in order that the Company shall have the agreed-upon temporal protection recited herein.
     (g) Executive agrees that if any of the restrictions in this Section 8 is held to be void or ineffective for any reason but would be held to be valid and effective if part of its wording were deleted, that restriction shall apply with such deletions as may be necessary to make it valid and effective. Executive further agrees that the restrictions contained in each subsection of this Section 8 shall be construed as separate and individual restrictions and shall each be capable of being severed without prejudice to the other restrictions or to the remaining provisions.
     (h) Executive expressly consents to be bound by the provisions of this Agreement for the benefit of the Company and its Subsidiaries, and any successor or permitted assign to whose employ Executive may be transferred, without the necessity that this Agreement be re-signed at the time of such transfer. Executive further agrees that no changes in the nature or scope of his employment with the Company will operate to extinguish the terms and conditions set forth in Section 8, or otherwise require the parties to re-sign this Agreement
     (i) The provisions of this Section 8 shall survive the termination of the Employment Period and the termination of this Agreement, regardless of the reason or reasons therefor, and shall be binding on Executive regardless of any breach by the Company of any other provision of this Agreement.
     9. ASSIGNMENT. The rights and obligations of the Company shall enure to the benefit of and shall be binding upon the successors and assigns of the Company. The rights and obligations of Executive are not assignable except only that stock issuable, awards and payments payable to him after his death shall be made to his estate except as otherwise provided by the applicable plan or award documentation, if any.
     10. NOTICES. All notices and other communications required hereunder shall be in writing and shall be given by mailing the same by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid. If sent to the Company the same shall be mailed to the Company at 770 Cochituate Road, Framingham, Massachusetts 01701, Attention: Chairman of the Executive Compensation Committee, or other such address as the Company may hereafter designate by notice to Executive; and if sent to Executive, the same shall be mailed to Executive at his address as set forth in the records of the Company or at such other address as Executive may hereafter designate by notice to the Company.
 
     11. WITHHOLDING; CERTAIN TAX MATTERS. Anything to the contrary notwithstanding, (a) all payments required to be made by the Company hereunder to Executive shall be subject to the withholding of such amounts, if any, relating to tax and other payroll deductions as the Company may reasonably determine it should withhold pursuant to any applicable law or regulation, and (b) to the extent any payment hereunder shall be required to be delayed until six months following separation from service to comply with the "specified employee" rules of Section 409A it shall be so delayed (but not more than is required to comply with such rules).
     12. GOVERNING LAW. This Agreement and the rights and obligations of the parties hereunder shall be governed by the laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.
     13. ARBITRATION. In the event that there is any claim or dispute arising out of or relating to this Agreement, or the breach thereof, and the parties hereto shall not have resolved such claim or dispute within sixty (60) days after written notice from one party to the other setting forth the nature of such claim or dispute, then such claim or dispute shall be settled exclusively by binding arbitration in Boston, Massachusetts in accordance with the Rules Governing Resolutions of Employment Disputes of the American Arbitration Association by an arbitrator mutually agreed upon by the parties hereto or, in the absence of such agreement, by an arbitrator selected according to such Rules. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if either the Company or Executive shall request, such arbitration shall be conducted by a panel of three arbitrators, one selected by the Company, one selected by Executive and the third selected by agreement of the first two, or, in the absence of such agreement, in accordance with such Rules. Judgment upon the award rendered by such arbitrator(s) shall be entered in any Court having jurisdiction thereof upon the application of either party.
     14. ENTIRE AGREEMENT. This Agreement, including Exhibits, represents the entire agreement between the parties relating to the terms of Executive's employment by the Company and supersedes all prior written or oral agreements between them except to the extent provided herein.
 
     (a) "Base Salary" means, for any period, the amount described in Section 3(a).
     (b) "Board" means the Board of Directors of the Company.
     (c) "Cause" means dishonesty by Executive in the performance of his duties, conviction of a felony (other than a conviction arising solely under a statutory provision imposing criminal liability upon Executive on a basis due to the Company offices held by Executive, so long as any act or omission of Executive with respect to such matter was not taken or omitted in contravention of any applicable policy or directive of the Board); gross neglect of duties (other than as a result of Incapacity, Disability or death), or conflict of interest which conflict shall continue for thirty (30) days after the Company gives written notice to Executive requesting the cessation of such conflict; or any fact or circumstance other than Incapacity, Disability or death that prevents Executive from continuing to provide services to the Company.
per se
     In respect of any termination during a Standstill Period, Executive shall not be deemed to have been terminated for Cause until the later to occur of (i) the 30th day after notice of termination is given and (ii) the delivery to Executive of a copy of a resolution duly adopted by the affirmative vote of not less than a majority of the Company's directors at a meeting called and held for that purpose (after reasonable notice to Executive), and at which Executive together with his counsel was given an opportunity to be heard, finding that Executive was guilty of conduct described in the definition of "Cause" above, and specifying the particulars thereof in detail; that the Company may suspend Executive and withhold payment of his Base Salary from the date that notice of termination is given until the earliest to occur of (A) termination of Executive for Cause effected in accordance with the foregoing procedures (in which case Executive shall not be entitled to his Base Salary for such period), (B) a determination by a majority of the Company's directors that Executive was not guilty of the conduct described in the definition of "Cause" effected in accordance with the foregoing procedures (in which case Executive shall be reinstated and paid any of his previously unpaid Base Salary for such period), or (C) ninety (90) days after notice of termination is given (in which case Executive shall then be reinstated and paid any of his previously unpaid Base Salary for such period). If Base Salary is withheld and then paid pursuant to clause (B) or (C) of the preceding sentence, the amount thereof shall be accompanied by simple interest, calculated on a daily basis, at a rate per annum equal to the prime or base lending rate, as in effect at the time, of the Company's principal commercial bank.
provided, however,
     (d) "Change of Control" has the meaning given it in Exhibit B.
     (e) "Change of Control Termination" means the termination of Executive's employment during a Standstill Period (1) by the Company other than for Cause, or (2) by Executive for good reason, or (3) by reason of death, Incapacity or Disability.
     For purposes of this definition, termination for "good reason" shall mean the voluntary termination by Executive of his employment (A) within one hundred and twenty (120) days after
 
the occurrence without Executive's express written consent of any one of the events described in clauses (I), (II), (III), (IV), (V) or (VI) below, that Executive gives notice to the Company at least thirty (30) days in advance requesting that the pertinent situation described therein be remedied, and the situation remains unremedied upon expiration of such 30-day period; (B) within one hundred and twenty (120) days after the occurrence without Executive's express written consent of the event described in clause (VII), that Executive gives notice to the Company at least thirty (30) days in advance of his intent to terminate his employment in respect of such event; or (C) under the circumstances described in clause (VIII) below, that Executive gives notice to the Company at least thirty (30) days in advance:
provided,
provided,
provided,
 
     (f) "Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
     (g) "Committee" means the Executive Compensation Committee of the Board.
     (h) "Date of Termination" means the date on which Executive's employment terminates.
     (i) "Disabled"/"Disability" has the meaning given it in the Company's long-term disability plan. Executive's employment shall be deemed to be terminated for Disability on the date on which Executive is entitled to receive long-term disability compensation pursuant to such long-term disability plan.
     (j) "End Date" has the meaning set forth in Section 1 of the Agreement.
     (k) "ESP" means the Company's Executive Savings Plan.
     (l) "GDCP" means the Company's General Deferred Compensation Plan, or, if the General Deferred Compensation Plan is no longer maintained by the Company, a nonqualified deferred compensation plan (other than the ESP) or arrangement the terms of which are not less favorable to Executive than the terms of the General Deferred Compensation Plan as in effect on the Effective Date.
     (m) "Incapacity" means a disability (other than Disability within the meaning of (i) above) or other impairment of health that renders Executive unable to perform his duties (either with or without reasonable accommodation) to the reasonable satisfaction of the Committee.
     (n) "LRPIP" has the meaning set forth in Section 3(c) of the Agreement.
 
     (o) "MIP" has the meaning set forth in Section 3(c) of the Agreement..
     (p) "Section 409A" means Section 409A of the Code.
     (q) "Standstill Period" means the period commencing on the date of a Change of Control and continuing until the close of business on the earlier of the day immediately preceding the End Date or the last business day of the 24th calendar month following such Change of Control.
     (r) "Stock" means the common stock, $1.00 par value, of the Company.
     (s) "Stock Incentive Plan" has the meaning set forth in Section 3(c) of the Agreement.
     (t) "Subsidiary" means any corporation in which the Company owns, directly or indirectly, 50% or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock.
 
     "Change of Control" shall mean the occurrence of any one of the following events:
     (a) there occurs a change of control of the Company of a nature that would be required to be reported in response to Item 5.01 of the Current Report on Form 8-K (as amended in 2004) pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") or in any other filing under the Exchange Act; that no transaction shall be deemed to be a Change of Control (i) if the person or each member of a group of persons acquiring control is excluded from the definition of the term "Person" hereunder or (ii) unless the Committee shall otherwise determine prior to such occurrence, if Executive or an Executive Related Party is the Person or a member of a group constituting the Person acquiring control; or
provided, however,
     (b) any Person other than the Company, any wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, or any employee benefit plan of the Company or such a subsidiary becomes the owner of 20% or more of the Company's Common Stock and thereafter individuals who were not directors of the Company prior to the date such Person became a 20% owner are elected as directors pursuant to an arrangement or understanding with, or upon the request of or nomination by, such Person and constitute at least 1/4 of the Company's Board of Directors; provided, however, that unless the Committee shall otherwise determine prior to the acquisition of such 20% ownership, such acquisition of ownership shall not constitute a Change of Control if Executive or an Executive Related Party is the Person or a member of a group constituting the Person acquiring such ownership; or
     (c) there occurs any solicitation or series of solicitations of proxies by or on behalf of any Person other than the Company's Board of Directors and thereafter individuals who were not directors of the Company prior to the commencement of such solicitation or series of solicitations are elected as directors pursuant to an arrangement or understanding with, or upon the request of or nomination by, such Person and constitute at least 1/4 of the Company's Board of Directors; or
     (d) the Company executes an agreement of acquisition, merger or consolidation which contemplates that (i) after the effective date provided for in the agreement, all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of the Company shall be owned, leased or otherwise controlled by another Person and (ii) individuals who are directors of the Company when such agreement is executed shall not constitute a majority of the board of directors of the survivor or successor entity immediately after the effective date provided for in such agreement; provided, however, that unless otherwise determined by the Committee, no transaction shall constitute a Change of Control if, immediately after such transaction, Executive or any Executive Related Party shall own equity securities of any surviving corporation ("Surviving Entity") having a fair value as a percentage of the fair value of the equity securities of such Surviving Entity greater than 125% of the fair value of the equity securities of the Company owned by Executive and any Executive Related Party immediately prior to such transaction, expressed as a percentage of the fair value of all equity securities of the Company immediately prior to such transaction (for purposes of this paragraph ownership of equity securities shall be determined in the same manner as
 
ownership of Common Stock); and provided, further, that, for purposes of this paragraph (d), if such agreement requires as a condition precedent approval by the Company's shareholders of the agreement or transaction, a Change of Control shall not be deemed to have taken place unless and until such approval is secured (but upon any such approval, a Change of Control shall be deemed to have occurred on the date of execution of such agreement).
     In addition, for purposes of this Exhibit B the following terms have the meanings set forth below:
     "Common Stock" shall mean the then outstanding Common Stock of the Company plus, for purposes of determining the stock ownership of any Person, the number of unissued shares of Common Stock which such Person has the right to acquire (whether such right is exercisable immediately or only after the passage of time) upon the exercise of conversion rights, exchange rights, warrants or options or otherwise. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the term Common Stock shall not include shares of Preferred Stock or convertible debt or options or warrants to acquire shares of Common Stock (including any shares of Common Stock issued or issuable upon the conversion or exercise thereof) to the extent that the Board of Directors of the Company shall expressly so determine in any future transaction or transactions.
     A Person shall be deemed to be the "owner" of any Common Stock:
     (i) of which such Person would be the "beneficial owner," as such term is defined in Rule 13d-3 promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") under the Exchange Act, as in effect on March 1, 1989; or
     (ii) of which such Person would be the "beneficial owner" for purposes of Section 16 of the Exchange Act and the rules of the Commission promulgated thereunder, as in effect on March 1, 1989; or
     (iii) which such Person or any of its affiliates or associates (as such terms are defined in Rule 12b-2 promulgated by the Commission under the Exchange Act, as in effect on March 1, 1989), has the right to acquire (whether such right is exercisable immediately or only after the passage of time) pursuant to any agreement, arrangement or understanding or upon the exercise of conversion rights, exchange rights, warrants or options or otherwise.
     "Person" shall have the meaning used in Section 13(d) of the Exchange Act, as in effect on March 1, 1989.
     An "Executive Related Party" shall mean any affiliate or associate of Executive other than the Company or a majority-owned subsidiary of the Company. The terms "affiliate" and "associate" shall have the meanings ascribed thereto in Rule 12b-2 under the Exchange Act (the term "registrant" in the definition of "associate" meaning, in this case, the Company).
 
     C.1. .
Benefits Upon a Change of Control Termination
     (a) The Company shall pay the following to Executive in a lump sum, within thirty (30) days following a Change of Control Termination or on such delayed basis as may be necessary to comply with Section 409A: an amount equal to (A) two times his Base Salary for one year at the rate in effect immediately prior to the Date of Termination or the Change of Control, whichever is higher, plus (B) the accrued and unpaid portion of his Base Salary through the Date of Termination, subject to the following. If Executive is eligible for long-term disability compensation benefits under the Company's long-term disability plan, the amount payable under (A) shall be reduced by the annual long-term disability compensation benefit for which Executive is eligible under such plan for the two-year period over which the amount payable under (A) is measured. If for any period Executive receives long-term disability compensation payments under a long-term disability plan of the Company as well as payments under the first sentence of this subsection (a), and if the sum of such payments (the "combined Change of Control/disability benefit") exceeds the payment for such period to which Executive is entitled under the first sentence of this subsection (a) (determined without regard to the second sentence of this subsection (a)), he shall promptly pay such excess in reimbursement to the Company; that in no event shall application of this sentence result in reduction of Executive's combined Change of Control/disability benefit below the level of long-term disability compensation payments to which Executive is entitled under the long-term disability plan or plans of the Company.
provided,
     (b) Until the second anniversary of the Date of Termination, the Company shall maintain in full force and effect for the continued benefit of Executive and his family all life insurance and medical insurance plans and programs in which Executive was entitled to participate immediately prior to the Change of Control, provided, that Executive's continued participation is possible under the general terms and provisions of such plans and programs. In the event that Executive is ineligible to participate in such plans or programs, the Company shall arrange upon comparable terms to provide Executive with benefits substantially similar to those which he is entitled to receive under such plans and programs. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company's obligations hereunder with respect to life or medical coverage or benefits shall be deemed satisfied to the extent (but only to the extent) of any such coverage or benefits provided by another employer.
     (c) For a period of two years after the Date of Termination, the Company shall make available to Executive the use of any automobile that was made available to Executive prior to the Date of Termination, including ordinary replacement thereof in accordance with the Company's automobile policy in effect immediately prior to the Change of Control (or, in lieu of making such automobile available, the Company may at its option pay to Executive the present value of its cost of providing such automobile).
 
     C.2. . Within thirty (30) days following a Change of Control, whether or not Executive's employment has terminated or been terminated, the Company shall pay to Executive, in a lump sum, the sum of (i) and (ii), where:
Incentive Benefits Upon a Change of Control
     (i) is the sum of (A) the "Target Award" under the Company's Management Incentive Plan or any other annual incentive plan which is applicable to Executive for the fiscal year in which the Change of Control occurs, plus (B) an amount equal to such Target Award prorated for the period of active employment during such fiscal year through the Change of Control; and
     (ii) the sum of (A) for Performance Cycles not completed prior to the Change of Control, an amount with respect to each such cycle equal to the maximum Award under LRPIP specified for Executive for such cycle, plus (B) any unpaid amounts owing with respect to cycles completed prior to the Change of Control.
     C.3. . Payments under Section C.1. and Section C.2. of this Exhibit shall be made without regard to whether the deductibility of such payments (or any other payments or benefits to or for the benefit of Executive) would be limited or precluded by Section 280G of the Code ("Section 280G") and without regard to whether such payments (or any other payments or benefits) would subject Executive to the federal excise tax levied on certain "excess parachute payments" under Section 4999 of the Code (the "Excise Tax"). If any portion of the payments or benefits to or for the benefit of Executive (including, but not limited to, payments and benefits under this Agreement but determined without regard to this paragraph) constitutes an "excess parachute payment" within the meaning of Section 280G (the aggregate of such payments being hereinafter referred to as the "Excess Parachute Payments"), the Company shall promptly pay to Executive an additional amount (the "gross-up payment") that after reduction for all taxes (including but not limited to the Excise Tax) with respect to such gross-up payment equals the Excise Tax with respect to the Excess Parachute Payments; , that to the extent any gross-up payment would be considered "deferred compensation" for purposes of Section 409A of the Code, the manner and time of payment, and the provisions of this Section C.3, shall be adjusted to the extent necessary (but only to the extent necessary) to comply with the requirements of Section 409A with respect to such payment so that the payment does not give rise to the interest or additional tax amounts described at Section 409A(a)(1)(B) or Section 409A(b)(4) of the Code (the "Section 409A penalties"); , that if, notwithstanding the immediately preceding proviso, the gross-up payment cannot be made to conform to the requirements of Section 409A of the Code, the amount of the gross-up payment shall be determined without regard to any gross-up for the Section 409A penalties. The determination as to whether Executive's payments and benefits include Excess Parachute Payments and, if so, the amount of such payments, the amount of any Excise Tax owed with respect thereto, and the amount of any gross-up payment shall be made at the Company's expense by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP or by such other certified public accounting firm as the Committee may designate prior to a Change of Control (the "accounting firm"). Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Internal Revenue Service shall assert an Excise Tax liability that is higher than the Excise Tax (if any) determined by the accounting firm, the Company shall promptly augment the gross-up payment to address such higher Excise Tax liability.
Gross-Up Payment
provided
and further provided
 
     C.4. . In addition to the amounts described in Sections C.1. and C.2., and C.3., Executive or his legal representative shall be entitled to his Stock Incentive Plan benefits, if any, under Section 3(b) (Existing Awards) and Section 3(c) (New Stock Awards), and to the payment of his vested benefits under the plans described in Section 3(f) (Qualified Plans; Other Deferred Compensation Plans).
Other Benefits
     C.5. .
Noncompetition; No Mitigation of Damages; etc
     (a) . Upon a Change of Control, any agreement by Executive not to engage in competition with the Company subsequent to the termination of his employment, whether contained in an employment agreement or other agreement, shall no longer be effective.
Noncompetition
     (b) . Executive's benefits under this Exhibit C shall be considered severance pay in consideration of his past service and his continued service from the date of this Agreement, and his entitlement thereto shall neither be governed by any duty to mitigate his damages by seeking further employment nor offset by any compensation which he may receive from future employment.
No Duty to Mitigate Damages
     (c) . The Company shall pay all legal fees and expenses, including but not limited to counsel fees, stenographer fees, printing costs, etc. reasonably incurred by Executive in contesting or disputing that the termination of his employment during a Standstill Period is for Cause or other than for good reason (as defined in the definition of Change of Control Termination) or obtaining any right or benefit to which Executive is entitled under this Agreement following a Change of Control. Any amount payable under this Agreement that is not paid when due shall accrue interest at the prime rate as from time to time in effect at Bank of America, or its successor, until paid in full.
Legal Fees and Expenses
     (d) . During a Standstill Period, Executive's employment may be terminated by the Company only upon thirty (30) days' written notice to Executive.
Notice of Termination

 
EXHIBIT 10.2
Mr. Arnold Barron The TJX Companies, Inc. 770 Cochituate Road Framingham, MA 01701
     Re:
Modification of Employment Agreement
Dear Mr. Barron:
     Reference is made to the Employment Agreement dated as of April 5, 2005 (as subsequently amended and in effect on the date hereof, the "Agreement") between you and The TJX Companies, Inc. (the "Company"). The Company proposes to amend the Agreement, as so modified, as follows:
     (i) amending the second sentence of Section 1 thereof to read as follows: "Executive's employment shall continue on the terms provided herein until January 31, 2009 (the "End Date"), subject to earlier termination as provided herein (such period of employment hereinafter called the "Employment Period"), it being understood that nothing in this Agreement shall be construed as entitling Executive to continuation of his employment beyond the End Date and that any such continuation shall be subject to the agreement of the parties ."; and
     (ii) adding a new Section 3(h) thereof to read in its entirety: "(h) . For the avoidance of doubt, and not in limitation of the Company's general discretion with respect to awards, nothing in this Section 3 or otherwise in this Agreement shall be construed as entitling Executive to participate in any LRPIP or other cash-based or equity-based performance award for which the applicable performance period would extend beyond the End Date (any such award, a "long-term performance award") or as entitling Executive to any other award or payment in substitution for any long-term performance award. For the avoidance of doubt, the term "long-term performance award" as used in the immediately preceding sentence shall not be construed to include any stock option award which may be granted to Executive at levels commensurate with his position and responsibilities as to which vesting and exercisability are determined without regard to performance other than mere service or the passage of time."; and
Certain Awards
     (iii) amending Section 5(b) thereof to read in its entirety: "(b) . Unless earlier terminated or except as otherwise mutually agreed by Executive and the Company, Executive's employment with the Company shall terminate on the End Date and Executive shall be treated for all purposes of this
Terminations on or after the End Date
 
Agreement as having terminated his employment voluntarily on the End Date and he shall be entitled only to those benefits to which he would be entitled under Section 6(a) ("Voluntary termination of employment")."
     If you agree with the foregoing proposed amendments to the Agreement, please so indicate by signing the enclosed copy of this letter agreement and returning it to Mr. Greg Flores, whereupon the Agreement, as previously modified, will be deemed amended, effective immediately, to incorporate the changes set forth above and, except as so amended or as previously modified, the Agreement will continue in effect in accordance with its terms. This letter agreement shall constitute an agreement under seal.
I agree to the amendments described above to the Employment Agreement dated as of April 5, 2005 between me and The TJX Companies, Inc., as previously modified, effective as of the date set forth below:


