FILE:TJX/TJX-8K-20080220093714.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
S
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
______________
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
P
ursuant to Section 13 or 15 (d) of the
ecurities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of report (Date of earliest event reported): February 20, 2008
______________
THE TJX COMPANIES, INC
.
(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Charter)
i
Registrants telephone number, including area code:
(508) 390-1000
N/A
(Former name or former address,
f changed since last report)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 - 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 - 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
ITEM 2.02     Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On February 20, 2008, The TJX Companies, Inc. issued a press release that included financial results for the fiscal quarter ended January 26, 2008. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 hereto.
The information contained in this report, and the exhibit attached hereto, is being furnished and shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of, or otherwise regarded as filed under, the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
ITEM 9.01     Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)  Exhibits
Exhibit 99.1                 Press Release of The TJX Companies, Inc. dated February 20, 2008.
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit 99.1
The TJX Companies, Inc. Reports Strong Fiscal Year 2008 Results; Fourth Quarter Results Above Expectations
FRAMINGHAM, Mass.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--The TJX Companies, Inc. (NYSE: TJX), the leading off-price retailer of apparel and home fashions in the U.S. and worldwide, today announced sales and earnings results for the fiscal year and fourth quarter ended January 26, 2008. Net sales from continuing operations for the 52-week fiscal year were $18.6 billion, a 7% increase over last year, and consolidated comparable store sales increased 4%. Income from continuing operations for the 52-week fiscal year was $772 million, and diluted earnings per share from continuing operations were $1.66 compared to $1.63 for the prior year. Results include after-tax charges of $119 million, or $.25 per share, in Fiscal 2008 and $3 million (which did not change full-year earnings per share) in Fiscal 2007 related to the previously reported unauthorized computer intrusion(s) (see below). Excluding these charges, adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for Fiscal 2008 were $1.91, a 17% increase over $1.63 for the prior year.
For the 13-week Fiscal 2008 fourth quarter, net sales from continuing operations increased 8% to $5.5 billion, and consolidated comparable store sales increased 4% over last year. Income from continuing operations for the fourth quarter was $301 million, and diluted earnings per share from continuing operations were $.66 compared to $.51 in the prior year. Fourth quarter results include an after-tax benefit of $11 million, or $.02 per share, due to a reduction of the reserve related to the computer intrusion(s) (see below) as compared to a Fiscal 2007 fourth quarter charge of $.01 per share related to the intrusion(s). Excluding these items, adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations were $.64, up 23% over the adjusted $.52 per share in the prior year.
Carol Meyrowitz, President and Chief Executive Officer of The TJX Companies, Inc., stated, We are very pleased with our performance in 2007. Our strategies yielded strong operating results and margin growth, even in the challenging retail environment. Driving profitable sales remains our top priority, and we have delivered another great year on top of a great year by solidly executing the fundamentals of our flexible, global, off-price model. We were extremely disciplined in managing inventories, which gave us the ability to buy into current trends and offer great brands and fashions at compelling values. New merchandising initiatives and improved marketing highlighted our values and helped drive customer traffic. Further, expense management continued to be a key focus across the Company. In 2008, we will remain focused on many of these same strategies to drive profitable sales growth, and will continue pursuing growth vehicles to expand our brand presence both domestically and internationally.
Sales by Business Segment
The Companys comparable store sales and net sales by division for the full year were as follows:
The Companys comparable store sales and net sales by division, in the fourth quarter, were as follows:
Reduction of Reserve Related to Previously Announced Computer Intrusion(s)
In the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2008, the Company recorded a reduction in its reserve related to the computer intrusion(s), resulting in an after-tax benefit of approximately $11 million, or $.02 per share. This reduction related primarily to insurance proceeds with respect to the intrusion(s), as well as a reduction in estimated legal and other fees as the Company has continued to resolve disputes, litigation and investigations. The reserve reflects the Companys current estimation of probable losses arising from the computer intrusion(s), in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. The Company continues to assess its potential exposure and the amount of its reserve based on ongoing developments.
Impairment Charge
In the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2008, the Company recorded an impairment charge of $5 million, after tax, or $.01 per share, related to Bobs Stores, which is reflected in Bobs Stores segment results. The impairment charge relates to certain long-lived assets and intangible assets at Bobs Stores and represents the excess of recorded carrying values over the estimated fair value of these assets at year end. This charge was recorded in accordance with SFAS No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets, under which the Company reviews its long lived assets across all business units and major asset classifications annually to determine potential impairment.
Margins
For the full year Fiscal 2008, consolidated pretax profit margin from continuing operations was 6.7% compared to 7.2% in the prior year, reflecting the negative impact (1.0 percentage points) of charges related to the previously announced computer intrusion(s). Excluding these charges, pretax margins increased 0.5 percentage points to 7.7%. Gross margin from continuing operations increased 0.4 percentage points to 24.5%, driven by improved merchandise margins. Selling, general and administrative costs as a percent of sales were 16.8%, which were flat with prior year, due to the Companys continued focus on cost containment, partially offset by a planned increase in marketing expense.
During the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2008, the Companys consolidated pretax profit margin from continuing operations was 8.9%, a 1.4 percentage point improvement over prior year. The reduction to the intrusion(s) reserve, referenced above, positively impacted consolidated pretax profit margin by 0.4 percentage points in the fourth quarter. The gross profit margin from continuing operations was 24.5%, up 1.5 percentage points over prior year, primarily due to a 1.3 percentage point increase in merchandise margins, as well as buying and occupancy cost leverage. The gross profit margin benefited by 0.3 percentage points due to the foreign currency impact of inventory-related hedges, primarily in Canada. Selling, general and administrative costs as a percent of sales was 16.0%, up 0.5 percentage points versus the prior year. This increase primarily reflects a planned increase in marketing expense, the Bobs Stores impairment charge, as well as the timing of certain corporate expense items.
Inventory
Total inventories as of January 26, 2008, were $2.7 billion compared with $2.6 billion at the same time in the prior year. Consolidated inventories on a per-store basis, including the warehouses, at January 26, 2008, were up 2%. Excluding the impact of foreign currency, inventories were essentially flat on a per-store basis. At the Marmaxx division, the total inventory commitment, including the warehouses, stores and merchandise on order, was down versus last year on a per-store basis. The Company remains very comfortable with its inventory levels, with fewer dollars committed than at this time last year.
Share Repurchases
During the fourth quarter, the Company spent a total of $300 million to repurchase TJX stock, retiring 10.5 million shares. In Fiscal 2008, the Company spent a total of $950 million to repurchase TJX stock, which was more than planned, retiring a total of 33.3 million shares. As previously announced, the Companys Board of Directors earlier this year approved a new stock repurchase program that authorizes the repurchase of up to $1 billion of TJX common stock from time to time, which represents approximately 8% of the Companys outstanding shares at current prices. The new authorization is in addition to the current repurchase program.
Discontinued Operations
The Company reports results from continuing operations, which exclude the results of operations from 34 discontinued A.J. Wright stores. These stores were closed during the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2007 in order to reposition this business.
Fiscal 2009 Outlook
For the fiscal year ending January 31, 2009, the Company expects earnings per share from continuing operations in the range of $2.20 to $2.25, which represents a 15% to 18% increase over the $1.91 adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations in Fiscal 2008 (detailed above). This guidance includes an expected $.09 per share benefit from the 53 week in the Companys Fiscal 2009 calendar. Excluding this benefit, this guidance represents a 10% to 13% increase over last year. This range is based upon estimated consolidated comparable store sales growth of 2% to 3%, of which approximately 0.5 percentage points is due to the impact of foreign currency exchange rates.
rd
For the first quarter of Fiscal 2009, the Company expects earnings per share from continuing operations in the range of $.40 to $.41, which represents an 18% to 21% increase over $.34 on a reported basis last year. Prior years first quarter results include a $.03 per share charge related to the computer intrusion(s). Excluding this charge, this guidance represents an 8% to 11% increase over the prior years adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations of $.37. This outlook is based upon estimated consolidated comparable store sales growth of 4% to 5% of which approximately 2 percentage points is due to the impact of foreign currency exchange rates.
Stores by Concept
During the fiscal year ended January 26, 2008, the Company added a total of 97 stores, net of closings, to end the year with 2,563 stores, and increased square footage by 4% over the same period last year.
About The TJX Companies, Inc.
The TJX Companies, Inc. is the leading off-price retailer of apparel and home fashions in the U.S. and worldwide. The Company operates 847 T.J. Maxx, 776 Marshalls, 289 HomeGoods, and 129 A.J. Wright stores, as well as 34 Bobs Stores, in the United States. In Canada, the Company operates 191 Winners and 71 HomeSense stores, and in Europe, 226 T.K. Maxx stores. TJXs press releases and financial information are also available on the Internet at www.tjx.com.
Fourth Quarter and Fiscal 2008 Earnings Conference Call
At 11:00 a.m. ET today, Carol Meyrowitz, President and Chief Executive Officer of TJX, will hold a conference call with stock analysts to discuss the Companys Fiscal 2008 results, operations and business trends. A real-time webcast of the call will be available at . A replay of the call will also be available at or by dialing (866) 367-5577 through Wednesday, February 27, 2008.
www.tjx.com
www.tjx.com
February 2008 Sales Recorded Call
Additionally, the Company expects to release its February 2008 sales results on Thursday, March 6, 2008, at approximately 8:15 a.m. ET. Concurrent with that press release, a recorded message with more detailed information regarding TJXs February sales results, operations and business trends will be available via the Internet at , or by calling (703) 736-7248 through Thursday, March 13, 2008.
www.tjx.com
Archived versions of the Companys recorded messages and conference calls are available at after they are no longer available by telephone.
www.tjx.com
Forward-looking Statements
SAFE HARBOR STATEMENTS UNDER THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995: Various statements made in this release are forward-looking and involve a number of risks and uncertainties. All statements that address activities, events or developments that we intend, expect or believe may occur in the future are forward-looking statements. The following are some of the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements: the results and effects of the intrusion or intrusions into our computer system including the losses and expenses we may incur (which may be different from the amount we reserved and estimated and which differences may be material) and consequences to our business (including potential effects on our reputation and our sales) and to the value of our company and related value of our stock; the terms and completion of the settlement of the customer class actions; our ability to successfully expand our store base and increase same store sales; risks of expansion and costs of contraction; our ability to successfully implement our opportunistic inventory strategies and to effectively manage our inventories; successful advertising and promotion; consumer confidence, demand, spending habits and buying preferences; effects of unseasonable weather; competitive factors; factors affecting availability of store and distribution center locations on suitable terms; factors affecting our recruitment and employment of associates; factors affecting expenses; success of our acquisition and divestiture activities; our ability to successfully implement technologies and systems and protect data; our ability to continue to generate adequate cash flows; our ability to execute the share repurchase program; availability and cost of financing; general economic conditions, including gasoline prices; potential disruptions due to wars, natural disasters and other events beyond our control; changes in currency and exchange rates; product safety and import risks; adverse outcomes for any significant litigation; compliance with and changes in laws and regulations and accounting rules and principles; adequacy of reserves; closing adjustments; effectiveness of internal controls; and other factors that may be described in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We do not undertake to publicly update or revise our forward-looking statements even if experience or future changes make it clear that any projected results expressed or implied in such statements will not be realized.
The TJX Companies, Inc. and Consolidated Subsidiaries
Notes to Consolidated Condensed Statements
1. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007 TJX closed 34 of its A.J. Wright stores and recorded the cost to close the stores, as well as operating results of the stores, as discontinued operations.
2. TJX suffered an unauthorized intrusion or intrusions into portions of its computer system that process and store information related to credit and debit card, check and unreceipted merchandise return transactions (the intrusion or intrusions, collectively, the "Computer Intrusion"), which was discovered during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, and the related theft of customer data, primarily related to portions of the transactions at its stores (other than Bob's Stores) during the periods 2003 through June 2004 and mid-May 2006 through mid-December 2006.
During the first six months of fiscal 2008 TJX incurred pre-tax costs of $38 million for costs related to the Computer Intrusion. In addition, in the second quarter ended July 28, 2007 TJX established a pre-tax reserve for its estimated exposure to potential losses related to the Computer Intrusion and recorded a pre-tax charge of $178 million. As of January 26, 2008, TJX reduced the reserve by $19 million, primarily due to insurance proceeds with respect to the Computer Intrusion, which had not previously been reflected in the reserve, as well as a reduction in estimated legal and other fees as the Company has continued to resolve outstanding disputes, litigation and investigations. This reserve reflects the Companys current estimation of probable losses in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles with respect to the Computer Intrusion and includes our current estimation of total potential cash liabilities, from pending litigation, proceedings, investigations and other claims, as well as legal and other costs and expenses, arising from the Computer Intrusion. This reduction in the reserve results in a credit to the Provision for Computer Intrusion related costs of $19 million in the fiscal 2008 fourth quarter and a pre-tax charge of $197 million for the fiscal year ended January 26, 2008.
The Provision for Computer Intrusion related costs increased fiscal 2008 fourth quarter net income by $11 million, or $.02 per share, and reduced net income from continuing operations for the full fiscal 2008 year by $119 million, or $.25 per share.
3. The following is a reconciliation of our fourth quarter and full year diluted earnings per share for continuing operations, as reported on a GAAP basis, to the adjusted diluted earnings per share referenced in our earnings release.
4. During the fourth quarter ended January 26, 2008, TJX repurchased 10.5 million shares of its common stock at a cost of $300 million. On a year-to-date basis through January 26, 2008, TJX repurchased 33.3 million shares at a cost of $950 million. Repurchases were suspended during most of the first quarter as a result of the discovery of the Computer Intrusion. TJX records the repurchase of its stock on a cash basis and the amounts reflected in the financial statements may vary from the above due to the timing of settlement of repurchases. Of the $950 million of repurchases made during the fiscal year, $436 million completed a $1 billion stock repurchase program initially approved in October 2005 and $514 million were made under the $1 billion stock repurchase program approved by the Board of Directors in January 2007. In February 2008, TJXs Board of Directors authorized an additional multi-year stock repurchase plan of $1 billion.
5. In June 2006, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes, an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109 (FIN 48). FIN 48 clarifies the accounting for uncertainties in income taxes recognized in an enterprises financial statement. FIN 48 requires that TJX determine whether it is more likely than not that a tax position will be sustained upon examination by the appropriate taxing authority and if so, recognize the largest amount of benefit greater than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. FIN 48 must be applied to all existing tax positions upon initial adoption. TJX adopted FIN 48 in the first quarter ended April 28, 2007 and the net impact of adoption on its financial position was immaterial. However, in connection with the adoption, certain amounts that were historically netted within other liabilities were reclassified to other assets.
6. Certain amounts in the prior years financial statements have been reclassified to be consistent with this years presentation.
CONTACT: The TJX Companies, Inc. Sherry Lang Senior Vice President Investor and Public Relations (508) 390-2323


