FILE:TJX/TJX-8K-20110901162838.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Temporary Suspension of Trading Under Registrant's Employee Benefit Plans	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Temporary Suspension of Trading Under Registrant's Employee Benefit Plans
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 5.04 Temporary Suspension of Trading Under Registrant's Employee Benefit Plans.
On August 26, 2011, The TJX Companies, Inc. (the "Company") received notice required by section 101(i)(2)(E) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, regarding a blackout period under the TJX General Savings/Profit Sharing Plan (the "Plan"), due to changing recordkeepers and investment options. The blackout period is expected to begin at 4:00 p.m. Eastern Time on September 26, 2011 and end during the week of October 9, 2011 (the "Plan Blackout"). During the Plan Blackout, Plan participants temporarily will be unable to check their account balances, to direct or diversify investments in their Plan accounts, or to obtain loans, withdrawals or distributions from their Plan accounts. The same blackout restrictions will apply to participants in the corresponding Puerto Rican savings/profit sharing plan.
In accordance with Regulation BTR of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Section 306 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Company sent a notice to its directors and executive officers informing them of the restrictions during the Plan Blackout on their purchasing, selling, or otherwise acquiring, disposing or transferring shares of the Company's common stock that they acquire or previously acquired in connection with their service or employment as directors or executive officers of the Company. A copy of the notice is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Company stockholders or other interested persons may obtain information about the actual dates of the Plan Blackout, without charge, by contacting the TJX Treasury Department at 508-390-1000, 770 Cochituate Road, Framingham, MA 01701 during this blackout period and for a period of two years after its ending date.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: September 1, 2011
 

Exhibit 99.1
Executive Officers and Directors
To:
Ann McCauley
From:
September 1, 2011
Date:
Notice of Blackout Period
Re:
In connection with changing recordkeepers and investment options of TJX's General Saving/Profit Sharing Plan (the "401(k) plan"), there will be a blackout period for 401(k) plan participants currently scheduled from September 26, 2011 at 4:00 p.m. ET ending during the week of October 9, 2011. During this time, 401(k) plan participants will be unable to check their account balances, to direct or diversify investments in their plan accounts or to obtain loans, withdrawals or distributions from their plan accounts. The same blackout restrictions will apply to participants in the corresponding Puerto Rican plan.
Under federal law, during this blackout period, you are prohibited from directly or indirectly purchasing, selling, or otherwise acquiring, disposing or transferring shares of TJX common stock or derivative securities that you acquired in connection with your service or employment as a director or executive officer. These restrictions include indirect transactions by family members, partnerships, corporations, trusts or others where you have a pecuniary interest.
There are limited exceptions to these restrictions. TJX's preclearance policy will continue to apply during the blackout period.
We will advise you of any updates on the blackout period once available or you can contact the TJX Treasury Department at 508-390-1000 or 770 Cochituate Road, Framingham, MA 01701, without charge, for additional information including the specific end date.


