ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Throughout this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, AIG presents its operations in the way it believes will be most meaningful. Gross premiums written, statutory underwriting profit (loss) and combined ratios are presented in accordance with accounting principles prescribed by insurance regulatory authorities because these are standard measures of performance used in the insurance industry and thus allow more meaningful comparisons with AIGs insurance competitors. AIG has also incorporated into this discussion a number of parenthetical cross references to additional information included throughout this Form 10 K to assist readers seeking related information on a particular subject. Introduction and Executive Summary AIGs operations in 2003 were conducted by its subsidiaries principally through four operating segments: General Insurance, Life Insurance, Financial Services and Retirement Services & Asset Management. Through these segments, AIG provided insurance and investment products and services to both businesses and individuals in over 130 countries and jurisdictions. This geographic product and service diversification is one of AIGs major strengths and sets it apart from its competitors. Although regional economic downturns or political upheaval could negatively impact parts of AIGs operations, AIG believes that this diversification makes it unlikely that regional difficulties would have a material impact on its operating results, financial condition or liquidity. AIGs subsidiaries serve commercial, institutional and individual customers through an extensive property casualty and life insurance network. In the United States, AIG companies are the largest underwriter of commercial and industrial insurance and one of the largest life insurance operations as well. AIGs Financial Services businesses include commercial aircraft leasing, capital markets and consumer finance, both in the United States and abroad. AIG also has one of the largest retirement services business in the United States and provides asset management services to institutions and individuals. AIGs 2003 performance reflects implementation of various long term strategies and defined goals in its various operating segments. A primary goal of AIG in managing its General Insurance operations is to achieve an underwriting profit maintaining a combined loss and expense ratio under 100. To achieve this end, AIG is disciplined in its risk selection and premiums must be adequate to cover the risk accepted. AIG believes in strict control of expenses, so it historically has one of the lowest expense ratios in the industry. AIG patiently builds relationships in markets around the world where it sees long term growth opportunities. For example, AIGs ability to expand its Chinese operations more quickly and extensively than its competitors is the result of relationships developed over nearly 30 years. AIGs more recent extensions of operations into India, Brazil, Russia and other emerging markets follow the same pattern. Moreover, AIG believes in investing in the economies and infrastructures of these countries and growing with them. When AIG companies enter a new jurisdiction, they typically offer both basic protection and savings products. As the economies evolve, AIGs products evolve with them, to more complex and investment oriented models. Another central focus of AIG operations in current years is the development and expansion of new distribution channels. In late 2003, AIG entered into an agreement with the Peoples Insurance Company of China (PICC) which will enable AIG companies to market accident and health products throughout China through PICCs agency system. Other examples of new distribution channels used both domestically and overseas include banks, affinity groups and e commerce. Growth for AIG may be generated both internally and through acquisitions which both fulfill strategic goals and offer adequate return on investment. In recent years, the acquisitions of AIG Star Life and AIG Edison Life have broadened AIGs penetration of the Japanese market, the second largest for life insurance in the world. These acquisitions broadened AIGs distribution channels and will result in operating efficiencies as they are integrated into AIGs previously existing companies operating in Japan. AIG provides leadership on issues of concern to the global and local economies as well as the insurance and financial services industries. In recent years, tort reform and legislation to deal with the asbestos problem have been key issues, while in prior years trade legislation and superfund have been issues of concern. The following table summarizes AIGs revenues, income before income taxes, minority interest and cumulative effect of accounting changes and net income for the twelve months ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001: Years Ended December 31, (in millions) 2003 2002 2001 Total revenues $ 81,303 $ 67,482 $ 61,766 Income before income taxes, minority interest and cumulative effect of accounting changes 13,908 8,142 8,139 Net income $ 9,274 $ 5,519 $ 5,363 FORM 10 K : 17 American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries Consolidated Results The 20.5 percent growth in revenues in 2003 was primarily attributable to the growth in net premiums earned from global General Insurance operations as well as growth in both General Insurance and Life Insurance net investment income and GAAP Life premiums. Additionally, net realized capital losses declined $1.0 billion in 2003 over 2002. AIGs income before income taxes, minority interest and cumulative effect of an accounting change increased 70.8 percent in 2003 when compared to 2002. General Insurance and Life Insurance operating income gains, together with the reduction of realized capital losses as well as the impact of the loss reserve charge in 2002, were the primary factors for the increase over 2002 in both pretax income and net income. The following table summarizes the operations of each principal segment for the twelve months ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001. (See also Note 2 of Notes to Financial Statements.) (in millions) 2003 2002 2001 Revenues: General Insurance(a) $ 34,584 $ 26,171 $ 22,128 Life Insurance(b) 35,693 31,541 29,893 Financial Services(c) 7,565 6,815 6,485 Retirement Services & Asset Management(d) 3,896 3,485 3,712 Other (435 ) (530 ) (452 ) Total $ 81,303 $ 67,482 $ 61,766 Operating Income(e): General Insurance $ 5,070 $ 667 $ 2,851 Life Insurance 6,002 4,929 4,675 Financial Services 2,464 2,189 1,991 Retirement Services & Asset Management 1,271 1,016 1,088 Other(f) (899 ) (659 ) (2,466 ) Total $ 13,908 $ 8,142 $ 8,139 (a) Represents the sum of General Insurance net premiums earned, net investment income and realized capital gains (losses). (b) Represents the sum of GAAP Life premiums, net investment income and realized capital gains (losses). (c) Represents Financial Services commissions, transactions and other fees. (d) Represents Retirement Services & Asset Management commissions and other fees. (e) Represents income before income taxes, minority interest, and cumulative effect of accounting changes. (f) Represents other income (deductions) net, and for 2001, acquisition, restructuring and related charges connected to the acquisition of American General Corporation. General Insurance AIGs General Insurance operations provide property and casualty products and services throughout the world. The increase in General Insurance operating income in 2003 compared to 2002 was primarily attributable to strong growth in operating income with respect to Domestic Brokerage Groups and Foreign Generals operations in 2003 and the impact of the loss reserve charge of $2.8 billion in 2002. In addition, the level of realized capital losses with respect to General Insurance operations declined to $172 million in 2003 from $858 million in 2002. General Insurance operating income in 2002 was substantially lower than 2001 due to the $2.8 billion reserve charge in 2002. Life Insurance AIGs Life Insurance operations provide traditional, financial and investment products throughout the world. AIGs foreign operations provide over 50 percent of AIGs Life Insurance operating income. Life Insurance operating income increased by 21.8 percent in 2003. This increase resulted from growth in each of AIGs principal life insurance businesses, and the decline in realized capital losses to $826 million in 2003 from $1.05 billion in 2002. Life Insurance operating income grew in 2002 relative to 2001. This growth rate was negatively impacted by substantial increase in realized capital losses in 2002, compared to the $254 million realized capital losses in 2001. Financial Services AIGs Financial Services subsidiaries engage in diversified financial products and services including aircraft leasing, capital market transactions and consumer and insurance premium financing. Financial Services operating income increased in 2003 compared to 2002 and in 2002 compared to 2001, reflecting operating income growth derived from a broadened range of businesses and products in each year. Retirement Services & Asset Management AIGs Retirement Services & Asset Management operations provide a wide variety of investment products, including variable annuities and mutual funds, as well as investment services, such as asset management. These products and services are offered to individuals, government agencies and institutions both domestically and overseas. Retirement Services & Asset Management operating income increased 25.1 percent in 2003 when compared to 2002 as a result of the upturn in worldwide financial markets and the improved U.S. economic conditions; operating income declined 6.6 percent in 2002 when compared to 2001 due to the depressed markets and economic environment. FORM 10 K : 18 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) Realized Capital Losses AIG incurred net realized capital losses of $1.43 billion in 2003, $2.44 billion in 2002 and $836 million in 2001. The realized capital losses in each year reflect primarily impairment loss provisions. Upon the ultimate disposition of these holdings, a portion of these losses may be recovered depending on future market conditions. Capital Resources At December 31, 2003, AIG had total shareholders equity of $71.25 billion and total borrowings of $77.28 billion. At that date, $69.63 billion of such borrowings were either not guaranteed by AIG or were matched borrowings under obligations of guaranteed investment agreements (GIAs) or matched notes and bonds payable. During 2003, AIG repurchased in the open market 3,822,500 shares of its common stock. Liquidity At December 31, 2003, consolidated invested assets were $525.23 billion including $9.84 billion in cash and short term investments. Consolidated net cash provided from operating activities in 2003 amounted to $36.16 billion. AIG believes that its liquid assets, cash provided by operations and access to the capital markets will enable it to meet any forseeable cash requirements. Outlook Overall, premium rates in the General Insurance business have continued to be strong both domestically and in key international markets, although the rates of increase have moderated in most lines and begun to fall in certain classes. AIG also continues to be able to modify and limit its contractual obligations by adding appropriate exclusions and policy restrictions. AIG expects total premiums to increase for 2004 resulting in positive growth in cash flow for investments. Thus, General Insurance net investment income is expected to rise in future quarters even in the current low interest rate environment. In October 2003, AIG entered into an agreement with PICC that will enable AIG to market its accident and health products through PICCs 4,300 branch offices throughout the country. PICC has over 70 percent of the non life market in China and AIG expects substantial opportunity for growth through this new distribution channel. In the Life Insurance segment, AIG expects overall continued growth through expansion in China, where AIG was the first foreign insurance organization to have wholly owned Life Insurance operations in eight major cities, as well as in India, Korea and Vietnam. AIG Edison Life was acquired in August of 2003. AIG Edison Life adds to the current agency force in Japan, and provides alternative distribution channels including banks, financial advisers, and corporate and government employee relationships. AIG Edison Lifes integration into AIGs existing Japanese operations will provide future operating efficiencies. Domestically, AIG expects continued strong operating growth in 2004 as distribution channels are expanded and new products are introduced. In the airline industry, changes in market conditions are not immediately apparent in operating results. Therefore, AIG believes that improvements in that market commencing in 2003 will be gradually reflected in ILFCs results in 2004. In the Capital Markets operations, the integration of AIG Trading Group Inc. (AIGTG) into the AIGFP operations created operating efficiencies that will continue to be realized and product synergies that should enhance 2004 results. AIG also expects increased contributions to Financial Services revenues and income from its consumer finance operations both domestically, as a result of the improving economy, and overseas, as expansion of credit card operations continues and economic conditions improve. AIG expects both its Retirement Services operations and its Asset Management operations to continue to benefit from the recovery in the equity markets and global economy. AIG has many promising growth initiatives underway around the world in its insurance and other operations. Cooperative agreements such as those in Russia and with the PICC are expected to expand distribution networks for AIGs products and investment opportunities and provide models for future growth. Critical Accounting Estimates AIG considers its most critical accounting estimates those with respect to reserves for losses and loss expenses, future policy benefits for life and accident and health contracts, deferred policy acquisition costs, and fair value determinations for certain Capital Markets assets and liabilities. These accounting estimates require the use of assumptions about matters, some of which are highly uncertain at the time of estimation. To the extent actual experience differs from the assumptions used, AIGs results of operations would be directly impacted. FORM 10 K : 19 American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries Throughout this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, AIGs critical accounting estimates are discussed in detail. The major categories for which assumptions are developed and used to establish each critical accounting estimate are highlighted below. Reserves for Losses and Loss Expenses (General Insurance): Loss trend factors: used to establish expected loss ratios for subsequent accident years based on the projected loss ratio with respect to prior accident years. Expected loss ratios for the latest accident year: in this case, accident year 2003 for the year end 2003 loss reserve analysis. For low frequency, high severity classes such as Excess Casualty and Directors and Officers Liability, expected loss ratios generally are utilized for at least the three most recent accident years. Loss development factors: used to project the reported losses for each accident year to an ultimate amount. Future Policy Benefits for Life and Accident and Health Contracts (Life Insurance): Interest rates: which vary by territory, year of issuance and products. Mortality, morbidity and surrender rates: based upon actual experience by geographical region modified to allow for variation in policy form. Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs (General Insurance): Recoverability based upon the current profitability of the underlying insurance contracts. Life Insurance and Retirement Services & Asset Management: Estimated gross profits: to be realized over the estimated duration of the contracts (nontraditional life). Estimated gross profits include investment income and gains and losses on investments less required interest, actual mortality and other expenses. Fair Value Determinations of Certain Assets and Liabilities (Financial Services Capital Markets): Valuation models: utilizing factors, such as market liquidity and current interest, foreign exchange and volatility rates. AIG attempts to secure reliable and independent current market price data, such as published exchange rates from external subscription services such as Bloomberg or Reuters or third party broker quotes for use in this model. When such prices are not available, AIG uses an internal methodology, which includes interpolation or extrapolation from verifiable prices from trades occurring on dates nearest to the dates of the transactions. Operating Review General Insurance Operations AIGs General Insurance subsidiaries are multiple line companies writing substantially all lines of property and casualty insurance both domestically and abroad. Domestic General Insurance operations are comprised of DBG, which includes HSB; Transatlantic; Personal Lines, including 21st Century; and UGC (Mortgage Guaranty). DBG is AIGs primary domestic general division. DBG writes substantially all classes of business insurance accepting such business mainly from insurance brokers. This provides DBG the opportunity to select specialized markets and retain underwriting control. Any licensed broker is able to submit business to DBG without the traditional agent company contractual relationship, but such broker usually has no authority to commit DBG to accept a risk. Transatlantic offers, through its reinsurance company subsidiaries, reinsurance capacity, both domestically and overseas, on a treaty and facultative basis for a full range of property and casualty products. Personal Lines engages in the mass marketing of personal lines insurance, primarily private passenger auto and personal umbrella coverages, as well as providing comprehensive insurance coverage to high net worth households through its Private Client Group. UGC provides guaranty insurance to mortgage providers primarily with respect to conventional first mortgage loans on single family dwellings and condominiums. During 2003, UGC commenced providing guaranty insurance to providers of student loans. AIGs Foreign General insurance group accepts risks primarily underwritten through AIU, a marketing unit consisting of wholly owned agencies and insurance entities. The Foreign General insurance group also includes business written by AIGs foreign based insurance subsidiaries for their own accounts. (See also Note 2 of Notes to Financial Statements.) As previously noted, AIG believes it should present and discuss its financial information in a manner most meaningful to its investors. Accordingly, in its General Insurance business, AIG uses certain non GAAP measures, where AIG has determined these measurements to be useful and meaningful. A critical discipline of a successful general insurance business is the objective to produce operating income from underwriting exclusive of investment related income. When underwriting is not profitable, premiums are inadequate to pay for insured losses and underwriting related expenses. In these situations, the addition of general insurance related in FORM 10 K : 20 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) vestment income and realized capital gains may, however, enable a general insurance business to produce operating income. If underwriting losses persist over extended periods, an insurance company will likely not continue to exist as a going concern. For these reasons, AIG views underwriting profit to be critical in the overall evaluation of performance. Although in and of itself not a GAAP measurement, AIG believes this measurement is a useful and meaningful disclosure. (See also the discussion under Liquidity herein.) General Insurance operating income is comprised of underwriting profit (loss), net investment income and realized capital gains and losses. These components, as well as net premiums written, net premiums earned and statutory ratios for 2003, 2002 and 2001 were as follows: (in millions, except ratios) 2003 2002 2001 Net premiums written: Domestic General DBG $ 20,061 $ 15,214 $ 10,197 Transatlantic 3,341 2,500 1,906 Personal Lines 3,706 3,182 2,454 Mortgage Guaranty 532 508 494 Foreign General 7,572 6,010 5,050 Total $ 35,212 $ 27,414 $ 20,101 Net premiums earned: Domestic General DBG $ 17,309 $ 13,053 $ 9,776 Transatlantic 3,171 2,369 1,790 Personal Lines 3,652 2,913 2,478 Mortgage Guaranty 496 502 489 Foreign General 7,106 5,432 4,832 Total $ 31,734 $ 24,269 $ 19,365 Underwriting profit (loss): Domestic General DBG $ 955 $ (2,049 ) (a) $ (338 ) (b) Transatlantic 109 (58 ) (a) (274 ) (b) Personal Lines 111 29 (c) (92 ) Mortgage Guaranty 264 278 311 Foreign General 781 565 481 (b) Total $ 2,220 $ (1,235 ) $ 88 Net investment income: Domestic General DBG $ 1,772 $ 1,609 $ 1,827 Transatlantic 271 252 240 Personal Lines 142 122 114 Mortgage Guaranty 142 139 106 Intercompany adjustments and eliminations net 7 23 23 Foreign General 688 615 583 Total $ 3,022 $ 2,760 $ 2,893 Realized capital gains (losses) (172 ) (858 ) (130 ) Operating income $ 5,070 $ 667 (a) $ 2,851 (b) (continued) Domestic General: Loss ratio 77.16 92.86 85.89 Expense ratio 16.81 17.72 17.64 Combined ratio 93.97 110.58 103.53 Foreign General: Loss ratio 60.02 61.13 60.51 Expense ratio 27.47 28.99 31.67 Combined ratio 87.49 90.12 92.18 Consolidated: Loss ratio(d) 73.33 85.76 79.55 Expense ratio 19.10 20.19 21.16 Combined ratio 92.43 105.95 100.71 (a) Includes loss reserve charge of $2.8 billion in the aggregate. (b) Includes WTC losses of $769 million in the aggregate. (c) Includes 21st Centurys loss adjustment expense pretax provision of $43 million for SB1899 Northridge earthquake claims. (d) The impact of the loss reserve charge and the WTC losses on the loss ratio was an increase of 11.54 in 2002 and 3.97 in 2001. General Insurance Results Net premiums written are initially deferred and earned based upon the terms of the underlying policies. The net unearned premium reserve constitutes deferred revenues which are generally earned ratably over the policy period. Thus, the net unearned premium reserve is not fully recognized as net premiums earned until the end of the policy period. Commencing in the latter part of 1999 and continuing through 2003, the commercial property casualty market place has experienced premium rate increases. Virtually all areas of DBG have experienced premium rate increases as well as maintaining an excellent retention rate for desired renewal business. The vast majority of the net premiums written increase in 2003 resulted from rate increases with respect to renewed business. Overall, DBGs net premiums written increased in 2003 and 2002. Adjusting this growth for cancelled or nonrenewed business, such growth would have approximated 38 percent in 2003 and 56 percent in 2002. AIG believes that these premium rate increases will continue into 2004 particularly with respect to long tail lines of business where the insurers stability is critical to the insured. Based on historical patterns, AIG believes that overall growth in net premiums written will slow as competition for premiums increases in certain lines of business. FORM 10 K : 21 American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries Personal Lines net premiums written for 2003 includes $159 million from the domestic insurance operations of GE that were acquired in August. The increase in net premiums written apart from this acquisition resulted from increased marketing efforts as well as rate increases in several states. The increase in underwriting profits in 2003 and 2002 result from premium rate increases and growth in net premiums written. Underwriting profits are expected to continue to increase through 2004 as a result of continued marketing efforts, loss cost stabilization and the full year impact of the acquisition. Mortgage Guarantys net premiums written increased 4.7 percent in 2003 over 2002 primarily due to its entry into student loan insurance market beginning in early 2003. The residential first mortgage operation was negatively impacted by refinancing fueled by low interest rates. AIG anticipates continued growth in Mortgage Guaranty in 2004 resulting from a full year of student loan insurance operations. Also, as the number of refinancings decreases, persistency should improve on the first mortgage book and renewal premiums are expected to increase. Underwriting profit should recover from the decrease shown in 2003 which resulted from the adverse impact on net premiums earned from the refinancing activities. Foreign General insurance net premiums written growth was due to premium rate increases as well as flight to quality. The regions that had the strongest premium growth were Western Europe and UK/Ireland. Although AIG expects growth in Foreign General commercial lines rates to decelerate in 2004, Foreign General has commenced various initiatives with respect to target markets, products, and distribution to offset this decline. In comparing the foreign currency exchange rates used to translate the results of AIGs Foreign General operations during 2003 to those foreign currency exchange rates used to translate AIGs Foreign General results during 2002, the U.S. dollar weakened slightly in value in relation to most major foreign currencies in which AIG transacts business. Accordingly, when foreign net premiums written were translated into U.S. dollars for the purposes of the preparation of the consolidated financial statements, total General Insurance net premiums written were approximately 1.9 percentage points more than they would have been if translated utilizing those foreign currency exchange rates which prevailed during 2002. AIG, along with most General Insurance entities, uses the loss ratio, the expense ratio and the combined ratio as measures of performance. The loss ratio is the sum of losses and loss expenses incurred divided by net premiums earned. The expense ratio is statutory underwriting expenses divided by net premiums written. The combined ratio is the sum of the loss ratio and the expense ratio. These ratios are relative measurements that describe for every $100 of net premiums earned or written, the cost of losses and statutory expenses, respectively. The combined ratio presents the total cost per $100 of premium production. A combined ratio below 100 demonstrates underwriting profit; a combined ratio above 100 demonstrates underwriting loss. The 2003 domestic and foreign combined ratios improved over last years ratios primarily because the growth in net premiums exceeded the growth in expenses, continued expense control in 2003 and the impact of the $2.8 billion loss reserve charge in 2002. Underwriting profit is measured in two ways: statutory underwriting profit and Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) underwriting profit. Statutory underwriting profit is arrived at by reducing net premiums earned by net losses and loss expenses incurred and net expenses incurred. Statutory accounting generally requires immediate expense recognition and ignores the matching of revenues and expenses as required by GAAP. That is, for statutory purposes, expenses are recognized immediately, not over the same period that the revenues are earned. A basic premise of GAAP accounting is the recognition of expenses at the same time revenues are earned, the accounting principle of matching. Therefore, to convert underwriting results to a GAAP basis, acquisition expenses are deferred (deferred policy acquisition costs (DAC)) and amortized over the period the related net premiums written are earned. Accordingly, the statutory underwriting profit has been adjusted as a result of acquisition expenses being deferred as required by GAAP. DAC is reviewed for recoverability and such review requires management judgment. (See also Critical Accounting Estimates herein and Notes 1 and 4 of Notes to Financial Statements.) The underwriting environment varies from country to country, as does the degree of litigation activity. Regulation, product type and competition have a direct impact on pricing and consequently on profitability as reflected in underwriting profit and statutory general insurance ratios. FORM 10 K : 22 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) In 2002, AIGs General Insurance results reflect the net impact of the loss reserve charge of $2.8 billion with respect to accident years 1997 through 2001. Such charge was the result of AIGs annual year end review of General Insurance loss reserves. (See also the discussion under 2002 Loss Reserve Charge herein.) In addition, these results reflect the net impact of catastrophe losses approximating $57 million in 2002, and $867 million in 2001 (which include $769 million in WTC losses and $50 million with respect to the Northridge earthquake, following the unprecedented decision by the State of California to require all insurers to reopen claims nearly eight years after the occurrence). On a gross basis, incurred losses included $3.5 billion attributable to the loss reserve charge and approximately $245 million from catastrophes in 2002, and catastrophe losses of $2.15 billion in 2001 (which include $2.0 billion in WTC losses). The effects of catastrophes incurred in 2003 were insignificant. The impact of losses caused by catastrophes can fluctuate widely from year to year, making comparisons of recurring type business more difficult. With respect to catastrophe losses, AIG believes that it has taken appropriate steps, such as careful exposure selection and obtaining reinsurance coverage, to reduce the impact of the magnitude of possible future losses. The occurrence of one or more catastrophic events of unanticipated frequency or severity, such as a terrorist attack, earthquake or hurricane, that causes insured losses, however, could have a material adverse effect on AIGs results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. General Insurance net investment income grew in 2003 when compared to 2002. The invested cash flow resulting from the growth in net premiums written in this and prior periods had a positive impact on net investment income. In 2002, net investment income decreased when compared to 2001. The decrease in net investment income in 2002 was primarily a result of lower earnings with respect to the general insurance private equity portfolio. Also, interest income earned from the General Insurance bond portfolio was impacted by lower yields as the proceeds from maturing fixed income securities were reinvested. As AIG believes that net premiums written will continue to increase in 2004, it is expected that cash flow for investment will continue to grow as well. As a result, net investment income is expected to grow in 2004. (See also the discussion under Liquidity herein and Note 8 of Notes to Financial Statements.) Realized gains and losses resulted from the ongoing investment management of the General Insurance portfolios within the overall objectives of the General Insurance operations and were reflective of weakness in the equity markets in early 2003 and prior periods and impairment loss provisions for both equity and fixed income holdings in all three years. (See the discussion on Valuation of Invested Assets herein.) The increase in General Insurance operating income in 2003 was primarily attributable to strong profitable growth in DBGs and Foreign Generals operations, the decrease in realized capital losses relative to prior periods and the impact of the loss reserve charge in 2002. The decline in the growth rate in 2002 was caused by the $2.8 billion loss reserve charge as well as the $728 million increase in realized capital losses in 2002. The contribution of General Insurance operating income to AIGs consolidated income before income taxes, minority interest and cumulative effect of accounting changes was 36.5 percent in 2003 compared to 8.2 percent in 2002 and 35.0 percent in 2001. The increase over 2002 and the decrease of 2002 compared to 2001 was a result of the $2.8 billion loss reserve charge in 2002. Reinsurance AIG is a major purchaser of reinsurance for its General Insurance operations. AIG is cognizant of the need to exercise good judgment in the selection and approval of both domestic and foreign companies participating in its reinsurance programs. AIG insures risks globally and its reinsurance programs must be coordinated in order to provide AIG the level of reinsurance protection that AIG desires. AIG purchases reinsurance to mitigate its catastrophic exposure. However, one or more catastrophe losses could negatively impact AIGs reinsurers and result in an inability of AIG to collect reinsurance recoverables. AIGs reinsurance department evaluates catastrophic events and assesses the probability of occurrence and magnitude of catastrophic events through the use of state of the art industry recognized program models among other techniques. AIG supplements these models through continually monitoring the risk exposure of AIGs worldwide general insurance operations and adjusting such models accordingly. While reinsurance arrangements do not relieve AIG from its direct obligations to its insureds, an efficient and effective reinsurance program substantially limits AIGs probable losses. FORM 10 K : 23 American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries AIGs general reinsurance assets amounted to $26.76 billion and resulted from AIGs reinsurance arrangements. Thus, a credit exposure existed at December 31, 2003 with respect to reinsurance recoverable to the extent that any reinsurer may not be able to reimburse AIG under the terms of these reinsurance arrangements. AIG manages its credit risk in its reinsurance relationships by transacting with reinsurers that it considers financially sound, and when necessary AIG holds substantial collateral in the form of funds, securities and or irrevocable letters of credit. This collateral can be drawn on for amounts that remain unpaid beyond specified time periods on an individual reinsurer basis. At December 31, 2003, approximately 47 percent of the general reinsurance assets were from unauthorized reinsurers. In order to obtain statutory recognition, the majority of these balances were collateralized. The remaining 53 percent of the general reinsurance assets were from authorized reinsurers. The terms authorized and unauthorized pertain to regulatory categories, not creditworthiness. Approximately 90 percent of the balances with respect to authorized reinsurers are from reinsurers rated A (excellent) or better, as rated by A.M. Best, or A (strong) or better, as rated by Standard & Poors. This rating is a measure of financial strength. AIG maintains an allowance for estimated unrecoverable reinsurance and has been largely successful in its previous recovery efforts. At December 31, 2003, AIG had allowances for unrecoverable reinsurance approximating $140 million. At that date, AIG had no significant reinsurance recoverables from any individual reinsurer which is financially troubled (e.g., liquidated, insolvent, in receivership or otherwise subject to formal or informal regulatory restriction). AIGs Reinsurance Security Department conducts ongoing detailed assessments of the reinsurance markets and current and potential reinsurers, both foreign and domestic. Such assessments include, but are not limited to, identifying if a reinsurer is appropriately licensed, and has sufficient financial capacity, and the local economic environment in which a foreign reinsurer operates. This department also reviews the nature of the risks ceded and the need for collateral. For example, in AIGs treaty reinsurance contracts, AIG includes credit triggers that require a reinsurer to post collateral when a referenced event occurs. Such credit triggers include, but are not limited to, insurer financial strength rating downgrades, policyholder surplus declines at or below a certain predetermined level or a certain predetermined level of a reinsurance recoverable being reached. In addition, AIGs Credit Risk Committee reviews the credit limits for and concentrations with any one reinsurer. AIG enters into certain intercompany reinsurance transactions for its general and life operations. AIG enters these transactions as a sound and prudent business practice in or der to maintain underwriting control and spread insurance risk among various legal entities. These reinsurance agreements have been approved by the appropriate regulatory authorities. All material intercompany transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. At December 31, 2003, the consolidated general reinsurance assets of $26.76 billion include reinsurance recoverables for paid losses and loss expenses of $3.59 billion and $19.47 billion with respect to the ceded reserve for losses and loss expenses, including ceded losses incurred but not reported (IBNR) (ceded reserves). The ceded reserves represent the accumulation of estimates of ultimate ceded losses including provisions for ceded IBNR and loss expenses. The methods used to determine such estimates and to establish the resulting ceded reserves are continually reviewed and updated. Any adjustments thereto are reflected in income currently. It is AIGs belief that the ceded reserves at December 31, 2003 were representative of the ultimate losses recoverable. In the future, as the ceded reserves continue to develop to ultimate amounts, the ultimate loss recoverable may be greater or less than the reserves currently ceded. Reserve for Losses and Loss Expenses The table below classifies as of December 31, 2003 the components of the General Insurance reserve for losses and loss expenses (loss reserves) with respect to major lines of business on a statutory basis*: (in millions) Other liability occurrence $ 13,515 Other liability claims made 9,991 Workers compensation 7,258 Auto liability 5,301 International 3,254 Property 3,254 Reinsurance 2,010 Medical malpractice 2,013 Aircraft 1,432 Products liability 1,352 Accident and health 1,335 Fidelity/ surety 975 Other 4,428 Total $ 56,118 * Presented pursuant to statutory reporting requirements as prescribed by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners. These loss reserves represent the accumulation of estimates of ultimate losses, including IBNR and loss expenses. At December 31, 2003, General Insurance net loss reserves increased $5.91 billion from the prior year end to $36.65 billion. The net loss reserves represent loss reserves reduced by reinsurance recoverables, net of an allowance for unrecoverable reinsurance. The methods used to determine such estimates and to establish the resulting reserves are continually reviewed and updated. Any adjustments resulting FORM 10 K : 24 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) therefrom are reflected in operating income currently. It is managements belief that the General Insurance net loss reserves are adequate to cover all General Insurance net losses and loss expenses as at December 31, 2003. While AIG annually reviews the adequacy of established loss reserves, there can be no assurance that AIGs ultimate loss reserves will not adversely develop and materially exceed AIGs loss reserves as of December 31, 2003. In the future, if the general insurance net loss reserves develop deficiently, such deficiency would have an adverse impact on future results of operations. See 2002 Loss Reserve Charge herein. In a very broad sense, the General Insurance loss reserves can be categorized into two distinct groups, one group being long tail casualty lines of business. Such lines include excess and umbrella liability, directors and officers liability, professional liability, medical malpractice, general liability, products liability, and related classes. The other group is short tail lines of business consisting principally of property lines, personal lines and certain classes of casualty lines. For operations writing short tail coverages, such as property coverages, the process of recording quarterly loss reserve changes is geared toward maintaining an appropriate reserve level for the outstanding exposure, rather than determining an expected loss ratio for current business. For example, the IBNR reserve required for a class of property business might be expected to approximate 20 percent of the latest years earned premiums, and this level of reserve would be maintained regardless of the loss ratio emerging in the current quarter. The 20 percent factor is adjusted to reflect changes in rate levels, loss reporting patterns, known exposures to large unreported losses, or other factors affecting the particular class of business. Estimation of ultimate net losses and loss expenses (net losses) for long tail casualty lines of business is a complex process and depends on a number of factors, including the line and volume of the business involved. Experience in the more recent accident years of long tail casualty lines shows limited statistical credibility in reported net losses. That is, a relatively low proportion of net losses would be reported claims and expenses and an even smaller proportion would be net losses paid. A relatively high proportion of net losses would therefore be IBNR. AIGs carried net long tail loss reserves are tested using loss trend factors that AIG considers most appropriate for each class of business. A variety of actuarial methods and assumptions are normally employed to estimate net losses for long tail casualty lines. These methods ordinarily involve theuse of loss trend factors intended to reflect the estimated annual growth in loss costs from one accident year to the next. For the majority of long tail casualty lines, net loss trend factors approximated six percent. Loss trend factors reflect many items including changes in claims handling, exposure and policy forms; current and future estimates of monetary inflation and social inflation and increases in litigation and awards. These factors are periodically reviewed and subsequently adjusted, as appropriate, to reflect emerging trends which are based upon past loss experience. Thus, many factors are implicitly considered in estimating the year to year growth in loss costs recognized. A number of actuarial assumptions are made in the review of reserves for each line of business. For longer tail lines of business, actuarial assumptions generally are made with respect to the following: Loss trend factors which are used to establish expected loss ratios for subsequent accident years based on the projected loss ratio for prior accident years. Expected loss ratios for the latest accident year (i.e., accident year 2003 for the year end 2003 loss reserve analysis) and in some cases, for accident years prior to the latest accident year. The expected loss ratio generally reflects the projected loss ratio from prior accident years, adjusted for the loss trend (See 1 above) and the impact of rate changes and other quantifiable factors. For low frequency, high severity classes such as Excess Casualty and Directors and Officers Liability (D & O), expected loss ratios generally are utilized for at least the three most recent accident years. Loss development factors which are used to project the reported losses for each accident year to an ultimate basis. AIG records quarterly changes in loss reserves for each of its many General Insurance profit centers. The overall change in AIGs loss reserves is based on the sum of these profit center level changes. For most profit centers which write longer tail classes of casualty coverage, the process of recording quarterly loss reserve changes involves determining the estimated current loss ratio for each class of coverage. This loss ratio is multiplied by the current quarters net earned premium for that class of coverage to determine the quarters total estimated net incurred loss and loss expense. The change in loss reserves for the quarter for each class is thus the difference between the net incurred loss and loss expense, estimated as described above, and the net paid losses and loss expenses in the quarter. FORM 10 K : 25 American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries The process of determining the current loss ratio for each class or business segment begins in the profit centers in the latter part of the previous year. The loss ratios determined for each profit center are based on a variety of factors. These include, but are not limited to, the following considerations: prior accident year and policy year loss ratios; actual and anticipated rate changes; actual and anticipated changes in coverage, reinsurance, or mix of business; actual and anticipated changes in external factors impacting results, such as trends in loss costs or in the legal and claims environment. Each profit centers loss ratio for the following year is subject to review by the profit centers management, by actuarial and accounting staffs, and ultimately by senior management. At the close of each quarter, the assumptions underlying the loss ratios are reviewed to determine if the loss ratios based thereon remain appropriate. This process includes a review of the actual claims experience in the quarter, actual rate changes achieved, actual changes in coverage, reinsurance or mix of business, and changes in certain other factors that may affect the loss ratio. When this review suggests that the initially determined loss ratio is no longer appropriate, the loss ratio for current business would be changed to reflect the revised assumptions. A comprehensive annual loss reserve review is conducted in the fourth quarter of each year for each AIG General Insurance subsidiary. These reviews are conducted in full detail for each class or line of business for each subsidiary, and thus consist of literally hundreds of individual analyses. The purpose of these reviews is to confirm the reasonableness of the reserves carried by each of the individual subsidiaries, and thereby of AIGs overall carried reserves. The reserve analysis for each business class is performed by the actuarial personnel who are most familiar with that class of business. In completing these detailed actuarial reserve analyses, the actuaries are required to make numerous assumptions, including for example the selection of loss development factors and loss cost trend factors. They are also required to determine and select the most appropriate actuarial method(s) to employ for each business class. Additionally, they must determine the appropriate segmentation of data or segments from which the adequacy of the reserves can be most accurately tested. In the course of these detailed reserve reviews for each business segment, a point estimate of the loss reserve is generally determined. The sum of these point estimates for each of the individual business classes for each subsidiary provides an overall actuarial point estimate of the loss reserve for that subsidiary. The overall actuarial point estimate is compared to the subsidiarys carried loss reserve. If the carried reserve can be supported by actuarial methods and assumptions which are also believed to be reasonable, then the carried reserve wouldgenerally be considered reasonable and no adjustment would be considered. The ultimate process by which the actual carried reserves are determined considers not only the actuarial point estimate but a myriad of other factors. Other crucial internal and external factors considered include a qualitative assessment of inflation and other economic conditions in the United States and abroad, changes in the legal, regulatory, judicial and social environments, underlying policy pricing, terms and conditions, and claims handling. In the 2002 year end actuarial loss reserve analysis for DBG, the more recent accident years showed significant increases in loss development for the excess casualty and directors and officers liability classes, as well as lesser amounts in certain other classes including healthcare liability. As a result, the actuaries performing the loss reserve analyses for these classes modified their historical assumptions in producing the point estimate of required reserves. A key modification was to give additional weight to the actual loss development in the immature years. For example, for the excess casualty lead umbrella class, the actual loss developments for accident year 1999 were used, even though that development normally would have been considered too immature to produce reliable results (and therefore, not used under historical assumptions). Another key change for the most recent accident years (generally accident years 2000, 2001 and 2002) was, although the actuaries continued to use actuarial assumptions that rely on expected loss ratios based on the results of prior accident years, the expected loss ratio assumptions used gave far greater weight to more recent accident year experience than was the case in the historical assumptions. Thus for the excess casualty lead umbrella class described above, the actuaries gave 100 percent weight to the results of the 1997 through 1999 accident years only, giving no weight to the more favorable development of all prior years, in setting expected loss ratio assumptions for accident years 2000 to 2002. Again, using the lead umbrella class as an example, rather than using the historical loss trend factor of 2.5 percent per year as actually experienced, the actuaries used 7.5 percent as the annual loss cost trend factor, reflecting the more current experience. As a result of the modified assumptions, the actuaries developed a second point estimate of the net loss reserve for DBG. (See 2002 Loss Reserve Charge herein.) With respect to the 2003 year end actuarial loss reserve analysis for DBG, the actuaries continued to utilize the modified assumptions as described above, with appropriate adjustments to account for the additional year of loss experience which emerged in 2003. For example, in setting the expected loss ratios for accident years 2001, 2002 and 2003 for the FORM 10 K : 26 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) excess casualty lead umbrella class, the actuaries gave 100 percent weight to the results of the 1997 through 2000 accident years only, giving no weight to the more favorable development of accident years prior to 1997. In addition, they continued to utilize the 7.5 percent annual loss cost trend factor. Loss development trends for long tail lines such as Excess Casualty and D&O, however, have not followed any consistent trend. This has at times led to overstated loss ratio projections and is a key reason why the actuaries have customarily utilized the historical projection method, which gave more weight to the experience of older, more mature accident years. For long tail lines, judgment is required in analyzing the appropriate weighting of current trends to avoid overreacting to data anomalies that may distort such current trends. Given the accuracy of the historical approach and the uncertainty of the more recent trends, AIG management decided to give approximately equal weight to the point estimate of the required reserve resulting from the historical assumptions and the point estimate of the required reserve from the modified assumptions described above in determining the actual loss reserve carried at year end 2003. AIGs annual loss reserve does not calculate a range of loss reserve estimates. Because AIGs General Insurance business is primarily in long tail casualty lines driven almost entirely by severity rather than frequency of claims, developing a range around loss reserve estimates would not be meaningful. An estimate is calculated which AIGs actuaries believe provides a reasonable estimate of the required reserve. This amount is evaluated against actual carried reserves. It must be understood that there is the potential for significant variation in the actual results versus the assumptions used to test the reserves, particularly for the long tail casualty classes of business such as excess casualty. As an example, for the lead umbrella segment of the excess casualty class of business, a 5 percent change in the assumed loss cost trend from each accident year to the next would cause approximately a $300 million impact (either positively or negatively) in the net loss and loss expense reserve position for that segment. In the early 1990s actual loss cost trends were negative for the excess casualty class, whereas in the late 1990s they spiked significantly and ran well into the double digits. Thus, while the 7.5 percent assumption used in the modified assumptions for both year end 2002 and 2003 is believed to be reasonable, there can be no assurance that actual loss trends will not deviate significantly from this assumption. Another key assumption for long tail classes such as excess casualty is the loss development factors which are utilized to project thereported losses for each year to an ultimate basis. Generally, actual historical loss development factors are used to project future loss development. However, there can be no assurance that future loss development patterns will be the same as in the past. Again using the excess casualty class as an example, if future loss development factors differed by 5 percent from those utilized in the year end 2003 loss reserve review, there would be approximately a $300 million impact to the overall AIG loss reserve position. In 2002, following completion of its annual year end net loss reserve study, AIG increased General Insurance loss and loss adjustment reserves, incurring a net, after tax charge of $1.8 billion in the fourth quarter of 2002. The $1.8 billion was largely attributable to the Other Liability Occurrence and Other Liability Claims Made lines of business, and accident years 1997 through 2001. Asbestos and Environmental Reserves AIG continues to receive claims asserting injuries from toxic waste, hazardous substances, and other environmental pollutants and alleged damages to cover the cleanup costs of hazardous waste dump sites, referred to collectively as environmental claims, and indemnity claims asserting injuries from asbestos. The vast majority of these asbestos and environmental claims emanate from policies written in 1984 and prior years. Commencing in 1985, standard policies contained an absolute exclusion for pollution related damage and an absolute asbestos exclusion was also implemented. However, AIG currently underwrites environmental impairment liability insurance on a claims made basis and has excluded such claims from this analyses. The majority of AIGs exposures for asbestos and environmental claims are excess casualty coverages, not primary coverages. Thus, the litigation costs are treated in the same manner as indemnity reserves. That is, litigation expenses are included within the limits of the liability AIG incurs. Individual significant claim liabilities, where future litigation costs are reasonably determinable, are established on a case basis. Estimation of asbestos and environmental claims loss reserves is a complex process. These asbestos and environmental claims cannot be estimated by AIG using conventional reserving techniques as previously described. Significant factors which affect the trends that influence the asbestos and environmental claims estimation process are the inconsistent court resolutions and judicial interpretations which broaden the intent of the policies and scope of coverage. The current case law can be characterized as still evolving and there is little likelihood that any firm direction will develop in the FORM 10 K : 27 American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries near future. Additionally, the exposure for cleanup costs of hazardous waste dump sites involve issues such as allocation of responsibility among potentially responsible parties and the governments refusal to release parties. Due to this uncertainty it is not possible to determine the future development of asbestos and environmental claims with the same degree of reliability as is with other types of claims. Such future development will be affected by the extent to which courts continue to expand the intent of the policies and the scope of the coverage, as they have in the past, as well as by the changes in Superfund and waste dump site coverage issues. AIG and other industry members will continue to litigate the broadening judicial interpretation of the policy coverage and the liability issues. Although the estimated liabilities with respect to asbestos and environmental reserves are subject to a significantly greater margin of error than for other loss reserves, the asbestos and environmental reserves carried at December 31, 2003 are believed to be adequate as these reserves are based on the known facts and current law. Furthermore, as AIGs net exposure retained relative to the gross exposure written was lower in 1984 and prior years, the potential impact of these claims is much smaller on the net loss reserves than on the gross loss reserves. However, if the asbestos and environmental reserves develop deficiently, such deficiency would have an adverse impact on future results of operations. (See the previous discussion on reinsurance collectibility herein.) AIG does not discount its asbestos and environmental reserves. With respect to known asbestos and environmental claims, AIG established over a decade ago specialized toxic tort and environmental claims units, which investigate and adjust all such asbestos and environmental claims. These units evaluate these asbestos and environmental claims utilizing a comprehensive ground up approach on a claim by claim basis. The asbestos and environmental claims are reserved to ultimate probable loss based upon known facts, current law, jurisdiction, policy language and other factors. Each claim is reviewed at least semi annually utilizing the aforementioned approach and adjusted as necessary to reflect the current information. In both the specialized and dedicated asbestos and environmental claims units, AIG actively manages and pursues early settlement with respect to these claims thereby reducing its exposure to the unpredictable development of these claims. With respect to asbestos claims reserves, AIG has resolved all claims with respect to miners and major manufacturers (Tier 1), and payments have been completed or reserves are established to cover future payment obligations.Asbestos claims with respect to products containing asbestos (Tier 2), are generally very mature losses, and have been appropriately recognized and reserved by AIGs asbestos claims operation. AIG believes that the vast majority of the incoming claims with respect to products containing small amounts of asbestos, companies in the distribution chain and parties with remote, ill defined involvement with asbestos (Tier 3 and 4), should not impact its coverage. This is due to a combination of factors, including the increasingly peripheral companies being named in asbestos litigation, smaller limits issued to peripheral defendants, tenuous liability cases against peripheral defendants, attachment points of the excess policies, and the manner in which resolution of these weaker cases would be allocated among all insurers, including non AIG companies, over a long period of time. AIG believes the majority of its known long tail environmental exposures have been resolved utilizing a combination of pro active claim handling techniques including policy buybacks, complete environmental releases, compromise settlements, and, where indicated, litigation. Current and new claims are generally cases of declining severity. Strong coverage defenses (including late notice) and stronger liability defenses are among the factors contributing to declining severity. AIG uses primarily two methods to test the adequacy of its asbestos and environmental reserves, including the related IBNR, the Market Share method and the Frequency/ Severity method. The Market Share method produces indicated asbestos and environmental reserves needs by applying the appropriate AIG company market share to estimated potential industry ultimate loss and loss expenses based on the latest estimates from A.M. Best and Tillinghast. The second method, the frequency/ severity approach, utilizes current information as the basis of an analysis that predicts for each of the next ten years a number with respect to future expected environmental claims and the average severity of each. The estimated trend in frequency is based upon assumptions judged by AIG to be the most reasonable. The trend in severity starts with severities based on current actual average severity using the varying case adequacy assumptions and trending forward under assumptions deemed most reasonable by AIG. A similar frequency/ severity analysis is also performed for asbestos. However, future asbestos claims (IBNR) are projected for each of the next twenty years. Quantitative techniques frequently have to be supplemented by subjective consideration, including managerial judgment, to assure management satisfaction that the overall reserves are adequate to meet projected losses. FORM 10 K : 28 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) A summary of reserve activity, including estimates for applicable IBNR, relating to asbestos and environmental claims separately and combined at December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001 follows: 2003 2002 2001 (in millions) Gross Net Gross Net Gross Net Asbestos: Reserve for losses and loss expenses at beginning of year $ 1,304 $ 400 $ 1,114 $ 312 $ 1,100 $ 338 Losses and loss expenses incurred* 175 43 395 168 358 92 Losses and loss expenses paid* (244 ) (57 ) (205 ) (80 ) (344 ) (118 ) Reserve for losses and loss expenses at end of year $ 1,235 $ 386 $ 1,304 $ 400 $ 1,114 $ 312 Environmental: Reserve for losses and loss expenses at beginning of year $ 832 $ 296 $ 1,115 $ 407 $ 1,345 $ 517 Losses and loss expenses incurred* 133 52 (140 ) (44 ) (41 ) (34 ) Losses and loss expenses paid* (176 ) (65 ) (143 ) (67 ) (189 ) (76 ) Reserve for losses and loss expenses at end of year $ 789 $ 283 $ 832 $ 296 $ 1,115 $ 407 Combined: Reserve for losses and loss expenses at beginning of year $ 2,136 $ 696 $ 2,229 $ 719 $ 2,445 $ 855 Losses and loss expenses incurred* 308 95 255 124 317 58 Losses and loss expenses paid* (420 ) (122 ) (348 ) (147 ) (533 ) (194 ) Reserve for losses and loss expenses at end of year $ 2,024 $ 669 $ 2,136 $ 696 $ 2,229 $ 719 * All amounts pertain to policies underwritten in prior years. The gross and net IBNR included in the reserve for losses and loss expenses at December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001 were estimated as follows: 2003 2002 2001 (in millions) Gross Net Gross Net Gross Net Combined $ 1,042 $ 280 $ 1,022 $ 283 $ 1,038 $ 278 A summary of asbestos and environmental claims count activity for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001 was as follows: 2003 2002 2001 Asbestos Environmental Combined Asbestos Environmental Combined Asbestos Environmental Combined Claims at beginning of year 7,085 8,995 16,080 6,672 9,364 16,036 6,796 11,323 18,119 Claims during year: Opened 669 2,106 2,775 959 1,657 2,616 739 1,892 2,631 Settled (86 ) (244 ) (330 ) (154 ) (546 ) (700 ) (124 ) (988 ) (1,112 ) Dismissed or otherwise resolved (194 ) (2,005 ) (2,199 ) (392 ) (1,480 ) (1,872 ) (739 ) (2,863 ) (3,602 ) Claims at end of year 7,474 8,852 16,326 7,085 8,995 16,080 6,672 9,364 16,036 A.M. Best, an insurance rating agency, has developed a survival ratio to measure the number of years it would take a company to exhaust both its asbestos and environmental reserves for losses and loss expenses based on that companys current level of asbestos and environmental claims payments. This is a ratio derived by taking the current ending losses and loss expense reserves and dividing by the average annual payments for the prior three years. Therefore, the ratio derived is a simplistic measure of an estimate of the number of years it would be before the current ending losses and loss expense reserves would be paid off using recent average payments. The higher the ratio, the more years the reserves for losses and loss expenses cover these claims payments. These ratios are computed based on the ending reserves for losses and lossexpenses over the respective claims settlement during the fiscal year. Such payments include indemnity payments and legal and loss adjustment payments. It should be noted, however, that this is an extremely simplistic approach to measuring asbestos and environmental reserve levels. Many factors, such as aggressive settlement procedures, mix of business and level of coverage provided, have a significant impact on the amount of asbestos and environmental losses and loss expense reserves, ultimate payments made and the resultant ratio. AIG believes that voluntary payments with respect to environmental claims should be excluded from the calculation of the survival ratio for the environmental claims. That is, involuntary payments are primarily attributable to court FORM 10 K : 29 American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries judgments, court orders, covered claims with no coverage defenses, state mandated clean up costs, claims where AIGs coverage defenses are minimal and settlements that are made less than six months before the first trial setting. Payments other than these are deemed voluntary because AIG can control the amount and timing of such payments, if any. AIGs survival ratios for asbestos and environmental claims, separately and combined, excluding voluntary environmental claim payments, were based upon a three year average payment. These ratios for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001 were as follows: Gross Net 2003 Survival ratios: Asbestos 4.7 4.6 Environmental 16.1 11.8 Combined 8.0 7.4 2002 Survival ratios: Asbestos 4.1 4.9 Environmental 17.6 13.3 Combined 7.3 7.9 2001 Survival ratios: Asbestos 3.3 4.3 Environmental 18.7 16.5 Combined 6.8 8.7 Life Insurance Operations AIGs Life Insurance subsidiaries offer a wide range of traditional insurance and financial and investment products both domestically and abroad. Traditional products consist of individual and group life, annuity, endowment and accident and health policies. Financial and investment products consist of fixed and variable annuities, guaranteed investment contracts and pensions. (See also Note 2 of Notes to Financial Statements.) Domestically, AIG offers a broad range of protection and interest sensitive accumulation products, including life insurance and fixed annuities. Home service operations include an array of traditional and investment type products sold through agents. Group life and health products and pension and investment products include structured settlements and terminal pension funding. Overseas, AIGs Life Insurance operations include traditional products such as whole and term life and endowments, personal accident products and group products including life and health. Guaranteed investment contracts, also known as funding agreements (GICs), are sold domestically and abroad to both institutions and individuals. These products are written on anopportunistic basis when market conditions are favorable. Thus, production, cash flow and net investment income attributable to GICs will vary from one reporting period to the next. Life Insurance operations presented on a major product basis for 2003, 2002 and 2001 were as follows: (in millions) 2003 2002(a) 2001(a) GAAP premiums: Domestic: Life insurance $ 1,748 $ 1,604 $ 1,497 Individual fixed annuities(b) 59 35 426 Individual fixed annuities runoff(c) 4 7 11 Home service 834 854 876 Group life/ health 1,046 967 925 Pension and investment products(b) 1,328 1,105 1,144 Other 22 50 69 Total Domestic 5,041 4,622 4,948 Foreign: Life insurance 13,335 12,000 10,771 Personal accident 3,126 2,491 2,196 Group products 1,267 1,094 1,050 Other 110 113 98 Total Foreign 17,838 15,698 14,115 Total GAAP premiums $ 22,879 $ 20,320 $ 19,063 Net investment income: Domestic: Life insurance $ 1,358 $ 1,275 $ 1,181 Individual fixed annuities 2,982 2,516 2,174 Individual fixed annuities runoff(c) 689 713 701 Home service 690 683 653 Group life/ health 122 108 105 Pension and investment products 982 836 702 GICs 2,204 2,194 1,988 Total Domestic 9,027 8,325 7,504 Foreign: Life insurance 3,753 3,206 2,848 Personal accident 163 141 128 Group products 338 255 227 GICs 374 359 387 Intercompany adjustments (15 ) (12 ) (10 ) Total Foreign 4,613 3,949 3,580 Total net investment income $ 13,640 $ 12,274 $ 11,084 Realized capital gains (losses) (826 ) (1,053 ) (254 ) Total operating income(d) $ 6,002 $ 4,929 $ 4,675 Life insurance in force: Domestic $ 645,606 $ 577,686 $ 517,067 Foreign 951,020 (e) 746,765 711,434 Total $ 1,596,626 $ 1,324,451 $ 1,228,501 (a) Restated to conform to the 2003 presentation. (b) 2001 GAAP premiums included certain annuity products now reported in Pension & Investment Products. (c) Represents runoff annuity business largely sold through discontinued distribution channels. (d) 2001 included WTC losses of $131 million. (e) Approximately $124 billion relates to the acquisition of AIG Edison Life in August 2003. FORM 10 K : 30 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) Life Insurance Results The increase in operating income in 2003 was caused in part by strong growth, particularly overseas, and lower realized capital losses. The lower growth rate in 2002 was primarily a result of increased realized capital losses over 2001. The contribution of Life Insurance operating income to AIGs consolidated income before income taxes, minority interest and cumulative effect of accounting changes amounted to 43.2 percent in 2003 compared to 60.5 percent in 2002 and 57.4 percent in 2001. The decline in 2003 resulted from General Insurance operating income growing significantly. The contribution rate in 2002 and 2001 was influenced by the poor performance in General Insurance resulting in the reduced contribution of General Insurance to income before income taxes, minority interest and cumulative effect of accounting changes. Since AIG purchased AIG Star Life, a part of the income earned by AIG Star Life has resulted from surrender charges earned on policies that were either surrendered or lapsed. This favorable impact on operating income was anticipated when AIG acquired AIG Star Life. As these surrenders diminish in subsequent years, operating income from that source will also diminish. The majority of AIG Star Lifes future income will be related to continuing premiums paid on renewal business, and new business to be generated from a growing agency force and new product sales to current insureds. Domestically, the growth is predominantly attributable to Pension and Investment Products, Life Insurance and Group Life/Health. With respect to Foreign Life, the majority of the growth in GAAP life premiums was attributable to the Life Insurance and Personal Accident lines of business. This growth was most significant in Southeast Asia where AIG maintains significant market share established by its strong agency force, and in Japan, where AIG is benefiting from a flight to quality. Foreign Life operations produced 78.0 percent, 77.3 percent and 74.0 percent of the GAAP life premiums in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. As previously discussed, the U.S. dollar weakened in relation to most major foreign currencies in which AIG transacts business. Accordingly, for 2003, when foreign life premiums were translated into U.S. dollars for purposes of the preparation of the consolidated financial statements, total life premiums were approximately 2.6 percentage points more than they would have been if translated utilizing exchange rates prevailing in 2002. The growth in net investment income in 2003 was attributable to both foreign and domestic invested new cash flow for investment as well as improved returns on nontraditional investments. Domestically, this cash flow was generated from Life Insurance and individual annuity operations. Overseas, cash flow was generated primarily from Life Insurance operations. Additionally, net investment income was positively impacted by the compounding of previously earned and reinvested net investment income. (See also the discussion under Liquidity herein.) Life Insurance investment portfolios are managed within the overall objectives of the Life Insurance operations. Life Insurance realized capital losses reflect weaknesses in the equity markets in the early months of 2003 and the prior years as well as impairment loss provisions for certain equity and fixed income holdings. (See also the discussion on Valuation of Invested Assets herein.) Underwriting and Investment Risk The risks associated with the traditional life and accident and health products are underwriting risk and investment risk. The risk associated with the financial and investment contract products is primarily investment risk. Underwriting risk represents the exposure to loss resulting from the actual policy experience adversely emerging in comparison to the assumptions made in the product pricing associated with mortality, morbidity, termination and expenses. The emergence of significant adverse experience would require an adjustment to the benefit reserves that could have a substantial impact with respect to AIGs results of operations. AIGs foreign life companies limit their maximum underwriting exposure on traditional life insurance of a single life to approximately $1.5 million of coverage and AIGs domestic life companies generally limit their maximum underwriting exposure on traditional life insurance of a single life to $2.5 million of coverage by using yearly renewable term reinsurance. (See also Note 5 of Notes to Financial Statements and the discussion under Liquidity herein.) The investment risk represents the exposure to loss resulting from the cash flows from the invested assets, primarily long term fixed rate investments, being less than the cash flows required to meet the obligations of the expected policy and contract liabilities and the necessary return on investments. (See also the discussion under Liquidity herein.) To minimize its exposure to investment risk, AIG tests the cash flows from the invested assets and the policy and contract liabilities using various interest rate scenarios to assess whether there is a liquidity excess or deficit. If a rebalancing of the invested assets to the policy and contract claims became necessary and did not occur, a demand could be placed upon liquidity. (See also the discussion under Liquidity herein.) FORM 10 K : 31 American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries The asset liability relationship is appropriately managed in AIGs foreign operations, as it has been throughout AIGs history, even though certain territories lack qualified long term investments or there are investment restrictions imposed by the local regulatory authorities. For example, in Japan and several Southeast Asia territories, the duration of the investments is often for a shorter period than the effective maturity of the related policy liabilities. Therefore, there is a risk that the reinvestment of the proceeds at the maturity of the initial investments may be at a yield below that of the interest required for the accretion of the policy liabilities. Additionally, there exists a future investment risk associated with certain policies currently in force which will have premium receipts in the future. That is, the investment of these future premium receipts may be at a yield below that required to meet future policy liabilities. To maintain an adequate yield to match the interest necessary to support future policy liabilities, constant management focus is required to reinvest the proceeds of the maturing securities and to invest the future premium receipts while continuing to maintain satisfactory investment quality. To the extent permitted under local regulation, AIG may invest in qualified longer term securities outside Japan to achieve a closer matching in both duration and the required yield. AIG is able to manage any asset liability duration difference through maintenance of sufficient global liquidity and to support any operational shortfall through its international financial network. (See also the discussion under Liquidity herein.) Certain foreign jurisdictions have limited long dated bond markets and AIG may use alternative investments, including equities and foreign denominated fixed income instruments to extend the effective duration of the investment portfolio to more closely match that of the policyholder liabilities. The asset liability relationship is appropriately managed in AIGs domestic operations, as there is ample supply of qualified long term investments. AIG uses asset liability matching as a management tool worldwide to determine the composition of the invested assets and appropriate marketing strategies. As a part of these strategies, AIG may determine that it is economically advantageous to be temporarily in an unmatched position due to anticipated interest rate or other economic changes. A number of guaranteed benefits are offered on certain variable life products. (Included in the Accounting Standards section is a discussion of new accounting guidance for these benefits.) DAC for life insurance products arises from the deferral of those costs that vary with, and are directly related to, the acquisition of new or renewal business. Policy acquisition costs for traditional life insurance products are generally deferred and amortized over the premium paying period of the policy. Policy acquisition costs which relate to universal life and investment type products (nontraditional life products) are deferred and amortized, with interest, in relation to the historical and future incidence of estimated gross profits to be realized over the estimated lives of the contracts. Estimated gross profits include investment income and gains and losses on investments less interest required as well as other charges in the contract less actual mortality and expenses. Current experience and changes in the expected future gross profits are analyzed to determine the impact on the amortization of DAC. The estimation of projected gross profits requires significant management judgment. The elements with respect to the current and projected gross profits are reviewed and analyzed quarterly and are appropriately adjusted. DAC for both traditional life and nontraditional life products are subject to review for recoverability, which involve estimating the future profitability of current business. This review also involves significant management judgment. If the actual emergence of future profitability were to be substantially different than that estimated, AIGs results of operations could be significantly impacted. (See also Note 4 of Notes to Financial Statements.) Insurance Invested Assets AIGs general strategy is to invest in high quality securities while maintaining diversification to avoid significant exposure to issuer, industry and or country concentrations. With respect to General Insurance, AIGs strategy is to invest in longer duration fixed maturities to maximize the yields at the date of purchase. With respect to Life Insurance, AIGs strategy is to produce cash flows required to meet maturing insurance liabilities. (See also the discussion under Operating Review: Life Insurance Operations herein.) AIG invests in equities for various reasons, including diversifying its overall exposure to interest rate risk. Equity securities are subject to declines in fair value. Such declines in fair value are presented in unrealized appreciation or depreciation of investments, net of taxes as a component of comprehensive income. Generally, insurance regulations restrict the types of assets in which an insurance company may invest. When permitted by regulatory authorities and when deemed necessary to protect insurance assets, including invested assets, from adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and equity prices, AIG and its insurance subsidiaries may enter into derivative transactions as end users. (See also the discussion under Derivatives herein.) FORM 10 K : 32 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) In certain jurisdictions, significant regulatory and or foreign governmental barriers exist which may not permit the immediate free flow of funds between insurance subsidiaries or from the insurance subsidiaries to AIG parent. These barriers generally cause only minor delays in the outward remittance of the funds. The following tables summarize the composition of AIGs insurance invested assets by insurance segment, at December 31, 2003 and 2002: Percent Distribution 2003 General Life Percent (dollars in millions) Insurance Insurance Total of Total Domestic Foreign Fixed Maturities: Available for sale, at market value(a) $ 41,610 $ 258,139 $ 299,749 75.9 % 64.1 % 35.9% Held to maturity, at amortized cost 8,037 8,037 2.0 100.0 Equity securities, at market value(b) 5,130 4,233 9,363 2.4 53.7 46.3 Mortgage loans on real estate, policy and collateral loans 25 20,260 20,285 5.1 67.7 32.3 Short term investments, including time deposits, and cash 1,918 6,497 8,415 2.1 50.3 49.7 Real estate 569 2,903 3,472 0.9 22.7 77.3 Investment income due and accrued 881 4,003 4,884 1.2 62.8 37.2 Securities lending collateral 5,225 24,970 30,195 7.7 76.0 24.0 Other invested assets 5,121 5,357 10,478 2.7 81.9 18.1 Total $ 68,516 $ 326,362 $ 394,878 100.0 % 65.4 % 34.6% (a) Includes $282 million of bond trading securities, at market value. (b) Includes $1.90 billion of nonredeemable preferred stocks, at market value. Percent Distribution 2002 General Life Percent (dollars in millions) Insurance Insurance Total of Total Domestic Foreign Fixed maturities available for sale, at market value(a) $ 35,990 $ 206,003 $ 241,993 76.9 % 69.1% 30.9% Equity securities, at market value(b) 3,928 2,931 6,859 2.2 53.4 46.6 Mortgage loans on real estate, policy and collateral loans 35 18,901 18,936 6.0 68.8 31.2 Short term investments, including time deposits, and cash 1,833 5,048 6,881 2.2 42.5 57.5 Real estate 488 2,367 2,855 0.9 24.8 75.2 Investment income due and accrued 729 3,489 4,218 1.4 64.2 35.8 Securities lending collateral 7,249 16,445 23,694 7.5 75.8 24.2 Other invested assets 5,226 3,954 9,180 2.9 82.1 17.9 Total $ 55,478 $ 259,138 $ 314,616 100.0 % 68.6% 31.4% (a) Includes $981 million of bond trading securities, at market value. (b) Includes $1.58 billion of nonredeemable preferred stocks, at market value. Credit Quality At December 31, 2003, approximately 65 percent of the fixed maturities investments were domestic securities. Approximately 33 percent of such domestic securities were rated AAA by one or more of the principal rating agencies. Approximately 7 percent were below investment grade or not rated. A significant portion of the foreign insurance fixed income portfolio is rated by Moodys, Standard & Poors (S&P) or similar foreign services. Similar credit quality rating services are not available in all overseas locations. AIG annually reviews the credit quality of the foreign portfolio nonrated fixed income investments, including mortgages. At December 31, 2003, approximately 17 percent of the foreign fixed income investments were either rated AAA or, on the basis of AIGs internal analysis, were equivalent from a credit standpoint to securities so rated. Approximately 7 percent were below investment grade or not rated at that date. A large portion of the foreign insurance fixed income portfolio are sovereign fixed maturity securities supporting the policy liabilities in the country of issuance. Any fixed income security may be subject to downgrade for a variety of reasons subsequent to any balance sheet date. Valuation of Invested Assets The valuation of invested assets involves obtaining a market value for each security. The source for the market value is generally from market exchanges or dealer quotations, with the exception of nontraded securities. Another aspect of valuation is an assessment of impairment. As a matter of policy, the determination that a security has incurred an other than temporary decline in value and the amount of any loss recognition requires the judgment of AIGs management and a continual review of its investments. FORM 10 K : 33 American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries In general, a security is considered a candidate for impairment if it meets any of the following criteria: Trading at a significant discount to par, amortized cost (if lower) or cost for an extended period of time; The occurrence of a discrete credit event resulting in (i) the issuer defaulting on a material outstanding obligation; or (ii) the issuer seeking protection from creditors under the bankruptcy laws or any similar laws intended for the court supervised reorganization of insolvent enterprises; or (iii) the issuer proposing a voluntary reorganization pursuant to which creditors are asked to exchange their claims for cash or securities having a fair value substantially lower than par value of their claims; or In the opinion of AIGs management, it is possible that AIG may not realize a full recovery on its investment, irrespective of the occurrence of one of the foregoing events. Once a security has been identified as impaired, the amount of such impairment is determined by reference to that securitys contemporaneous market price. AIG has the ability to hold any security to its stated maturity. Therefore, the decision to sell reflects the judgment of AIGs management that the security sold is unlikely to provide, on a relative value basis, as attractive a return in the future as alternative securities entailing comparable risks. With respect to distressed securities, the sale decision reflects managements judgment that the risk discounted anticipated ultimate recovery is less than the value achievable on sale. As a result of these policies, AIG recorded in 2003 impairment losses net of taxes of approximately $1.3 billion. No impairment charge with respect to any one single credit was significant to AIGs consolidated financial condition or results of operations, and no individual impairment loss exceeded 1.3 percent of consolidated net income for 2003. Excluding the impairments noted above, the changes in market value for AIGs available for sale portfolio, which constitutes the vast majority of AIGs investments, were recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income as unrealized gains or losses. At December 31, 2003, the unrealized losses after taxes of the fixed maturity securities were approximately $1.4 billion. At December 31, 2003, the unrealized losses after taxes of the equity securities portfolio were approximately $44 million. At December 31, 2003, aggregate unrealized gains after taxes were $10.4 billion and aggregate unrealized losses after taxes were $1.5 billion. No single issuer accounted for more than three percent of the unrealized losses. At December 31, 2003, the fair value of AIGs fixed maturities and equity securities aggregated to $319.0 billion. Of this aggregate fair value, 0.35 percent represented securities trading at or below 75 percent of amortized cost or cost. The impact on net income of unrealized losses after taxes will be further mitigated upon realization, because certain realized losses will be charged to participating policyholder accounts, or realization will result in current decreases in the amortization of certain deferred acquisition costs. At December 31, 2003, the unrealized losses after taxes for fixed maturity securities and equity securities included the following industry concentrations: Unrealized Losses (in millions) After Taxes Investment grade: Transportation $ 47 Utilities 27 Energy 12 Telecommunications 11 Not rated and below investment grade: Transportation $ 91 Utilities 52 Energy 4 Telecommunications 25 The amortized cost of fixed maturities available for sale in an unrealized loss position at December 31, 2003, by contractual maturity, is shown below: Amortized (in millions) Cost Due in one year or less $ 1,130 Due after one year through five years 8,520 Due after five years through ten years 20,745 Due after ten years 36,537 Total $ 66,932 In the twelve months ended December 31, 2003, the pretax realized losses incurred with respect to the sale of fixed maturities and equity securities were $3.2 billion. The aggregate fair value of securities sold was $32.2 billion, which was approximately 91 percent of amortized cost. The average period of time that securities sold at a loss during the twelve months ended December 31, 2003 were trading continuously at a price below book value was approximately seven months. FORM 10 K : 34 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) At December 31, 2003, aggregate pretax unrealized gains were $16.0 billion, while the pretax unrealized losses with respect to investment grade bonds, below investment grade bonds and equity securities were $1.6 billion, $599 million and $67 million, respectively. Aging of the pretax unrealized losses with respect to these securities, distributed as a percentage of cost relative to unrealized loss (the extent by which the market value is less than amortized cost or cost), including the number of respective items, was as follows: Less than or equal to Greater than 20% to Greater than 50% 20% of Cost(a) 50% of Cost(a) of Cost(a) Total Aging Unrealized Unrealized Unrealized Unrealized (dollars in millions) Cost(a) Loss Items Cost(a) Loss Items Cost(a) Loss Items Cost(a) Loss(b) Items Investment grade bonds 0 6 months $ 53,522 $ 1,111 2,428 $ 24 $ 6 3 $ $ $ 53,546 $ 1,117 2,431 7 12 months 5,547 264 393 21 6 3 5,568 270 396 12 months 2,628 142 241 312 90 21 2,940 232 262 Total 61,697 1,517 3,062 357 102 27 62,054 1,619 3,089 Below investment grade bonds 0 6 months 1,288 38 168 217 58 28 35 24 13 1,540 120 209 7 12 months 523 34 82 107 31 23 18 14 6 648 79 111 12 months 2,114 202 196 526 167 81 50 31 6 2,690 400 283 Total 3,925 274 446 850 256 132 103 69 25 4,878 599 603 Total bonds 0 6 months 54,810 1,149 2,596 241 64 31 35 24 13 55,086 1,237 2,640 7 12 months 6,070 298 475 128 37 26 18 14 6 6,216 349 507 12 months 4,742 344 437 838 257 102 50 31 6 5,630 632 545 Total 65,622 1,791 3,508 1,207 358 159 103 69 25 66,932 2,218 3,692 Equity securities 0 6 months 491 26 253 164 19 92 4 3 27 659 48 372 7 12 months 73 5 41 56 14 8 129 19 49 12 months Total $ 564 $ 31 294 $ 220 $ 33 100 $ 4 $ 3 27 $ 788 $ 67 421 (a) For bonds, represents amortized cost. (b) As more fully described above, upon realization, certain realized losses will be charged to participating policyholder accounts, or realization will result in a current decrease in the amortization of certain deferred acquisition costs. As stated previously, the valuation for AIGs investment portfolio comes from market exchanges or dealer quotations, with the exception of nontraded securities. AIG considers nontraded securities to mean certain fixed income investments, certain structured securities, direct private equities, limited partnerships and hedge funds. The aggregate carrying value of these securities at December 31, 2003 was approximately $59.9 billion. The methodology used to estimate fair value of nontraded fixed income investments is by reference to traded securities with similar attributes and using a matrix pricing methodology. This technique takes into account such factors as the industry, the securitys rating and tenor, its coupon rate, its position in the capital structure of the issuer, and other relevant factors. The change in fair value is recognized as a component of unrealized appreciation. For certain structured securities, the carrying value is based on an estimate of the securitys future cash flows pursuant to the requirements of Emerging Issues Task Force Issue No. 99 20, Recognition of Interest Income and Impairment on Purchased and Retained Beneficial Interests in Securitized Financial Assets. The change in carrying value is recognized in income. Direct private equities, hedge funds and limited partnerships in which AIG holds in the aggregate less than a five percent interest, are carried at fair value. The change in fair value is recognized as a component of Other comprehensive income. With respect to hedge funds and limited partnerships in which AIG holds in the aggregate a five percent or greater interest, AIGs carrying value is the net asset value. The changes in such net asset values are recorded in income. AIG obtains the fair value of its investments in limited partnerships and hedge funds from information provided by the sponsors of each of these investments, the accounts of which are generally audited on an annual basis. FORM 10 K : 35 American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries Each of these investment categories is regularly tested to determine if impairment in value exists. Various valuation techniques are used with respect to each category in this determination. Financial Services Operations AIGs Financial Services subsidiaries engage in diversified financial products and services including aircraft leasing, capital market transactions, and consumer and insurance premium financing. (See also Note 2 of Notes to Financial Statements.) AIGs Aircraft Finance operations represent the operations of ILFC, which generates its revenues primarily from leasing new and used commercial jet aircraft to domestic and foreign airlines. Revenues also result from the remarketing of commercial jets for its own account, for airlines and for financial institutions. ILFC finances its purchases of aircraft primarily through the issuance of a variety of debt instruments. The composite borrowing rates at December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001 were 4.53 percent, 4.73 percent and 5.07 percent, respectively. (See also the discussions under Capital Resources and Liquidity herein and Notes 2 and 9 of Notes to Financial Statements.) ILFC is exposed to operating loss and liquidity strain through nonperformance of aircraft lessees, through owning aircraft which it would be unable to sell or re lease at acceptable rates at lease expiration and, in part, through committing to purchase aircraft which it would be unable to lease. ILFC manages its lessee nonperformance exposure through credit reviews and security deposit requirements. As a result of these measures and its own contingency planning, ILFC did not suffer any material losses from airline shutdowns in the aftermath of the September 11 terrorist attacks, but there can be no assurance that ILFC will successfully manage the risks relating to the impact of possible future deterioration in the airline industry. Over 80 percent of ILFCs fleet is leased to non U.S. carriers, and this fleet, comprised of the most efficient aircraft in the airline industry, continues to be in high demand from such carriers. ILFC typically contracts to re lease aircraft before the end of the existing lease term. For aircraft returned before the end of the lease term, ILFC has generally been able to re lease such aircraft within two to six months of its return. While some of the lease rates for aircraft that have been redeployed are lower, this is partially offset by low interest rates, which reduce ILFCs financing costs. As a lessor, ILFC considers an aircraft idle or off lease when the aircraft is not subject to a signed lease agreement or signed letter of intent. ILFC had five aircraft off lease at December 31, 2003 which had been off lease for less than three months. As of March 8, 2004, all five of the five unleased aircraft were placed. All new aircraft deliveries in 2004 have been placed, and 67 percent of 2005 new aircraft deliveries have been leased. (See also the discussions under Capital Resources and Liquidity herein.) During 2003, ILFC entered into a securitization of a portfolio of 37 aircraft. Certain of AIGs Life Insurance and Retirement Services businesses purchased a large share of this securitization. A second securitization was executed in January, 2004. ILFC management is very active in the airline industry. Management formally reviews regularly, and no less frequently than quarterly, issues affecting ILFCs fleet, including events and circumstances that may cause impairment of aircraft values. Management evaluates aircraft in the fleet as necessary, based on these events and circumstances in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets (FAS 144). ILFC has not recognized any impairment related to its fleet, as the existing service potential of the aircraft in ILFCs portfolio has not been diminished. Further, ILFC has been able to re lease the aircraft without diminution in lease rates to an extent that would require an impairment write down. (See also the discussions under Liquidity herein.) AIG has integrated the operations of AIGTG into AIGFP thereby establishing the Capital Markets reporting unit. AIG believes that this will result in greater efficiencies and product synergies as well as growth opportunities. Capital Markets revenues and operating income increases were attributable primarily to its interest rate linked products. As Capital Markets is a transaction oriented operation, current and past revenues and operating results may not provide a basis for predicting future performance. AIGs Capital Markets operations derive substantially all their revenues from proprietary positions entered in connection with counterparty transactions rather than from speculative transactions. These subsidiaries participate in the derivatives dealer market conducting, primarily as principal, an interest rate, currency, equity, commodity and credit derivative products business. FORM 10 K : 36 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) As dealers, AIGFP and AIGTG mark transactions to fair value daily. Thus, a gain or loss on each transaction is recognized daily. AIGFP and AIGTG hedge the market risks arising from their transactions. Therefore, revenues and operating income are not significantly exposed to or affected by market fluctuations and volatility. Revenues of the Capital Markets operations and the percentage change in revenues for any given period are significantly affected by the number and size of transactions entered into by these subsidiaries during that period relative to those entered into during the prior period. Operating income and the percentage change in operating income for any period are determined by the number, size and profitability of the transactions attributable to that period relative to those attributable to the prior period. Generally, the realization of trading revenues as measured by the receipt of funds is not a significant reporting event as the gain or loss on Capital Markets trading transactions are currently reflected in operating income as the fair values change from period to period. Derivative transactions are entered into in the ordinary course of Capital Markets operations. Therefore, income on interest rate, equity, commodity and credit derivatives along with their related hedges are recorded on a mark to market value or at estimated fair value where market prices are not readily available with the resulting unrealized gains or losses reflected in the income statement in the current year. In 2003, less than five percent of revenues resulted from transactions valued at estimated fair value. The mark to fair value of derivative transactions is reflected in the balance sheet in the captions Unrealized gain on interest rate and currency swaps, options and forward transactions and Unrealized loss on interest rate and currency swaps, options and forward transactions. The unrealized gain represents the present value of the aggregate of each net receivable by counterparty, and the unrealized loss represents the present value of the aggregate of each net payable by counterparty as of December 31, 2003. These amounts will change from one period to the next due to changes in interest rates, currency rates, equity prices and other market variables, as well as cash movements, execution of new transactions and the maturing of existing transactions. (See also the discussion under Derivatives herein and Note 21 of Notes to Financial Statements.) Spread income on investments and borrowings are recorded on an accrual basis over the life of the transaction. Investments are classified as available for sale securities and are marked to market with the resulting unrealized gains or losses reflected in shareholders equity. Domestically, AIGs consumer finance operations derive a substantial portion of their revenues from finance charges assessed on outstanding mortgages, home equity loans, secured and unsecured consumer loans and retail merchant financing. Overseas operations provide credit cards, personal and auto loans, term deposits, savings accounts, sales finance and mortgages with an emphasis on emerging markets. Consumer finance operations are exposed to loss when contractual payments are not received. Collection exposure is managed through the mix of tight underwriting controls, mix of loans and collateral thereon. Financial Services operations for 2003, 2002 and 2001 were as follows: (in millions) 2003 2002 2001 Revenues: Aircraft Finance(a) $ 3,042 $ 2,845 $ 2,613 Capital Markets(b) 1,845 1,544 1,348 Consumer Finance(c) 2,642 2,473 2,560 Other 36 (47 ) (36 ) Total $ 7,565 $ 6,815 $ 6,485 Operating income: Aircraft Finance $ 728 $ 801 $ 749 Capital Markets 1,086 870 806 Consumer Finance 649 549 505 Other, including intercompany adjustments 1 (31 ) (69 ) Total $ 2,464 $ 2,189 $ 1,991 (a) Revenues were primarily from ILFC aircraft lease rentals. (b) Revenues were primarily fees from AIGFP and AIGTG proprietary positions entered into in connection with counterparty transactions. (c) Revenues were primarily finance charges. Financial Services Results Capital Market activities were the primary reason for the growth in operating income in 2003 and to a lesser extent in 2002. Financial Services operating income represented 17.7 percent of AIGs consolidated income before income taxes, minority interest and cumulative effect of accounting changes in 2003. This compares to 26.9 percent and 24.5 percent in 2002 and 2001, respectively. The decrease in contribution percentage was influenced by the impact that the General Insurance loss reserve charge in 2002 and the WTC losses in 2001 had on General Insurance operating income and the reduced contribution of General Insurance operations to income before income taxes, minority interest and cumulative effect of accounting changes in those years. With respect to ILFC, the revenue growth in each year resulted primarily from the increase in flight equipment under operating lease and the increase in the relative cost of the leased fleet. The decline in ILFCs operating income for 2003 was largely a result of the decline in aircraft remarketing due to the poor market conditions for secondhand aircraft. Going forward, AIG believes that ILFCs performance will improve as the improvements in the airline industry are not yet being reflected in ILFCs results. FORM 10 K : 37 American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries The composition by percentage contribution of revenues and operating income for Capital Markets in 2003, 2002 and 2001 is set forth below. The percentages for operating income are the same as those for revenues because expenses are allocated across all products in proportion to the revenues generated by that product. Material changes in the distribution of revenues and operating income from period to period are not unusual due to the transactional nature of Capital Markets business. 2003 2002 2001 Spread income on investments and borrowings 37 % 47 % 40 % Interest rate and currency products 29 18 28 Equity linked products 4 3 17 Credit linked products 28 29 11 Commodity and commodity linked products and other revenue 2 3 4 Financial market conditions in 2003 compared with 2002 were characterized by lower interest rates across fixed income markets globally, a tightening of credit spreads, and higher equity valuations. Capital Markets results in 2003 compared with 2002 reflected a shift in product segment activity to respond to these conditions. In particular, Capital Markets experienced increases in demand for interest and currency linked products that addressed the risk management needs of its counterparties. (See also Note 21 of Notes to Financial Statements.) The most significant component of Capital Markets operating expenses is compensation, which approximated 33 percent, 36 percent and 33 percent of revenues in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Consumer Finance revenues in 2003 increased. The increase in revenues in 2003 was the result of growth in average finance receivables and credit quality continues to be strong. Further, reductions of the cost to borrow led to an improvement in the operating income over the previous year. The decline in revenues in 2002 was the result of lower yields on the finance receivables, but borrowing costs also declined significantly so that spreads, and therefore operating income, increased as a result. Financial Services Invested Assets The following table is a summary of the composition of AIGs Financial Services invested assets at December 31, 2003 and 2002. (See also the discussions under Operating Review: Financial Services Operations, Capital Resources and Derivatives herein.) 2003 2002 Invested Percent of Invested Percent of (dollars in millions) Assets Total Assets Total Flight equipment primarily under operating leases, net of accumulated depreciation $ 30,343 23.9 % $ 26,867 23.4 % Finance receivables, net of allowance 17,609 13.9 15,857 13.8 Unrealized gain on interest rate and currency swaps, options and forward transactions 21,599 17.0 15,376 13.4 Securities available for sale, at market value 15,714 12.4 16,687 14.5 Trading securities, at market value 3,300 2.6 4,146 3.6 Securities purchased under agreements to resell, at contract value 28,144 22.2 25,560 22.2 Trading assets 2,548 2.0 4,786 4.2 Spot commodities, at market value 250 0.2 489 0.4 Other, including short term investments 7,392 5.8 5,110 4.5 Total $ 126,899 100.0 % $ 114,878 100.0 % As previously discussed, the cash used for the purchase of flight equipment is derived primarily from the proceeds of ILFCs debt financings. The primary sources for the repayment of this debt and the interest expense thereon are the cash flow from operations, proceeds from the sale of flight equipment and the rollover and refinancing of the prior debt. During 2003, ILFC acquired flight equipment costing $5.51 billion. (See also the discussion under Operating Review: Financial Services Operations and Capital Resources herein.) At December 31, 2003, ILFC had committed to purchase 463 new and used aircraft deliverable from 2004 through 2010 at an estimated aggregate purchase price of $26.2 billion and had options to purchase 11 new aircraft deliverable from 2004 through 2008 at an estimated aggregate purchase price of $705 million. As of March 8, 2004, ILFC has entered into leases for all of the new aircraft to be delivered in 2004 and 61 of 91 of the new aircraft to be delivered in 2005 and 30 of 263 of the new aircraft to be delivered subsequent to 2005. ILFC will be required to find customers for any aircraft presently on order and any aircraft to be ordered, and it must arrange financing for portions of the purchase price of such equipment. In a rising interest rate environment, ILFC negotiates higher lease rates on any new contracts. ILFC has been successful to date both in placing its new aircraft on lease or under sales contract and obtaining adequate financing, but there can be no assurance that such success will continue in future environments. FORM 10 K : 38 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) AIGs Consumer Finance operations provide a wide variety of consumer finance products both domestically and overseas. Such products include real estate mortgages, consumer loans, and retail sales finance. These products are funded through various borrowings including commercial paper and medium term notes. AIGs Consumer Finance operations are exposed to credit risk and risk of loss resulting from adverse fluctuations in interest rates. Over half of the loan balance is related to real estate loans which are substantially collateralized by the related properties. With respect to credit losses, the allowance for finance receivable losses is maintained at a level considered adequate to absorb anticipated credit losses existing in that portfolio. Capital Markets derivative transactions are carried at market value or at estimated fair value when market prices are not readily available. AIGFP reduces its economic risk exposure through similarly valued offsetting transactions including swaps, trading securities, options, forwards and futures. The estimated fair values of these transactions represent assessments of the present value of expected future cash flows. These transactions are exposed to liquidity risk if AIGFP were required to sell or close out the transactions prior to maturity. AIG believes that the impact of any such limited liquidity would not be significant to AIGs financial condition or its overall liquidity. (See also the discussion under Operating Review: Financial Services Operations and Derivatives herein.) AIGFP uses the proceeds from the issuance of notes and bonds and GIA borrowings to invest in a diversified portfolio of securities, including securities available for sale, at market, and derivative transactions. The funds may also be temporarily invested in securities purchased under agreements to resell. The proceeds from the disposal of the aforementioned securities available for sale and securities purchased under agreements to resell have been used to fund the maturing GIAs or other AIGFP financings. (See also the discussion under Capital Resources herein.) Securities available for sale is mainly a portfolio of debt securities, where the individual securities have varying degrees of credit risk. At December 31, 2003, the average credit rating of this portfolio was AA or the equivalent thereto as determined through rating agencies or internal review. AIGFP has also entered into credit derivative transactions to hedge its credit risk associated with $218 million of these securities. Securities deemed below investment grade at December 31, 2003 amounted to approximately $98 million in fair value representing 0.6 of one percent of the total AIGFP securities available for sale. $30 million of this amount is hedged with a credit derivative. There have been no significant downgrades through March 1, 2004. Securities purchased under agreements to resell are treated as collateralized transactions. AIGFP takes possession of or obtains a security interest in securities purchased under agreements to resell. AIGFP further minimizes its credit risk by monitoring counterparty credit exposure and, when AIGFP deems necessary, it requires additional collateral to be deposited. Trading securities, at market value are marked to market daily and are held to meet the short term risk management objectives of AIGFP. AIGFP is exposed to credit risk. If its securities available for sale portfolio were to suffer significant default and the collateral held declined significantly in value with no replacement or the credit default swap counterparty failed to perform, AIGFP could have a liquidity strain. AIG guarantees AIGFPs debt and, as a result, is responsible for all of AIGFPs obligations. AIGTG conducts, as principal, market making and trading activities in foreign exchange, and commodities, primarily precious and base metals. AIGTG owns inventories in the commodities in which it trades and may reduce the exposure to market risk through the use of swaps, forwards, futures and option contracts. AIGTG uses derivatives to manage the economic exposure of its various trading positions and transactions from adverse movements of interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices. AIGTG supports its trading activities largely through trading liabilities, unrealized losses on swaps, short term borrowings, securities sold under agreements to repurchase and securities and commodities sold but not yet purchased. (See also the discussions under Capital Resources and Note 21 of Notes to Financial Statements.) The gross unrealized gains and gross unrealized losses of Capital Markets included in the financial services assets and liabilities at December 31, 2003 were as follows: Gross Gross Unrealized Unrealized (in millions) Gains Losses Securities available for sale, at market value(a) $ 2,329 $ 2,347 Unrealized gain/ loss on interest rate and currency swaps, options and forward transactions(b) 21,599 15,268 Trading assets 10,431 8,067 Spot commodities, at market value 8 Trading liabilities 1,459 Securities and spot commodities sold but not yet purchased, at market value 754 (a) See also Note 8(i) of Notes to Financial Statements. (b) These amounts are also presented as the respective balance sheet amounts. AIGFPs interest rate and currency risks on securities available for sale, at market, are managed by taking offsetting positions on a security by security basis, thereby offsetting a significant portion of the unrealized appreciation or depreciation. At December 31, 2003, the unrealized gains and losses FORM 10 K : 39 American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries remaining after the benefit of the offsets were $49 million and $67 million, respectively. Trading securities, at market value, and securities and spot commodities sold but not yet purchased, at market value are marked to market daily with the unrealized gain or loss being recognized in income at that time. These securities are held to meet the short term risk management objectives of Capital Markets operations. The senior management of AIG defines the policies and establishes general operating parameters for Capital Markets operations. AIGs senior management has established various oversight committees to review the various financial market, operational and credit issues of the Capital Markets operations. The senior management of AIGFP reports the results of its operations to and reviews future strategies with AIGs senior management. AIG actively manages the exposures to limit potential losses, while maximizing the rewards afforded by these business opportunities. In doing so, AIG must continually manage a variety of exposures including credit, market, liquidity, operational and legal risks. Retirement Services & Asset Management Operations AIGs Retirement Services & Asset Management operations offer a wide variety of investment products, including variable annuities and mutual funds, as well as investment services, including investment asset management. Such products and services are offered to individuals and institutions both domestically and overseas. Retirement Services & Asset Management revenues and operating income for 2003, 2002 and 2001 were as follows: (in millions) 2003 2002 2001 Revenues: AIG VALIC $ 2,305 $ 2,133 $ 2,110 AIG SunAmerica 537 563 652 Other* 1,054 789 950 Total $ 3,896 $ 3,485 $ 3,712 Operating income: AIG VALIC $ 902 $ 730 $ 630 AIG SunAmerica 38 32 185 Other* 331 254 273 Total $ 1,271 $ 1,016 $ 1,088 * Includes AIG Global Investment Group and certain foreign fixed and variable annuity operations. Retirement Services & Asset Management Results Retirement Services & Asset Management operating income increased in 2003 as a result of the upturn in worldwide financial markets and the improved U.S. economic conditions. The operating income growth with respect to Retirement Services & Asset Management is partly contingent upon the growth in the equity markets and customer interest in equity sensitive products. Thus, as markets expand and contract, the operating income with respect to this segment can be expected to be similarly affected. Retirement Services & Asset Management operating income represented 9.1 percent of AIGs consolidated income before income taxes, minority interest and cumulative effect of accounting changes in 2003. This compares to 12.5 percent and 13.4 percent in 2002 and 2001, respectively. At December 31, 2003, AIGs third party assets under management, including both retail mutual funds and institutional accounts, approximated $46 billion. With respect to variable annuities, AIGs policy has been to adjust amortization assumptions for deferred acquisition costs (DAC) when estimates of current or future gross profits to be realized from these contracts are revised. With respect to variable annuities sold domestically (representing the vast majority of AIGs variable annuity business), the assumption for the long term annual net growth rate of the equity markets used in the determination of DAC amortization is approximately 10 percent. A methodology referred to as reversion to the mean is used to maintain this long term net growth rate assumption, while giving consideration to short term variations in equity markets. AIGs variable annuity earnings will be affected by changes in market returns because separate account revenues, primarily composed of mortality and expense charges and asset management fees, are a function of asset values. A number of guaranteed minimum death benefits (GMDB) and other similar benefits are offered on variable annuities. GMDB related contract benefits incurred, net of reinsurance, were $72 million, $77 million and $20 million for 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. In accordance with GAAP, AIG expenses these benefits in the period paid. Included in the Accounting Standards section is a discussion of new accounting guidance for such benefits. Other Operations Other income (deductions) net includes income generated by the investment of capital held by AIG SunAmerica outside of its Life Insurance subsidiaries, AIGs equity in certain minor majority owned subsidiaries and certain partially owned companies, realized foreign exchange transaction gains and losses in substantially all currencies and unrealized gains and losses in hyperinflationary currencies, as well as the income and expenses of the parent holding company and FORM 10 K : 40 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) other miscellaneous income and expenses. Other income (deductions) net amounted to $(464) million, $(129) million and $3 million in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. The decline in 2003 was primarily the result of increases in pension and interest expenses as well as the capital contribution of certain AIG SunAmerica partnership investments previously included herein to the Life Insurance and Retirement Services & Asset Management operations, and in 2002 weaker performance of AIG SunAmerica investments in partnerships and 21st Centurys third quarter 2002 pretax charge of $37 million to write off capitalized costs associated with a software development project. Acquisition, restructuring and related charges of $2.02 billion were incurred in 2001 in connection with the acquisition of AGC, including $654 million paid by AGC in connection with the termination of AGCs merger agreement with Prudential plc. (See also Note 19 of Notes to Financial Statements.) Capital Resources At December 31, 2003, AIG had total shareholders equity of $71.25 billion and total borrowings of $77.28 billion. At that date, $69.63 billion of such borrowings were either not guaranteed by AIG or were AIGFPs matched borrowings under obligations of guaranteed investment agreements (GIAs) or matched notes and bonds payable. Borrowings At December 31, 2003, AIGs borrowings were $7.7 billion after reflecting amounts not guaranteed by AIG, amounts that were matched borrowings under AIGFPs obligations of GIAs and matched notes and bonds payable. The following table summarizes borrowings outstanding at December 31, 2003 and 2002: (in millions) December 31, 2003 2002 Remaining borrowings of AIG $ 7,650 $ 6,904 Borrowings not guaranteed by AIG 39,002 33,605 AIGFP: GIAs 15,337 14,850 Matched notes and bonds payable 15,289 16,526 $ 77,278 $ 71,885 Borrowings issued or guaranteed by AIG and those borrowings not guaranteed by AIG at December 31, 2003 and 2002 were as follows: (in millions) December 31, 2003 2002 AIG borrowings: Medium term notes $ 791 $ 998 Notes and bonds payable 3,141 1,608 Loans and mortgages payable 337 697 Total 4,269 3,303 (continued) Borrowings guaranteed by AIG: AIGFP GIAs 15,337 14,850 Notes and bonds payable 16,203 16,940 Total 31,540 31,790 AIG Funding, Inc. commercial paper 1,223 1,645 AGC Notes and bonds payable 1,244 1,542 Total borrowings issued or guaranteed by AIG 38,276 38,280 Borrowings not guaranteed by AIG: ILFC Commercial paper 1,575 4,213 Medium term notes 5,960 4,970 Notes and bonds payable(a) 14,431 9,825 Loans and mortgages payable(b) 143 261 Total 22,109 19,269 AGF Commercial paper 2,877 2,956 Medium term notes 9,714 7,719 Notes and bonds payable 1,739 2,266 Total 14,330 12,941 Commercial paper: AIG Credit Card Company (Taiwan) 250 234 AIG Finance (Taiwan) Limited 13 64 Total 263 298 Loans and mortgages payable: AIGCFG 624 735 AIG Finance (Hong Kong) Limited 165 229 Total 789 964 Other Subsidiaries 727 133 Variable Interest Entity debt: ILFC 464 AIG Global Investment Group 6 AIG Capital Partners 148 AIG SunAmerica 166 Total 784 Total borrowings not guaranteed by AIG 39,002 33,605 Total Borrowings $ 77,278 $ 71,885 (a) Includes borrowings under Export Credit Facility of $1.8 billion. (b) Capital lease obligations. See also Note 9 of Notes to Financial Statements. AIGFP uses the proceeds from the issuance of notes and bonds and GIA borrowings to invest in a diversified portfolio of securities and derivative transactions. The borrowings may also be temporarily invested in securities purchased under agreements to resell. (See also the discussions under Operating Review, Liquidity and Derivatives herein and Notes 1, 8, 9 and 21 of Notes to Financial Statements.) AIG Funding, Inc. (Funding), through the issuance of commercial paper, helps fulfill the short term cash requirements of AIG and its subsidiaries. Funding intends to continue to meet AIGs funding requirements through the issuance of commercial paper guaranteed by AIG. The issuance of Fundings commercial paper is subject to the approval of AIGs Board of Directors. FORM 10 K : 41 American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries ILFC and AGF as well as AIG Credit Card Company (Taiwan) (AIGCCC Taiwan) and AIG Finance (Taiwan) Limited (AIGF Taiwan), both consumer finance subsidiaries in Taiwan, have issued commercial paper for the funding of their own operations. At December 31, 2003, AIG did not guarantee the commercial paper of any of its subsidiaries other than Funding. (See also the discussion under Derivatives herein and Note 9 of Notes to Financial Statements.) AIG and Funding are parties to unsecured syndicated revolving credit facilities (collectively, the Facility) aggregating $2.75 billion. The Facility consists of $1.375 billion in a short term revolving credit facility and $1.375 billion in a five year revolving credit facility. The Facility can be used for general corporate purposes and also to provide backup for Fundings commercial paper programs. There are currently no borrowings outstanding under the Facility, nor were any borrowings outstanding as of December 31, 2003. AGF is a party to unsecured syndicated revolving credit facilities aggregating $3.0 billion. The facilities consist of $1.5 billion in a short term revolving credit facility and $1.5 billion in a five year revolving credit facility, which support AGFs commercial paper borrowings. There are currently no borrowings under these facilities, nor were any borrowings outstanding as of December 31, 2003. In 2003, AGF increased its shelf registration statement by $7.5 billion. AGF had $9.1 billion in aggregate principal amount of debt securities registered and available for issuance at December 31, 2003. AGF uses the proceeds from the issuance of notes and bonds for the funding of its finance receivables. Proceeds from the collection of finance receivables will be used to pay the principle and interest with respect to AGFs debt. ILFC is a party to unsecured syndicated revolving credit facilities aggregating $4.2 billion at December 31, 2003. The facilities are used to support ILFCs maturing debt and other obligations and consist of $3.15 billion in a short term revolving credit facility and $1.05 billion in a three year revolving credit facility. There are currently no borrowings under these facilities, nor were any borrowings outstanding as of December 31, 2003. At December 31, 2003, ILFC had increased the aggregate principal amount outstanding of its medium term and long term notes to $20.39 billion, a net increase of $5.60 billion (of which $697 million results from foreign exchange translation), and a net decrease in its commercial paper of $2.64 billion. ILFC had $11.08 billion of debt securities registered for public sale at December 31, 2003. During 2003, $6.09 billion of debt securities were issued. During the second quarter of 2003, ILFC increased its Euro Medium Term Note Program from $4.0 billion to $5.0 billion, under which $3.39 billion in notes were sold through December 31, 2003. ILFC has substantially eliminated the currency exposure arising from foreign currency denominated notes by either hedging the notes through swaps or through the offset provided by operating lease payments. Notes issued under this program are included in Notes and Bonds Payable in the preceding table of borrowings. ILFC had a $4.3 billion Export Credit Facility for use in connection with the purchase of approximately 75 aircraft delivered through 2001. This facility was guaranteed by various European Export Credit Agencies. The interest rate varies from 5.75 percent to 5.90 percent on these borrowings depending on the delivery date of the aircraft. At December 31, 2003, ILFC had $1.8 billion outstanding under this facility. The debt is collateralized by a pledge of the shares of a subsidiary of ILFC, which holds title to the aircraft financed under the facility. During 2003, ILFC entered into various bank financings for a total funded amount of $1.3 billion. The financings mature through 2009. One tranche of one of the loans totaling $410 million was funded in Japanese yen and swapped to U.S. dollars. Borrowings with respect to this facility are included in Notes and Bonds Payable in the preceding table of borrowings. The proceeds of ILFCs debt financing are primarily used to purchase flight equipment, including progress payments during the construction phase. The primary sources for the repayment of this debt and the interest expense thereon are the cash flow from operations, proceeds from the sale of flight equipment and the rollover and refinancing of the prior debt. (See also the discussions under Operating Review and Liquidity herein.) AIGFP has established a Euro Medium Term Note Program under which an aggregate principal amount of up to $4.0 billion of notes may be outstanding. As of December 31, 2003, $4.73 billion of notes had been issued under the program, $3.23 billion of which were outstanding. Notes issued under this program are included in Notes and Bonds Payable in the preceding table of borrowings. During 2003, AIG did not issue any medium term notes, and $207 million of previously issued notes matured or were redeemed. At December 31, 2003, AIG had $140 million in aggregate principal amount of debt securities registered for issuance from time to time. AIG has filed a universal shelf registration statement to sell up to $5.1 billion of debt securities, preferred and common stock and other securities. AIG has no current plans to issue the equity, equity linked or capital securities included in the registration statement, but intends to continue its customary practice of issuing securities from time to time for general corporate purposes. FORM 10 K : 42 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) On November 9, 2001, AIG received proceeds of approximately $1 billion from the issuance of Zero Coupon Convertible Senior Debentures Due 2031 with an aggregate principal amount at maturity of approximately $1.52 billion. Commencing January 1, 2002, the debentures are convertible into shares of AIG common stock at a conversion rate of 6.0627 shares per $1,000 principal amount of debentures if AIG common stock trades at certain levels for certain time periods. The debentures are callable by AIG on or after November 9, 2006. Also, holders can require AIG to repurchase these debentures once every five years beginning on November 9, 2006. As of November 2001, AIG guaranteed the notes and bonds of AGC. During 2002, AGC issued $200 million in notes which matured in March 2003. Shareholders Equity AIGs shareholders equity increased $12.15 billion during 2003. Unrealized appreciation of investments, net of taxes increased $2.99 billion and the cumulative translation adjustment loss, net of taxes, decreased $306 million. The change for 2003 with respect to the unrealized appreciation of investments, net of taxes, was primarily impacted by the decrease in domestic interest rates. During 2003, there was a gain of $325 million, net of taxes relating to derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedging instruments. (See also the discussion under Operating Review and Liquidity herein, Notes 1(z) and 8(d) of Notes to Financial Statements and the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.) During 2003, retained earnings increased $8.69 billion, resulting from net income less dividends. Stock Repurchase During 2003, AIG repurchased in the open market 3,822,500 shares of its common stock. AIG intends to continue to buy its common shares in the open market for general corporate purposes, including to satisfy its obligations under various employee benefit plans. Dividends from Insurance Subsidiaries Payments of dividends to AIG by its insurance subsidiaries are subject to certain restrictions imposed by statutory authorities. With respect to AIGs domestic insurance subsidiaries, specifically the payment of any dividend requires formal notice to the insurance department in which the particular insurance subsidiary is domiciled. Under the laws of many states, an insurer may pay a dividend without prior approval of the insurance regulator when the amount of the dividend is below certain materiality thresholds. As a result of these regulations, approximately 71 percent of consolidated shareholders equity was restricted as to immediate payment by insurance subsidiaries to AIG parent at December 31, 2003. With respect to AIGs foreign insurance subsidiaries, the most significant insurance regulatory jurisdictions include Bermuda, Japan, Hong Kong and the Republic of China. AIG has in the past reinvested most of its unrestricted earnings in its operations and believes such continued reinvestment in the future will be adequate to meet any foreseeable capital needs. However, AIG may choose from time to time to raise additional funds through the issuance of additional securities. At December 31, 2003, there were no significant statutory or regulatory issues which would impair AIGs financial condition, results of operations or liquidity, but there can be no assurance that such issues will not arise in the future. To AIGs knowledge, no AIG company is on any regulatory or similar watch list. (See also the discussion under Liquidity herein and Note 11 of Notes to Financial Statements.) Regulation and Supervision AIGs insurance subsidiaries, in common with other insurers, are subject to regulation and supervision by the states and jurisdictions in which they do business. The National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) has developed Risk Based Capital (RBC) requirements. RBC relates an individual insurance companys statutory surplus to the risk inherent in its overall operations. At December 31, 2003, the risk based adjusted surplus of each of AIGs domestic general companies and of each of AIGs domestic life companies exceeded each of their RBC standards. Federal, state or local legislation may affect AIGs ability to operate and expand its various financial services businesses and changes in the current laws, regulations or interpretations thereof may have a material adverse effect on these businesses. AIGs operations are negatively impacted under guarantee fund assessment laws which exist in most states. As a result of operating in a state which has guarantee fund assessment laws, a solvent insurance company may be assessed for certain obligations arising from the insolvencies of other insurance companies which operated in that state. AIG generally records these assessments upon notice. Additionally, certain states permit at least a portion of the assessed amount to be used as a credit against a companys future premium tax liabilities. Therefore, the ultimate net assessment cannot reasonably be estimated. The guarantee fund assessments net of credits for 2003, 2002 and 2001 were $77 million, $76 million and $24 million, respectively. FORM 10 K : 43 American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries AIG is also required to participate in various involuntary pools (principally workers compensation business) which provide insurance coverage for those not able to obtain such coverage in the voluntary markets. This participation is also recorded upon notification, as these amounts cannot reasonably be estimated. A substantial portion of AIGs General Insurance business and a majority of its Life Insurance business are conducted in foreign countries. The degree of regulation and supervision in foreign jurisdictions varies from minimal in some to stringent in others. Generally, AIG, as well as the underwriting companies operating in such jurisdictions, must satisfy local regulatory requirements. Licenses issued by foreign authorities to AIG subsidiaries are subject to modification and revocation. Thus, AIGs insurance subsidiaries could be prevented from conducting future business in certain of the jurisdictions where they currently operate. AIGs international operations include operations in various developing nations. Both current and future foreign operations could be adversely affected by unfavorable political developments up to and including nationalization of AIGs operations without compensation. Adverse effects resulting from any one country may impact AIGs results of operations, liquidity and financial condition depending on the magnitude of the event and AIGs net financial exposure at that time in that country. Contractual Obligations and Other Commercial Commitments The maturity schedule of AIGs contractual obligations at December 31, 2003 was as follows: (in millions) Payments due by Period Less One Four Than Through Through After Total One Three Five Five Payments Year Years Years Years Borrowings* $ 70,556 $22,386 $ 15,626 $ 10,153 $22,391 Operating leases 2,409 483 633 384 909 Aircraft purchase commitments 26,153 4,957 9,972 8,810 2,414 Total $ 99,118 $27,826 $ 26,231 $ 19,347 $25,714 * Excludes commercial paper and obligations included as debt pursuant to FIN46R and includes ILFCs capital lease obligations. The maturity schedule of AIGs other commercial commitments by segment at December 31, 2003 was as follows: (in millions) Amount of Commitment Expiration Less One Four Total Than Through Through After Amounts One Three Five Five Committed Year Years Years Years Letters of credit: Retirement Services & Asset Management $ 139 $109 $ $ $30 DBG 217 119 98 Standby letters of credit: Capital Markets 1,344 38 10 9 1,287 Guarantees: Retirement Services & Asset Management (a) 3,150 146 2,130 367 507 Other commercial commitments(b): Capital Markets(c) 14,379 148 1,175 2,439 10,617 Aircraft Finance(d) 1,383 528 411 444 Retirement Services & Asset Management (a) 5,242 3,034 1,059 313 836 DBG(a) 1,741 1,741 Total $ 27,595 $3,594 $ 5,000 $ 3,539 $15,462 (a) Primarily in connection with investment operations. (b) Excludes commitments with respect to pension plans. See also Note 15 of Notes to Financial Statements. (c) Primarily liquidity facilities provided in connection with certain municipal swap transactions. (d) Primarily in connection with options to acquire aircraft. FORM 10 K : 44 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) AIG and its subsidiaries do not have any contractual obligations that are subject to ratings triggers or financial covenants relating to ratings triggers which AIG believes could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, future operating results or liquidity. Rating triggers have been defined by one independent rating agency to include clauses or agreements the outcome of which depends upon the level of ratings maintained by one or more rating agencies. Rating triggers generally relate to events which (i) could result in the termination or limitation of credit availability, or require accelerated repayment, (ii) could result in the termination of business contracts or (iii) could require a company to post collateral for the benefit of counterparties. Special Purpose Vehicles and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements AIG uses special purpose vehicles (SPVs) and off balance sheet arrangements in the ordinary course of business. As a result of recent changes in accounting, a number of SPVs and off balance sheet arrangements have been reflected in AIGs consolidated financial statements. In January 2003, FASB issued Interpretation No. 46, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities (FIN 46). FIN46 addressed the consolidation and disclosure rules for nonoperating entities that are now defined as Variable Interest Entities (VIEs). In December 2003, FASB issued a revision to Interpretation No. 46 (FIN46R). In November 2002, FASB issued Interpretation No. 45 Guarantors Accounting And Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others (FIN 45). For additional information related to AIGs activities with respect to VIEs and certain guarantees see Accounting Standards herein and also Notes 1 and 20 of Notes to Financial Statements. Also, for additional disclosure regarding AIGs commercial commitments (including guarantors), see Contractual Obligations and Other Commercial Commitments herein. AIG has restrictive guidelines with respect to the formation of and investment in SPVs and off balance sheet arrangements. Liquidity AIGs liquidity is primarily derived from the operating cash flows of its General and Life Insurance operations. At December 31, 2003, AIGs consolidated invested assets included $9.84 billion of cash and short term investments. Consolidated net cash provided from operating activities in 2003 amounted to $36.16 billion. Sources of funds considered in meeting the objectives of AIGs Financial Services operations include guaranteed investment agreements, issuance of long term and short term debt, maturities and sales of securities available for sale, securities sold under repurchase agreements, trading liabilities, securities and spot commodities sold but not yet purchased, issuance of equity, and cash provided from such operations. AIGs strong capital position and superior credit ratings are integral to managing this liquidity, as they enable AIG to raise funds in diverse markets worldwide. (See also the discussion under Capital Resources herein.) Management believes that AIGs liquid assets, its net cash provided by operations, and access to the capital markets will enable it to meet any foreseeable cash requirements. The liquidity of the combined insurance operations is derived both domestically and abroad. The combined insurance operating cash flow is derived from two sources, underwriting operations and investment operations. In the aggregate, AIGs insurance operations generated approximately $53.3 billion in pretax cash flow during 2003. Cash flow includes periodic premium collections, including policyholders contract deposits, cash flows from investment operations and paid loss recoveries less reinsurance premiums, losses, benefits, and acquisition and operating expenses. Generally, there is a time lag from when premiums are collected and, when as a result of the occurrence of events specified in the policy, the losses and benefits are paid. AIGs insurance investment operations generated approximately $17.1 billion in investment income cash flow during 2003. Investment income cash flow is primarily derived from interest and dividends received and includes realized capital gains net of realized capital losses. (See also the discussions under Operating Review: General Insurance Operations and Life Insurance Operations herein.) With respect to General Insurance operations, if paid losses accelerated beyond AIGs ability to fund such paid losses from current operating cash flows, AIG would need to liquidate a portion of its General Insurance investment portfolio and or arrange for financing. Potential events causing such a liquidity strain could be the result of several significant catastrophic events occurring in a relatively short period of time. Additional strain on liquidity could occur if the investments sold to fund such paid losses were sold into a depressed market place and or reinsurance recoverable on such paid losses became uncollectible or collateral supporting such reinsurance recoverable significantly decreased in value. (See also the discussions under Operating Review: General Insurance Operations herein.) With respect to Life Insurance operations, if a substantial portion of the Life Insurance operations bond portfolio diminished significantly in value and or defaulted, AIG would need to liquidate other portions of its Life Insurance investment portfolio and or arrange financing. Potential events causing such a liquidity strain could be the result of economic FORM 10 K : 45 American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries collapse of a nation or region in which AIG Life Insurance operations exist, nationalization, terrorist acts or other such economic or political upheaval. (See also the discussions under Operating Review: Life Insurance Operations herein.) In addition to the combined insurance pretax operating cash flow, AIGs insurance operations held $8.41 billion in cash and short term investments at December 31, 2003. Operating cash flow and the cash and short term balances held provided AIGs insurance operations with a significant amount of liquidity. This liquidity is available, among other things, to purchase predominately high quality and diversified fixed income securities and, to a lesser extent, marketable equity securities, and to provide mortgage loans on real estate, policy loans and collateral loans. This cash flow coupled with proceeds of approximately $122 billion from the maturities, sales and redemptions of fixed income securities and from the sale of equity securities was used to purchase approximately $169 billion of fixed income securities and marketable equity securities during 2003. Managing Market Risk Insurance AIGs insurance operations are exposed to market risk. Market risk is the risk of loss of fair value resulting from adverse fluctuations in interest and foreign currency exchange rates and equity prices. Measuring potential losses in fair values is performed through the application of various statistical techniques. One such technique is Value at Risk (VaR). VaR is a summary statistical measure that uses historical interest and foreign currency exchange rates and equity prices and estimates the volatility and correlation of each of these rates and prices to calculate the maximum loss that could occur over a defined period of time given a certain probability. AIG believes that statistical models alone do not provide a reliable method of monitoring and controlling market risk. While VaR models are relatively sophisticated, the quantitative market risk information generated is limited by the assumptions and parameters established in creating the related models. Therefore, such models are tools and do not substitute for the experience or judgment of senior management. AIG has performed a VaR analysis to estimate the maximum potential loss of fair value for each of AIGs insurance segments and for each market risk within each insurance segment. In this analysis, financial instrument assets include the domestic and foreign invested assets excluding real estate and investment income due and accrued. Financial instrument liabilities include reserve for losses and loss expenses, reserve for unearned premiums, future policy benefits for life and accident and health insurance contracts and policyholders funds. Due to the nature of each insurance segment, AIG manages the General and Life Insurance operations separately. As a result, AIG manages separately the invested assets of each. Accordingly, the VaR analysis was separately performed for the General and the Life Insurance operations. AIG calculated the VaR with respect to the net fair value of each of AIGs insurance segments as of December 31, 2003 and December 31, 2002. AIG uses the historical simulation methodology which entails repricing all assets and liabilities under explicit changes in market rates within a specific historical time period. In this case, the most recent three years of historical market information for interest rates, foreign exchange rates, and equity index prices were used to construct the historical scenarios. For each scenario, each transaction was repriced. Portfolio, business unit and finally AIG wide scenario values were then calculated by netting the values of all the underlying assets and liabilities. The final VaR number represents the maximum potential loss incurred by these scenarios with 95 percent confidence (i.e., only 5 percent of historical scenarios show losses greater than the VaR figure). A one month holding period was assumed in computing the VaR figure. The significant increases in VaR in 2003 resulted primarily from the higher volatility with respect to interest rates during 2003 and the increase in the size of the invested assets portfolios. The following table presents the VaR on a combined basis and of each component of market risk for each of AIGs insurance segments as of December 31, 2003 and December 31, 2002. VaR with respect to combined operations cannot be derived by aggregating the individual risk or segment amounts presented herein. General Insurance Life Insurance (in millions) 2003 2002 2003 2002 Market risk: Combined $ 1,100 $ 809 $ 3,075 $ 1,798 Interest rate 1,173 413 2,967 1,507 Currency 125 66 257 166 Equity 797 798 758 975 FORM 10 K : 46 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) The following table presents the average, high and low VaRs on a combined basis and of each component of market risk for each of AIGs insurance segments as of December 31, 2003 and December 31, 2002. 2003 2002 (in millions) Average High Low Average High Low General Insurance: Market risk: Combined $ 888 $ 1,120 $ 658 $ 778 $ 863 $ 643 Interest rate 732 1,173 411 410 425 399 Currency 94 147 64 49 66 34 Equity 781 935 631 740 822 599 Life Insurance: Market risk: Combined $ 2,262 $ 3,419 $ 1,299 $ 1,876 $ 1,979 $ 1,798 Interest rate 2,207 3,347 1,376 1,695 1,874 1,507 Currency 204 257 166 130 166 108 Equity 762 975 627 770 975 627 Financial Services Market risk arises principally from the uncertainty that future earnings are exposed to potential changes in volatility, interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, and equity and commodity prices. AIG generally controls its exposure to market risk by taking offsetting positions. AIGs philosophy with respect to its Capital Markets operations is to minimize or set limits for open or uncovered positions that are to be carried. Credit risk exposure is separately managed. (See the discussion on the management of credit risk below.) AIGs Market Risk Management Department provides detailed independent review of AIGs market exposures, particularly those market exposures of the Capital Markets operations. This department determines whether AIGs market risks, as well as those market risks of individual subsidiaries, are within the parameters established by AIGs senior management. Well established market risk management techniques such as sensitivity analysis are used. Additionally, this department verifies that specific market risks of each of certain subsidiaries are managed and hedged by that subsidiary. ILFC is exposed to market risk and the risk of loss of fair value and possible liquidity strain resulting from adverse fluctuations in interest rates. As of December 31, 2003 and December 31, 2002, AIG statistically measured the loss of fair value through the application of a VaR model. In this analysis, the net fair value of Aircraft Finance operations was determined using the financial instrument assets which included the tax adjusted future flight equipment lease revenue and the financial instrument liabilities which included the future servicing of the current debt. The estimated impact of the current derivative positions was also taken into account. AIG calculated the VaR with respect to the net fair value of Aircraft Finance operations using the historical simulation methodology, as previously described. As of December 31, 2003 and December 31, 2002, the average VaR with respect to the net fair value of Aircraft Finance operations was approximately $38 million and $20 million, respectively. Capital Markets operations are exposed to market risk due to changes in the level and volatility of interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, equity prices and commodity prices. AIGFP and AIGTG hedge their exposure to these risks primarily through swaps, options, forwards and futures. To hedge interest rate risks, these subsidiaries may also purchase U.S. and foreign government obligations. AIGFP and AIGTG do not seek to manage the market risk of each transaction through an individual offsetting transaction. Rather, these subsidiaries take a portfolio approach to the management of their market risk exposures. AIGFP and AIGTG value their entire portfolios of market sensitive transactions at market value or at estimated fair value when market values are not readily available. Unrealized gains and losses, with respect to this portfolio are reflected in income currently. These valuations represent an assessment of the present values of expected future cash flows of Capital Markets transactions and may include reserves for such risks as are deemed appropriate by AIGFP and AIGs management. Estimated fair values are based upon the use of valuation models. These models utilize, among other things, market liquidity and current interest, foreign exchange, equity, commodity and volatility rates. These valuation models are integrated into the evaluation of the portfolio, as described above, in order to provide timely information for the market FORM 10 K : 47 American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries risk management of the portfolio. Based upon this evaluation, AIGFP and AIGTG determines what, if any, offsetting transactions are necessary to reduce the market risk exposure of the portfolio. AIGFP and AIGTG manage market risk with a variety of transactions, including swaps, trading securities, futures and forward contracts and other transactions as appropriate. The recorded values of these transactions may be different than the values that might be realized if these subsidiaries were required to sell or close out the transactions prior to maturity. AIG believes that such differences are not significant to the results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. Such differences would be immediately recognized when the transactions are sold or closed out prior to maturity. AIGFP and AIGTG attempt to secure reliable and independent current market prices, such as published exchange prices, external subscription services such as from Bloomberg or Reuters or third party broker quotes for use in this model. When such prices are not available, these subsidiaries use an internal methodology which includes interpolation or extrapolation from observable and verifiable prices nearest to the dates of the transactions. Historically, actual results have not materially deviated from these models. Systems used by Capital Markets operations can monitor each units respective market positions on an intraday basis. The subsidiaries operate in major business centers overseas and are essentially open for business 24 hours a day. Thus, the market exposure and offset strategies are monitored, reviewed and coordinated around the clock. AIGFP and AIGTG apply various testing techniques which reflect significant potential market movements in interest rates, foreign exchange rates, commodity and equity prices, volatility levels and the effect of time. These techniques vary by currency and are regularly changed to reflect factors affecting the derivatives portfolio. The results from these analyses are regularly reviewed by senior management. As described above, Capital Markets operations are exposed to the risk of loss of fair value from adverse fluctuations in interest rate and foreign currency exchange rates and equity and commodity prices. AIG statistically measured the losses of fair value through the application of a VaR model across both units. Capital Markets asset and liability portfolios for which the VaR analyses were performed included over the counter and exchange traded investments, derivative instruments and commodities. Because the market risk with respect to securities available for sale, at market is substantially hedged, segregation of market sensitive instruments into trading and other than trading was not deemed necessary. AIG calculated the VaR with respect to Capital Markets operations as of December 31, 2003 and December 31, 2002. AIG uses the historical simulation methodology which entails repricing all assets and liabilities under explicit changes in market rates within a specific historical time period. In this case, the most recent three years of historical market information for interest rates, foreign exchange rates, and equity index prices were used to construct the historical scenarios. For each scenario, each transaction was repriced. Portfolio, business unit and finally AIG wide scenario values were then calculated by netting the values of all the underlying assets and liabilities. The final VaR number represents the maximum potential loss incurred by these scenarios with 95 percent confidence (i.e., only 5 percent of historical scenarios show losses greater than the VaR figure). A one month holding period was assumed in computing the VaR figure. The following table presents the VaR on a combined basis and of each component of Capital Markets risk as of December 31, 2003 and 2002. VaR with respect to combined operations cannot be derived by aggregating the individual risk presented herein. (in millions) 2003 2002 Market risk: Combined $ 5 $ 5 Interest rate 5 5 Currency 1 Equity 1 1 The following table presents the average, high and low VaRs on a combined basis and of each component of Capital Markets risk as of December 31, 2003 and 2002. 2003 2002 (in millions) Average High Low Average High Low Combined $ 5 $ 8 $ 4 $8 $ 12 $ 5 Interest rate 5 9 3 8 12 5 Currency 1 1 1 4 Equity 1 1 1 1 2 1 Derivatives Derivatives are financial arrangements among two or more parties. The returns of the derivatives are linked to or derived from some underlying equity, debt, commodity or other asset, liability, or index. Derivatives payments may be based on interest rates and exchange rates and or prices of certain securities, certain commodities, or financial or commodity indices. The more significant types of derivative arrangements in which AIG transacts are swaps, forwards, futures and options. In the normal course of business, with the agreement of the original counterparty, these contracts may be terminated early or assigned to another counter party. FORM 10 K : 48 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) The overwhelming majority of AIGs derivatives activities are conducted by the Capital Markets operations, thus permitting AIG to participate in the derivatives dealer market acting primarily as principal. In these derivative operations, AIG structures agreements which generally allow its counterparties to enter into transactions with respect to changes in interest and exchange rates, securities prices and certain commodities and financial or commodity indices. AIGs customers such as corporations, financial institutions, multinational organizations, sovereign entities, government agencies and municipalities use derivatives to hedge their own market exposures. For example, a futures, forward or option contract can be used to protect the customers assets or liabilities against price fluctuations. A counterparty may default on any obligation to AIG, including a derivative contract. Credit risk is a consequence of extending credit and or carrying trading and investment positions. Credit risk exists for a derivative contract when that contract has a positive fair value to AIG. To help manage this risk, the credit departments of AIGFP and AIGTG operate within the guidelines set by the AIG Credit Risk Committee. This committee establishes the credit policy, sets limits for counterparties and provides limits for derivative transactions with counterparties having different credit ratings. In addition to credit ratings, this committee takes into account other factors, including the industry and country of the counterparty. Transactions which fall outside these pre established guidelines require the approval of the AIG Credit Risk Committee. It is also AIGs policy to establish reserves for potential credit impairment when necessary. AIGs Derivatives Review Committee provides an independent review of any proposed derivative transaction. The committee examines, among other things, the nature and purpose of the derivative transaction, its potential credit exposure, if any, and the estimated benefits. This committee does not review those derivative transactions entered into by Capital Markets for their own accounts. Generally, AIG conducts its businesses in the currencies of the local operating environment. Thus, exchange gains or losses occur when AIGs foreign currency net investment is affected by changes in the foreign exchange rates relative to the U.S. dollar from one reporting period to the next. Legal risk arises from the uncertainty of the enforceability, through legal or judicial processes, of the obligations of AIGs clients and counterparties, including contractual provisions intended to reduce credit exposure by providing for the netting of mutual obligations. See also Note 21 of Notes to Financial Statements for detailed information relating to Capital Markets derivative activities. Accounting Standards In November 2002, FASB issued Interpretation No. 45, Guarantors Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others (FIN 45). FIN 45 requires that, for guarantees within its scope that are issued or amended after December 31, 2002, a liability for the fair value of the obligation undertaken in issuing the guarantee be established, and recognized through earnings. To date, the impact on earnings for AIG has not been and is not expected to be material. AIG guarantees the indebtedness of third parties principally in connection with AIG SunAmericas investments in affordable housing properties. The guarantees are issued primarily to facilitate financing for the construction of the underlying properties, and have durations of up to ten years. Since the inception of this investment program over ten years ago, payments under these guarantees have been insignificant because the loans are first backed by the creditworthiness of the third party general partner, and secondly, are secured by the underlying properties. The maximum exposure before consideration of the applicable security under these guarantees as of December 31, 2003 is approximately $2.4 billion. In addition, AIGs real estate investment operations will occasionally extend guarantees to real estate partnerships in which they are an investor. The guarantees facilitate financing for the construction and or purchase of land. There have been no payments to date under these guarantees as the loans are first backed by the creditworthiness of the third party general partner, and secondly, are secured by the underlying properties. The maximum exposure before consideration of the applicable security under these guarantees as of December 31, 2003 is approximately $112 million. Through ILFC, AIG has also provided other types of guarantees. From time to time, ILFC participates with airlines, banks and other financial institutions to assist in financing aircraft by providing asset guarantees, put options or loan guarantees. Historically, losses arising from these guarantees have not been material, as ILFC has recourse to the value of the underlying aircraft, which offsets ILFCs exposure, should ILFC be called upon to fulfill its obligations under these guarantees. The maximum exposure related to these guarantees as of December 31, 2003, before consideration of the applicable security, is approximately $897 million. FORM 10 K : 49 American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries In January 2003, FASB issued Interpretation No. 46, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities (FIN 46). FIN 46 changes the method of determining whether certain entities should be consolidated in AIGs consolidated financial statements. An entity is subject to FIN 46 and is called a Variable Interest Entity (VIE) if it has (i) equity that is insufficient to permit the entity to finance its activities without additional subordinated financial support from other parties, or (ii) equity investors that cannot make significant decisions about the entitys operations, or that do not absorb the expected losses or receive the expected returns of the entity. A VIE is consolidated by its primary beneficiary, which is the party that has a majority of the expected losses or a majority of the expected residual returns of the VIE, or both. All other entities not considered VIEs are evaluated for consolidation under existing guidance. In December 2003, FASB issued a revision to Interpretation No. 46 (FIN 46R). The provisions of FIN46R are to be applied immediately to VIEs created after January 31, 2003, and to VIEs in which AIG obtains an interest after that date. For VIEs in which AIG holds a variable interest that it acquired before February 1, 2003, FIN46R was applied as of December 31, 2003. For any VIEs that must be consolidated under FIN 46R that were created before February 1, 2003, the assets, liabilities and noncontrolling interest of the VIEs would be initially measured at their carrying amounts with any difference between the net amount added to the balance sheet and any previously recognized interest being recognized as the cumulative effect of an accounting change. In accordance with the transition provisions of FIN 46R, AIG recorded in its consolidated income statement for the fourth quarter of 2003 a cumulative effect of an accounting change adjustment gain of $9 million ($14 million before tax). In addition, AIG recorded in its consolidated balance sheet approximately $4.7 billion of assets and liabilities. (See also Note 20 of Notes to Financial Statements.) In May 2003, FASB issued Financial Accounting Standard No. 150, Accounting for Certain Financial Instruments with Characteristics of both Liabilities and Equity (FAS 150). FAS 150 requires certain financial instruments previously classified as either entirely equity or between the liabilities section and the equity section of the balance sheet be classified as liabilities. FAS 150 requires issuers to classify as liabilities the following three types of freestanding financial instruments: mandatory redeemable financial instruments; obligations to repurchase the issuers equity shares by transferring assets; and certain obligations to issue a variable number of shares. FAS 150 was effective for the quarter ending September 30, 2003. As of December 31, 2003, $1.68 billion of preferred instruments previously classified on AIGs consolidated balance sheet as Preferred shareholders equity in subsidiary companies is now classified in the liability caption entitled Preferred shareholders equity in subsidiary companies subject to mandatory redemption. Restatement of financial statements for prior periods is not permitted. In July 2003, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants issued Statement of Position 03 1, Accounting and Reporting by Insurance Enterprises for Certain Nontraditional Long Duration Contracts and for Separate Accounts (SOP 03 1). This statement is effective as of January 1, 2004, and will require AIG to recognize a liability for guaranteed minimum death benefits and other living benefits related to its variable annuity and variable life contracts and to modify certain disclosures and financial statement presentations for these products. In the first quarter of 2004, AIG will report a one time cumulative accounting charge upon adoption of $181 million ($278 million pretax to reflect the liability as of January 1, 2004). With respect to the balance sheet presentation, the non U.S. portion of AIGs separate and variable account assets and liabilities will be reclassified to several invested asset captions and the policyholders contract deposits liability caption, respectively. FORM 10 K : 50 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Included in Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 
 
