Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Throughout this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, AIG presents its operations in the way it believes will be most meaningful. Statutory underwriting profit (loss) and combined ratios are presented in accordance with accounting principles prescribed by insurance regulatory authorities because these are standard measures of performance used in the insurance industry and thus allow more meaningful comparisons with AIGs insurance competitors. AIG has also incorporated into this discussion a number of cross references to additional information included throughout this Annual Report on Form 10 K to assist readers seeking additional information related to a particular subject. Index Page Cautionary Statement Regarding Projections and Other Information About Future Events 29 Overview of Operations and Business Results 30 Outlook 30 Consolidated Results 34 Segment Results 36 Capital Resources 37 Liquidity 38 Critical Accounting Estimates 38 Operating Review 40 General Insurance Operations 40 General Insurance Results 41 Reserve for Losses and Loss Expenses 47 Life Insurance & Retirement Services Operations 62 Life Insurance & Retirement Services Results 63 Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs and Sales Inducement Assets 78 Financial Services Operations 81 Asset Management Operations 86 Other Operations 88 Capital Resources and Liquidity 88 Borrowings 89 Shareholders Equity 97 Liquidity 99 Invested Assets 101 Investment Strategy 102 Valuation of Invested Assets 108 Portfolio Review 109 Other than temporary impairments 109 Unrealized gains and losses 111 Risk Management 112 Overview 112 Corporate Risk Management 112 Credit Risk Management 113 Market Risk Management 115 Operational Risk Management 116 Insurance Risk Management 116 Segment Risk Management 118 Insurance Operations 118 Financial Services 121 Asset Management 126 Economic Capital 126 Recent Accounting Standards 127 Cautionary Statement Regarding Projections and Other Information About Future Events This Annual Report on Form 10 K and other publicly available documents may include, and AIGs officers and representatives may from time to time make, projections concerning financial information and statements concerning future economic performance and events, plans and objectives relating to management, operations, products and services, and assumptions underlying these projections and statements. These projections and statements are not historical facts but instead represent only AIGs belief regarding future events, many of which, by their nature, are inherently uncertain and outside AIGs control. These projections and statements may address, among other things, the status and potential future outcome of the current regulatory and civil proceedings against AIG and their potential effect on AIGs businesses, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity, AIGs exposures to subprime mortgages, monoline insurers and the residential real estate market and AIGs strategy for growth, product development, market position, financial results and reserves. It is possible that AIGs actual results and financial condition may differ, possibly materially, from the anticipated results and financial condition indicated in these projections and statements. Factors that could cause AIGs actual results to differ, possibly materially, from those in the specific projections and statements are discussed throughout this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and in Item 1A. Risk Factors of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. AIG is not under any obligation (and expressly disclaims any such obligations) to update or alter any projection or other statement, whether written or oral, that may be made from time to time, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. AIG 2007 Form 10 K 29 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continued Overview of Operations and Business Results AIG identifies its reportable segments by product or service line, consistent with its management structure. AIGs major product and service groupings are General Insurance, Life Insurance & Retirement Services, Financial Services and Asset Management. Through these operating segments, AIG provides insurance, financial and investment products and services to both businesses and individuals in more than 130 countries and jurisdictions. This geographic, product and service diversification is one of AIGs major strengths and sets it apart from its competitors. AIGs Other category consists of items not allocated to AIGs operating segments. AIGs subsidiaries serve commercial, institutional and individual customers through an extensive property casualty and life insurance and retirement services network. In the United States, AIG companies are the largest underwriters of commercial and industrial insurance and are among the largest life insurance and retirement services operations as well. AIGs Financial Services businesses include commercial aircraft and equipment leasing, capital markets operations and consumer finance, both in the United States and abroad. AIG also provides asset management services to institutions and individuals. As part of its Spread Based Investment activities, and to finance its operations, AIG issues various debt instruments in the public and private markets. AIGs operating performance reflects implementation of various long term strategies and defined goals in its various operating segments. A primary goal of AIG in managing its General Insurance operations is to achieve an underwriting profit. To achieve this goal, AIG must be disciplined in its risk selection, and premiums must be adequate and terms and conditions appropriate to cover the risks accepted and expenses incurred. AIG has commenced a realignment to simplify its Foreign General Insurance operations, many of which were historically conducted through branches of U.S. companies. On October 8, 2007, AIU Insurance Company announced the conversion of its existing China branches into AIG General Insurance Company China Limited, the first non Chinese owned general insurance company established in China. This subsidiary assumed the existing business portfolio, assets and liabilities of the China branches. On October 15, 2007, AIG General Insurance (Taiwan) Co., Ltd. (AIGGI Taiwan) announced the completion of its merger with AIU Insurance Company Taiwan Branch. On December 1, 2007, Landmark Insurance Company Limited, a U.K. subsidiary, assumed all of the insurance liabilities of the U.K. branch of New Hampshire Insurance Company and changed its name to AIG U.K. Ltd. On January 1, 2008, AIU Insurance Company ceased participating in the Domestic General Insurance pooling arrangement. These ongoing simplification efforts are expected to result in better utilization of capital and a lower effective tax rate. A central focus of AIG operations in recent years has been the development and expansion of distribution channels. In 2007, AIG continued to expand its distribution channels, which now include banks, credit card companies, television media home shopping, affinity groups, direct response, worksite marketing and e commerce. AIG patiently builds relationships in markets around the world where it sees long term growth opportunities. For example, the fact that AIG has the only wholly owned foreign life insurance operations in China, operating in 19 cities, is the result of relationships developed over nearly 30 years. AIGs more recent extensions of operations into India, Vietnam, Russia and other emerging markets reflect the same growth strategy. Moreover, AIG believes in investing in the economies and infrastructures of these countries and growing with them. When AIG companies enter a new jurisdiction, they typically offer basic protection and savings products. As the economies evolve, AIGs products evolve with them, to more sophisticated and investment oriented models. Growth for AIG may be generated internally as well as through acquisitions which both fulfill strategic goals and offer adequate return on capital. In October 2007, AIG expanded its Foreign General Insurance operations in Germany through the acquisition of Wrttembergische und Badische Versicherungs AG (WBA). In January 2007, American General Finance, Inc. (AGF) expanded its operations into the U.K. through the acquisition of Ocean Finance and Mortgages Limited, a finance broker for home owner loans in the U.K. Outlook General Trends In mid 2007, the U.S. residential mortgage market began to experience serious disruption due to credit quality deterioration in a significant portion of loans originated, particularly to non prime and subprime borrowers; evolving changes in the regulatory environment; a slower residential housing market; increased cost of borrowings for mortgage participants; and illiquid credit markets. AIG participates in the U.S. residential mortgage market in several ways: AGF originates principally first lien mortgage loans and to a lesser extent second lien mortgage loans to buyers and owners of residential housing; United Guaranty Corporation (UGC) provides first loss mortgage guaranty insurance for high loan to value first and second lien residential mortgages; AIG insurance and financial services subsidiaries invest in mortgage backed securities and CDOs, in which the underlying collateral is composed in whole or in part of residential mortgage loans; and AIGFP provides credit protection through credit default swaps on certain super senior tranches of collateralized debt obligations (CDOs), a significant majority of which have AAA underlying or subordinate layers. Disruption in the U.S. residential mortgage market may also increase claim activity in the financial institution segment of AIGs D&O and professional liability classes of business. However, based on its review of information currently available, AIG believes overall loss activity for the broader D&O and professional liability classes is likely to remain within or near the levels observed during the last several years, which include losses related to stock options backdating as well as to the U.S. residential mortgage market. The operating results of AIGs consumer finance and mortgage guaranty operations in the United States have been and are likely 30 AIG 2007 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries to continue to be adversely affected by the factors referred to above. The downward cycle in the U.S. housing market is not expected to improve until residential inventories return to a more normal level and the mortgage credit market stabilizes. AIG expects that this downward cycle will continue to adversely affect UGCs operating results for the foreseeable future and will result in a significant operating loss for UGC in 2008. AIG also incurred substantial unrealized market valuation losses in 2007, particularly in the fourth quarter, on AIGFPs super senior credit default swap portfolio and substantial other than temporary impairment charges on AIGs Insurance and Financial Services available for sale securities. The results from AIGs operations with exposure to the U.S. residential mortgage market will be highly dependent on future market conditions. Continuing market deterioration will cause AIG to report additional unrealized market valuation losses and impairment charges. The ongoing effect of the downward cycle in the U.S. housing market on AIGs other operations, investment portfolio and overall consolidated financial condition could be material if the market disruption continues and expands beyond the residential mortgage markets, although AIG seeks to mitigate the risks to its business by disciplined underwriting and active risk management. Globally, heightened regulatory scrutiny of financial services companies in many jurisdictions has the potential to affect future financial results through higher compliance costs. This is particularly true in the United States, where Federal and state authorities have commenced various investigations of the financial services industry, and in Japan and Southeast Asia, where financial institutions have received remediation orders affecting consumer and policyholder rights. In certain quarters, AIGs returns from partnerships and other alternative investments were particularly strong, driven by favorable equity market performance and credit conditions. These returns may vary from period to period and AIG believes that the particularly strong performance in certain prior periods is not indicative of the returns to be expected from this asset class in future periods. AIG has recorded out of period adjustments in the last two years due to the remediation of control deficiencies. As AIG continues its remediation activities, AIG expects to continue to incur expenses related to these activities and to record additional out of period adjustments, although all known errors have been corrected. General Insurance The commercial property and casualty insurance industry has historically experienced cycles of price erosion followed by rate strengthening as a result of catastrophes or other significant losses that affect the overall capacity of the industry to provide coverage. As premium rates decline, AIG will generally experience higher current accident year loss ratios, as the written premiums are earned. Despite industry price erosion in commercial lines, AIG expects to continue to identify profitable opportunities and build attractive new general insurance businesses as a result of AIGs broad product line and extensive distribution networks in the United States and abroad. Workers compensation remains under considerable pricing pressure, as statutory rates continue to decline. Rates for aviation, excess casualty, D&O and certain other lines of insurance also continue to decline due to competitive pressures. Rates for commercial property lines are also declining following another year of relatively low catastrophe losses. Further price erosion is expected in 2008 for the commercial lines; AIG seeks to mitigate the decline by constantly seeking out profitable opportunities across its diverse product lines and distribution networks while maintaining a commitment to underwriting discipline. There can be no assurance that price erosion will not become more widespread or that AIGs profitability will not deteriorate from current levels in major commercial lines. In Foreign General Insurance, opportunities for growth exist in the consumer lines due to increased demand in emerging markets and the trend toward privatization of health insurance. In commercial lines, the late 2007 acquisition of WBa enhances AIGs insurance offerings to small and medium sized companies in Europe. Through operations in Bahrain designed to comply with Islamic law, AIG is tapping into a growing market. Islamic insurance, called Takaful, is an alternative to conventional insurance based on the concept of mutual assistance through pooling of resources. The Personal Lines automobile marketplace remains challenging with rates declining steadily, increased spending on commissions and advertising and favorable liability frequency trends slowing, while severity in both liability and physical damage are expected to increase. In addition to the deteriorating underwriting cycle, a generally weakening economy leads to slower growth in automobile insurance exposure units and values. The Personal Lines business is focused on consolidation and improving operational efficiencies to reduce costs, as well as enhancing rating algorithms and creating a new aigdirect.com brand, as a result of the 2007 combination of AIG Direct and 21st Century Insurance Group (21st Century) operations, to support growth. The high net worth market continues to provide opportunities for growth as a result of AIGs innovative products and services specifically designed for that market. Losses caused by catastrophes can fluctuate widely from year to year, making comparisons of results more difficult. With respect to catastrophe losses, AIG believes that it has taken appropriate steps, such as careful exposure selection and adequate reinsurance coverage, to reduce the effect of possible future losses. The occurrence of one or more catastrophic events of higher than anticipated frequency or severity, such as a terrorist attack, earthquake or hurricane, that causes insured losses, however, could have a material adverse effect on AIGs results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. Life Insurance & Retirement Services Disruption in the U.S. residential mortgage and credit markets had a significant adverse effect on Life Insurance & Retirement Services operating results in 2007 and will continue to be a key factor in 2008 and beyond, especially in the U.S. based operations. The volatility in operating results will be further magnified by the continuing market shift to variable products with living benefits AIG 2007 Form 10 K 31 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continued and the adoption of FAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements (FAS 157). Life Insurance & Retirement Services elected the fair value option under FAS No. 159, The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities (FAS 159), for two products beginning January 1, 2008 a closed block of single premium variable life business in Japan and an investment linked life insurance product sold principally in Asia. After adoption on January 1, 2008, subsequent changes in fair value for these products will be reported in operating income. The adoption of FAS 159 for these products is expected to result in a decrease to opening 2008 retained earnings of approximately $600 million. For a description of these accounting standards, see Note 1 to Consolidated Financial Statements. Life Insurance & Retirement Services uses various derivative instruments to hedge cash flows related to certain foreign currencies and fixed income related instruments. Although these derivatives are purchased to mitigate the economic effect of movements in foreign exchange rates and interest rates, reported earnings may be volatile due to certain hedges not qualifying for hedge accounting under FAS 133. The change in fair value of derivative instruments is reported in net realized capital gains (losses). Life Insurance & Retirement Services engages in hedging programs that use derivatives and other instruments to hedge the guaranteed living benefits associated with variable products. Nevertheless, short term market movements will vary from long term expectations underlying the product pricing assumptions and may cause volatility in reported earnings. The inclusion of risk margins in the valuation of embedded derivatives under FAS 157 will increase earnings volatility as differences emerge between the change in fair value of embedded derivatives and the change in fair value of hedging instruments. As variable products with guaranteed living benefits continue to grow, the reported earnings volatility associated with these programs will likely increase. Life Insurance & Retirement Services may continue to experience volatility in net realized capital gains (losses) due to other than temporary impairment writedowns of the fair value of investments, primarily related to the significant disruption in the residential mortgage and credit markets and foreign currency related losses. In Japan, given AIGs multi channel, multi product strategy, AIG expects its Life Insurance & Retirement Services operations to exceed industry growth in the long term, although downward pressure on earnings growth rates is anticipated due to the difficult market conditions. Market conditions remain challenging as a result of increased competition due to new market entrants, the increasing financial strength of the domestic companies as the economy has recovered, the effect of additional regulatory oversight, changes to the tax deductibility of insurance premiums and the regulatory claims review which has negatively affected consumer perceptions of the industry. While the market shift to variable products with living benefits will constrain fixed annuity sales, AIG is positioned to grow annuity sales overall with its annuity products designed to meet the needs of consumers in a range of market conditions. In addition, AIG expects that the planned integration of AIG Star Life and AIG Edison Life, which is anticipated to be completed in 2009, will provide enhanced distribution opportunities and operational efficiencies pending regulatory approval. Full deregulation of banks in Japan with respect to insurance product sales became effective in December 2007, and AIG expects that it will be able to leverage its existing bank relationships and innovative product expertise to expand sales of both life and accident and health products in 2008. Deregulation of Japan Post is also expected to provide additional growth opportunities during 2008 and beyond. Although the Japanese Yen strengthened in the fourth quarter of 2007, historical volatility of Japanese Yen dollar exchange rates has resulted in higher than normal surrenders, and if that trend returns, an acceleration of the amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs could occur. Outside of Japan, ALICO continues to execute its strategy of diversifying distribution channels and developing new products. In particular, ALICOs Central and Eastern European operations performed well and demographic and economic conditions in these countries provide excellent opportunities for continued growth. AIGs operations in China continue to expand, but AIG expects competition in China to remain strong. AIGs success in China will depend on its ability to execute its growth strategy. Key growth strategies in 2008 include expansion of sales and service centers, increased bank distribution and entering into strategic alliances with key partners. In Southeast Asia, AIGs operations are focused on growing market share and profits in Singapore, Malaysia, Thailand and Hong Kong with products focused on the life savings oriented consumer along with high net worth consumers through the newly formed Wealth Management Group. Domestically, AIG plans to continue expansion of its Life Insurance & Retirement Services businesses through direct marketing and independent agent distribution channels. The aging population in the United States provides a growth opportunity for a variety of products, including longevity, guaranteed income and supplemental accident and health products. Certain other demographic groups that have traditionally been underserved provide additional growth opportunities. The Domestic Life Insurance operations showed positive momentum in the second half of 2007 resulting from new products and expanded distribution. Domestic group life/health operations continue to face competitors with greater scale in group benefits. The fixed annuities business experienced a difficult year as surrenders increased in 2007 due to both an increasing number of policies coming out of their surrender charge period and increased competition from bank deposit products. While surrenders are expected to continue to be higher than normal, the current interest rate environment should provide opportunities for improvements in net flows during 2008. AIG believes that improvement in net flows in the individual variable annuity market will be driven by variable annuity products with living benefits while the group retirement products will continue to experience a shift from group annuities to lower margin mutual fund products. Since the beginning of 2000, the yield available on Taiwanese 10 year government bonds dropped from approximately 6 percent to less than 3 percent at December 31, 2007. Yields on most 32 AIG 2007 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries other invested assets have correspondingly dropped over the same period. New regulatory capital requirements being developed in Taiwan, combined with growth opportunities in bancassurance and variable annuities with living benefits, may potentially create a need for capital contributions in 2008 and beyond to support local solvency requirements. Financial Services Within Financial Services, demand for International Lease Finance Corporation (ILFCs) modern, fuel efficient aircraft remains strong, and ILFC plans to increase its fleet by purchasing 73 aircraft in 2008. However, ILFCs margins may be adversely affected by increases in interest rates. AIG Financial Products Corp. and AIG Trading Group Inc. and their respective subsidiaries (collectively, AIGFP) expect opportunities for growth across their product segments, but AIGFP is a transaction oriented business, and its operating results will depend to a significant extent on actual transaction flow, which is affected by market conditions and other variables outside its control. AIG continues to explore opportunities to expand its Consumer Finance operations into new domestic and foreign markets. The ongoing disruption in the U.S. residential mortgage and credit markets and the recent downgrades of residential mortgage backed securities and CDO securities by rating agencies continue to adversely affect the fair value of the super senior credit default swap portfolio written by AIGFP. AIG expects that continuing limitations on the availability of market observable data will affect AIGs determinations of the fair value of these derivatives, including by preventing AIG, for the foreseeable future, from recognizing the beneficial effect of the differential between credit spreads used to price a credit default swap and spreads implied from prices of the CDO bonds referenced by such swap. The fair value of these derivatives is expected to continue to fluctuate, perhaps materially, in response to changing market conditions, and AIGs estimates of the value of AIGFPs super senior credit derivative portfolio at future dates could therefore be materially different from current estimates. AIG continues to believe that the unrealized market valuation losses recorded on the AIGFP super senior credit default swap portfolio are not indicative of the losses AIGFP may realize over time. Under the terms of most of these credit derivatives, losses to AIG would generally result from the credit impairment of the referenced CDO bonds that AIG would acquire in satisfying its swap obligations. Based upon its most current analyses, AIG believes that any credit impairment losses realized over time by AIGFP will not be material to AIGs consolidated financial condition, although it is possible that such realized losses could be material to AIGs consolidated results of operations for an individual reporting period. Except to the extent of any such credit impairment losses, AIG expects the unrealized market valuation losses to reverse over the remaining life of the super senior credit default swap portfolio. Approximately $379 billion of the $527 billion in notional exposure on AIGFPs super senior credit default swap portfolio as of December 31, 2007 were written to facilitate regulatory capital relief for financial institutions primarily in Europe. AIG expects that the majority of these transactions will be terminated within the next 12 to 18 months by AIGFPs counterparties as they implement models compliant with the new Basel II Accord. As of February 26, 2008, $54 billion in notional exposures have either been terminated or are in the process of being terminated. AIGFP was not required to make any payments as part of these terminations and in certain cases was paid a fee upon termination. In light of this experience to date and after other comprehensive analyses, AIG did not recognize an unrealized market valuation adjustment for this regulatory capital relief portfolio for the year ended December 31, 2007. AIG will continue to assess the valuation of this portfolio and monitor developments in the marketplace. There can be no assurance that AIG will not recognize unrealized market valuation losses from this portfolio in future periods. These transactions contributed approximately $210 million to AIGFPs revenues in 2007. If AIGFP is not successful in replacing the revenues generated by these transactions, AIGFPs operating results could be materially adversely affected. For additional information on the AIGFP super senior credit default swap portfolio, see Risk Management Segment Risk Management Financial Services Capital Markets Derivative Transactions and Note 8 to Consolidated Financial Statements. In March 2007, the U.S. Treasury Department published proposed regulations that, had they been adopted in 2007, would have had the effect of limiting the ability of AIG to claim foreign tax credits with respect to certain transactions entered into by AIGFP. AIGFP is no longer a participant in those transactions and therefore, the proposed regulations, if adopted in their current form in 2008 or subsequent years, would not be expected to have any material effect on AIGs ability to claim foreign tax credits. Effective January 1, 2008, AIGFP elected to apply the fair value option to all eligible assets and liabilities, other than equity method investments. The adoption of FAS 159 with respect to elections made by AIGFP is currently being evaluated for the effect of recently issued draft guidance by the FASB, anticipated to be issued in final form in early 2008, and its potential effect on AIGs consolidated financial statements. Asset Management In the Spread Based Investment business, the Guaranteed Investment Contract (GIC) portfolio continues to run off and was replaced by the Matched Investment Program (MIP). The results from domestic GICs and the MIP have been adversely affected by the ongoing disruption in the credit markets, the weakening U.S. dollar and declining interest rates. The MIP is exposed to credit and market risk in the form of investments in, among other asset classes, U.S. residential mortgage backed securities, asset backed securities, commercial mortgage backed securities and single name corporate credit default swaps entered into by the MIP. In addition, earnings volatility for the MIP may arise from investments in bank loans that are held for future collateralized loan obligations to be managed by AIG Investments. The value of the investments may fluctuate materially from period to period due to market movements, which may result in realized and unrealized net losses. Although it is difficult to estimate future movements in these markets, effective hedges exist to mitigate the effect of AIG 2007 Form 10 K 33 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continued interest rate and foreign currency exchange rate disruptions. Reported results may be volatile due to certain hedges not qualifying for hedge accounting treatment. In the Institutional Asset Management business, carried interest, computed in accordance with each funds governing agreement, is based on the investments performance over the life of each fund. Unrealized carried interest is recognized based on each funds performance as of the balance sheet date. Future fund performance may negatively affect previously recognized carried interest. For a description of important factors that may affect the operations and initiatives described above, see Item 1A. Risk Factors. Consolidated Results The following table summarizes AIGs consolidated revenues, income before income taxes, minority interest and cumulative effect of accounting changes and net income for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005: Percentage Increase/(Decrease) Years Ended December 31, (in millions) 2007 2006 2005 2007 vs. 2006 2006 vs. 2005 Total revenues $ 110,064 $ 113,387 $ 108,781 (3 )% 4 % Income before income taxes, minority interest and cumulative effect of accounting changes 8,943 21,687 15,213 (59 ) 43 Net income $ 6,200 $ 14,048 $ 10,477 (56 )% 34 % Effect of Credit Market Events in the Fourth Quarter of 2007 AIG reported a net loss of $8.4 billion before tax ($5.2 billion after tax) in the fourth quarter of 2007 as a result of severe credit market disruption. Contributing to this loss was an $11.5 billion pre tax charge for the unrealized market valuation loss on AIGFPs super senior credit default swap portfolio. Net realized capital losses totaled $2.6 billion before tax in the fourth quarter of 2007, arising primarily from other than temporary impairment charges in AIGs investment portfolio, with an additional $643 million impairment charge related to Financial Services securities available for sale reported in other income. Also contributing to the operating loss for the fourth quarter was an operating loss of $348 million before tax from Mortgage Guaranty from continued deterioration in the U.S. residential housing market. 2007 and 2006 Comparison AIGs consolidated revenues decreased in 2007 compared to 2006 as growth in Premiums and other considerations and Net investment income in the General Insurance and Life Insurance & Retirement Services segments were more than offset by higher Net realized capital losses compared to 2006 and an unrealized market valuation loss of $11.5 billion on AIGFPs super senior credit default swap portfolio recorded in other income. Net realized capital losses of $3.6 billion in 2007 included other than temporary impairment charges of the fair value of investments of $4.1 billion, primarily related to the significant disruption in the residential mortgage and credit markets, and foreign currency related losses of $500 million. Similarly, AIG recorded in other income, other than temporary impairment charges of $643 million related to its Financial Services securities available for sale reported in other income. Total other than temporary impairment charges in 2006 were $944 million. See Invested Assets Other than temporary impairments herein. Income before income taxes, minority interest and cumulative effect of accounting changes declined in 2007 due to the losses described above, partially offset by the favorable effects in 2007 of the application of hedge accounting under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities (FAS 133). In 2007, AIGFP applied hedge accounting to certain of its interest rate swaps and foreign currency forward contracts hedging its investments and borrowings. As a result, AIGFP recognized in earnings the change in the fair value of the hedged items attributable to the hedged risks, substantially offsetting the gains and losses on the derivatives designated as hedges. In 2006, AIGFP did not apply hedge accounting to any of its assets and liabilities. 2006 and 2005 Comparison The increase in revenues in 2006 compared to 2005 was primarily attributable to the growth in Premiums and other considerations and Net investment income in the General Insurance and Life Insurance & Retirement Services segments. Revenues in the Financial Services segment declined as a result of the effect of hedging activities for AIGFP that did not qualify for hedge accounting treatment under FAS 133, decreasing revenues by $1.8 billion in 2006 and increasing revenues by $2.0 billion in 2005. Income before income taxes, minority interest and cumulative effect of accounting changes increased in 2006 compared to 2005, reflecting higher General Insurance and Life Insurance & Retirement Services operating income. These increases were partially offset by lower Financial Services operating income reflecting the effects of hedging activities that did not qualify for hedge accounting treatment under FAS 133. Results in 2005 reflected the negative effect of $3.3 billion (pre tax) in catastrophe related losses incurred that year. Net income in 2005 also reflected the charges related to regulatory settlements, as described in Item 3. Legal Proceedings, and the fourth quarter 34 AIG 2007 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries charge resulting from the annual review of General Insurance loss and loss adjustment reserves. Remediation Throughout 2007 and 2006, as part of its continuing remediation efforts, AIG recorded out of period adjustments which are detailed below. In addition, certain revisions were made to the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. 2007 Adjustments During 2007, out of period adjustments collectively decreased pre tax operating income by $372 million ($399 million after tax). The adjustments were comprised of a charge of $380 million ($247 million after tax) to reverse net gains on transfers of investment securities among legal entities consolidated within AIGFP and a corresponding increase to accumulated other comprehensive income (loss); $156 million of additional income tax expense related to the successful remediation of the material weakness in internal control over income tax accounting; $142 million ($92 million after tax) of additional expense related to insurance reserves and DAC in connection with improvements in internal control over financial reporting and consolidation processes; $42 million ($29 million after tax) of additional expense, primarily related to other remediation activities; and $192 million ($125 million after tax) of net realized capital gains related to foreign exchange. 2006 Adjustments During 2006, out of period adjustments collectively increased pre tax operating income by $313 million ($65 million after tax). The adjustments were comprised of $773 million ($428 million after tax) of additional investment income related to the accounting for certain interests in unit investment trusts (UCITS); $300 million ($145 million after tax) of charges primarily related to the remediation of the material weakness in internal control over the accounting for certain derivative transactions under FAS 133; $58 million of additional income tax expense related to the remediation of the material weakness in internal control over income tax accounting; $85 million ($55 million after tax) of interest income related to interest earned on deposit contracts; $61 million (before and after tax) of expenses related to the Starr International Company, Inc. (SICO) Deferred Compensation Profit Participation Plans (SICO Plans); $59 million ($38 million after tax) of expenses related to deferred advertising costs; and $125 million ($116 million after tax) of additional expense, primarily related to other remediation activities. Results in 2006 were also negatively affected by a one time charge relating to the C.V. Starr & Co., Inc. (Starr) tender offer ($54 million before and after tax) and an additional allowance for losses in AIG Credit Card Company (Taiwan) ($88 million before and after tax), both of which were recorded in first quarter of 2006. Cash Flows As part of its ongoing remediation activities, AIG has made certain revisions to the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, primarily relating to the effect of reclassifying certain policyholders account balances, the elimination of certain intercompany balances and revisions related to separate account assets. Accordingly, AIG revised the previous periods presented to conform to the revised presentation. See Note 24 to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Income Taxes The effective tax rate declined from 30.1 percent in 2006 to 16.3 percent in 2007, primarily due to the unrealized market valuation losses on AIGFPs super senior credit default swap portfolio and other than temporary impairment charges. These losses, which are taxed at a U.S. tax rate of 35 percent and are included in the calculation of income tax expense, reduced AIGs overall effective tax rate. In addition, other tax benefits, including tax exempt interest and effects of foreign operations are proportionately larger in 2007 than in 2006 due to the decline in pre tax income in 2007. Furthermore, tax deductions taken in 2007 for SICO compensation plans for which the expense had been recognized in prior years also reduced the effective tax rate in 2007. AIG has now completed its claims for tax refunds attributable to adjustments made for 2004 and prior financial statements. Refund claims for tax years 1991 1996 were filed with the Internal Revenue Service in June 2007. Claims for tax years 1997 2004 will be filed before September 2008. AIG expects to receive cash tax benefits in 2008 as a result of the unrealized market valuation losses on AIGFPs super senior credit default swap portfolio, whether AIG is in a regular or alternative minimum tax position. AIG 2007 Form 10 K 35 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continued The following table summarizes the net effect of catastrophe related losses for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2005. There were no significant catastrophe related losses for the year ended December 31, 2006. (in millions) 2007 2005 Pretax $ 276 $ 3,280 * Net of tax and minority interest $ 177 2,109 * Includes $312 million in catastrophe related losses from partially owned companies. Segment Results The following table summarizes AIGs operations by reporting segment for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005. See also Note 2 to Consolidated Financial Statements. Percentage Increase/(Decrease) (in millions) 2007 2006(a) 2005(a) 2007 vs. 2006 2006 vs. 2005 Revenues(b): General Insurance(c) $ 51,708 $ 49,206 $ 45,174 5 % 9 % Life Insurance & Retirement Services(c)(d) 53,570 50,878 48,020 5 6 Financial Services(e)(f) (1,309 ) 7,777 10,677 (27 ) Asset Management 5,625 4,543 4,582 24 (1 ) Other 457 483 344 (5 ) 40 Consolidation and eliminations 13 500 (16 ) (97 ) Total $ 110,064 $ 113,387 $ 108,781 (3 )% 4 % Operating Income (loss)(b)(g): General Insurance(c) $ 10,526 $ 10,412 $ 2,315 1 % 350 % Life Insurance & Retirement Services(c)(d) 8,186 10,121 8,965 (19 ) 13 Financial Services(e)(f) (9,515 ) 383 4,424 (91 ) Asset Management 1,164 1,538 1,963 (24 ) (22 ) Other(h) (2,140 ) (1,435 ) (2,765 ) Consolidation and eliminations 722 668 311 8 115 Total $ 8,943 $ 21,687 $ 15,213 (59 )% 43 % (a) Certain reclassifications have been made to prior period amounts to conform to the current period presentation. (b) In 2007, 2006 and 2005, includes other than temporary impairment charges of $4.7 billion, $944 million and $598 million, respectively. Also includes gains (losses) from hedging activities that did not qualify for hedge accounting treatment under FAS 133, including the related foreign exchange gains and losses. In 2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively, the effect was $(1.44) billion, $(1.87) billion and $2.02 billion in both revenues and operating income. These amounts result primarily from interest rate and foreign currency derivatives that are effective economic hedges of investments and borrowings. These gains (losses) in 2007 include a $380 million out of period charge to reverse net gains recognized on transfers of available for sale securities among legal entities consolidated within AIGFP. The gains (losses) in 2006 include an out of period charge of $223 million related to the remediation of the material weakness in internal control over the accounting for certain derivative transactions under FAS 133. (c) In 2006, includes the effect of out of period adjustments related to the accounting for UCITS. In 2006, the effect was an increase of $490 million in both revenues and operating income for General Insurance and an increase of $240 million and $169 million in revenues and operating income, respectively, for Life Insurance & Retirement Services. (d) In 2007, 2006 and 2005, includes other than temporary impairment charges of $2.8 billion, $641 million and $425 million, respectively, for Life Insurance & Retirement Services. (e) Includes gains (losses) from hedging activities that did not qualify for hedge accounting treatment under FAS 133, including the related foreign exchange gains and losses. In 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, the effect was $104 million, $(1.97) billion, and $2.19 billion in both revenues and operating income. These amounts result primarily from interest rate and foreign currency derivatives that are effective economic hedges of investments and borrowings. The years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006 include out of period charges of $380 million and $223 million, respectively, as discussed in footnote (b). In the first quarter of 2007, AIG began applying hedge accounting for certain transactions, primarily in its Capital Markets operations. In the second quarter of 2007, AGF and ILFC began applying hedge accounting to most of their derivatives hedging interest rate and foreign exchange risks associated with their floating rate and foreign currency denominated borrowings. (f) In 2007, both revenues and operating income (loss) include an unrealized market valuation loss of $11.5 billion on AIGFPs super senior credit default swap portfolio and an other than temporary impairment charge of $643 million on AIGFPs available for sale investment securities recorded in other income. (g) Includes current year catastrophe related losses of $276 million in 2007 and $3.28 billion in 2005. There were no significant catastrophe related losses in 2006. (h) In 2005, includes current year catastrophe related losses from unconsolidated entities of $312 million. 36 AIG 2007 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries General Insurance AIGs General Insurance operations provide property and casualty products and services throughout the world. Revenues in the General Insurance segment represent net premiums earned, net investment income and net realized capital gains (losses). The increase in General Insurance operating income in 2007 compared to 2006 was driven by strength in the Domestic Brokerage Group (DBG), partially offset by operating losses from the Mortgage Guaranty business and a decrease in Personal Lines operating income. Life Insurance & Retirement Services AIGs Life Insurance & Retirement Services operations provide insurance, financial and investment oriented products throughout the world. Revenues in the Life Insurance & Retirement Services operations represent premiums and other considerations, net investment income and net realized capital gains (losses). Foreign operations contributed approximately 76 percent, 68 percent and 59 percent of AIGs Life Insurance & Retirement Services operating income in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Life Insurance & Retirement Services operating income declined in 2007 compared to 2006 primarily due to higher net realized capital losses in 2007. In addition, operating income in 2007 was negatively affected by charges related to remediation activity in Asia; an industry wide regulatory claims review in Japan; the effect of Statement of Position 05 1, Accounting by Insurance Enterprises for Deferred Acquisition Costs in Connection with Modifications or Exchanges of Insurance Contracts (SOP 05 1), which was adopted in 2007; and investment losses where a FAS 115 trading election was made (trading account). Financial Services AIGs Financial Services subsidiaries engage in diversified activities including aircraft and equipment leasing, capital markets, consumer finance and insurance premium finance. Revenues in the Financial Services segment include interest, realized and unrealized gains and losses, including the unrealized market valuation losses on AIGFPs super senior credit default swap portfolio, lease and finance charges. Financial Services reported an operating loss in 2007 compared to operating income in 2006, primarily due to an unrealized market valuation loss of $11.5 billion on AIGFPs super senior credit default swap portfolio, an other than temporary impairment charge of $643 million on AIGFPs investment portfolio of CDOs of asset backed securities (ABS) and a decline in operating income for AGF. AGFs operating income declined in 2007 compared to 2006 due to reduced residential mortgage origination volume, lower revenues from its mortgage banking activities and increases in the provision for finance receivable losses. In 2007, AGFs mortgage banking operations recorded a pre tax charge of $178 million, representing the estimated cost of implementing the Supervisory Agreement entered into with the Office of Thrift Supervision (OTS), which is discussed in the Consumer Finance results of operations section. Operating income for ILFC increased in 2007 compared to 2006, driven to a large extent by a larger aircraft fleet, higher lease rates and higher utilization. In 2007, AIGFP began applying hedge accounting under FAS 133 to certain of its interest rate swaps and foreign currency forward contracts that hedge its investments and borrowings and AGF and ILFC began applying hedge accounting to most of their derivatives that hedge floating rate and foreign currency denominated borrowings. Prior to 2007, hedge accounting was not applied to any of AIGs derivatives and related assets and liabilities. Accordingly, revenues and operating income were exposed to volatility resulting from differences in the timing of revenue recognition between the derivatives and the hedged assets and liabilities. Asset Management AIGs Asset Management operations include institutional and retail asset management, broker dealer services and spread based investment businesses. Revenues in the Asset Management segment represent investment income with respect to spread based products and management, advisory and incentive fees. Asset Management operating income decreased in 2007 compared to 2006, due to realized capital losses on interest rate and foreign currency hedge positions not qualifying for hedge accounting and other than temporary impairment charges on fixed income investments due primarily to disruptions in the U.S. credit markets. These decreases were partially offset by higher partnership income from the Spread Based Investment business, increased gains on real estate investments and a gain on the sale of a portion of AIGs investment in Blackstone Group, L.P. in connection with its initial public offering. Capital Resources At December 31, 2007, AIG had total consolidated shareholders equity of $95.8 billion and total consolidated borrowings of $176.0 billion. At that date, $67.9 billion of such borrowings were subsidiary borrowings not guaranteed by AIG. In 2007, AIG issued an aggregate of $5.6 billion of junior subordinated debentures in five series of securities. Substantially all of the proceeds from these sales, net of expenses, were used to repurchase shares of AIGs common stock. A total of 76,361,209 shares were repurchased during 2007. In February 2007, AIGs Board of Directors increased AIGs share repurchase program by authorizing the repurchase of shares with an aggregate purchase price of $8 billion. In November 2007, AIGs Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of an additional $8 billion in common stock. At February 15, 2008, $10.25 billion was available for repurchase under the aggregate authorization. AIG did not purchase shares of its common stock under its common stock repurchase authorization during 2006. AIG does not expect to purchase additional shares under its share repurchase program for the foreseeable future, other than pursuant to commitments that existed at December 31, 2007. AIG 2007 Form 10 K 37 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continued Liquidity AIG manages liquidity at both the subsidiary and parent company levels. At December 31, 2007, AIGs consolidated invested assets, primarily held by its subsidiaries, included $65.6 billion in cash and short term investments. Consolidated net cash provided from operating activities in 2007 amounted to $35.2 billion. At both the subsidiary and parent company level, liquidity management activities are intended to preserve and enhance funding stability, flexibility, and diversity through a wide range of potential operating environments and market conditions. AIGs primary sources of cash flow are dividends and other payments from its regulated and unregulated subsidiaries, as well as issuances of debt securities. Primary uses of cash flow are for debt service, subsidiary funding, shareholder dividend payments and common stock repurchases. As a result of disruption in the credit markets during 2007, AIG took steps to enhance the liquidity of its portfolios, including increasing the liquidity of the collateral in the securities lending program. Management believes that AIGs liquid assets, cash provided by operations and access to the capital markets will enable it to meet its anticipated cash requirements, including the funding of increased dividends under AIGs new dividend policy. Critical Accounting Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires the application of accounting policies that often involve a significant degree of judgment. AIG considers that its accounting policies that are most dependent on the application of estimates and assumptions, and therefore viewed as critical accounting estimates, to be those relating to reserves for losses and loss expenses, future policy benefits for life and accident and health contracts, recoverability of DAC, estimated gross profits for investment oriented products, fair value measurements of certain financial assets and liabilities, other than temporary impairments, the allowance for finance receivable losses and flight equipment recoverability. These accounting estimates require the use of assumptions about matters, some of which are highly uncertain at the time of estimation. To the extent actual experience differs from the assumptions used, AIGs results of operations would be directly affected. Throughout this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, AIGs critical accounting estimates are discussed in detail. The major categories for which assumptions are developed and used to establish each critical accounting estimate are highlighted below. Reserves for Losses and Loss Expenses (General Insurance): Loss trend factors: used to establish expected loss ratios for subsequent accident years based on premium rate adequacy and the projected loss ratio with respect to prior accident years. Expected loss ratios for the latest accident year: in this case, accident year 2007 for the year end 2007 loss reserve analysis. For low frequency, high severity classes such as excess casualty, expected loss ratios generally are utilized for at least the three most recent accident years. Loss development factors: used to project the reported losses for each accident year to an ultimate amount. Reinsurance recoverable on unpaid losses: the expected recoveries from reinsurers on losses that have not yet been reported and or settled. Future Policy Benefits for Life and Accident and Health Contracts (Life Insurance & Retirement Services): Interest rates: which vary by geographical region, year of issuance and products. Mortality, morbidity and surrender rates: based upon actual experience by geographical region modified to allow for variation in policy form, risk classification and distribution channel. Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs (Life Insurance & Retirement Services): Recoverability: based on current and future expected profitability, which is affected by interest rates, foreign exchange rates, mortality experience and policy persistency. Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs (General Insurance): Recoverability: based upon the current terms and profitability of the underlying insurance contracts. Estimated Gross Profits (Life Insurance & Retirement Services): Estimated gross profits: to be realized over the estimated duration of the contracts (investment oriented products) affect the carrying value of DAC, unearned revenue liability and associated amortization patterns under FAS 97, Accounting and Reporting by Insurance Enterprises for Certain Long Duration Contracts and for Realized Gains and Losses from the Sale of Investments (FAS 97); and Sales Inducement Assets under American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) Statement of Position (SOP) 03 1, Accounting and Reporting by Insurance Enterprises for Certain Nontraditional Long Duration Contracts and for Separate Accounts (SOP 03 1). Estimated gross profits include investment income and gains and losses on investments less required interest, actual mortality and other expenses. Fair Value Measurements of Financial Instruments: AIG measures financial instruments in its trading and available for sale securities portfolios, together with securities sold but not yet purchased, certain hybrid financial instruments, and derivative assets and liabilities at fair value. The fair value of a financial instrument is the amount that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. The degree of judgment used in measuring the fair value of financial instruments generally correlates with the level of pricing observability. Financial instruments with quoted prices in active markets generally have more pricing observability and less judgment is used in measuring fair value. Conversely, financial instruments traded in other than active markets or that do not have quoted prices have less observability and are measured at fair value using valuation models or other pricing techniques that 38 AIG 2007 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries require more judgment. Pricing observability is affected by a number of factors, including the type of financial instrument, whether the financial instrument is new to the market and not yet established, the characteristics specific to the transaction and general market conditions. AIG maximizes the use of observable inputs and minimizes the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value. AIG obtains market price data to value financial instruments whenever such information is available. Market price data generally is obtained from market exchanges or dealer quotations. The types of instruments valued based on market price data include G 7 government and agency securities, equities listed in active markets, investments in publicly traded mutual funds with quoted market prices and listed derivatives. AIG estimates the fair value of fixed income instruments not traded in active markets by referring to traded securities with similar attributes and using a matrix pricing methodology. This methodology considers such factors as the issuers industry, the securitys rating and tenor, its coupon rate, its position in the capital structure of the issuer, and other relevant factors. The types of fixed income instruments not traded in active markets include non G 7 government securities, municipal bonds, certain hybrid financial instruments, most investment grade and high yield corporate bonds, and most mortgage and asset backed products. AIG initially estimates the fair value of equity instruments not traded in active markets by reference to the transaction price. This valuation is adjusted only when changes to inputs and assumptions are corroborated by evidence such as transactions in similar instruments, completed or pending third party transactions in the underlying investment or comparable entities, subsequent rounds of financing, recapitalizations and other transactions across the capital structure, offerings in the equity capital markets, and changes in financial ratios or cash flows. For equity and fixed income instruments that are not traded in active markets or that are subject to transfer restrictions, valuations are adjusted to reflect illiquidity and or non transferability, and such adjustments generally are based on available market evidence. In the absence of such evidence, managements best estimate is used. AIG obtains the fair value of its investments in limited partnerships and hedge funds from information provided by the general partner or manager of the investments, the financial statements of which generally are audited annually. Derivative assets and liabilities can be exchange traded or traded over the counter (OTC). AIG generally values exchange traded derivatives within portfolios using models that calibrate to market clearing levels and eliminate timing differences between the closing price of the exchange traded derivatives and their underlying instruments. OTC derivatives are valued using market transactions and other market evidence whenever possible, including market based inputs to models, model calibration to market clearing transactions, broker or dealer quotations or alternative pricing sources with reasonable levels of price transparency. When models are used, the selection of a particular model to value an OTC derivative depends on the contractual terms of, and specific risks inherent in, the instrument as well as the availability of pricing information in the market. AIG generally uses similar models to value similar instruments. Valuation models require a variety of inputs, including contractual terms, market prices and rates, yield curves, credit curves, measures of volatility, prepayment rates and correlations of such inputs. For OTC derivatives that trade in liquid markets, such as generic forwards, swaps and options, model inputs can generally be verified and model selection does not involve significant management judgment. Certain OTC derivatives trade in less liquid markets with limited pricing information, and the determination of fair value for these derivatives is inherently more difficult. When AIG does not have corroborating market evidence to support significant model inputs and cannot verify the model to market transactions, transaction price is initially used as the best estimate of fair value. Accordingly, when a pricing model is used to value such an instrument, the model is adjusted so that the model value at inception equals the transaction price. Subsequent to initial recognition, AIG updates valuation inputs when corroborated by evidence such as similar market transactions, third party pricing services and or broker or dealer quotations, or other empirical market data. When appropriate, valuations are adjusted for various factors such as liquidity, bid/offer spreads and credit considerations. Such adjustments are generally based on available market evidence. In the absence of such evidence, managements best estimate is used. AIGFP employs a modified version of the Binomial Expansion Technique (BET) model to value its super senior credit default swap portfolio, including maturity shortening puts that allow the holders of the notes issued by certain multi sector CDOs to treat the notes as short term eligible 2a 7 investments under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (2a 7 Puts). The BET model utilizes default probabilities derived from credit spreads implied from market prices for the individual securities included in the underlying collateral pools securing the CDOs, as well as diversity scores, weighted average lives, recovery rates and discount rates. The determination of some of these inputs requires the use of judgment and estimates, particularly in the absence of market observable data. AIGFP also employs a Monte Carlo simulation to assist in quantifying the effect on the valuation of the CDOs of the unique aspects of the CDOs structure such as triggers that divert cash flows to the most senior part of the capital structure. In the final determination of fair value, AIGFP also considers the price estimates for the super senior CDO notes provided by third parties, including counterparties to these transactions, and makes adjustments when deemed necessary. See also Risk Management, Segment Risk Management, Financial Services Capital Markets Derivative Transactions and Note 8 to Consolidated Financial Statements. Other Than Temporary Impairments: AIG evaluates its investments for impairment such that a security is considered a candidate for other than temporary impairment if it meets any of the following criteria: Trading at a significant (25 percent or more) discount to par, amortized cost (if lower) or cost for an extended period of time (nine consecutive months or longer); AIG 2007 Form 10 K 39 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continued The occurrence of a discrete credit event resulting in (i) the issuer defaulting on a material outstanding obligation; (ii) the issuer seeking protection from creditors under the bankruptcy laws or any similar laws intended for court supervised reorganization of insolvent enterprises; or (iii) the issuer proposing a voluntary reorganization pursuant to which creditors are asked to exchange their claims for cash or securities having a fair value substantially lower than par value of their claims; or AIG may not realize a full recovery on its investment, regardless of the occurrence of one of the foregoing events. The above criteria also consider circumstances of a rapid and severe market valuation decline, such as that experienced in current credit markets, in which AIG could not reasonably assert that the recovery period would be temporary (severity losses). In light of the recent significant disruption in the U.S. residential mortgage and credit markets, particularly in the fourth quarter, AIG has recognized an other than temporary impairment charge (severity loss) of $2.2 billion (including $643 million related to AIGFPs available for sale investment securities recorded in other income), primarily from certain residential mortgage backed securities and other structured securities. Even while retaining their investment grade ratings, such securities were priced at a severe discount to cost. Notwithstanding AIGs intent and ability to hold such securities indefinitely, and despite structures which indicate that a substantial amount of the securities should continue to perform in accordance with their original terms, AIG concluded that it could not reasonably assert that the recovery period would be temporary. At each balance sheet date, AIG evaluates its securities holdings with unrealized losses. When AIG does not intend to hold such securities until they have recovered their cost basis, AIG records the unrealized loss in income. If a loss is recognized from a sale subsequent to a balance sheet date pursuant to changes in circumstances, the loss is recognized in the period in which the intent to hold the securities to recovery no longer existed. In periods subsequent to the recognition of an other than temporary impairment charge for fixed maturity securities, which is not credit or foreign exchange related, AIG generally accretes into income the discount or amortizes the reduced premium resulting from the reduction in cost basis over the remaining life of the security. Allowance for Finance Receivable Losses (Financial Services): Historical defaults and delinquency experience: utilizing factors, such as delinquency ratio, allowance ratio, charge off ratio, and charge off coverage. Portfolio characteristics: portfolio composition and consideration of the recent changes to underwriting criteria and portfolio seasoning. External factors: consideration of current economic conditions, including levels of unemployment and personal bankruptcies. Migration analysis: empirical technique measuring historical movement of similar finance receivables through various levels of repayment, delinquency, and loss categories to existing finance receivable pools. Flight Equipment Recoverability (Financial Services): Expected undiscounted future net cash flows: based upon current lease rates, projected future lease rates and estimated terminal values of each aircraft based on third party information. Operating Review General Insurance Operations AIGs General Insurance subsidiaries write substantially all lines of commercial property and casualty insurance and various personal lines both domestically and abroad. As previously noted, AIG believes it should present and discuss its financial information in a manner most meaningful to its financial statement users. Accordingly, in its General Insurance business, AIG uses certain regulatory measures, where AIG has determined these measurements to be useful and meaningful. A critical discipline of a successful general insurance business is the objective to produce profit from underwriting activities taking into account costs of capital. AIG views underwriting results to be critical in the overall evaluation of performance. Statutory underwriting profit is derived by reducing net premiums earned by net losses and loss expenses incurred and net expenses incurred. Statutory accounting generally requires immediate expense recognition and ignores the matching of revenues and expenses as required by GAAP. That is, for statutory purposes, expenses (including acquisition costs) are recognized immediately, not over the same period that the revenues are earned. Thus, statutory expenses exclude changes in DAC. GAAP provides for the recognition of certain acquisition expenses at the same time revenues are earned, the accounting principle of matching. Therefore, acquisition expenses are deferred and amortized over the period the related net premiums written are earned. DAC is reviewed for recoverability, and such review requires management judgment. The most comparable GAAP measure to statutory underwriting profit is income before income taxes, minority interest and cumulative effect of an accounting change. A table reconciling statutory underwriting profit to income before income taxes, minority interest and cumulative effect of an accounting change is contained in footnote (d) to the following table. See also Critical Accounting Estimates herein and Notes 1 and 6 to Consolidated Financial Statements. AIG, along with most general insurance companies, uses the loss ratio, the expense ratio and the combined ratio as measures of underwriting performance. The loss ratio is the sum of losses and loss expenses incurred divided by net premiums earned. The expense ratio is statutory underwriting expenses divided by net premiums written. These ratios are relative measurements that describe, for every $100 of net premiums earned or written, the cost of losses and statutory expenses, respectively. The combined ratio is the sum of the loss ratio and the expense ratio. The combined ratio presents the total cost per $100 of premium production. A combined ratio below 100 demonstrates underwriting profit; a combined ratio above 100 demonstrates underwriting loss. 40 AIG 2007 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries Net premiums written are initially deferred and earned based upon the terms of the underlying policies. The net unearned premium reserve constitutes deferred revenues which are generally earned ratably over the policy period. Thus, the net unearned premium reserve is not fully recognized in income as net premiums earned until the end of the policy period. The underwriting environment varies from country to country, as does the degree of litigation activity. Regulation, product type and competition have a direct effect on pricing and consequently on profitability as reflected in underwriting profit and statutory general insurance ratios. General Insurance Results General Insurance operating income is comprised of statutory underwriting profit (loss), changes in DAC, net investment income and net realized capital gains and losses. Operating income, as well as net premiums written, net premiums earned, net investment income and net realized capital gains (losses) and statutory ratios in 2007, 2006 and 2005 were as follows: Percentage Increase/(Decrease) (in millions, except ratios) 2007 2006 2005 2007 vs. 2006 2006 vs. 2005 Net premiums written: Domestic General Insurance DBG $ 24,112 $ 24,312 $ 23,104 (1 )% 5 % Transatlantic 3,953 3,633 3,466 9 5 Personal Lines 4,808 4,654 4,653 3 Mortgage Guaranty 1,143 866 628 32 38 Foreign General Insurance 13,051 11,401 10,021 14 14 Total $ 47,067 $ 44,866 $ 41,872 5 % 7 % Net premiums earned: Domestic General Insurance DBG $ 23,849 $ 23,910 $ 22,567 % 6 % Transatlantic 3,903 3,604 3,385 8 6 Personal Lines 4,695 4,645 4,634 1 Mortgage Guaranty 886 740 533 20 39 Foreign General Insurance 12,349 10,552 9,690 17 9 Total $ 45,682 $ 43,451 $ 40,809 5 % 6 % Net investment income(a): Domestic General Insurance DBG $ 3,879 $ 3,411 $ 2,403 14 % 42 % Transatlantic 470 435 343 8 27 Personal Lines 231 225 217 3 4 Mortgage Guaranty 158 140 123 13 14 Intercompany adjustments and eliminations net 6 1 1 500 Foreign General Insurance 1,388 1,484 944 (6 ) 57 Total $ 6,132 $ 5,696 $ 4,031 8 % 41 % Net realized capital gains (losses) $ (106 ) $ 59 $ 334 % % Operating income (loss)(a)(b): Domestic General Insurance DBG $ 7,305 $ 5,845 $ (820 ) 25 % % Transatlantic 661 589 (39 ) 12 Personal Lines 67 432 195 (84 ) 122 Mortgage Guaranty (637 ) 328 363 (10 ) Foreign General Insurance 3,137 3,228 2,601 (3 ) 24 Reclassifications and eliminations (7 ) (10 ) 15 Total $ 10,526 $ 10,412 $ 2,315 1 % 350 % AIG 2007 Form 10 K 41 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continued Percentage Increase/(Decrease) (in millions, except ratios) 2007 2006 2005 2007 vs. 2006 2006 vs. 2005 Statutory underwriting profit (loss) (b)(d): Domestic General Insurance DBG $ 3,404 $ 2,322 $ (3,403 ) 47 % % Transatlantic 165 129 (434 ) 28 Personal Lines (191 ) 204 (38 ) Mortgage Guaranty (849 ) 188 249 (24 ) Foreign General Insurance 1,544 1,565 1,461 (1 ) 7 Total $ 4,073 $ 4,408 $ (2,165 ) (8 )% % Domestic General Insurance(b): Loss ratio 71.2 69.6 90.1 Expense ratio 20.8 21.4 21.0 Combined ratio 92.0 91.0 111.1 Foreign General Insurance(b): Loss ratio 50.6 48.9 52.0 Expense ratio(c) 34.9 33.6 31.8 Combined ratio 85.5 82.5 83.8 Consolidated(b): Loss ratio 65.6 64.6 81.1 Expense ratio 24.7 24.5 23.6 Combined ratio 90.3 89.1 104.7 (a) Includes the effect of out of period adjustments related to the accounting for UCITS in 2006. For DBG, the effect was an increase of $66 million, and for Foreign General Insurance, the effect was an increase of $424 million. (b) Catastrophe related losses increased the consolidated General Insurance combined ratio in 2007 and 2005 by 0.60 points and 7.06 points, respectively. There were no significant catastrophe related losses in 2006. Catastrophe related losses in 2007 and 2005 by reporting unit were as follows: 2007 2005 Insurance Net Insurance Net Related Reinstatement Related Reinstatement (in millions) Losses Premium Cost Losses Premium Cost Reporting Unit: DBG $ 113 $ (13 ) $ 1,811 $ 136 Transatlantic 11 (1 ) 463 45 Personal Lines 61 14 112 2 Mortgage Guaranty 10 Foreign General Insurance 90 1 229 80 Total $ 275 $ 1 $ 2,625 $ 263 (c) Includes amortization of advertising costs. 42 AIG 2007 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries (d) Statutory underwriting profit (loss) is a measure that U.S. domiciled insurance companies are required to report to their regulatory authorities. The following table reconciles statutory underwriting profit (loss) to operating income for General Insurance for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005: Domestic Foreign Brokerage Personal Mortgage General Reclassifications (in millions) Group Transatlantic Lines Guaranty Insurance and Eliminations Total 2007: Statutory underwriting profit (loss) $ 3,404 $ 165 $ (191 ) $ (849 ) $ 1,544 $ $ 4,073 Increase in DAC 97 17 29 57 227 427 Net investment income 3,879 470 231 158 1,388 6 6,132 Net realized capital gains (losses) (75 ) 9 (2 ) (3 ) (22 ) (13 ) (106 ) Operating income (loss) $ 7,305 $ 661 $ 67 $ (637 ) $ 3,137 $ (7 ) $ 10,526 2006: Statutory underwriting profit (loss) $ 2,322 $ 129 $ 204 $ 188 $ 1,565 $ $ 4,408 Increase in DAC 14 14 2 3 216 249 Net investment income 3,411 435 225 140 1,484 1 5,696 Net realized capital gains (losses) 98 11 1 (3 ) (37 ) (11 ) 59 Operating income (loss) $ 5,845 $ 589 $ 432 $ 328 $ 3,228 $ (10 ) $ 10,412 2005: Statutory underwriting profit (loss) $ (3,403 ) $ (434 ) $ (38 ) $ 249 $ 1,461 $ $ (2,165 ) Increase (decrease) in DAC (21 ) 14 19 (8 ) 111 115 Net investment income 2,403 343 217 123 944 1 4,031 Net realized capital gains (losses) 201 38 (3 ) (1 ) 85 14 334 Operating income (loss) $ (820 ) $ (39 ) $ 195 $ 363 $ 2,601 $ 15 $ 2,315 AIG transacts business in most major foreign currencies. The following table summarizes the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on the growth of General Insurance net premiums written for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006: 2007 2006 Growth in original currency* 3.5 % 7.4 % Foreign exchange effect 1.4 (0.2 ) Growth as reported in U.S. dollars 4.9 % 7.2 % * Computed using a constant exchange rate for each period. 2007 and 2006 Comparison General Insurance operating income increased in 2007 compared to 2006 due to growth in net investment income, partially offset by a decline in underwriting profit and Net realized capital losses. The 2007 combined ratio increased to 90.3, an increase of 1.2 points compared to 2006, primarily due to an increase in the loss ratio of 1.0 points. The loss ratio for accident year 2007 recorded in 2007 was 2.3 points higher than the loss ratio recorded in 2006 for accident year 2006. Increases in Mortgage Guaranty losses accounted for a 2.1 point increase in the 2007 accident year loss ratio. The downward cycle in the U.S. housing market is not expected to improve until residential inventories return to a more normal level, and AIG expects that this downward cycle will continue to adversely affect Mortgage Guarantys loss ratios for the foreseeable future. The higher accident year loss ratio was partially offset by favorable development on prior years, which reduced incurred losses by $606 million and $53 million in 2007 and 2006, respectively. Additional favorable loss development of $50 million (recognized in consolidation and related to certain asbestos settlements) reduced overall incurred losses. General Insurance net premiums written increased in 2007 compared to 2006, reflecting growth in Foreign General Insurance from both established and new distribution channels, and the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates as well as growth in Mortgage Guaranty, primarily from international business. General Insurance net investment income increased in 2007 by $436 million. Interest and dividend income increased $714 million in 2007 compared to 2006 as fixed maturities and equity securities increased by $11.6 billion and the average yield increased 10 basis points. Income from partnership investments increased $159 million in 2007 compared to 2006, primarily due to improved returns on underlying investments and higher levels of invested assets. Investment expenses in 2007 declined $60 million compared to 2006, primarily due to decreased interest expense on deposit liabilities. These increases to net investment income were partially offset by $490 million of income from an out of period UCITS adjustment recorded in 2006. Net realized capital losses in 2007 include other than temporary impairment charges of $276 million compared to $77 million in 2006. See also Capital Resources and Liquidity and Invested Assets herein. In order to better align financial reporting with the manner in which AIGs chief operating decision makers manage their businesses, commencing in 2007, the foreign aviation business, which was historically reported in DBG, is now reported as part of Foreign General Insurance, and the oil rig and marine businesses, which were historically reported in Foreign General Insurance, are now reported as part of DBG. Prior period amounts have been revised to conform to the current presentation. 2006 and 2005 Comparison General Insurance operating income increased in 2006 compared to 2005 due to growth in net premiums, a reduction in both AIG 2007 Form 10 K 43 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continued catastrophe losses and prior accident year development, and growth in Net investment income. The combined ratio improved to 89.1, a reduction of 15.6 points from 2005, including an improvement in the loss ratio of 16.5 points. The reduction in catastrophe losses represented 6.9 points and the reduction in prior year adverse development represented 11.5 points of the overall reduction. Net premiums written increased $3.0 billion or 7 percent in 2006 compared to 2005. Domestic General Insurance accounted for $1.6 billion of the increase as property rates improved and submission activity increased due to the strength of AIGs capacity, commitment to difficult markets and diverse product offerings. Foreign General Insurance contributed $1.4 billion to the increase in net premiums written. In 2005, Domestic General Insurance net premiums written increased by $300 million and Foreign General Insurance net premiums written decreased by the same amount as a result of the commutation of the Richmond reinsurance contract. The commutation partially offset the increase in Domestic General Insurance net premiums written in 2006 compared to 2005 and increased Foreign General Insurance net premiums written in 2006 compared to 2005. In 2006, certain adjustments were made in conjunction with the remediation of the material weakness relating to balance sheet account reconciliations which increased earned premiums by $189 million and increased other expenses by $415 million. The combined effect of these adjustments increased the expense ratio by 0.9 points and decreased the loss ratio by 0.3 points. General Insurance net investment income increased $1.67 billion in 2006 to $5.7 billion on higher levels of invested assets, strong cash flows, slightly higher yields and increased partnership income, and included increases from out of period adjustments of $490 million related to the accounting for certain interests in UCITS, $43 million related to partnership income and $85 million related to interest earned on a DBG deposit contract. See also Capital Resources and Liquidity Liquidity and Invested Assets herein. DBG Results 2007 and 2006 Comparison DBGs operating income increased in 2007 compared to 2006 primarily due to growth in both net investment income and underwriting profit. The improvement is also reflected in the combined ratio, which declined 4.5 points in 2007 compared to 2006, primarily due to an improvement in the loss ratio of 3.3 points. Catastrophe related losses increased the 2007 loss ratio by 0.4 points. The loss ratio for accident year 2007 recorded in 2007 was 0.9 points lower than the loss ratio recorded in 2006 for accident year 2006. The loss ratio for accident year 2006 has improved in each quarter since September 30, 2006. As a result, the 2007 accident year loss ratio is 2.8 points higher than the 2006 accident year loss ratio, reflecting reductions in 2006 accident year losses recorded through December 31, 2007. Prior year development reduced incurred losses by $390 million in 2007 and increased incurred losses by $175 million in 2006, accounting for 2.4 points of the improvement in the loss ratio. DBGs net premiums written declined in 2007 compared to 2006 as ceded premiums as a percentage of gross written premiums increased to 24 percent in 2007 compared to 23 percent in 2006, primarily due to additional reinsurance for property risks to manage catastrophe exposures. DBGs expense ratio decreased to 18.7 in 2007 compared to 19.8 in 2006, primarily due to the 2006 charge related to the remediation of the material weakness in internal control over certain balance sheet reconciliations that accounted for 2.1 points of the decline. The decline was partially offset by increases in operating expenses for marketing initiatives and operations. DBGs net investment income increased in 2007 compared to 2006, as interest income increased $384 million in 2007, on growth in the bond portfolio resulting from investment of operating cash flows. Income from partnership investments increased $159 million in 2007 compared to 2006, primarily due to improved returns on the underlying investments. Other investment income declined $163 million in 2007 compared to 2006, primarily due to out of period adjustments of $194 million recorded in 2006. DBG recorded net realized capital losses in 2007 compared to net realized capital gains in 2006 primarily due to other than temporary impairment charges of $213 million in 2007 compared to $73 million in 2006. 2006 and 2005 Comparison DBGs operating income was $5.85 billion in 2006 compared to a loss of $820 million in 2005, an improvement of $6.67 billion. The improvement is also reflected in the combined ratio, which declined to 89.9 in 2006 compared to 114.6 in 2005 primarily due to an improvement in the loss ratio of 24.9 points. The reduction in prior year adverse development and the reduction in catastrophe losses and related reinstatement premiums accounted for 20.7 points and 8.3 points, respectively, of the improvement. DBGs net premiums written increased in 2006 compared to 2005 as property rates improved and submission activity increased due to the strength of AIGs capacity, commitment to difficult markets and diverse product offerings. Net premiums written in 2005 were reduced by $136 million due to reinstatement premiums related to catastrophes, offset by increases of $300 million for the Richmond commutation and $147 million related to an accrual for workers compensation premiums for payroll not yet reported by insured employers. The combined effect of these items reduced the growth rate for net premiums written by 1.3 percent. The loss ratio in 2006 declined 24.9 points to 70.2. The 2005 loss ratio was negatively affected by catastrophe related losses of $1.8 billion and related reinstatement premiums of $136 million. Adverse development on reserves for loss and loss adjustment expenses declined to $175 million in 2006 compared to $4.9 billion in 2005, accounting for 20.7 points of the decrease in the loss ratio. DBGs expense ratio increased to 19.8 in 2006 compared to 19.5 in 2005, primarily due to an increase in other expenses that amounted to $498 million in 2006 (including out of period charges of $356 million) compared to $372 million in 2005. This increase added 0.4 points to the expense ratio. 44 AIG 2007 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries DBGs net investment income increased by $1.0 billion in 2006 compared to 2005, as interest income increased $482 million on growth in the bond portfolio resulting from investment of operating cash flows and capital contributions. Partnership income increased from 2005 due to improved performance of the underlying investments, including initial public offering activity. Net investment income in 2006 included increases relating to out of period adjustments of $109 million for the accounting for UCITS and partnerships and $85 million related to interest earned on a deposit contract that did not exist in the prior year. Transatlantic Results 2007 and 2006 Comparison Transatlantics net premiums written and net premiums earned increased in 2007 compared to 2006 due to increases in both domestic and international operations. The increase in statutory underwriting profit in 2007 compared to 2006 reflects improved underwriting results in Domestic operations. Operating income increased in 2007 compared to 2006 due principally to increased net investment income and improved underwriting results. 2006 and 2005 Comparison Transatlantics net premiums written and net premiums earned increased in 2006 compared to 2005 due primarily to increased writings in domestic operations. Operating income increased in 2006 compared to 2005 due largely to lower catastrophe losses and net ceded reinstatement premiums, and increased net investment income. Personal Lines Results 2007 and 2006 Comparison Personal Lines operating income in 2007 decreased by $365 million compared to 2006, largely due to an increase in incurred losses from a number of sources, leading to an overall increase in the loss ratio of 6.8 points. Prior year net adverse reserve development contributed 2.5 points of this increase in the loss ratio, as Personal Lines experienced $7 million in net adverse development (including $64 million in adverse development from businesses placed in runoff), compared to $111 million of favorable development in 2006. An additional 1.6 point increase in the loss ratio resulted from $61 million of losses and $14 million of reinstatement premiums due to the California wildfires. In addition, an increase in the loss ratio recorded in 2007 for accident year 2007 compared to the loss ratio recorded in 2006 for accident year 2006 of 2.7 points resulted, in part, from an increased frequency of large losses in the Private Client Group and average automobile premiums declining faster than loss trends. Operating income also declined due to increased expenses. The expense ratio increased 1.1 points in 2007 compared to 2006, primarily due to $63 million of transaction and integration costs associated with the 2007 acquisition of the minority interest in 21st Century. Net premiums written increased in 2007 compared to 2006 due to continued growth in the Private Client Group and increased new business production in the aigdirect.com business partially offset by a reduction in the Agency Auto business. On September 27, 2007, AIG completed its previously announced acquisition of 21st Century, paying $759 million to acquire the remaining 39.2 percent of the shares of 21st Century that it did not previously own. As a result of the acquisition, the AIG Direct and 21st Century operations have been combined as aigdirect.com. Under the purchase method of accounting, the assets and liabilities of 21st Century that were acquired were adjusted to their estimated fair values as of the date of the acquisition, and goodwill of $342 million was recorded. A customer relationship intangible asset, initially valued at $119 million, was also established. 2006 and 2005 Comparison Personal Lines operating income increased $237 million in 2006 compared to 2005 reflecting a reduction in the loss ratio of 5.8 points. Favorable development on prior accident years reduced incurred losses by $111 million in 2006 compared to an increase of $14 million in 2005, accounting for 2.7 points of the decrease in the loss ratio. The 2005 catastrophe related losses of $112 million added 2.4 points to the loss ratio. The loss ratio for the 2006 accident year improved 0.7 points primarily due to the termination of The Robert Plan relationship effective December 31, 2005 and growth in the Private Client Group. The improvement in the loss ratio was partially offset by an increase in the expense ratio of 0.6 points primarily due to investments in people and technology, national expansion efforts and lower response rates. Net premiums written were flat in 2006 compared to 2005, with growth in the Private Client Group and Agency Auto divisions offset by termination of The Robert Plan relationship. Growth in the Private Client Group spans multiple products, with a continued penetration of the high net worth market, strong brand promotion and innovative loss prevention programs. Mortgage Guaranty Results 2007 and 2006 Comparison Mortgage Guarantys operating loss in 2007 was $637 million compared to operating income of $328 million in 2006 as the deteriorating U.S. residential housing market adversely affected losses incurred for both the domestic first and second lien businesses. Domestic first and second lien losses incurred increased 362 percent and 346 percent respectively, compared to 2006, resulting in loss ratios of 122.0 and 357.0, respectively, in 2007. Increases in domestic losses incurred resulted in an overall loss ratio of 168.6 in 2007 compared to 47.2 in 2006. Prior year development reduced incurred losses in 2007 by $25 million compared to a reduction of $115 million in 2006, which accounted for 12.7 points of the increase in the loss ratio. Net premiums written increased in 2007 compared to 2006 primarily due to growth in the international markets, accounting for 19 percent of the increase in net premiums written. In addition AIG 2007 Form 10 K 45 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continued the increased use of mortgage insurance for credit enhancement as well as better persistency resulted in an increase in domestic first lien premiums. UGC has taken steps to strengthen its underwriting guidelines and increase rates. It also discontinued new production for certain programs in the second lien business beginning in the fourth quarter of 2006. However, UGC will continue to receive renewal premiums on that portfolio for the life of the loans, estimated to be three to five years, and will continue to be exposed to possible losses from future defaults. The expense ratio in 2007 was 21.2, down from 23.4 in 2006 as premium growth offset the effect of increased expenses related to UGCs international expansion and the employment of additional operational resources in the second lien business. UGC domestic mortgage risk in force totaled $29.8 billion as of December 31, 2007 and the 60 day delinquency ratio was 3.7 percent (based on number of policies, consistent with mortgage industry practice) compared to domestic mortgage risk in force of $24.9 billion and a delinquency ratio of 2.1 percent at December 31, 2006. Approximately 81 percent of the domestic mortgage risk is secured by first lien, owner occupied properties. 2006 and 2005 Comparison Mortgage Guaranty operating income declined in 2006 from 2005 due primarily to unfavorable loss experience on third party originated second lien business with a credit quality lower than typical for UGC and a softening U.S. housing market. This increased Mortgage Guarantys consolidated loss ratio in 2006 to 47.2 compared to 26.0 in 2005. The writing of this second lien coverage, which began in 2005, was discontinued as of year end 2006. Losses in the second lien business have been mitigated by a policy year aggregate limitation provision that is typically established for each lender. Net premiums written increased due to growth in the domestic second lien and international businesses as well as improved persistency in the domestic first lien business. The expense ratio remained flat as premium growth covered increased expenses related to expansion internationally and continued investment in risk management resources. Foreign General Insurance Results 2007 and 2006 Comparison Foreign General Insurance operating income decreased in 2007 compared to 2006, due primarily to decreases in Net investment income and statutory underwriting profit. Net investment income in 2006 included income of $424 million from out of period UCITS adjustments. Statutory underwriting profit decreased due to losses from the June 2007 U.K. floods, an increase in severe but non catastrophic losses and higher frequency of non severe losses compared to 2006, partially offset by higher favorable loss development on prior accident years. Net premiums written increased 14 percent (10 percent in original currency) in 2007 compared to 2006, reflecting growth in commercial and consumer lines driven by new business from both established and new distribution channels, including Central Insurance Co. Ltd. in Taiwan acquired in late 2006. Net premiums written for commercial lines increased due to new business in the U.K. and Europe and decreases in the use of reinsurance, partially offset by declines in premium rates. Growth in consumer lines in Latin America, Asia and Europe also contributed to the increase. Net premiums written for the Lloyds syndicate Ascot (Ascot) and Aviation declined due to rate decreases and increased market competition. The 2007 loss ratio increased a total of 1.7 points compared to 2006. Losses of $90 million from the June 2007 U.K. floods added 0.7 points to the loss ratio and higher severe but non catastrophic losses and higher loss frequency for personal accident business in Japan and personal lines business in Asia and Latin America added 1.6 points to the loss ratio. Partially offsetting these increases was favorable loss development on prior accident years of $286 million in 2007 compared to $183 million in 2006, which decreased the loss ratio by 0.6 points. The 2007 expense ratio increased 1.3 points compared to 2006. This increase reflected the cost of realigning certain legal entities through which Foreign General Insurance operates and the increased significance of consumer lines of business, which have higher acquisition costs. These factors contributed 0.7 points to the 2007 expense ratio. AIG expects the expense ratio to increase in 2008 due to the continued cost of realigning certain legal entities through which Foreign General Insurance operates. Net investment income decreased in 2007 compared to 2006 as the 2006 period included the out of period UCITS adjustments, which more than offset increases resulting from higher interest rates, increased cash flows and mutual fund income. Mutual fund income was $93 million higher than 2006 reflecting improved performance in the equity markets in 2007. Partnership income was essentially unchanged. 2006 and 2005 Comparison Foreign General Insurance operating income increased in 2006 compared to 2005 due to out of period UCITS adjustments in 2006, the absence of significant catastrophe related losses in 2006, rate increases and lower current accident year losses by Ascot on its U.S. book of business and lower asbestos and environmental reserve increases. These increases were partially offset by lower favorable loss development from prior accident years and adverse loss development on the 2005 hurricanes. Statutory underwriting profit increased $104 million in 2006 compared to 2005. Catastrophes in 2005 resulted in losses of $229 million and reinstatement premiums of $80 million. Net premiums written increased 14 percent (15 percent in original currency) in 2006 compared to 2005, reflecting growth in both commercial and consumer lines driven by new business from both established and new distribution channels, including a wholly owned insurance company in Vietnam and Central Insurance Co., Ltd. in Taiwan. Ascot also contributed to the growth in net premiums written as a result of rate increases on its U.S. business. Consumer lines in Latin America and commercial lines in Europe, including the U.K., also contributed to the increase. Net premiums written in 2005 were reduced by reinstatement premiums related to catastrophes and a portfolio 46 AIG 2007 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries transfer of unearned premium reserves to DBG related to the Richmond commutation, accounting for 4 percent of the increase in 2006 compared to 2005. The loss ratio decreased 3.1 points in 2006 compared to 2005, as the absence of significant catastrophes in 2006 resulted in a decrease in the loss ratio of 2.8 points. The loss ratio also decreased due to rate increases and lower current year losses by Ascot on its U.S. book of business and lower asbestos and environmental reserve increases. These declines were partially offset by lower favorable loss development from prior accident years and adverse development on 2005 hurricanes. The expense ratio increased 1.8 points in 2006 compared to 2005 due to a $59 million out of period adjustment for amortization of deferred advertising costs and a premium reduction of $61 million related to reconciliation remediation activities, in aggregate accounting for 0.7 points of the increase in the expense ratio. The expense ratio also increased due to growth in consumer business lines, which have higher acquisition expenses but historically lower loss ratios. Net investment income increased $540 million in 2006 compared to 2005 primarily due to a $424 million out of period UCITS adjustment. Reserve for Losses and Loss Expenses The following table presents the components of the General Insurance gross reserve for losses and loss expenses (loss reserves) as of December 31, 2007 and 2006 by major lines of business on a statutory Annual Statement basis(a): (in millions) 2007 2006(b) Other liability occurrence $ 20,580 $ 19,327 Workers compensation 15,568 13,612 Other liability claims made 13,878 12,513 Auto liability 6,068 6,070 International 7,036 6,006 Property 4,274 5,499 Reinsurance 3,127 2,979 Medical malpractice 2,361 2,347 Products liability 2,416 2,239 Accident and health 1,818 1,693 Commercial multiple peril 1,900 1,651 Aircraft 1,623 1,629 Fidelity/surety 1,222 1,148 Mortgage Guaranty/Credit 1,426 567 Other 2,203 2,719 Total $ 85,500 $ 79,999 (a) Presented by lines of business pursuant to statutory reporting requirements as prescribed by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners. (b) Allocations among various lines were revised based on the 2007 presentation. AIGs gross reserve for losses and loss expenses represents the accumulation of estimates of ultimate losses, including estimates for incurred but not yet reported reserves (IBNR) and loss expenses. The methods used to determine loss reserve estimates and to establish the resulting reserves are continually reviewed and updated by management. Any adjustments resulting therefrom are reflected in operating income currently. Because loss reserve estimates are subject to the outcome of future events, changes in estimates are unavoidable given that loss trends vary and time is often required for changes in trends to be recognized and confirmed. Reserve changes that increase previous estimates of ultimate cost are referred to as unfavorable or adverse development or reserve strengthening. Reserve changes that decrease previous estimates of ultimate cost are referred to as favorable development. Estimates for mortgage guaranty insurance losses and loss adjustment expense reserves are based on notices of mortgage loan delinquencies and estimates of delinquencies that have been incurred but have not been reported by loan servicers, based upon historical reporting trends. Mortgage Guaranty establishes reserves using a percentage of the contractual liability (for each delinquent loan reported) that is based upon past experience regarding certain loan factors such as age of the delinquency, dollar amount of the loan and type of mortgage loan. Because mortgage delinquencies and claims payments are affected primarily by macroeconomic events, such as changes in home price appreciation, interest rates and unemployment, the determination of the ultimate loss cost requires a high degree of judgment. AIG believes it has provided appropriate reserves for currently delinquent loans. Consistent with industry practice, AIG does not establish a reserve for loans that are not currently delinquent, but that may become delinquent in future periods. At December 31, 2007, General Insurance net loss reserves increased $6.66 billion from 2006 to $69.29 billion. The net loss reserves represent loss reserves reduced by reinsurance recoverable, net of an allowance for unrecoverable reinsurance and applicable discount for future investment income. The following table classifies the components of the General Insurance net loss reserve by business unit as of December 31, 2007 and 2006: (in millions) 2007 2006 DBG(a) $ 47,392 $ 44,119 Transatlantic 6,900 6,207 Personal Lines(b) 2,417 2,440 Mortgage Guaranty 1,339 460 Foreign General Insurance(c) 11,240 9,404 Total Net Loss Reserve $ 69,288 $ 62,630 (a) At December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, DBG loss reserves include approximately $3.13 billion and $3.33 billion ($3.34 billion and $3.66 billion, respectively, before discount), related to business written by DBG but ceded to AIRCO and reported in AIRCOs statutory filings. DBG loss reserves also include approximately $590 million and $535 million related to business included in AIUOs statutory filings at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. (b) At December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, Personal Lines loss reserves include $894 million and $861 million related to business ceded to DBG and reported in DBGs statutory filings. (c) At December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, Foreign General Insurance loss reserves include approximately $3.02 billion and $2.75 billion related to business reported in DBGs statutory filings. AIG 2007 Form 10 K 47 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continued The DBG net loss reserve of $47.4 billion is comprised principally of the business of AIG subsidiaries participating in the American Home Assurance Company (American Home)/ National Union Fire Insurance Company of Pittsburgh, Pa. (National Union) pool (10 companies) and the surplus lines pool (Lexington, AIG Excess Liability Insurance Company and Landmark Insurance Company). DBG cedes a quota share percentage of its other liability occurrence and products liability occurrence business to AIRCO. The quota share percentage ceded was 15 percent in 2007 and 20 percent in 2006 and covered all business written in these years for these lines by participants in the American Home/ National Union pool. AIRCOs loss reserves relating to these quota share cessions from DBG are recorded on a discounted basis. As of December 31, 2007, AIRCO carried a discount of approximately $210 million applicable to the $3.34 billion in undiscounted reserves it assumed from the American Home/ National Union pool via this quota share cession. AIRCO also carries approximately $540 million in net loss reserves relating to Foreign General Insurance business. These reserves are carried on an undiscounted basis. The companies participating in the American Home/ National Union pool have maintained a participation in the business written by AIU for decades. As of December 31, 2007, these AIU reserves carried by participants in the American Home/ National Union pool totaled approximately $3.02 billion. The remaining Foreign General Insurance reserves are carried by AIUO, AIRCO, and other smaller AIG subsidiaries domiciled outside the United States. Statutory filings in the United States by AIG companies reflect all the business written by U.S. domiciled entities only, and therefore exclude business written by AIUO, AIRCO, and all other internationally domiciled subsidiaries. The total reserves carried at December 31, 2007 by AIUO and AIRCO were approximately $5.16 billion and $3.67 billion, respectively. AIRCOs $3.67 billion in total general insurance reserves consist of approximately $3.13 billion from business assumed from the American Home/ National Union pool and an additional $540 million relating to Foreign General Insurance business. Discounting of Reserves At December 31, 2007, AIGs overall General Insurance net loss reserves reflect a loss reserve discount of $2.43 billion, including tabular and non tabular calculations. The tabular workers compensation discount is calculated using a 3.5 percent interest rate and the 1979 81 Decennial Mortality Table. The non tabular workers compensation discount is calculated separately for companies domiciled in New York and Pennsylvania, and follows the statutory regulations for each state. For New York companies, the discount is based on a five percent interest rate and the companies own payout patterns. For Pennsylvania companies, the statute has specified discount factors for accident years 2001 and prior, which are based on a six percent interest rate and an industry payout pattern. For accident years 2002 and subsequent, the discount is based on the yield of U.S. Treasury securities ranging from one to twenty years and the companys own payout pattern, with the future expected payment for each year using the interest rate associated with the corresponding Treasury security yield for that time period. The discount is comprised of the following: $794 million tabular discount for workers compensation in DBG; $1.42 billion non tabular discount for workers compensation in DBG; and, $210 million non tabular discount for other liability occurrence and products liability occurrence in AIRCO. The total undiscounted workers compensation loss reserve carried by DBG is approximately $13.3 billion as of December 31, 2007. The other liability occurrence and products liability occurrence business in AIRCO that is assumed from DBG is discounted based on the yield of U.S. Treasury securities ranging from one to twenty years and the DBG payout pattern for this business. The undiscounted reserves assumed by AIRCO from DBG totaled approximately $3.34 billion at December 31, 2007. Results of the Reserving Process Management believes that the General Insurance net loss reserves are adequate to cover General Insurance net losses and loss expenses as of December 31, 2007. While AIG regularly reviews the adequacy of established loss reserves, there can be no assurance that AIGs ultimate loss reserves will not develop adversely and materially exceed AIGs loss reserves as of December 31, 2007. In the opinion of management, such adverse development and resulting increase in reserves is not likely to have a material adverse effect on AIGs consolidated financial condition, although it could have a material adverse effect on AIGs consolidated results of operations for an individual reporting period. See also Item 1A. Risk Factors Casualty Insurance and Underwriting Reserves. 48 AIG 2007 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries The following table presents the reconciliation of net loss reserves for 2007, 2006 and 2005 as follows: (in millions) 2007 2006 2005 Net reserve for losses and loss expenses at beginning of year $ 62,630 $ 57,476 $ 47,254 Foreign exchange effect 955 741 (628 ) Acquisitions(a) 317 55 Losses and loss expenses incurred: Current year 30,261 27,805 28,426 Prior years, other than accretion of discount (656 ) (53 ) 4,680 (b ) Prior years, accretion of discount 327 300 (15 ) Losses and loss expenses incurred 29,932 28,052 33,091 Losses and loss expenses paid: Current year 9,684 8,368 7,331 Prior years 14,862 15,326 14,910 Losses and loss expenses paid 24,546 23,694 22,241 Net reserve for losses and loss expenses at end of year $ 69,288 $ 62,630 $ 57,476 (a) Reflects the opening balance with respect to the acquisitions of WBa and the Central Insurance Co., Ltd. in 2007 and 2006, respectively. (b) Includes fourth quarter charge of $1.8 billion. The following tables summarize development, (favorable) or unfavorable, of incurred losses and loss expenses for prior years (other than accretion of discount): (in millions) 2007 2006 2005 Prior Accident Year Development by Reporting Unit: DBG $ (390 ) $ 175 $ 4,878 Personal Lines 7 (111 ) 14 UGC (25 ) (115 ) (103 ) Foreign General Insurance (286 ) (183 ) (378 ) Sub total (694 ) (234 ) 4,411 Transatlantic 88 181 269 Asbestos settlements* (50 ) Prior years, other than accretion of discount $ (656 ) $ (53 ) $ 4,680 * Represents the effect of settlements of certain asbestos liabilities. (in millions) 2007 2006 2005 Prior Accident Year Development by Major Class of Business: Excess casualty (DBG) $ 73 $ 102 $ 1,191 D&O and related management liability (DBG) (305 ) (20 ) 1,627 Excess workers compensation (DBG) (14 ) 74 983 Reinsurance (Transatlantic) 88 181 269 Asbestos and environmental (primarily DBG) 18 208 930 All other, net (516 ) (598 ) (320 ) Prior years, other than accretion of discount $ (656 ) $ (53 ) $ 4,680 Calendar Year Accident Year (in millions) 2007 2006 2005 Prior Accident Year Development by Accident Year: 2006 $ (1,248 ) 2005 (446 ) $ (1,576 ) 2004 (428 ) (511 ) $ (3,853 ) 2003 37 (212 ) (63 ) 2002 234 373 1,360 2001 263 29 1,749 2000 321 338 1,323 1999 47 382 944 1998 154 41 605 1997 & Prior 410 1,083 2,615 Prior years, other than accretion of discount $ (656 ) $ (53 ) $ 4,680 In determining the loss development from prior accident years, AIG conducts analyses to determine the change in estimated ultimate loss for each accident year for each profit center. For example, if loss emergence for a profit center is different than expected for certain accident years, the actuaries examine the indicated effect such emergence would have on the reserves of that profit center. In some cases, the higher or lower than expected emergence may result in no clear change in the ultimate loss estimate for the accident years in question, and no adjustment would be made to the profit centers reserves for prior accident years. In other cases, the higher or lower than expected emergence may result in a larger change, either favorable or unfavorable, than the difference between the actual and expected loss emergence. Such additional analyses were conducted for each profit center, as appropriate, in 2007 to determine the loss development from prior accident years for 2007. As part of its reserving process, AIG also considers notices of claims received with respect to emerging issues, such as those related to the U.S. mortgage and housing market. The loss ratios recorded by AIG in 2006 took into account the results of the comprehensive reserve reviews that were completed in the fourth quarter of 2005. AIGs year end 2005 reserve review reflected careful consideration of the reserve analyses prepared by AIGs internal actuarial staff with the assistance of third party AIG 2007 Form 10 K 49 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continued actuaries. In determining the appropriate loss ratios for accident year 2006 for each class of business, AIG gave consideration to the loss ratios resulting from the 2005 reserve analyses as well as all other relevant information including rate changes, expected changes in loss costs, changes in coverage, reinsurance or mix of business, and other factors that may affect the loss ratios. 2007 Net Loss Development In 2007, net loss development from prior accident years was favorable by approximately $656 million, including approximately $88 million of adverse development from Transatlantic; and excluding approximately $327 million from accretion of loss reserve discount. Excluding Transatlantic, as well as accretion of discount, net loss development in 2007 from prior accident years was favorable by approximately $744 million. The overall favorable development of $656 million consisted of approximately $2.12 billion of favorable development from accident years 2004 through 2006, partially offset by approximately $1.43 billion of adverse development from accident years 2002 and prior and $37 million of adverse development from accident year 2003. In 2007, most classes of AIGs business continued to experience favorable development for accident years 2004 through 2006. The majority of the adverse development from accident years 2002 and prior was related to development from excess casualty and primary workers compensation business within DBG and from Transatlantic. The development from accident year 2003 was primarily related to adverse development from excess casualty and primary workers compensation business within DBG offset by favorable development from most other classes of business. The overall favorable development of $656 million includes approximately $305 million pertaining to the D&O and related management liability classes of business within DBG, consisting of approximately $335 million of favorable development from accident years 2003 through 2006, partially offset by approximately $30 million of adverse development from accident years 2002 and prior. The overall favorable development of $656 million also includes approximately $300 million of adverse development from primary workers compensation business within DBG. See Volatility of Reserve Estimates and Sensitivity Analyses below. 2006 Net Loss Development In 2006, net loss development from prior accident years was favorable by approximately $53 million, including approximately $198 million in net adverse development from asbestos and environmental reserves resulting from the updated ground up analysis of these exposures in the fourth quarter of 2006; approximately $103 million of adverse development pertaining to the major hurricanes in 2004 and 2005; and $181 million of adverse development from Transatlantic; and excluding approximately $300 million from accretion of loss reserve discount. Excluding the fourth quarter asbestos and environmental reserve increase, catastrophes and Transatlantic, as well as accretion of discount, net loss development in 2006 from prior accident years was favorable by approximately $535 million. The overall favorable development of $53 million consisted of approximately $2.30 billion of favorable development from accident years 2003 through 2005, partially offset by approximately $2.25 billion of adverse development from accident years 2002 and prior. In 2006, most classes of AIGs business continued to experience favorable development for accident years 2003 through 2005. The adverse development from accident years 2002 and prior reflected development from excess casualty, workers compensation, excess workers compensation, and post 1986 environmental liability classes of business, all within DBG, from asbestos reserves within DBG and Foreign General Insurance, and from Transatlantic. 2005 Net Loss Development In 2005, net loss development from prior accident years was adverse by approximately $4.68 billion, including approximately $269 million from Transatlantic. This $4.68 billion adverse development in 2005 was comprised of approximately $8.60 billion for the 2002 and prior accident years, partially offset by favorable development for accident years 2003 and 2004 for most classes of business, with the notable exception of D&O. The adverse loss development for 2002 and prior accident years was attributable to approximately $4.0 billion of development from the D&O and related management liability classes of business, excess casualty, and excess workers compensation, and to approximately $900 million of adverse development from asbestos and environmental claims. The remaining portion of the adverse development from 2002 and prior accident years included approximately $520 million related to Transatlantic with the balance spread across many other classes of business. Most classes of business produced favorable development for accident years 2003 and 2004, and adverse development for accident years 2001 and prior. Net Loss Development by Class of Business The following is a discussion of the primary reasons for the development in 2007, 2006 and 2005 for those classes of business that experienced significant prior accident year developments during the three year period. See Asbestos and Environmental Reserves below for a further discussion of asbestos and environmental reserves and developments. Excess Casualty: Excess Casualty reserves experienced significant adverse loss development in 2005, but there was only a relatively minor amount of adverse development in 2006 and 2007. The adverse development for all periods shown related principally to accident years 2002 and prior, and resulted from significant loss cost increases due to both frequency and severity of claims. The increase in loss costs resulted primarily from medical inflation, which increased the economic loss component of tort claims, advances in medical care, which extended the life span of severely injured claimants, and larger jury verdicts, which increased the value of severe tort claims. An additional factor affecting AIGs excess casualty experience in recent years has been the accelerated exhaustion of underlying primary policies for homebuilders. This has led to increased construction defect related claims activity on AIGs excess policies. Many excess casualty policies were written on a multi year basis in the late 50 AIG 2007 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 1990s, which limited AIGs ability to respond to emerging market trends as rapidly as would otherwise be the case. In subsequent years, AIG responded to these emerging trends by increasing rates and implementing numerous policy form and coverage changes. This led to a significant improvement in experience beginning with accident year 2001. In 2007, a significant portion of the adverse development from accident years 2002 and prior also related to other latent exposures, including pharmaceutical and product aggregate related exposures as well as the construction defect exposures noted above. AIGs exposure to these latent exposures was sharply reduced after 2002 due to significant changes in policy terms and conditions as well as underwriting guidelines. For the year end 2005 loss reserve review, AIGs actuaries responded to the continuing adverse development by further increasing the loss development factors applicable to accident years 1999 and subsequent by approximately 5 percent. In addition, to more accurately estimate losses for construction defect related claims, a separate review was performed by AIG claims staff for accounts with significant exposure to these claims. For the year end 2006 loss reserve review, AIG claims staff updated the separate review for accounts with significant exposure to construction defect related claims in order to assist the actuaries in determining the proper reserve for this exposure. AIGs actuaries determined that no significant changes in the assumptions were required. Prior accident year loss development in 2006 was adverse by approximately $100 million, a relatively minor amount for this class of business. However, AIG continued to experience adverse development for this class for accident years prior to 2003. For the year end 2007 loss reserve review, AIG claims staff updated its review of accounts with significant exposure to construction defect related claims. AIGs actuaries determined that no significant changes in the assumptions were required. Prior accident year loss developments in 2007 were adverse by approximately $75 million, a minor amount for this class of business. However, AIG continued to experience adverse development in this class for accident years 2002 and prior, amounting to approximately $450 million in 2007. In addition, loss reserves developed adversely for accident year 2003 by approximately $100 million in 2007 for this class. The loss ratio for accident year 2003 remains very favorable for this class and has been relatively stable over the past several years. Favorable developments in 2007 for accident years 2004 through 2006 largely offset the adverse developments from accident years 2003 and prior. A significant portion of the adverse development from accident years 2002 and prior related to the latent exposures described above. Loss reserves pertaining to the excess casualty class of business are generally included in the other liability occurrence line of business, with a small portion of the excess casualty reserves included in the other liability claims made line of business, as presented in the table above. D&O and Related Management Liability Classes of Business: These classes of business experienced significant adverse development in 2005, but experienced slightly favorable development in 2006 and more significantly favorable development in 2007. The adverse development in 2005 related principally to accident years 2002 and prior. This adverse development resulted from significant loss cost escalation due to a variety of factors, including the following: the increase in frequency and severity of corporate bankruptcies; the increase in frequency of financial statement restatements; the sharp rise in market capitalization of publicly traded companies; and the increase in the number of initial public offerings, which led to an unprecedented number of IPO allocation/laddering suits in 2001. In addition, extensive utilization of multi year policies during this period limited AIGs ability to respond to emerging trends as rapidly as would otherwise be the case. AIG experienced significant adverse loss development during the period 2002 through 2005 as a result of these issues. AIG responded to this development with rate increases and policy form and coverage changes to better contain future loss costs in this class of business. For the year end 2005 loss reserve review, AIGs actuaries responded to the continuing adverse development by further increasing the loss development factor assumptions. The loss development factors applicable to 1997 and subsequent accident years were increased by approximately 4 percent. In addition, AIGs actuaries began to give greater weight to loss development methods for accident years 2002 and 2003, in order to more fully respond to the recent loss experience. AIGs claims staff also conducted a series of ground up claim projections covering all open claims for this business through accident year 2004. AIGs actuaries benchmarked the loss reserve indications for all accident years through 2004 to these claim projections. For the year end 2006 loss reserve review, AIGs actuaries determined that no significant changes in the assumptions were required. Prior accident year loss development in 2006 was favorable by approximately $20 million, an insignificant amount for these classes. AIGs actuaries continued to benchmark the loss reserve indications to the ground up claim projections provided by AIG claims staff for this class of business. For the year end 2006 loss reserve review, the ground up claim projections included all accident years through 2005. For the year end 2007 loss reserve review, AIGs actuaries determined that no significant changes in the assumptions were required. Prior accident year reserve development in 2007 was favorable by approximately $305 million, due primarily to favorable development from accident years 2004 and 2005, and to a lesser extent 2003 and 2006. AIGs actuaries continued to benchmark the loss reserve indications to the ground up claim projections provided by AIG claims staff for this class of business. For the year end 2007 loss reserve review, the ground up claim projections included all accident years through 2006, and included stock options backdating related exposures from accident year 2006. Accident year 2006 reserves developed favorably notwithstanding the effect of claims relating to stock options backdating, which totaled approximately $300 million. Further, AIG is closely monitoring claims activity in accident year 2007 relating to the U.S. residential mortgage market, consistent with the manner in which claims relating to stock options backdating were monitored AIG 2007 Form 10 K 51 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continued in 2006, and believes that its reserves as of December 31, 2007 are adequate for its D&O and related management liability classes of business. Loss reserves pertaining to D&O and related management liability classes of business are included in the other liability claims made line of business, as presented in the table above. Excess Workers Compensation: This class of business experienced significant adverse development in 2005, a relatively minor amount of adverse development in 2006, and a minor amount of favorable development in 2007. The adverse development in 2005 related to 2002 and prior accident years. This adverse development resulted primarily from significant loss cost increases, primarily attributable to rapidly increasing medical inflation and advances in medical care, which increased the cost of covered medical care and extended the life span of severely injured workers. The effect of these factors on excess workers compensation claims experience is leveraged, as frequency is increased by the rising number of claims that reach the excess layers. In response to the significantly adverse loss development in 2005, an additional study was conducted for the 2005 year end actuarial reserve analysis for DBG pertaining to the selection of loss development factors for this class of business. Claims for excess workers compensation exhibit an exceptionally long tail of loss development, running for decades from the date the loss is incurred. Thus, the adequacy of loss reserves for this class is sensitive to the estimated loss development factors, as such factors may be applied to many years of loss experience. In order to better estimate the tail development for this class, AIG claims staff conducted a claim by claim projection of the expected ultimate paid loss for each open claim for 1998 and prior accident years as these are the primary years from which the tail factors are derived. The objective of the study was to provide a benchmark against which loss development factors in the tail could be evaluated. The resulting loss development factors utilized by the actuaries in the year end 2005 study reflected an increase of approximately 18 percent from the factors used in the prior year study without the benefit of the claims benchmark. In addition, the loss cost trend assumption for excess workers compensation was increased from approximately 2.5 percent to 6 percent for the 2005 study. For the year end 2006 loss reserve review, AIG claims staff updated the claim by claim projection for each open claim for accident years 1999 and prior. These updated claims projections were utilized by the actuaries as a benchmark for loss development factors in the year end 2006 study. AIGs actuaries determined that no significant changes in the assumptions were required. Prior accident year development in 2006 was adverse by approximately $70 million, a relatively minor amount for this class. For the year end 2007 loss reserve review, AIG claims staff again updated the claim by claim projection for each open claim for accident years 2000 and prior. These updated claims projections were utilized by the actuaries as a benchmark for loss development factors in the year end 2007 study. AIGs actuaries determined that no significant changes in the assumptions were required. Prior accident year development in 2007 was favorable by approximately $15 million, an insignificant amount for this class. Overview of Loss Reserving Process The General Insurance loss reserves can generally be categorized into two distinct groups. One group is short tail classes of business consisting principally of property, personal lines and certain casualty classes. The other group is long tail casualty classes of business which includes excess and umbrella liability, D&O, professional liability, medical malpractice, workers compensation, general liability, products liability, and related classes. Short Tail Reserves For operations writing short tail coverages, such as property coverages, the process of recording quarterly loss reserves is generally geared toward maintaining an appropriate reserve for the outstanding exposure, rather than determining an expected loss ratio for current business. For example, the IBNR reserve required for a class of property business might be expected to approximate 20 percent of the latest years earned premiums, and this level of reserve would generally be maintained regardless of the loss ratio emerging in the current quarter. The 20 percent factor would be adjusted to reflect changes in rate levels, loss reporting patterns, known exposure to unreported losses, or other factors affecting the particular class of business. Long Tail Reserves Estimation of ultimate net losses and loss expenses (net losses) for long tail casualty classes of business is a complex process and depends on a number of factors, including the class and volume of business involved. Experience in the more recent accident years of long tail casualty classes of business shows limited statistical credibility in reported net losses because a relatively low proportion of net losses would be reported claims and expenses and an even smaller percentage would be net losses paid. Therefore, IBNR would constitute a relatively high proportion of net losses. AIGs carried net long tail loss reserves are tested using loss trend factors that AIG considers appropriate for each class of business. A variety of actuarial methods and assumptions is normally employed to estimate net losses for long tail casualty classes of businesses. These methods ordinarily involve the use of loss trend factors intended to reflect the annual growth in loss costs from one accident year to the next. For the majority of long tail casualty classes of business, net loss trend factors approximated five percent. Loss trend factors reflect many items including changes in claims handling, exposure and policy forms, current and future estimates of monetary inflation and social inflation and increases in litigation and awards. These factors are periodically reviewed and adjusted, as appropriate, to reflect emerging trends which are based upon past loss experience. Thus, many factors are implicitly considered in estimating the year to year growth in loss costs. 52 AIG 2007 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries A number of actuarial assumptions are generally made in the review of reserves for each class of business. For longer tail classes of business, actuarial assumptions generally are made with respect to the following: Loss trend factors which are used to establish expected loss ratios for subsequent accident years based on the projected loss ratio for prior accident years. Expected loss ratios for the latest accident year (i.e., accident year 2007 for the year end 2007 loss reserve analysis) and, in some cases for accident years prior to the latest accident year. The expected loss ratio generally reflects the projected loss ratio from prior accident years, adjusted for the loss trend (see above) and the effect of rate changes and other quantifiable factors on the loss ratio. For low frequency, high severity classes such as excess casualty, expected loss ratios generally are used for at least the three most recent accident years. Loss development factors which are used to project the reported losses for each accident year to an ultimate basis. Generally, the actual loss development factors observed from prior accident years would be used as a basis to determine the loss development factors for the subsequent accident years. AIG records quarterly changes in loss reserves for each of its many General Insurance classes of business. The overall change in AIGs loss reserves is based on the sum of these classes of business changes. For most long tail classes of business, the process of recording quarterly loss reserve changes involves determining the estimated current loss ratio for each class of coverage. This loss ratio is multiplied by the current quarters net earned premium for that class of coverage to determine the current accident quarters total estimated net incurred loss and loss expense. The change in loss reserves for the quarter for each class is thus the difference between the net incurred loss and loss expense, estimated as described above, and the net paid losses and loss expenses in the quarter. Also any change in estimated ultimate losses from prior accident years, either positive or negative, is reflected in the loss reserve for the current quarter. Details of the Loss Reserving Process The process of determining the current loss ratio for each class of business is based on a variety of factors. These include, but are not limited to, the following considerations: prior accident year and policy year loss ratios; rate changes; changes in coverage, reinsurance, or mix of business; and actual and anticipated changes in external factors affecting results, such as trends in loss costs or in the legal and claims environment. The current loss ratio for each class of business reflects input from actuarial, underwriting and claims staff and is intended to represent managements best estimate of the current loss ratio after reflecting all of the factors described above. At the close of each quarter, the assumptions underlying the loss ratios are reviewed to determine if the loss ratios based thereon remain appropriate. This process includes a review of the actual claims experience in the quarter, actual rate changes achieved, actual changes in coverage, reinsurance or mix of business, and changes in certain other factors that may affect the loss ratio. When this review suggests that the initially determined loss ratio is no longer appropriate, the loss ratio for current business is changed to reflect the revised assumptions. A comprehensive annual loss reserve review is completed in the fourth quarter of each year for each AIG general insurance subsidiary. These reviews are conducted in full detail for each class of business for each subsidiary, and thus consist of hundreds of individual analyses. The purpose of these reviews is to confirm the appropriateness of the reserves carried by each of the individual subsidiaries, and therefore of AIGs overall carried reserves. The reserve analysis for each class of business is performed by the actuarial personnel who are most familiar with that class of business. In completing these detailed actuarial reserve analyses, the actuaries are required to make numerous assumptions, including the selection of loss development factors and loss cost trend factors. They are also required to determine and select the most appropriate actuarial methods to employ for each business class. Additionally, they must determine the appropriate segmentation of data from which the adequacy of the reserves can be most accurately tested. In the course of these detailed reserve reviews a point estimate of the loss reserve is determined. The sum of these point estimates for each class of business for each subsidiary provides an overall actuarial point estimate of the loss reserve for that subsidiary. The ultimate process by which the actual carried reserves are determined considers both the actuarial point estimate and numerous other internal and external factors including a qualitative assessment of inflation and other economic conditions in the United States and abroad, changes in the legal, regulatory, judicial and social environment, underlying policy pricing, terms and conditions, and claims handling. Loss reserve development can also be affected by commutations of assumed and ceded reinsurance agreements. Actuarial Methods for Major Classes of Business In testing the reserves for each class of business, a determination is made by AIGs actuaries as to the most appropriate actuarial methods. This determination is based on a variety of factors including the nature of the claims associated with the class of business, such as frequency or severity. Other factors considered include the loss development characteristics associated with the claims, the volume of claim data available for the applicable class, and the applicability of various actuarial methods to the class. In addition to determining the actuarial methods, the actuaries determine the appropriate loss reserve groupings of data. For example, AIG writes a great number of unique subclasses of professional liability. For pricing or other purposes, it is appropriate to evaluate the profitability of each subclass individually. However, for purposes of estimating the loss reserves for professional liability, it is appropriate to combine the subclasses into larger groups. The greater degree of credibility in the claims experience of the larger groups may outweigh the greater degree of homogeneity of the individual subclasses. This determination of data segmentation and actuarial methods is carefully considered for each class of business. The segmentation and actuarial methods chosen are those which together are expected to produce the most accurate estimate of the loss reserves. AIG 2007 Form 10 K 53 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continued Actuarial methods used by AIG for most long tail casualty classes of business include loss development methods and expected loss ratio methods, including Bornhuetter Ferguson methods described below. Other methods considered include frequency/severity methods, although these are generally used by AIG more for pricing analysis than for loss reserve analysis. Loss development methods utilize the actual loss development patterns from prior accident years to project the reported losses to an ultimate basis for subsequent accident years. Loss development methods generally are most appropriate for classes of business which exhibit a stable pattern of loss development from one accident year to the next, and for which the components of the classes have similar development characteristics. For example, property exposures would generally not be combined into the same class as casualty exposures, and primary casualty exposures would generally not be combined into the same class as excess casualty exposures. Expected loss ratio methods are generally utilized by AIG where the reported loss data lacks sufficient credibility to utilize loss development methods, such as for new classes of business or for long tail classes at early stages of loss development. Expected loss ratio methods rely on the application of an expected loss ratio to the earned premium for the class of business to determine the loss reserves. For example, an expected loss ratio of 70 percent applied to an earned premium base of $10 million for a class of business would generate an ultimate loss estimate of $7 million. Subtracting any reported paid losses and loss expense would result in the indicated loss reserve for this class. Bornhuetter Ferguson methods are expected loss ratio methods for which the expected loss ratio is applied only to the expected unreported portion of the losses. For example, for a long tail class of business for which only 10 percent of the losses are expected to be reported at the end of the accident year, the expected loss ratio would be applied to the 90 percent of the losses still unreported. The actual reported losses at the end of the accident year would be added to determine the total ultimate loss estimate for the accident year. Subtracting the reported paid losses and loss expenses would result in the indicated loss reserve. In the example above, the expected loss ratio of 70 percent would be multiplied by 90 percent. The result of 63 percent would be applied to the earned premium of $10 million resulting in an estimated unreported loss of $6.3 million. Actual reported losses would be added to arrive at the total ultimate losses. If the reported losses were $1 million, the ultimate loss estimate under the Bornhuetter Ferguson method would be $7.3 million versus the $7 million amount under the expected loss ratio method described above. Thus, the Bornhuetter Ferguson method gives partial credibility to the actual loss experience to date for the class of business. Loss development methods generally give full credibility to the reported loss experience to date. In the example above, loss development methods would typically indicate an ultimate loss estimate of $10 million, as the reported losses of $1 million would be estimated to reflect only 10 percent of the ultimate losses. A key advantage of loss development methods is that they respond quickly to any actual changes in loss costs for the class of business. Therefore, if loss experience is unexpectedly deteriorating or improving, the loss development method gives full credibility to the changing experience. Expected loss ratio methods would be slower to respond to the change, as they would continue to give more weight to the expected loss ratio, until enough evidence emerged for the expected loss ratio to be modified to reflect the changing loss experience. On the other hand, loss development methods have the disadvantage of overreacting to changes in reported losses if in fact the loss experience is not credible. For example, the presence or absence of large losses at the early stages of loss development could cause the loss development method to overreact to the favorable or unfavorable experience by assuming it will continue at later stages of development. In these instances, expected loss ratio methods such as Bornhuetter Ferguson have the advantage of properly recognizing large losses without extrapolating unusual large loss activity onto the unreported portion of the losses for the accident year. AIGs loss reserve reviews for long tail classes typically utilize a combination of both loss development and expected loss ratio methods. Loss development methods are generally given more weight for accident years and classes of business where the loss experience is highly credible. Expected loss ratio methods are given more weight where the reported loss experience is less credible, or is driven more by large losses. Expected loss ratio methods require sufficient information to determine the appropriate expected loss ratio. This information generally includes the actual loss ratios for prior accident years, and rate changes as well as underwriting or other changes which would affect the loss ratio. Further, an estimate of the loss cost trend or loss ratio trend is required in order to allow for the effect of inflation and other factors which may increase or otherwise change the loss costs from one accident year to the next. Frequency/severity methods generally rely on the determination of an ultimate number of claims and an average severity for each claim for each accident year. Multiplying the estimated ultimate number of claims for each accident year by the expected average severity of each claim produces the estimated ultimate loss for the accident year. Frequency/severity methods generally require a sufficient volume of claims in order for the average severity to be predictable. Average severity for subsequent accident years is generally determined by applying an estimated annual loss cost trend to the estimated average claim severity from prior accident years. Frequency/severity methods have the advantage that ultimate claim counts can generally be estimated more quickly and accurately than can ultimate losses. Thus, if the average claim severity can be accurately estimated, these methods can more quickly respond to changes in loss experience than other methods. However, for average severity to be predictable, the class of business must consist of homogeneous types of claims for which loss severity trends from one year to the next are reasonably consistent. Generally these methods work best for high frequency, low severity classes of business such as personal auto. AIG also utilizes these methods in pricing subclasses of professional liability. However, AIG does not generally utilize 54 AIG 2007 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries frequency/severity methods to test loss reserves, due to the general nature of AIGs reserves being applicable to lower frequency, higher severity commercial classes of business where average claim severity is volatile. Excess Casualty: AIG generally uses a combination of loss development methods and expected loss ratio methods for excess casualty classes. Expected loss ratio methods are generally utilized for at least the three latest accident years, due to the relatively low credibility of the reported losses. The loss experience is generally reviewed separately for lead umbrella classes and for other excess classes, due to the relatively shorter tail for lead umbrella business. Automobile related claims are generally reviewed separately from non auto claims, due to the shorter tail nature of the automobile related claims. The expected loss ratios utilized for recent accident years are based on the projected ultimate loss ratios of prior years, adjusted for rate changes, estimated loss cost trends and all other changes that can be quantified. The estimated loss cost trend utilized in the year end 2007 reviews averaged approximately five percent for excess casualty classes. Frequency/severity methods are generally not utilized as the vast majority of reported claims do not result in a claim payment. In addition, the average severity varies significantly from accident year to accident year due to large losses which characterize this class of business, as well as changing proportions of claims which do not result in a claim payment. D&O: AIG generally utilizes a combination of loss development methods and expected loss ratio methods for D&O and related management liability classes of business. Expected loss ratio methods are given more weight in the two most recent accident years, whereas loss development methods are given more weight in more mature accident years. Beginning with the year end 2005 loss reserve review, AIGs actuaries began to utilize claim projections provided by AIG claims staff as a benchmark for determining the indicated ultimate losses for accident years 2004 and prior. For the year end 2007 loss reserve review, claims projections for accident years 2006 and prior were utilized. In prior years, AIGs actuaries had utilized these claims projections as a benchmark for profitability studies for major classes of D&O and related management liability business. The track record of these claims projections has indicated a very low margin of error, thus providing support for their usage as a benchmark in determining the estimated loss reserve. These classes of business reflect claims made coverage, and losses are characterized by low frequency and high severity. Thus, the claim projections can produce an accurate overall indicator of the ultimate loss exposure for these classes by identifying and estimating all large losses. Frequency/severity methods are generally not utilized for these classes as the overall losses are driven by large losses more than by claim frequency. Severity trends have varied significantly from accident year to accident year. Workers Compensation: AIG generally utilizes loss development methods for all but the most recent accident year. Expected loss ratio methods generally are given significant weight only in the most recent accident year. Workers compensation claims are generally characterized by high frequency, low severity, and relatively consistent loss development from one accident year to the next. AIG is a leading writer of workers compensation, and thus has sufficient volume of claims experience to utilize development methods. AIG does not believe frequency/severity methods are as appropriate, due to significant growth and changes in AIGs workers compensation business over the years. AIG generally segregates California business from other business in evaluating workers compensation reserves. Certain classes of workers compensation, such as construction, are also evaluated separately. Additionally, AIG writes a number of very large accounts which include workers compensation coverage. These accounts are generally priced by AIG actuaries, and to the extent appropriate, the indicated losses based on the pricing analysis may be utilized to record the initial estimated loss reserves for these accounts. Excess Workers Compensation: AIG generally utilizes a combination of loss development methods and expected loss ratio methods. Loss development methods are given the greater weight for mature accident years such as 2001 and prior. Expected loss ratio methods are given the greater weight for the more recent accident years. Excess workers compensation is an extremely long tail class of business, with loss emergence extending for decades. Therefore there is limited credibility in the reported losses for many of the more recent accident years. Beginning with the year end 2005 loss reserve review, AIGs actuaries began to utilize claims projections provided by AIG claims staff to help determine the loss development factors for this class of business. General Liability: AIG generally uses a combination of loss development methods and expected loss ratio methods for primary general liability or products liability classes. For certain classes of business with sufficient loss volume, loss development methods may be given significant weight for all but the most recent one or two accident years, whereas for smaller or more volatile classes of business, loss development methods may be given limited weight for the five or more most recent accident years. Expected loss ratio methods would be utilized for the more recent accident years for these classes. The loss experience for primary general liability business is generally reviewed at a level that is believed to provide the most appropriate data for reserve analysis. For example, primary claims made business is generally segregated from business written on an occurrence policy form. Additionally, certain subclasses, such as construction, are generally reviewed separately from business in other subclasses. Due to the fairly long tail nature of general liability business, and the many subclasses that are reviewed individually, there is less credibility in the reported losses and increased reliance on expected loss ratio methods. AIGs actuaries generally do not utilize frequency/severity methods to test reserves for this business, due to significant changes and growth in AIGs general liability and products liability business over the years. Commercial Automobile Liability: AIG generally utilizes loss development methods for all but the most recent accident year for commercial automobile classes of business. Expected loss ratio methods are generally given significant weight only in the most recent accident year. Frequency/severity methods are generally AIG 2007 Form 10 K 55 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continued not utilized due to significant changes and growth in this business over the years. Healthcare: AIG generally uses a combination of loss development methods and expected loss ratio methods for healthcare classes of business. The largest component of the healthcare business consists of coverage written for hospitals and other healthcare facilities. Reserves for excess coverage are tested separately from those for primary coverage. For primary coverages, loss development methods are generally given the majority of the weight for all but the latest three accident years, and are given some weight for all years other than the latest accident year. For excess coverages, expected loss methods are generally given all the weight for the latest three accident years, and are also given considerable weight for accident years prior to the latest three years. For other classes of healthcare coverage, an analogous weighting between loss development and expected loss ratio methods is utilized. The weights assigned to each method are those which are believed to result in the best combination of responsiveness and stability. Frequency/severity methods are sometimes utilized for pricing certain healthcare accounts or business. However, in testing loss reserves the business is generally combined into larger groupings to enhance the credibility of the loss experience. The frequency/severity methods that are applicable in pricing may not be appropriate for reserve testing and thus frequency/severity methods are not generally employed in AIGs healthcare reserve analyses. Professional Liability: AIG generally uses a combination of loss development methods and expected loss ratio methods for professional liability classes of business. Loss development methods are used for the more mature accident years. Greater weight is given to expected loss ratio methods in the more recent accident years. Reserves are tested separately for claims made classes and classes written on occurrence policy forms. Further segmentations are made in a manner believed to provide an appropriate balance between credibility and homogeneity of the data. Frequency/severity methods are used in pricing and profitability analyses for some classes of professional liability; however, for loss reserve testing, the need to enhance credibility generally results in classes that are not sufficiently homogenous to utilize frequency/severity methods. Catastrophic Casualty: AIG utilizes expected loss ratio methods for all accident years for catastrophic casualty business. This class of business consists of casualty or financial lines coverage which attaches in excess of very high attachment points; thus the claims experience is marked by very low frequency and high severity. Because of the limited number of claims, loss development methods are not utilized. The expected loss ratios and loss development assumptions utilized are based upon the results of prior accident years for this business as well as for similar classes of business written above lower attachment points. The business is generally written on a claims made basis. AIG utilizes ground up claim projections provided by AIG claims staff to assist in developing the appropriate reserve. Aviation: AIG generally uses a combination of loss development methods and expected loss ratio methods for aviation exposures. Aviation claims are not very long tail in nature; however, they are driven by claim severity. Thus a combination of both development and expected loss ratio methods are used for all but the latest accident year to determine the loss reserves. Expected loss ratio methods are used to determine the loss reserves for the latest accident year. Frequency/severity methods are not employed due to the high severity nature of the claims and different mix of claims from year to year. Personal Auto (Domestic): AIG generally utilizes frequency/severity methods and loss development methods for domestic personal auto classes. For many classes of business, greater reliance is placed on frequency/severity methods as claim counts emerge quickly for personal auto and allow for more immediate analysis of resulting loss trends and comparisons to industry and other diagnostic metrics. Fidelity/ Surety: AIG generally uses loss development methods for fidelity exposures for all but the latest accident year. Expected loss ratio methods are also given weight for the more recent accident years, and for the latest accident year they may be given 100 percent weight. For surety exposures, AIG generally uses the same method as for short tail classes. Mortgage Guaranty: AIG tests mortgage guaranty reserves using loss development methods, supplemented by an internal claim analysis by actuaries and staff who specialize in the mortgage guaranty business. The claim analysis projects ultimate losses for claims within each of several categories of delinquency based on actual historical experience and is essentially a frequency/severity analysis for each category of delinquency. Additional reserve tests using Bornhuetter Ferguson methods are also employed, as well as tests measuring losses as a percent of risk in force. Reserves are reviewed separately for each class of business to consider the loss development characteristics associated with the claims, the volume of claim data available for the applicable class and the applicability of various actuarial methods to the class. Short Tail Classes: AIG generally uses either loss development methods or IBNR factor methods to set reserves for short tail classes such as property coverages. Where a factor is used, it generally represents a percent of earned premium or other exposure measure. The factor is determined based on prior accident year experience. For example, the IBNR for a class of property coverage might be expected to approximate 20 percent of the latest years earned premium. The factor is continually reevaluated in light of emerging claim experience as well as rate changes or other factors that could affect the adequacy of the IBNR factor being employed. International: Business written by AIGs Foreign General Insurance sub segment includes both long tail and short tail classes of business. For long tail classes of business, the actuarial methods utilized would be analogous to those described above. However, the majority of business written by Foreign General Insurance is short tail, high frequency and low severity in nature. For this business, loss development methods are generally employed to 56 AIG 2007 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries test the loss reserves. AIG maintains a data base of detailed historical premium and loss transactions in original currency for business written by Foreign General Insurance, thereby allowing AIG actuaries to determine the current reserves without any distortion from changes in exchange rates over time. In testing the Foreign General Insurance reserves, AIGs actuaries segment the data by region, country or class of business as appropriate to determine an optimal balance between homogeneity and credibility. Loss Adjustment Expenses: AIG determines reserves for legal defense and cost containment loss adjustment expenses for each class of business by one or more actuarial methods. The methods generally include development methods analogous to those described for loss development methods. The developments could be based on either the paid loss adjustment expenses or the ratio of paid loss adjustment expenses to paid losses, or both. Other methods include the utilization of expected ultimate ratios of paid loss expense to paid losses, based on actual experience from prior accident years or from similar classes of business. AIG generally determines reserves for adjuster loss adjustment expenses based on calendar year ratios of adjuster expenses paid to losses paid for the particular class of business. AIG generally determines reserves for other unallocated loss adjustment expenses based on the ratio of the calendar year expenses paid to overall losses paid. This determination is generally done for all classes of business combined, and reflects costs of home office claim overhead as a percent of losses paid. Catastrophes: Special analyses are conducted by AIG in response to major catastrophes in order to estimate AIGs gross and net loss and loss expense liability from the events. These analyses may include a combination of approaches, including modeling estimates, ground up claim analysis, loss evaluation reports from on site field adjusters, and market share estimates. AIGs loss reserve analyses do not calculate a range of loss reserve estimates. Because a large portion of the loss reserves from AIGs General Insurance business relates to longer tail casualty classes of business driven by severity rather than frequency of claims, such as excess casualty and D&O, developing a range around loss reserve estimates would not be meaningful. Using the reserving methodologies described above, AIGs actuaries determine their best estimate of the required reserve and advise Management of that amount. AIG then adjusts its aggregate carried reserves as necessary so that the actual carried reserves as of December 31 reflect this best estimate. Volatility of Reserve Estimates and Sensitivity Analyses As described above, AIG uses numerous assumptions in determining its best estimate of reserves for each class of business. The importance of any specific assumption can vary by both class of business and accident year. If actual experience differs from key assumptions used in establishing reserves, there is potential for significant variation in the development of loss reserves, particularly for long tail casualty classes of business such as excess casualty, D&O or workers compensation. Set forth below is a sensitivity analysis that estimates the effect on the loss reserve position of using alternative loss trend or loss development factor assumptions rather than those actually used in determining AIGs best estimates in the year end loss reserve analyses in 2007. The analysis addresses each major class of business for which a material deviation to AIGs overall reserve position is believed reasonably possible, and uses what AIG believes is a reasonably likely range of potential deviation for each class. There can be no assurance, however, that actual reserve development will be consistent with either the original or the adjusted loss trend or loss development factor assumptions, or that other assumptions made in the reserving process will not materially affect reserve development for a particular class of business. Excess Casualty: For the excess casualty class of business, the assumed loss cost trend was approximately five percent. After evaluating the historical loss cost trends from prior accident years since the early 1990s, in AIGs judgment, it is reasonably likely that actual loss cost trends applicable to the year end 2007 loss reserve review for excess casualty will range from negative five percent to positive 15 percent, or approximately ten percent lower or higher than the assumption actually utilized in the year end 2007 reserve review. A ten percent change in the assumed loss cost trend for excess casualty would cause approximately a $2.4 billion increase or a $1.6 billion decrease in the net loss and loss expense reserve for this class of business. It should be emphasized that the ten percent deviations are not considered the highest possible deviations that might be expected, but rather what is considered by AIG to reflect a reasonably likely range of potential deviation. Actual loss cost trends in the early 1990s were negative for several years, including amounts below the negative five percent cited above, whereas actual loss cost trends in the late 1990s ran well into the double digits for several years, including amounts greater than the 15 percent cited above. Thus, there can be no assurance that loss trends will not deviate by more than ten percent. The loss cost trend assumption is critical for the excess casualty class of business due the long tail nature of the claims and therefore is applied across many accident years. For the excess casualty class of business, the assumed loss development factors are also a key assumption. After evaluating the historical loss development factors from prior accident years since the early 1990s, in AIGs judgment, it is reasonably likely that actual loss development factors will range from approximately 3.5 percent below those actually utilized in the year end 2007 reserve review to approximately 6.5 percent above those factors actually utilized. If the loss development factor assumptions were changed by 3.5 percent and 6.5 percent, respectively, the net loss reserves for the excess casualty class would decrease by approximately $600 million under the lower assumptions or increase by approximately $1.0 billion under the higher assumptions. Generally, actual historical loss development factors are used to project future loss development. However there can be no assurance that future loss development patterns will be the same as in the past, or that they will not deviate by more than the amounts illustrated above. Moreover, as excess casualty is a long tail class of business, any deviation in loss cost trends or in loss development factors might not be discernible for an extended AIG 2007 Form 10 K 57 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continued period of time subsequent to the recording of the initial loss reserve estimates for any accident year. Thus, there is the potential for the reserves with respect to a number of accident years to be significantly affected by changes in the loss cost trends or loss development factors that were initially relied upon in setting the reserves. These changes in loss trends or loss development factors could be attributable to changes in inflation or in the judicial environment, or in other social or economic conditions affecting claims. Thus, there is the potential for variations greater than the amounts cited above, either positively or negatively. D&O and Related Management Liability Classes of Business: For D&O and related management liability classes of business, the assumed loss cost trend was approximately four percent. After evaluating the historical loss cost trends from prior accident years since the early 1990s, in AIGs judgment, it is reasonably likely that actual loss cost trends applicable to the year end 2007 loss reserve review for these classes will range from negative 11 percent to positive 19 percent, or approximately 15 percent lower or higher than the assumption actually utilized in the year end 2007 reserve review. A 15 percent change in the assumed loss cost trend for these classes would cause approximately a $550 million increase or a $500 million decrease in the net loss and loss expense reserves for these classes of business. It should be emphasized that the 15 percent deviations are not considered the highest possible deviations that might be expected, but rather what is considered by AIG to reflect a reasonably likely range of potential deviation. Actual loss cost trends for these classes in the early 1990s were negative for several years, including amounts below the negative 11 percent cited above, whereas actual loss cost trends in the late 1990s ran at nearly 50 percent per year for several years, vastly exceeding the 19 percent figure cited above. Because the D&O class of business has exhibited highly volatile loss trends from one accident year to the next, there is the possibility of an exceptionally high deviation. For D&O and related management liability classes of business, the assumed loss development factors are also an important assumption but less critical than for excess casualty. Because these classes are written on a claims made basis, the loss reporting and development tail is much shorter than for excess casualty. However, the high severity nature of the claims does create the potential for significant deviations in loss development patterns from one year to the next. After evaluating the historical loss development factors for these classes of business for accident years since the early 1990s, in AIGs judgment, it is reasonably likely that actual loss development factors will range approximately 6 percent lower to 3.5 percent higher than those factors actually utilized in the year end 2007 loss reserve review for these classes. If the loss development factor assumptions were changed by 6 percent and 3.5 percent, respectively, the net loss reserves for these classes would be estimated to decrease or increase by approximately $250 million and $125 million, respectively. As noted above for excess casualty, actual historical loss development factors are generally used to project future loss development. However, there can be no assurance that future loss development patterns will be the same as in the past, or that they will not deviate by more than the 6 percent or 3.5 percent amounts. Excess Workers Compensation: For excess workers compensation business, loss costs were trended at six percent per annum. After reviewing actual industry loss trends for the past ten years, in AIGs judgment, it is reasonably likely that actual loss cost trends applicable to the year end 2007 loss reserve review for excess workers compensation will range five percent lower or higher than this estimated loss trend. A five percent change in the assumed loss cost trend would cause approximately a $425 million increase or a $275 million decrease in the net loss reserves for this business. It should be emphasized that the actual loss cost trend could vary significantly from this assumption, and there can be no assurance that actual loss costs will not deviate, perhaps materially, by greater than five percent. For excess workers compensation business, the assumed loss development factors are a critical assumption. Excess workers compensation is an extremely long tail class of business, with a much greater than normal uncertainty as to the appropriate loss development factors for the tail of the loss development. After evaluating the historical loss development factors for prior accident years since the 1980s, in AIGs judgment, it is reasonably likely that actual loss development factors will range approximately 15 percent lower or higher than those factors actually utilized in the year end 2007 loss reserve review for excess workers compensation. If the loss development factor assumptions were changed by 15 percent, the net loss reserves for excess workers compensation would increase or decrease by approximately $600 million. Given the exceptionally long tail for this class of business, there is the potential for actual deviations in the loss development tail to exceed the deviations assumed, perhaps materially. Primary Workers Compensation: For primary workers compensation, the loss cost trend assumption is not believed to be material with respect to AIGs loss reserves. This is primarily because AIGs actuaries are generally able to use loss development projections for all but the most recent accident years reserves, so there is limited need to rely on loss cost trend assumptions for primary workers compensation business. However, for primary workers compensation business the loss development factor assumptions are important. Generally, AIGs actual historical workers compensation loss development factors would be expected to provide a reasonably accurate predictor of future loss development. However, workers compensation is a long tail class of business, and AIGs business reflects a very significant volume of losses particularly in recent accident years due to growth of the business. After evaluating the actual historical loss developments since the 1980s for this business, in AIGs judgment, it is reasonably likely that actual loss development factors will fall within the range of approximately 3.5 percent below to 8.25 percent above those actually utilized in the year end 2007 loss reserve review. If the loss development factor assumptions were changed by 3.5 percent and 8.25 percent, respectively, the net loss reserves for workers compensation 58 AIG 2007 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries would decrease or increase by approximately $800 million and $1.9 billion, respectively. It should be noted that loss emergence in 2006 and 2007 for this class was higher than historical averages, resulting in an increase in loss reserves for prior accident years. During 2007, reserves from prior accident years developed adversely by approximately $300 million for AIGs primary workers compensation business. AIG relies on longer term averages of historical loss development patterns in setting loss reserves; thus if loss emergence in subsequent years continues at the levels observed in 2006 and 2007 there could be additional adverse development for this class of business that could be more significant than the amount observed in 2007. However, AIG believes it is too soon to ascertain if this increased emergence represents a new trend in the pattern of loss development. For this class of business, there can be no assurance that actual deviations from the expected loss development factors will not exceed the deviations assumed, perhaps materially. Other Casualty Classes of Business: For casualty business other than the classes discussed above, there is generally some potential for deviation in both the loss cost trend and loss development factor assumptions. However, the effect of such deviations is expected to be less material when compared to the effect on the classes cited above. Asbestos and Environmental Reserves The estimation of loss reserves relating to asbestos and environmental claims on insurance policies written many years ago is subject to greater uncertainty than other types of claims due to inconsistent court decisions as well as judicial interpretations and legislative actions that in some cases have tended to broaden coverage beyond the original intent of such policies and in others have expanded theories of liability. The insurance industry as a whole is engaged in extensive litigation over these coverage and liability issues and is thus confronted with a continuing uncertainty in its efforts to quantify these exposures. AIG continues to receive claims asserting injuries and damages from toxic waste, hazardous substances, and other environmental pollutants and alleged claims to cover the cleanup costs of hazardous waste dump sites, referred to collectively as environmental claims, and indemnity claims asserting injuries from asbestos. The vast majority of these asbestos and environmental claims emanate from policies written in 1984 and prior years. Commencing in 1985, standard policies contained an absolute exclusion for pollution related damage and an absolute asbestos exclusion was also implemented. The current environmental policies that AIG underwrites on a claims made basis have been excluded from the analysis herein. The majority of AIGs exposures for asbestos and environmental claims are excess casualty coverages, not primary coverages. Thus, the litigation costs are treated in the same manner as indemnity amounts. That is, litigation expenses are included within the limits of the liability AIG incurs. Individual significant claim liabilities, where future litigation costs are reasonably determinable, are established on a case by case basis. Estimation of asbestos and environmental claims loss reserves is a subjective process and reserves for asbestos and environmental claims cannot be estimated using conventional reserving techniques such as those that rely on historical accident year loss development factors. The methods used to determine asbestos and environmental loss estimates and to establish the resulting reserves are continually reviewed and updated by management. Significant factors which affect the trends that influence the asbestos and environmental claims estimation process are the court resolutions and judicial interpretations which broaden the intent of the policies and scope of coverage. The current case law can be characterized as still evolving, and there is little likelihood that any firm direction will develop in the near future. Additionally, the exposures for cleanup costs of hazardous waste dump sites involve issues such as allocation of responsibility among potentially responsible parties and the governments refusal to release parties from liability. Due to this uncertainty, it is not possible to determine the future development of asbestos and environmental claims with the same degree of reliability as with other types of claims. Such future development will be affected by the extent to which courts continue to expand the intent of the policies and the scope of the coverage, as they have in the past, as well as by the changes in Superfund and waste dump site coverage and liability issues. If the asbestos and environmental reserves develop deficiently, such deficiency would have an adverse effect on AIGs future results of operations. With respect to known asbestos and environmental claims, AIG established over a decade ago specialized toxic tort and environmental claims units, which investigate and adjust all such asbestos and environmental claims. These units evaluate these asbestos and environmental claims utilizing a claim by claim approach that involves a detailed review of individual policy terms and exposures. Because each policyholder presents different liability and coverage issues, AIG generally evaluates exposure on a policy by policy basis, considering a variety of factors such as known facts, current law, jurisdiction, policy language and other factors that are unique to each policy. Quantitative techniques have to be supplemented by subjective considerations, including management judgment. Each claim is reviewed at least semi annually utilizing the aforementioned approach and adjusted as necessary to reflect the current information. In both the specialized and dedicated asbestos and environmental claims units, AIG actively manages and pursues early resolution with respect to these claims in an attempt to mitigate its exposure to the unpredictable development of these claims. AIG attempts to mitigate its known long tail environmental exposures by utilizing a combination of proactive claim resolution techniques, including policy buybacks, complete environmental releases, compromise settlements, and, where indicated, litigation. With respect to asbestos claims handling, AIGs specialized claims staff operates to mitigate losses through proactive handling, supervision and resolution of asbestos cases. Thus, while AIG has resolved all claims with respect to miners and major manufacturers (Tier One), its claims staff continues to operate under the same proactive philosophy to resolve claims involving accounts with products containing asbestos (Tier Two), products AIG 2007 Form 10 K 59 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continued containing small amounts of asbestos, companies in the distribution process, and parties with remote, ill defined involvement in asbestos (Tiers Three and Four). Through its commitment to appropriate staffing, training, and management oversight of asbestos cases, AIG seeks to mitigate its exposure to these claims. To determine the appropriate loss reserve as of December 31, 2007 for its asbestos and environmental exposures, AIG performed a series of top down and ground up reserve analyses. In order to ensure it had the most comprehensive analysis possible, AIG engaged a third party actuary to assist in a review of these exposures, including ground up estimates for asbestos reserves consistent with the 2005 and 2006 reviews as well as a top down report year projection for environmental reserves. Prior to 2005, AIGs reserve analyses for asbestos and environmental exposures was focused around a report year projection of aggregate losses for both asbestos and environmental reserves. Additional tests such as market share analyses were also performed. Ground up analyses take into account policyholder specific and claim specific information that has been gathered over many years from a variety of sources. Ground up studies can thus more accurately assess the exposure to AIGs layers of coverage for each policyholder, and hence for all policyholders in the aggregate, provided a sufficient sample of the policyholders can be modeled in this manner. In order to ensure its ground up analysis was comprehensive, AIG staff produced the information required at policy and claim level detail for nearly 1,000 asbestos defendants. This represented over 95 percent of all accounts for which AIG had received any claim notice of any amount pertaining to asbestos exposure. AIG did not set any minimum thresholds, such as amount of case reserve outstanding, or paid losses to date, that would have served to reduce the sample size and hence the comprehensiveness of the ground up analysis. The results of the ground up analysis for each significant account were examined by AIGs claims staff for reasonableness, for consistency with policy coverage terms, and any claim settlement terms applicable. Adjustments were incorporated accordingly. The results from the universe of modeled accounts, which as noted above reflects the vast majority of AIGs known exposures, were then utilized to estimate the ultimate losses from accounts or exposures that could not be modeled and to determine an appropriate provision for unreported claims. AIG conducted a comprehensive analysis of reinsurance recoverability to establish the appropriate asbestos and environmental reserve net of reinsurance. AIG determined the amount of reinsurance that would be ceded to insolvent reinsurers or to commuted reinsurance contracts for both reported claims and for IBNR. These amounts were then deducted from the indicated amount of reinsurance recoverable. The year end 2007 analysis reflected an update to the comprehensive analysis of reinsurance recoverability that was first completed in 2005 and updated in 2006. All asbestos accounts for which there was a significant change in estimated losses in the 2007 review were analyzed to determine the appropriate reserve net of reinsurance. AIG also completed a top down report year projection of its indicated asbestos and environmental loss reserves. These projections consist of a series of tests performed separately for asbestos and for environmental exposures. For asbestos, these tests project the losses expected to be reported over the next nineteen years, i.e., from 2008 through 2026, based on the actual losses reported through 2007 and the expected future loss emergence for these claims. Three scenarios were tested, with a series of assumptions ranging from more optimistic to more conservative. In the first scenario, all carried asbestos case reserves are assumed to be within ten percent of their ultimate settlement value. The second scenario relies on an actuarial projection of report year development for asbestos claims reported from 1993 to the present to estimate case reserve adequacy as of year end 2007. The third scenario relies on an actuarial projection of report year claims for asbestos but reflects claims reported from 1989 to the present to estimate case reserve adequacy as of year end 2007. Based on the results of the prior report years for each of the three scenarios described above, the report year approach then projects forward to the year 2026 the expected future report year losses, based on AIGs estimate of reasonable loss trend assumptions. These calculations are performed on losses gross of reinsurance. The IBNR (including a provision for development of reported claims) on a net basis is based on applying a factor reflecting the expected ratio of net losses to gross losses for future loss emergence. For environmental claims, an analogous series of frequency/severity tests are produced. Environmental claims from future report years, (i.e., IBNR) are projected out nine years, i.e., through the year 2016. At year end 2007, AIG considered a number of factors and recent experience in addition to the results of the respective top down and ground up analyses performed for asbestos and environmental reserves. AIG considered the significant uncertainty that remains as to AIGs ultimate liability relating to asbestos and environmental claims. This uncertainty is due to several factors including: The long latency period between asbestos exposure and disease manifestation and the resulting potential for involvement of multiple policy periods for individual claims; The increase in the volume of claims by currently unimpaired plaintiffs; Claims filed under the non aggregate premises or operations section of general liability policies; The number of insureds seeking bankruptcy protection and the effect of prepackaged bankruptcies; Diverging legal interpretations; and With respect to environmental claims, the difficulty in estimating the allocation of remediation cost among various parties. After carefully considering the results of the ground up analysis, which AIG updates on an annual basis, as well as all of the above factors, including the recent report year experience, AIG increased its gross asbestos reserves by $75 million, all of which was reinsured, resulting in no increase to net reserves. Additionally, during 2007 a reduction in estimated reinsurance recoverable, partially offset by several large favorable asbestos settlements, resulted in a minor amount of adverse incurred loss development. Based on the environmental top down report year analysis performed in the fourth quarter of 2007, a minor increase in both gross and net reserves was recognized, resulting in the relatively minor amount of development shown in the table below. 60 AIG 2007 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries A summary of reserve activity, including estimates for applicable IBNR, relating to asbestos and environmental claims separately and combined at December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 appears in the table below. The vast majority of such claims arise from policies written in 1984 and prior years. The current environmental policies that AIG underwrites on a claims made basis have been excluded from the table below. 2007 2006 2005 (in millions) Gross Net Gross(e) Net Gross(e) Net Asbestos: Reserve for losses and loss expenses at beginning of year $ 4,523 $ 1,889 $ 4,501 $ 1,840 $ 2,622 $ 1,060 Losses and loss expenses incurred(a) 96 5 572 267 2,206 (b) 903 (b) Losses and loss expenses paid(a) (755 ) (440 ) (550 ) (218 ) (327 ) (123 ) Reserve for losses and loss expenses at end of year $ 3,864 $ 1,454 $ 4,523 $ 1,889 $ 4,501 $ 1,840 Environmental: Reserve for losses and loss expenses at beginning of year $ 629 $ 290 $ 969 $ 410 $ 1,018 $ 451 Losses and loss expenses incurred(a) 10 13 (231 ) (59 ) 47 (c) 27 (c) Losses and loss expenses paid(a) (124 ) (66 ) (109 ) (61 ) (96 ) (68 ) Reserve for losses and loss expenses at end of year $ 515 $ 237 $ 629 $ 290 $ 969 $ 410 Combined: Reserve for losses and loss expenses at beginning of year $ 5,152 $ 2,179 $ 5,470 $ 2,250 $ 3,640 $ 1,511 Losses and loss expenses incurred(a) 106 18 341 208 2,253 (d) 930 (d) Losses and loss expenses paid(a) (879 ) (506 ) (659 ) (279 ) (423 ) (191 ) Reserve for losses and loss expenses at end of year $ 4,379 $ 1,691 $ 5,152 $ 2,179 $ 5,470 $ 2,250 (a) All amounts pertain to policies underwritten in prior years, primarily to policies issued in 1984 and prior. (b) Includes increases to gross losses and loss expense reserves of $2.0 billion and increases to net losses and loss expense reserves of $843 million for the fourth quarter of 2005. (c) Includes increases to gross losses and loss expense reserves of $56 million and increases to net losses and loss expense reserves of $30 million for the fourth quarter of 2005. (d) Includes increases to gross losses and loss expense reserves of $2.0 billion and increases to net losses and loss expense reserves of $873 million for the fourth quarter of 2005. (e) Gross amounts were revised from the previous presentation to reflect the inclusion of certain reserves not previously identified as asbestos and environmental related. This revision had no effect on net reserves. The gross and net IBNR included in the reserve for losses and loss expenses, relating to asbestos and environmental claims separately and combined, at December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 were estimated as follows: 2007 2006 2005 (in millions) Gross Net Gross* Net Gross* Net Asbestos $ 2,701 $ 1,145 $ 3,270 $ 1,469 $ 3,458 $ 1,465 Environmental 325 131 378 173 625 266 Combined $ 3,026 $ 1,276 $ 3,648 $ 1,642 $ 4,083 $ 1,731 * Gross amounts were revised from the previous presentation to reflect the inclusion of certain reserves not previously identified as asbestos and environmental related. This revision had no effect on net reserves. A summary of asbestos and environmental claims count activity for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 was as follows: 2007 2006 2005 Asbestos Environmental Combined Asbestos Environmental Combined Asbestos Environmental Combined Claims at beginning of year 6,878 9,442 16,320 7,293 9,873 17,166 7,575 8,216 15,791 Claims during year: Opened 656 937 1,593 643 1,383 2,026 854 5,253 6,107 Settled (150 ) (179 ) (329 ) (150 ) (155 ) (305 ) (67 ) (219 ) (286 ) Dismissed or otherwise resolved (821 ) (2,548 ) (3,369 ) (908 ) (1,659 ) (2,567 ) (1,069 ) (3,377 ) (4,446 ) Claims at end of year 6,563 7,652 14,215 6,878 9,442 16,320 7,293 9,873 17,166 AIG 2007 Form 10 K 61 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continued Survival Ratios Asbestos and Environmental The table below presents AIGs survival ratios for asbestos and environmental claims at December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005. The survival ratio is derived by dividing the current carried loss reserve by the average payments for the three most recent calendar years for these claims. Therefore, the survival ratio is a simplistic measure estimating the number of years it would be before the current ending loss reserves for these claims would be paid off using recent year average payments. The December 31, 2007 survival ratio is lower than the ratio at December 31, 2006 because the more recent periods included in the rolling average reflect higher claims payments. In addition, AIGs survival ratio for asbestos claims was negatively affected by the favorable settlements described above, which reduced gross and net asbestos survival ratios at December 31, 2007 by approximately 1.3 years and 2.6 years, respectively. Many factors, such as aggressive settlement procedures, mix of business and level of coverage provided, have a significant effect on the amount of asbestos and environmental reserves and payments and the resultant survival ratio. Moreover, as discussed above, the primary basis for AIGs determination of its reserves is not survival ratios, but instead the ground up and top down analysis. Thus, caution should be exercised in attempting to determine reserve adequacy for these claims based simply on this survival ratio. AIGs survival ratios for asbestos and environmental claims, separately and combined were based upon a three year average payment. These ratios for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 were as follows: Gross* Net 2007 Survival ratios: Asbestos 7.1 5.6 Environmental 4.7 3.7 Combined 6.7 5.2 2006 Survival ratios: Asbestos 11.8 12.9 Environmental 5.6 4.5 Combined 10.4 10.3 2005 Survival ratios: Asbestos 16.0 19.8 Environmental 7.2 6.2 Combined 13.1 14.2 * Gross amounts for 2006 and 2005 were revised from the previous presentation to reflect the inclusion of certain reserves not previously identified as asbestos and environmental related. This revision had no effect on net reserves. Life Insurance & Retirement Services Operations AIGs Life Insurance & Retirement Services operations offer a wide range of insurance and retirement savings products both domestically and abroad. AIGs Foreign Life Insurance & Retirement Services operations include insurance and investment oriented products such as whole and term life, investment linked, universal life and endowments, personal accident and health products, group products including pension, life and health, and fixed and variable annuities. The Foreign Life Insurance & Retirement Services products are sold through independent producers, career agents, financial institutions and direct marketing channels. AIGs Domestic Life Insurance operations offer a broad range of protection products, such as individual life insurance and group life and health products, including disability income products and payout annuities, which include single premium immediate annuities, structured settlements and terminal funding annuities. The Domestic Life Insurance products are sold through independent producers, career agents and financial institutions and direct marketing channels. Home service operations include an array of life insurance, accident and health and annuity products sold primarily through career agents. AIGs Domestic Retirement Services operations include group retirement products, individual fixed and variable annuities sold through banks, broker dealers and exclusive sales representatives, and annuity runoff operations, which include previously acquired closed blocks and other fixed and variable annuities largely sold through distribution relationships that have been discontinued. In order to better align financial reporting with the manner in which AIGs chief operating decision makers manage their businesses, commencing in 2007, revenues and operating income related to foreign investment type contracts, which were historically reported as a component of the Asset Management segment, are now reported as part of Foreign Life Insurance & Retirement Services. Prior period amounts have been revised to conform to the current presentation. AIGs Life Insurance & Retirement Services reports its operations through the following major internal reporting units and legal entities: Foreign Life Insurance & Retirement Services Japan and Other American Life Insurance Company (ALICO) AIG Star Life Insurance Co., Ltd. (AIG Star Life) AIG Edison Life Insurance Company (AIG Edison Life) Asia American International Assurance Company, Limited, together with American International Assurance Company (Bermuda) Limited (AIA) Nan Shan Life Insurance Company, Ltd. (Nan Shan) American International Reinsurance Company Limited (AIRCO) The Philippine American Life and General Insurance Company (Philamlife) Domestic Life Insurance American General Life Insurance Company (AIG American General) The United States Life Insurance Company in the City of New York (USLIFE) 62 AIG 2007 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries American General Life and Accident Insurance Company (AGLA) Domestic Retirement Services The Variable Annuity Life Insurance Company (VALIC) AIG Annuity Insurance Company (AIG Annuity) AIG SunAmerica Life Assurance Company (AIG SunAmerica) Life Insurance & Retirement Services Results Life Insurance & Retirement Services results for 2007, 2006 and 2005 were as follows: Premiums Net Net Realized and Other Investment Capital Gains Total Operating (in millions) Considerations Income (Losses) Revenues Income 2007 Foreign Life Insurance & Retirement Services $ 26,601 $ 11,849 $ (187 ) $ 38,263 $ 6,197 Domestic Life Insurance 5,836 3,995 (803 ) 9,028 642 Domestic Retirement Services 1,190 6,497 (1,408 ) 6,279 1,347 Total $ 33,627 $ 22,341 $ (2,398 ) $ 53,570 $ 8,186 2006 Foreign Life Insurance & Retirement Services* $ 24,166 $ 9,758 $ 707 $ 34,631 $ 6,881 Domestic Life Insurance 5,543 3,778 (215 ) 9,106 917 Domestic Retirement Services 1,057 6,488 (404 ) 7,141 2,323 Total $ 30,766 $ 20,024 $ 88 $ 50,878 $ 10,121 2005 Foreign Life Insurance & Retirement Services $ 23,117 $ 8,718 $ 84 $ 31,919 $ 5,306 Domestic Life Insurance 5,447 3,733 35 9,215 1,495 Domestic Retirement Services 937 6,226 (277 ) 6,886 2,164 Total $ 29,501 $ 18,677 $ (158 ) $ 48,020 $ 8,965 Percentage Increase/(Decrease) 2007 vs. 2006: Foreign Life Insurance & Retirement Services 10 % 21 % % 10 % (10 )% Domestic Life Insurance 5 6 (1 ) (30 ) Domestic Retirement Services 13 (12 ) (42 ) Total 9 % 12 % % 5 % (19 )% Percentage Increase/(Decrease) 2006 vs. 2005: Foreign Life Insurance & Retirement Services 5 % 12 % % 8 % 30 % Domestic Life Insurance 2 1 (1 ) (39 ) Domestic Retirement Services 13 4 4 7 Total 4 % 7 % % 6 % 13 % * Included an out of period UCITS adjustment which increased net investment income by $240 million and operating income by $169 million. The following table presents the gross insurance in force for Life Insurance & Retirement Services at December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005: (in millions) 2007 2006 2005 Foreign* $ 1,327,251 $ 1,162,699 $ 1,027,682 Domestic 984,794 907,901 825,151 Total $ 2,312,045 $ 2,070,600 $ 1,852,833 * Includes increases (decreases) of $55.1 billion, $41.5 billion and $(76.5) billion related to changes in foreign exchange rates at December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. 2007 and 2006 Comparison The severe credit market disruption was a key driver of operating results in 2007 principally due to significant net realized capital losses resulting from other than temporary impairment charges of $2.8 billion and losses on derivative instruments not qualifying for hedge accounting treatment of $381 million compared to an other than temporary impairment charge of $641 million and gains on derivative instruments of $268 million in 2006. In addition, net investment income and certain products were negatively affected by the volatile markets. Life Insurance & Retirement Services continued its ongoing project to increase standardization of AIGs actuarial systems and processes throughout the world. Significant progress was made on these initiatives, with only a minimal effect on operating income in this segment. Premiums and other considerations increased in 2007 compared to 2006 despite a very competitive marketplace and a relatively flat yield curve for most of the year. AIG 2007 Form 10 K 63 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continued Life Insurance & Retirement Services total revenues in 2007 reflect growth in premiums and other considerations compared to 2006 due principally to strong life insurance production in the Foreign Life Insurance & Retirement Services operations, a growing block of U.K. single premium investment oriented products and higher policyholder charges related to universal life and sales of payout annuities in the Domestic Life Insurance operations. Overall growth in premiums and other considerations was dampened by a continuing shift to interest sensitive products and the suspension of new sales on certain products in Japan resulting from an industry wide review by the tax authorities. Net investment income increased in 2007 compared to 2006 due to higher partnership and mutual fund income as well as higher policyholder investment income and trading gains and losses (together, policyholder trading gains). Policyholder trading gains are offset by a charge to incurred policy losses and benefits expense. Policyholder trading gains increased due to higher levels of assets and generally reflect the trend in equity markets. Policyholder trading gains were $2.9 billion in 2007 compared to $2.0 billion in 2006. Net investment income in 2006 included an increase of $240 million for an out of period adjustment related to the accounting for UCITS. Operating income in 2007 was significantly adversely affected by net realized capital losses which totaled $2.4 billion, net of an out of period adjustment of $158 million related to foreign exchange remediation activities, compared to net realized capital gains of $88 million in 2006. Other factors affecting operating income include trading account losses of $150 million in the U.K. associated with certain investment linked products, the adverse effect of $108 million related to SOP 05 1, which was adopted in 2007, additional claim expense of $67 million relating to an industry wide regulatory review of claims in Japan (compared to additional claim expense of $26 million in 2006) and a $118 million charge related to remediation activities in Asia. Incurred policyholder benefits increased $36 million in 2007 related to a closed block of Japanese business with guaranteed benefits. Partially offsetting these factors was a $52 million recovery in 2007 related to the Superior National arbitration. SOP 05 1 generally requires DAC related to group contracts to be amortized over a shorter duration than in prior periods and also requires that DAC be expensed at the time an individual policy is terminated or lapses, even if reinstated shortly thereafter. The effect of SOP 05 1 was most significant to the group products line in the Domestic Life Insurance operations. Changes in actuarial estimates, including DAC unlockings and refinements to estimates resulting from actuarial valuation system enhancements and conversions, resulted in a net increase to operating income of $19 million during 2007. However, this net increase resulted from a number of items that had varying effects on the results of operations of certain operating units and lines of business. These adjustments resulted in an increase of $183 million in operating income for Foreign Life Insurance & Retirement Services and decreases in operating income of $52 million and $112 million for Domestic Life Insurance and Domestic Retirement Services, respectively. In addition, the related adjustments significantly affected both acquisition costs and incurred policy losses and benefits in the Consolidated Statement of Income. Operating income in 2006 included an increase of $169 million for an out of period adjustment related to the accounting for UCITS and an increase of $163 million for an out of period adjustment related to corrections of par policyholder dividend reserves and allocations between participating and non participating accounts, both of which were related to remediation efforts. In addition, operating income in 2006 included charges to Domestic Life Insurance operations of $125 million for the adverse Superior National arbitration ruling, $66 million related to the exit of the domestic financial institutions credit life business and $55 million related to other litigation. 2006 and 2005 Comparison Life Insurance & Retirement Services revenues in 2006 increased compared to 2005. Growth in premiums and other considerations was dampened by the effect of foreign exchange, most notably by the weakening Japanese Yen. Net investment income was higher in 2006 compared to 2005 due to higher partnership and mutual fund income, which in 2006 included a positive out of period adjustment of $240 million related to the accounting for UCITS. Operating income grew by $1.2 billion from 2005, reflecting higher revenues, including net realized capital gains, and out of period reductions of policy benefits expense of $163 million in 2006 resulting from corrections of par policyholder dividend reserves and allocations between participating and non participating accounts, both of which were related to remediation efforts. In addition, operating income in 2006 included charges for Domestic Life Insurance of $125 million for the adverse Superior National arbitration ruling, $66 million related to the exit of the domestic financial institutions credit life business and $55 million related to other litigation. 64 AIG 2007 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries Foreign Life Insurance & Retirement Services Results Foreign Life Insurance & Retirement Services results on a sub product basis for 2007, 2006 and 2005 were as follows: Premiums and Net Net Realized Other Investment Capital Gains Total Operating (in millions) Considerations Income (Losses) Revenues Income 2007 Life insurance $ 16,630 $ 7,473 $ 85 $ 24,188 $ 3,898 Personal accident 6,094 354 (3 ) 6,445 1,457 Group products 2,979 753 (76 ) 3,656 263 Individual fixed annuities 438 2,283 (171 ) 2,550 548 Individual variable annuities 460 986 (22 ) 1,424 31 Total $ 26,601 $ 11,849 $ (187 ) $ 38,263 $ 6,197 2006 Life insurance(a) $ 15,732 $ 5,937 $ 574 $ 22,243 $ 4,247 Personal accident 5,518 285 55 5,858 1,459 Group products 2,226 648 47 2,921 450 Individual fixed annuities 400 2,027 31 2,458 580 Individual variable annuities 290 861 1,151 145 Total $ 24,166 $ 9,758 $ 707 $ 34,631 $ 6,881 2005 Life insurance $ 15,643 $ 4,884 $ 94 $ 20,621 $ 3,195 Personal accident 5,002 255 (30 ) 5,227 1,292 Group products 1,925 613 (9 ) 2,529 322 Individual fixed annuities 361 1,728 29 2,118 398 Individual variable annuities 186 1,238 1,424 99 Total $ 23,117 $ 8,718 $ 84 $ 31,919 $ 5,306 Percentage Increase/(Decrease) 2007 vs. 2006: Life insurance 6 % 26 % (85 )% 9 % (8 )% Personal accident 10 24 10 Group products 34 16 25 (42 ) Individual fixed annuities 10 13 4 (6 ) Individual variable annuities 59 15 24 (79 ) Total 10 % 21 % % 10 % (10 )% Percentage Increase/(Decrease) 2006 vs. 2005: Life insurance 1 % 22 % % 8 % 33 % Personal accident 10 12 12 13 Group products 16 6 16 40 Individual fixed annuities 11 17 7 16 46 Individual variable annuities 56 (30 ) (19 ) 46 Total 5 % 12 % % 8 % 30 % (a) Includes the effect of an out of period UCITS adjustment in 2006, which increased net investment income by $237 million and operating income by $166 million. AIG transacts business in most major foreign currencies and therefore premiums and other considerations reported in U.S. dollars vary by volume and from changes in foreign currency translation rates. The following table summarizes the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on the growth of the Foreign Life Insurance & Retirement Services premiums and other considerations for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006: 2007 2006 Growth in original currency* 7.6 % 6.5 % Foreign exchange effect 2.5 (2.0 ) Growth as reported in U.S. dollars 10.1 % 4.5 % * Computed using a constant exchange rate each period. AIG 2007 Form 10 K 65 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continued Japan and Other Results Japan and Other results on a sub product basis for 2007, 2006 and 2005 were as follows: Premiums and Net Net Realized Other Investment Capital Gains Total Operating (in millions) Considerations Income (Losses) Revenues Income 2007 Life insurance $ 4,999 $ 2,113 $ (92 ) $ 7,020 $ 1,193 Personal accident 4,225 204 (1 ) 4,428 1,071 Group products 2,318 626 1 2,945 250 Individual fixed annuities 386 2,160 (181 ) 2,365 500 Individual variable annuities 459 980 (21 ) 1,418 30 Total $ 12,387 $ 6,083 $ (294 ) $ 18,176 $ 3,044 2006 Life insurance (a) $ 4,783 $ 1,749 $ 316 $ 6,848 $ 1,731 Personal accident 3,957 162 49 4,168 1,122 Group products 1,740 541 13 2,294 272 Individual fixed annuities 337 1,930 28 2,295 553 Individual variable annuities 289 857 1,146 143 Total $ 11,106 $ 5,239 $ 406 $ 16,751 $ 3,821 2005 Life insurance $ 4,864 $ 1,828 $ (52 ) $ 6,640 $ 1,288 Personal accident 3,788 137 (15 ) 3,910 1,051 Group products 1,473 535 (34 ) 1,974 191 Individual fixed annuities 292 1,672 29 1,993 390 Individual variable annuities 186 1,234 1,420 100 Total $ 10,603 $ 5,406 $ (72 ) $ 15,937 $ 3,020 Percentage Increase/(Decrease) 2007 vs. 2006: Life insurance 5 % 21 % % 3 % (31 )% Personal accident 7 26 6 (5 ) Group products 33 16 (92 ) 28 (8 ) Individual fixed annuities 15 12 3 (10 ) Individual variable annuities 59 14 24 (79 ) Total 12 % 16 % % 9 % (20 )% Percentage Increase/(Decrease) 2006 vs. 2005: Life insurance (2 )% (4 )% % 3 % 34 % Personal accident 4 18 7 7 Group products 18 1 16 42 Individual fixed annuities 15 15 (3 ) 15 42 Individual variable annuities 55 (31 ) (19 ) 43 Total 5 % (3 )% % 5 % 27 % (a) Includes the effect of an out of period UCITS adjustment in 2006, which increased both net investment income and operating income by $29 million. 2007 and 2006 Comparison Total revenues for Japan and Other in 2007 increased compared to 2006, primarily due to higher premiums and other considerations and net investment income partially offset by net realized capital losses. Net investment income increased in 2007 compared to 2006 due to higher levels of assets under management and higher policyholder trading gains partially offset by lower partnership and mutual fund income. Operating income decreased in 2007 compared to 2006 due principally to net realized capital losses, a $187 million charge related to changes in actuarial estimates, trading account losses of $150 million in the U.K. associated with certain investment linked products, $67 million of additional claim expense related to the industry wide regulatory review of claims in Japan and increased incurred policyholder benefits of $36 million related to a closed block of Japanese business with guaranteed benefits. These decreases were partially offset by the positive effect of foreign exchange rates. Life insurance premiums and other considerations increased moderately in 2007 compared to 2006. In Japan, single premium sales of U.S. dollar denominated interest sensitive whole life 66 AIG 2007 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries products remained strong. First year premium sales declined, however, due to the suspension in April 2007 of increasing term products pending completion of an industry wide review by the National Tax Authority. Although the review was completed with the issue of a draft paper for comment in December 2007, the product remains suspended pending finalization of the report. In Europe, growth in premiums and other considerations was driven by the growing block of U.K. single premium investment oriented products and the positive effect of foreign exchange rates. The growth in net investment income was due to growth in underlying invested assets and higher partnership income. Life insurance operating income declined in 2007 compared to 2006 due to net realized capital losses, compared to net realized capital gains in 2006. In addition, 2007 operating income was negatively affected by a $115 million charge related to changes in actuarial estimates, higher incurred policyholder benefits of $36 million related to a closed block of Japanese business with guaranteed benefits and $23 million of additional claim expense related to the claims review in Japan. Operating income in 2006 included the effect of an out of period UCITS adjustment, which increased both net investment income and operating income by $29 million. Personal accident premiums and other considerations grew modestly as strong growth in Europe was offset by lower growth in Japan, particularly from the direct marketing distribution channel. Net investment income increased in 2007 compared to 2006 primarily due to growth in invested assets. Operating income declined in 2007 compared to 2006 due to a net realized capital loss, a $42 million charge related to changes in actuarial estimates, $42 million of additional claim expense related to the claims review in Japan and $20 million of additional expenses related to SOP 05 1. Group products premiums and other considerations in 2007 increased significantly compared to 2006 primarily due to the growing credit business in Europe. Net investment income increased in 2007 compared to 2006, primarily due to higher assets under management related to the Brazil pension business. Operating income in 2007 declined compared to 2006 primarily due to $19 million of additional expenses related to SOP 05 1 and lower net realized capital gains. Individual fixed annuity deposits improved in 2007 primarily due to sales in the U.K. and were partially offset by declining sales in Japan due to the effect of a weak Japanese Yen for most of the year as well as the market shift to variable annuity products. Assets under management, however, continued to grow. Individual fixed annuities premiums and other considerations growth reflects a shift to front end load products and higher surrender charges from U.S. dollar products in Japan where a weak Japanese Yen makes it attractive for certain policyholders to lock in foreign exchange gains in excess of surrender charges. Surrender charges were $151 million and $98 million in 2007 and 2006, respectively. Net investment income increased due to higher average investment yields and higher levels of assets under management. Operating income declined in 2007 compared to 2006 due to realized capital losses in 2007 versus realized capital gains in 2006. Individual variable annuity deposits in 2007 declined compared to 2006 due to the effect of tax law changes in Europe that reduced tax benefits to policyholders, and lower sales in Japan due to increased competition and the introduction of a new law that increased sales compliance and customer suitability requirements. Variable annuity sales in Japan began to improve in the fourth quarter of 2007 as a new product, launched mid year in 2007, gained acceptance and banks became more comfortable with the new law. The fees generated from the higher levels of assets under management increased premiums and other considerations in 2007 compared to 2006. Net investment income increased due to higher policyholder trading gains in 2007 compared to 2006. Operating income declined in 2007 compared to 2006 primarily due to $150 million of trading account losses on certain investment linked products in the U.K. and net realized capital losses. 2006 and 2005 Comparison Total revenues for Japan and Other increased in 2006 compared to 2005. Premiums and other considerations growth rates were dampened by the effect of foreign exchange, most notably by the weakening of the Japanese Yen. Net investment income in 2006 declined compared to 2005 due to lower policyholder trading gains in the individual variable annuity line. Total revenues in 2006 increased compared to 2005 due to realized capital gains relating primarily to derivative instruments for transactions that did not qualify for hedge accounting treatment under FAS 133. Operating income in 2006 increased compared to 2005 due to growth in the underlying retirement services businesses and realized capital gains of $406 million. Operating income in 2006 included the effect of an out of period UCITS adjustment which increased net investment income and operating income by $32 million. Operating income in 2006 was negatively affected by the weakening of the Japanese Yen against the U.S. dollar and the continued runoff of the older, higher margin in force businesses of AIG Star Life and AIG Edison Life. AIG 2007 Form 10 K 67 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continued Asia Results Asia results on a sub product basis for 2007, 2006 and 2005 were as follows: Premiums Net Net Realized Operating and Other Investment Capital Gains Total Income (in millions) Considerations Income (Losses) Revenues (Loss) 2007 Life insurance $ 11,631 $ 5,360 $ 177 $ 17,168 $ 2,705 Personal accident 1,869 150 (2 ) 2,017 386 Group products 661 127 (77 ) 711 13 Individual fixed annuities 52 123 10 185 48 Individual variable annuities 1 6 (1 ) 6 1 Total $ 14,214 $ 5,766 $ 107 $ 20,087 $ 3,153 2006 Life insurance(a) $ 10,949 $ 4,188 $ 258 $ 15,395 $ 2,516 Personal accident 1,561 123 6 1,690 337 Group products 486 107 34 627 178 Individual fixed annuities 63 97 3 163 27 Individual variable annuities 1 4 5 2 Total $ 13,060 $ 4,519 $ 301 $ 17,880 $ 3,060 2005 Life insurance $ 10,779 $ 3,056 $ 146 $ 13,981 $ 1,907 Personal accident 1,214 118 (15 ) 1,317 241 Group products 452 78 25 555 131 Individual fixed annuities 69 56 125 8 Individual variable annuities 4 4 (1 ) Total $ 12,514 $ 3,312 $ 156 $ 15,982 $ 2,286 Percentage Increase/(Decrease) 2007 vs. 2006: Life insurance 6 % 28 % (31 )% 12 % 8 % Personal accident 20 22 19 15 Group products 36 19 13 (93 ) Individual fixed annuities (17 ) 27 233 13 78 Individual variable annuities 50 20 (50 ) Total 9 % 28 % (64 )% 12 % 3 % Percentage Increase/(Decrease) 2006 vs. 2005: Life insurance 2 % 37 % 77 % 10 % 32 % Personal accident 29 4 28 40 Group products 8 37 36 13 36 Individual fixed annuities (9 ) 73 30 238 Individual variable annuities 25 Total 4 % 36 % 93 % 12 % 34 % (a) Includes the effect of an out of period UCITS adjustment in 2006, which increased net investment income and operating income by $208 million and $137 million, respectively. 2007 and 2006 Comparison Total revenues in Asia in 2007 increased compared to 2006 primarily due to higher premiums and other considerations and net investment income, partially offset by lower net realized capital gains. Premiums and other considerations increased in 2007 compared to 2006, notwithstanding a continued trend toward investment oriented products where only a portion of policy charges are reported as premiums. Sales of investment oriented life products have been particularly strong in Hong Kong, Korea and Singapore and more recently in Taiwan. Net investment income grew due to higher policyholder trading gains, higher partnership and unit investment trust income and growth in underlying invested assets. Net realized capital gains in 2007 were lower compared to 2006 due to an increase in other than temporary impairment charges and the change in fair value of derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment under FAS 133, partially offset by a positive out of period adjustment of $158 million related to foreign exchange remediation activities. Operating income in 2007 increased compared to 2006. Operating income in 2007 included a $370 million positive effect of changes in actuarial estimates along with higher 68 AIG 2007 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries partnership and UCITS income, partially offset by lower net realized capital gains and a $118 million charge related to remediation activity. Operating income in 2006 included an increase of $137 million from an out of period adjustment related to UCITS. In addition, operating income in 2006 included the positive effect of out of period reductions in participating policyholder dividend reserves of $163 million, primarily as a result of tax remediation adjustments and a correction to expense allocations between participating and non participating accounts. Life insurance premiums and other considerations in 2007 reflected a moderate increase compared to 2006, benefiting from improved sales in Thailand and the favorable effect of foreign exchange rates, partially offset by the shift in product mix from traditional life insurance products to investment oriented products. Net investment income grew in 2007 compared to 2006 due primarily to higher policyholder trading gains, the growth in the underlying invested assets and higher partnership income. Operating income increased in 2007 compared to 2006 due to a $322 million positive effect of changes in actuarial estimates, partially offset by an $86 million charge related to remediation activity. Operating income in 2006 included the effect of the out of period UCITS adjustment and reduction in participating policyholder dividend reserves discussed above. Personal accident revenues grew in 2007 compared to 2006 primarily due to higher premiums and other considerations, particularly in Korea and Taiwan. Operating income reflects the combined effect of premium growth and stable loss ratios and a $51 million positive effect related to changes in actuarial estimates in 2007. Group products premiums and other considerations grew in 2007 compared to 2006 due to higher pension management fees and sales. However, operating income declined in 2007 compared to 2006, primarily due to net realized capital losses resulting from other than temporary impairment charges, a $29 million charge related to remediation activity and higher DAC amortization expense. Individual fixed annuities total revenues grew in 2007 compared to 2006 due primarily to higher net investment income and increased net realized capital gains. Deposits in 2007 declined compared to 2006 due to increased competition and a market shift to variable life products, particularly in Korea. 2006 and 2005 Comparison Revenues for Asia grew in 2006 compared to 2005. Premiums and other considerations in 2006 were negatively affected by the trend towards investment oriented products as only a portion of the policy charges collected are reported as premiums. Net investment income in 2006 grew compared to 2005 due to higher policyholder trading gains. Net realized capital gains were significantly higher in 2006 compared to 2005 relating primarily to derivative instruments for transactions that do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment under FAS 133. Revenues and operating income in 2006 included increases of $208 million and $137 million, respectively, from out of period adjustments related to UCITS. In addition, operating income in 2006 increased due to a $163 million out of period adjustment related to participating policyholder dividend reserves primarily as a result of tax remediation adjustments and a correction to expense allocations between participating and non participating accounts. Domestic Life Insurance Results Domestic Life Insurance results, presented on a sub product basis for 2007, 2006 and 2005, were as follows: Premiums and Net Net Realized Operating Other Investment Capital Gains Total Income (in millions) Considerations Income (Losses) Revenues (Loss) 2007 Life insurance $ 2,352 $ 1,528 $ (584 ) $ 3,296 $ 226 Home service 767 640 (100 ) 1,307 216 Group life/health 842 200 (16 ) 1,026 67 Payout annuities(a) 1,820 1,153 (67 ) 2,906 74 Individual fixed and runoff annuities 55 474 (36 ) 493 59 Total $ 5,836 $ 3,995 $ (803 ) $ 9,028 $ 642 2006 Life insurance $ 2,127 $ 1,377 $ (83 ) $ 3,421 $ 654 Home service 790 630 (38 ) 1,382 282 Group life/health 995 213 (8 ) 1,200 (159 ) Payout annuities(a) 1,582 1,004 (51 ) 2,535 76 Individual fixed and runoff annuities 49 554 (35 ) 568 64 Total $ 5,543 $ 3,778 $ (215 ) $ 9,106 $ 917 AIG 2007 Form 10 K 69 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continued Premiums and Net Net Realized Operating Other Investment Capital Gains Total Income (in millions) Considerations Income (Losses) Revenues (Loss) 2005 Life insurance $ 2,041 $ 1,352 $ 98 $ 3,491 $ 874 Home service 801 605 (2 ) 1,404 282 Group life/health 1,079 201 (1 ) 1,279 69 Payout annuities(a) 1,473 912 (34 ) 2,351 128 Individual fixed and runoff annuities 53 663 (26 ) 690 142 Total $ 5,447 $ 3,733 $ 35 $ 9,215 $ 1,495 Percentage Increase/(Decrease) 2007 vs. 2006: Life insurance 11 % 11 % % (4 )% (65 )% Home service (3 ) 2 (5 ) (23 ) Group life/health (15 ) (6 ) (15 ) Payout annuities 15 15 15 (3 ) Individual fixed and runoff annuities 12 (14 ) (13 ) (8 ) Total 5 % 6 % % (1 )% (30 )% Percentage Increase/(Decrease) 2006 vs. 2005: Life insurance 4 % 2 % % (2 )% (25 )% Home service (1 ) 4 (2 ) Group life/health (8 ) 6 (6 ) Payout annuities 7 10 8 (41 ) Individual fixed and runoff annuities (8 ) (16 ) (18 ) (55 ) Total 2 % 1 % % (1 )% (39 )% (a) Premiums and other considerations include structured settlements, single premium immediate annuities and terminal funding annuities. 2007 and 2006 Comparison Total Domestic Life Insurance revenues in 2007 decreased compared to 2006 primarily due to higher net realized capital losses, partially offset by higher premiums and other considerations and net investment income. Domestic Life Insurance premiums and other considerations increased in 2007 compared to 2006 primarily due to the growth in life insurance business in force and payout annuity premiums, which were partially offset by a decline in group life/health premiums due to exiting the financial institutions credit life business at the end of 2006. Domestic Life Insurance operating income decreased in 2007 compared to 2006, primarily due to higher net realized capital losses which consisted of losses related to sales of securities, other than temporary impairment writedowns of fixed income securities as well as derivative losses. The higher net realized capital losses in 2007 were partially offset by increases in premiums and other considerations and net investment income, and an improvement in group life/health results compared to 2006, which included a $125 million charge related to the Superior National workers compensation arbitration, a $66 million loss related to the exit from the financial institutions credit life business and a $55 million charge related to litigation reserves. Changes in actuarial estimates, including DAC unlockings and refinements in estimates resulting from actuarial valuation system enhancements, resulted in a net decrease in operating income of $52 million in 2007. Operating income in 2007 was also negatively affected by a $67 million increase in DAC amortization related to SOP 05 1, which was partially offset by a $52 million decrease in policy benefits due to additional reinsurance recoveries associated with Superior National. Life insurance premiums and other considerations increased in 2007 compared to 2006 driven by growth in life insurance business in force and increased policyholder charges related to universal life and whole life products. Net investment income in 2007 compared to 2006 increased due to higher partnership income, higher call and tender income and positive changes from foreign denominated emerging market bonds. Life insurance operating income decreased in 2007 compared to 2006 primarily due to higher net realized capital losses and higher mortality in 2007, although mortality is still within expected ranges. In addition, operating income in 2007 included a $25 million increase in reserves related to changes in actuarial estimates and an $11 million increase in DAC amortization related to SOP 05 1. Home service premiums and other considerations declined in 2007 compared to 2006 as the reduction in premiums in force from normal lapses and maturities exceeded sales growth. Net investment income in 2007 increased slightly compared to 2006 due to higher partnership income and positive changes from foreign denominated emerging market bonds. Home service operating income decreased largely due to higher net realized capital losses and an $11 million increase in DAC amortization related to SOP 05 1, partially offset by continued improvement in profit margins. Group life/health premiums and other considerations in 2007 declined compared to 2006, primarily due to the exit from the financial institutions credit life business at the end of 2006 and tightened pricing and underwriting in the group employer product 70 AIG 2007 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries lines. Group life/health operating income increased in 2007 compared to 2006. Operating income in 2007 included a $52 million decrease in policy benefits from additional reinsurance recoveries associated with Superior National, offset by an increase of $45 million in DAC amortization related to SOP 05 1. The operating loss in 2006 included a $125 million charge resulting from the loss of the Superior National arbitration, a $66 million loss related to exiting the financial institutions credit business and a $25 million charge for litigation reserves. Payout annuities premiums and other considerations increased in 2007 compared to 2006 reflecting increased sales of structured settlements and terminal funding annuities. Net investment income increased in 2007 reflecting growth in insurance reserves and an increase in call and tender income on fixed income securities. Payout annuities operating income decreased slightly in 2007 as growth in the business was more than offset by higher net realized capital losses and by a $30 million out of period adjustment to increase group annuity reserves for payout annuities. Operating income in 2006 included a $24 million increase in reserves as various methodologies and assumptions were enhanced for payout annuity reserves. Individual fixed and runoff annuities net investment income and operating income decreased in 2007 compared to 2006 reflecting declining insurance reserves. Operating income in 2006 included $30 million of increased amortization due to DAC unlocking to reflect lower in force amounts. 2006 and 2005 Comparison Premiums and other considerations for Domestic Life Insurance increased in 2006 compared to 2005 and were primarily driven by growth in the life insurance business in force and payout annuity premiums, partially offset by declining in force business in the home service and group life/health lines. Domestic Life Insurance operating income declined in 2006 compared to 2005 due to net realized capital losses and several significant transactions described below in 2006, partially offset by continued growth in life insurance and payout annuity business. Operating income in 2006 included a $125 million charge resulting from the loss of the Superior National arbitration and a $66 million loss related to exiting the financial institutions credit business both within the group life/health business. In addition, Domestic Life Insurance operating income was negatively affected by $55 million in litigation accruals, an increase in reserves of $24 million related to various methodologies and assumptions which were enhanced in the payout annuity business and a DAC unlocking charge of $30 million in the individual fixed and runoff annuities line to reflect lower in force amounts. The following table reflects Domestic Life Insurance periodic premium sales by product for 2007, 2006 and 2005: Percentage Increase/(Decrease) (in millions) 2007 2006 2005 2007 vs. 2006 2006 vs. 2005 Periodic Premium Sales By Product*: Universal life $ 230 $ 334 $ 271 (31 )% 23 % Variable universal life 55 56 44 (2 ) 27 Term life 219 240 229 (9 ) 5 Whole life/other 9 13 10 (31 ) 30 Total $ 513 $ 643 $ 554 (20 )% 16 % * Periodic premium represents premium from new business expected to be collected over a one year period. 2007 and 2006 Comparison Domestic Life Insurance periodic premium sales declined in 2007 compared to 2006 primarily as a result of the repricing of certain universal life and term products and the tightening of underwriting standards during the second half of 2006. In the second half of 2007, AIG experienced positive sales growth in indexed universal life products and the sale of a large private placement variable universal life case. 2006 and 2005 Comparison Domestic Life Insurance periodic premium sales increased in 2006 compared to 2005 primarily reflecting growth in the independent distribution platform. During the second half of 2006, certain universal life products were re priced and underwriting standards were tightened. AIG 2007 Form 10 K 71 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continued Domestic Retirement Services Results Domestic Retirement Services results, presented on a sub product basis for 2007, 2006 and 2005 were as follows: Premiums and Net Net Realized Other Investment Capital Gains Total Operating (in millions) Considerations Income (Losses) Revenues Income 2007 Group retirement products $ 446 $ 2,280 $ (451 ) 2,275 $ 696 Individual fixed annuities 96 3,664 (829 ) 2,931 530 Individual variable annuities 627 166 (45 ) 748 122 Individual annuities runoff* 21 387 (83 ) 325 (1 ) Total $ 1,190 $ 6,497 $ (1,408 ) $ 6,279 $ 1,347 2006 Group retirement products $ 386 $ 2,279 $ (144 ) $ 2,521 $ 1,017 Individual fixed annuities 122 3,581 (257 ) 3,446 1,036 Individual variable annuities 531 202 5 738 193 Individual annuities runoff* 18 426 (8 ) 436 77 Total $ 1,057 $ 6,488 $ (404 ) $ 7,141 $ 2,323 2005 Group retirement products $ 351 $ 2,233 $ (67 ) $ 2,517 $ 1,055 Individual fixed annuities 97 3,346 (214 ) 3,229 858 Individual variable annuities 467 217 4 688 189 Individual annuities runoff* 22 430 452 62 Total $ 937 $ 6,226 $ (277 ) $ 6,886 $ 2,164 Percentage Increase/(Decrease) 2007 vs. 2006: Group retirement products 16 % % % (10 )% (32 )% Individual fixed annuities (21 ) 2 (15 ) (49 ) Individual variable annuities 18 (18 ) 1 (37 ) Individual annuities runoff 17 (9 ) (25 ) Total 13 % % % (12 )% (42 )% Percentage Increase/(Decrease) 2006 vs. 2005: Group retirement products 10 % 2 % % % (4 )% Individual fixed annuities 26 7 7 21 Individual variable annuities 14 (7 ) 25 7 2 Individual annuities runoff (18 ) (1 ) (4 ) 24 Total 13 % 4 % % 4 % 7 % * Primarily represents runoff annuity business sold through discontinued distribution relationships. 2007 and 2006 Comparison Total revenues and operating income for Domestic Retirement Services declined in 2007 compared to 2006 primarily due to increased net realized capital losses. Net realized capital losses for Domestic Retirement Services increased due to higher other than temporary impairment charges of $1.2 billion in 2007 compared to $368 million in 2006 and sales to reposition assets in certain investment portfolios for both group retirement products and individual fixed annuities, as well as from changes in the value of certain individual variable annuity product guarantees and related hedges associated with living benefit features. Changes in actuarial estimates, including DAC unlockings and refinements to estimates resulting from actuarial valuation system enhancements, resulted in a net decrease to operating income of $112 million in 2007. Group retirement products operating income in 2007 decreased compared to 2006 primarily as a result of increased net realized capital losses due to higher other than temporary impairment charges and an increase in DAC amortization related to both an increase in surrenders and to policy changes adding guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefit riders to existing contracts. Operating income was also negatively affected in 2007 by an $18 million adjustment, primarily reflecting changes in actuarial estimates from the conversion to a new valuation system. These were partially offset by higher variable annuity fees which resulted from an increase in separate account assets compared to 2006. Individual fixed annuities operating income in 2007 decreased compared to 2006 as a result of net realized capital losses due to higher other than temporary impairment charges partially offset by increases in partnership income. The decline in operating income also reflected higher DAC amortization and sales inducement costs related to increased surrenders and a $33 million charge reflecting changes in actuarial estimates from the conver 72 AIG 2007 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries sion to a new valuation system, as well as unlocking future assumptions and experience updates. Individual variable annuities operating income decreased in 2007 compared to 2006 largely due to an increase in DAC amortization and sales inducement costs related to a $61 million adjustment reflecting changes in actuarial estimates. Net realized capital losses increased due to changes in the value of certain annuity product guarantees and related hedges associated with living benefit features and higher other than temporary impairment charges. 2006 and 2005 Comparison Total Domestic Retirement Services operating income increased in 2006 compared to 2005 principally due to higher partnership and yield enhancement income in the individual fixed annuity product line. Group retirement products total revenues were flat in 2006 as improvements in partnership income and variable annuity fees were offset by increased net realized capital losses. The flat revenues, coupled with higher amortization of deferred acquisition costs related to internal replacements of existing contracts into new contracts, resulted in a decrease in group retirement operating income. Individual variable annuity total revenues increased in 2006, primarily driven by higher variable annuity fees resulting from an increase in assets under management. Partially offsetting these higher fees was an increase in DAC amortization resulting from increased surrender activity in the first half of 2006. In 2006, the individual annuities runoff operating income increased, even though the underlying reserves decreased due to increased net spreads as a result of higher investment yields partially offset by increased realized capital losses. The following table presents the account value roll forward for Domestic Retirement Services by product for 2007 and 2006: (in millions) 2007 2006 Group retirement products Balance at beginning of year $ 64,357 $ 59,312 Deposits annuities 5,898 5,464 Deposits mutual funds 1,633 1,361 Total Deposits 7,531 6,825 Surrenders and other withdrawals (6,551 ) (6,106 ) Death benefits (262 ) (252 ) Net inflows (outflows) 718 467 Change in fair value of underlying investments, interest credited, net of fees 3,034 4,578 Balance at end of year $ 68,109 $ 64,357 Individual fixed annuities Balance at beginning of year $ 52,685 $ 53,331 Deposits 5,085 5,331 Surrenders and other withdrawals (7,565 ) (6,379 ) Death benefits (1,667 ) (1,649 ) Net inflows (outflows) (4,147 ) (2,697 ) Change in fair value of underlying investments, interest credited, net of fees 1,970 2,051 Balance at end of year $ 50,508 $ 52,685 Individual variable annuities Balance at beginning of year $ 31,093 $ 28,267 Deposits 4,472 4,266 Surrenders and other withdrawals (4,158 ) (3,894 ) Death benefits (497 ) (486 ) Net inflows (outflows) (183 ) (114 ) Change in fair value of underlying investments, interest credited, net of fees 2,198 2,940 Balance at end of year $ 33,108 $ 31,093 Total Domestic Retirement Services Balance at beginning of year $ 148,135 $ 140,910 Deposits 17,088 16,422 Surrenders and other withdrawals (18,274 ) (16,379 ) Death benefits (2,426 ) (2,387 ) Net inflows (outflows) (3,612 ) (2,344 ) Change in fair value of underlying investments, interest credited, net of fees 7,202 9,569 Balance at end of year, excluding runoff 151,725 148,135 Individual annuities runoff 5,690 6,326 Balance at end of year $ 157,415 $ 154,461 General and separate account reserves and mutual funds General account reserve $ 88,801 $ 92,070 Separate account reserve 60,461 55,988 Total general and separate account reserves 149,262 148,058 Group retirement mutual funds 8,153 6,403 Total reserves and mutual funds $ 157,415 $ 154,461 2007 and 2006 Comparison Domestic Retirement Services deposits increased in 2007 compared to 2006 primarily reflecting higher deposits in group retirement products and individual variable annuities, partially offset by a decrease in individual fixed annuities. Group retirement deposits increased 10 percent in 2007 compared to 2006 as a result of an increased focus on sales management and acquiring outside deposits. Mutual funds deposits increased 20 percent while group annuity deposits increased 8 percent. Over time, AIG 2007 Form 10 K 73 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continued growth in lower margin mutual fund products relative to annuity products will result in a gradual reduction in overall profit margins of this business. Individual fixed annuity sales continued to face increased competition from bank deposit products and money market funds offering very competitive short term rates in the current yield curve environment, and as a result deposits decreased 5 percent in 2007 compared to 2006. Individual variable annuity deposits increased 5 percent in 2007 compared to 2006 despite the discontinuation of a major bank proprietary product. Domestic Retirement Services surrenders and other withdrawals increased in 2007 compared to 2006. The increase primarily reflects higher surrenders in both group retirement products and individual fixed annuities. Group retirement surrenders increased as a result of both normal maturing of the business and higher large group surrenders in 2007 compared to 2006. Individual fixed annuity surrenders and withdrawals increased in 2007 due to both an increasing number of policies coming out of their surrender charge period and increased competition from bank deposit products. AIG expects this trend to continue into 2008 as a significant amount of business comes out of its surrender charge period. The following table presents Domestic Retirement Services reserves by surrender charge category and surrender rates as of December 31, 2007 and 2006: Group Individual Individual 2007 Retirement Fixed Variable (in millions) Products* Annuities Annuities No surrender charge $ 49,770 $ 11,316 $ 13,014 0% 2% 3,284 3,534 5,381 Greater than 2% 4% 3,757 7,310 5,133 Greater than 4% 2,280 24,956 9,492 Non Surrenderable 865 3,392 88 Total Reserves $ 59,956 $ 50,508 $ 33,108 Surrender rates 9.8 % 14.6 % 12.8 % Group Individual Individual 2006 Retirement Fixed Variable (in millions) Products* Annuities Annuities No surrender charge $ 42,741 $ 10,187 $ 11,467 0% 2% 6,921 4,503 4,869 Greater than 2% 4% 4,573 6,422 4,830 Greater than 4% 2,842 28,109 9,836 Non Surrenderable 877 3,464 91 Total Reserves $ 57,954 $ 52,685 $ 31,093 Surrender rates 9.9 % 12.0 % 13.3 % * Excludes mutual funds of $8.2 billion and $6.4 billion in 2007 and 2006, respectively. Surrender rates increased for individual fixed annuities, while group retirement surrender rates decreased slightly in 2007 compared to 2006. Although group retirement surrenders increased compared to 2006, the surrender rate decreased slightly as a result of a 6 percent increase in reserves. The increase in the surrender rate for individual fixed annuities continues to be driven by a relatively flat yield curve and the general aging of the in force block; however, less than 23 percent of the individual fixed annuity reserves as of December 31, 2007 were available for surrender without charge. Individual variable annuities surrender rates were slightly lower in 2007 compared to 2006. An increase in the level of surrenders in any of these businesses or in the individual fixed annuities runoff block could accelerate the amortization of DAC and negatively affect fee income earned on assets under management. Higher surrenders in the group retirement and individual fixed annuity blocks, offset somewhat by increased deposits in group retirement, resulted in negative net flows in 2007. The continuation of the current interest rate and competitive environment would prolong this trend. 74 AIG 2007 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries Life Insurance & Retirement Services Net Investment Income and Net Realized Capital Gains (Losses) The following table summarizes the components of net investment income for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005: (in millions) 2007 2006 2005 Foreign Life Insurance & Retirement Services: Fixed maturities, including short term investments $ 7,846 $ 6,820 $ 6,059 Equity securities 135 80 51 Interest on mortgage and other loans 466 454 447 Partnership income 128 94 57 Unit investment trusts(a) 439 259 4 Other(b) 275 301 357 Total investment income before policyholder income and trading gains 9,289 8,008 6,975 Policyholder investment income and trading gains (c) 2,899 2,017 2,021 Total investment income 12,188 10,025 8,996 Investment expenses 339 267 278 Net investment income $ 11,849 $ 9,758 $ 8,718 Domestic Life Insurance: Fixed maturities, including short term investments $ 3,528 $ 3,444 $ 3,481 Equity securities (4 ) (6 ) (3 ) Interest on mortgage and other loans 418 349 327 Partnership income excluding Synfuels 123 80 135 Partnership loss Synfuels (101 ) (107 ) (143 ) Unit investment trusts 3 5 Other(b) 77 67 (4 ) Total investment income before policyholder income and trading gains 4,044 3,832 3,793 Policyholder investment income and trading gains(c) 4 Total investment income 4,048 3,832 3,793 Investment expenses 53 54 60 Net investment income $ 3,995 $ 3,778 $ 3,733 Domestic Retirement Services: Fixed maturities, including short term investments $ 5,376 $ 5,645 $ 5,579 Equity securities 30 38 13 Interest on mortgage and other loans 539 449 401 Partnership income 572 425 224 Other(b) 42 (18 ) 60 Total investment income 6,559 6,539 6,277 Investment expenses 62 51 51 Net investment income $ 6,497 $ 6,488 $ 6,226 AIG 2007 Form 10 K 75 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continued (in millions) 2007 2006 2005 Total: Fixed maturities, including short term investments $ 16,750 $ 15,909 $ 15,119 Equity securities 161 112 61 Interest on mortgage and other loans 1,423 1,252 1,175 Partnership income excluding Synfuels 823 599 416 Partnership loss Synfuels (101 ) (107 ) (143 ) Unit investment trusts(a) 442 264 4 Other(b) 394 350 413 Total investment income before policyholder income and trading gains 19,892 18,379 17,045 Policyholder investment income and trading gains(c) 2,903 2,017 2,021 Total investment income 22,795 20,396 19,066 Investment expenses 454 372 389 Net investment income(d) $ 22,341 $ 20,024 $ 18,677 (a) Includes the effect of an out of period UCITS adjustment in 2006, which increased net investment income by $240 million and operating income by $169 million. (b) Includes real estate income, income on non partnership invested assets, securities lending and Foreign Life Insurance & Retirement Services equal share of the results of AIG Credit Card Company (Taiwan). (c) Relates principally to assets held in various trading securities accounts that do not qualify for separate account treatment under SOP 03 1. These amounts are principally offset by an equal change included in incurred policy losses and benefits. (d) Includes call and tender income. 2007 and 2006 Comparison Net investment income increased $2.3 billion, or 12 percent in 2007 compared to 2006 as the invested asset base grew for fixed maturities, equity securities and mortgage and other loans. In addition, yield enhancement activity increased compared to 2006. Net investment income from UCITS in 2006 included a $240 million out of period increase. Policyholder trading gains increased in 2007 compared to 2006 principally due to an increase in assets under management, partially offset by trading account losses of $150 million on certain investment linked products in the U.K. Net investment income for certain operations include investments in structured notes linked to emerging market sovereign debt that incorporates both interest rate risk and currency risk. These investments generated income of $45 million in 2007 compared to losses of $8 million in 2006. In addition, period to period comparisons of investment income for some investment activities, particularly partnership income, are affected by yield enhancement activity. See Invested Assets for further information. AIG generates income tax credits as a result of investing in synthetic fuel production (synfuels) related to the partnership income (loss) shown in the above table and records those benefits separately from segment operating results in its consolidated provision for income taxes. The amounts of those income tax credits were $84 million, $127 million and $203 million for 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. These tax credits will no longer be generated after December 31, 2007. Synfuel production has ceased and the investments have been fully written off as of December 31, 2007. 2006 and 2005 Comparison Net investment income increased 7 percent in 2006 compared to 2005 as income from fixed maturities, equity securities and mortgage and other loans income rose as the underlying invested asset base grew. Net investment income in 2006 also included the out of period increase relating to UCITS of $240 million. 76 AIG 2007 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries The following table summarizes net realized capital gains (losses) for Life Insurance & Retirement Services by major category for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005: (in millions) 2007 2006 2005 Foreign Life Insurance & Retirement Services: Sales of fixed maturities $ (187 ) $ (209 ) $ 191 Sales of equity securities 697 459 281 Other: Other than temporary impairments(a) (1,026 ) (81 ) (39 ) Foreign exchange transactions(b) 435 106 40 Derivatives instruments (135 ) 276 (599 ) Other(c) 29 156 210 Total Foreign Life Insurance & Retirement Services $ (187 ) $ 707 $ 84 Domestic Life Insurance: Sales of fixed maturities $ (114 ) $ (33 ) $ 65 Sales of equity securities 5 17 18 Other: Other than temporary impairments(a) (585 ) (192 ) (119 ) Foreign exchange transactions 11 (6 ) 11 Derivatives instruments (186 ) 25 65 Other 66 (26 ) (5 ) Total Domestic Life Insurance $ (803 ) $ (215 ) $ 35 Domestic Retirement Services: Sales of fixed maturities $ (192 ) $ 1 $ (106 ) Sales of equity securities 29 31 115 Other: Other than temporary impairments(a) (1,187 ) (368 ) (267 ) Foreign exchange transactions 27 (13 ) Derivatives instruments (60 ) (33 ) (12 ) Other (25 ) (22 ) (7 ) Total Domestic Retirement Services $ (1,408 ) $ (404 ) $ (277 ) Total: Sales of fixed maturities $ (493 ) $ (241 ) $ 150 Sales of equity securities 731 507 414 Other: Other than temporary impairments(a) (2,798 ) (641 ) (425 ) Foreign exchange transactions(b) 473 87 51 Derivatives instruments (381 ) 268 (546 ) Other(c) 70 108 198 Total $ (2,398 ) $ 88 $ (158 ) (a) See Invested Assets Other than temporary impairments for additional information. (b) Includes a positive out of period adjustment of $158 million in 2007 related to foreign exchange remediation activities. (c) Includes gains (losses) of $(16) million, $88 million and $109 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, allocated to participating policyholders. 2007 and 2006 Comparison Net realized capital gains (losses) include normal portfolio transactions as well as derivative gains (losses) for transactions that did not qualify for hedge accounting treatment under FAS 133, foreign exchange gains and losses and other than temporary impairments. In 2007, Life Insurance & Retirement Services operations recorded $2.8 billion of other than temporary impairment charges compared to $641 million in 2006. For Foreign Life Insurance & Retirement Services operations, these losses were related to both the decline in value of U.S. dollar bonds held in Thailand and Singapore, which reflects the depreciation of the U.S. dollar against local currencies, and impairments due, in part, to the recent volatility in the securities markets. Net realized capital losses in the Foreign Life Insurance & Retirement Services operations in 2007 included losses of $135 million related to derivatives that did not qualify for hedge accounting treatment under FAS 133 compared to a gain of $276 million in 2006. Derivatives in the Foreign Life Insurance & Retirement Services operations are primarily used to economically hedge cash flows related to U.S. dollar bonds back to the respective currency of the country, principally in Taiwan, Thailand and Singapore. The corresponding foreign exchange gain or loss with respect to the economically hedged bond is deferred in accumulated other AIG 2007 Form 10 K 77 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continued comprehensive income until the bond is sold or deemed to be other than temporarily impaired. For the Domestic Life Insurance and Domestic Retirement Services operations, the higher net realized capital losses resulted principally from other than temporary impairment charges of $1.8 billion in 2007 compared to $560 million in 2006 and from the sale of securities in 2007 to reposition assets in certain investment portfolios. Net realized capital losses in the Domestic Life Insurance operations in 2007 included losses of $186 million related to derivatives that did not qualify for hedge accounting treatment under FAS 133 compared to a gain of $25 million in 2006. Derivatives in the Domestic Life Insurance operations include affiliated interest rate swaps used to economically hedge cash flows on bonds and option contracts used to economically hedge cash flows on indexed annuity and universal life products. The corresponding gain or loss with respect to the economically hedged bond is deferred in accumulated other comprehensive income until the bond is sold, matures or deemed to be other than temporarily impaired. See Invested Assets Valuation of Invested Assets Portfolio Review herein. 2006 and 2005 Comparison Net realized capital gains (losses) in 2006 improved $246 million compared to 2005 primarily due to gains on derivative instruments primarily used to economically hedge cash flows that did not qualify for hedge accounting treatment under FAS 133 and related primarily to the Foreign Life Insurance & Retirement Services operations. Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs and Sales Inducement Assets DAC for Life Insurance & Retirement Services products arises from the deferral of costs that vary with, and are directly related to, the acquisition of new or renewal business. Policy acquisition costs for life insurance products are generally deferred and amortized over the premium paying period in accordance with FAS 60. Policy acquisition costs that relate to universal life and investment type products are deferred and amortized, with interest in relation to the incidence of estimated gross profits to be realized over the estimated lives of the contracts in accordance with FAS 97. Value of Business Acquired (VOBA) is determined at the time of acquisition and is reported on the consolidated balance sheet with DAC and amortized over the life of the business, similar to DAC. AIG offers sales inducements to contract holders (bonus interest) on certain annuity and investment contracts. Sales inducements are recognized as part of the liability for policyholders contract deposits on the consolidated balance sheet and are amortized over the life of the contract similar to DAC. Total deferred acquisition and sales inducement costs increased $549 million in 2007 compared to 2006 primarily due to higher production in the Foreign Life Insurance operations partially offset by lower Domestic Life Insurance & Retirement Services sales. Total amortization expense decreased $328 million compared to 2006. Annualized amortization expense levels in 2007 and 2006 were approximately 10 percent and 13 percent, respectively, of the opening DAC balance. The decline in amortization expense levels relates to changes in actuarial estimates, which is substantially offset by related adjustments to incurred policy losses and benefits. 78 AIG 2007 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries The following table summarizes the major components of the changes in DAC/ Value of Business Acquired (VOBA) and Sales Inducement Assets (SIA) for 2007 and 2006: 2007 2006 (in millions) DAC/VOBA SIA Total DAC/VOBA SIA Total Foreign Life Insurance & Retirement Services Balance at beginning of year $ 21,153 $ 404 $ 21,557 $ 17,638 $ 192 $ 17,830 Acquisition costs deferred 5,640 241 5,881 4,991 112 5,103 Amortization (charged) or credited to operating income: Related to net realized capital gains (losses) 117 1 118 5 (3 ) 2 Related to unlocking future assumptions (17 ) (2 ) (19 ) 102 2 104 All other amortization(a) (1,979 ) 11 (1,968 ) (2,399 ) (4 ) (2,403 ) Change in unrealized gains (losses) on securities 301 16 317 (132 ) (6 ) (138 ) Increase due to foreign exchange 831 10 841 948 13 961 Other(b) 129 129 98 98 Balance at end of year(a) $ 26,175 $ 681 $ 26,856 $ 21,153 $ 404 $ 21,557 Domestic Life Insurance Balance at beginning of year $ 6,006 $ 46 $ 6,052 $ 5,184 $ 31 $ 5,215 Acquisition costs deferred 895 15 910 1,115 18 1,133 Amortization (charged) or credited to operating income: Related to net realized capital gains (losses) 13 13 23 23 Related to unlocking future assumptions 6 (1 ) 5 (42 ) (1 ) (43 ) All other amortization(a) (671 ) (7 ) (678 ) (671 ) (2 ) (673 ) Change in unrealized gains (losses) on securities 162 162 398 398 Increase (decrease) due to foreign exchange 85 85 (1 ) (1 ) Other(b) (64 ) (64 ) Balance at end of year $ 6,432 $ 53 $ 6,485 $ 6,006 $ 46 $ 6,052 Domestic Retirement Services Balance at beginning of year $ 5,651 $ 887 $ 6,538 $ 5,284 $ 871 $ 6,155 Acquisition costs deferred 741 201 942 717 231 948 Amortization (charged) or credited to operating income: Related to net realized capital gains (losses) 161 41 202 62 19 81 Related to unlocking future assumptions (7 ) (18 ) (25 ) (3 ) (3 ) All other amortization(a) (990 ) (174 ) (1,164 ) (789 ) (143 ) (932 ) Change in unrealized gains (losses) on securities 282 54 336 380 (91 ) 289 Balance at end of year $ 5,838 $ 991 $ 6,829 $ 5,651 $ 887 $ 6,538 Total Life Insurance & Retirement Services Balance at beginning of year $ 32,810 $ 1,337 $ 34,147 $ 28,106 $ 1,094 $ 29,200 Acquisition costs deferred 7,276 457 7,733 6,823 361 7,184 Amortization (charged) or credited to operating income: Related to net realized capital gains (losses) 291 42 333 90 16 106 Related to unlocking future assumptions (18 ) (21 ) (39 ) 57 1 58 All other amortization(a) (3,640 ) (170 ) (3,810 ) (3,859 ) (149 ) (4,008 ) Change in unrealized gains (losses) on securities 745 70 815 646 (97 ) 549 Increase due to foreign exchange 916 10 926 947 13 960 Other(b) 65 65 98 98 Balance at end of year $ 38,445 $ 1,725 $ 40,170 $ 32,810 $ 1,337 $ 34,147 (a) In 2007, Foreign Life Insurance & Retirement Services includes lower amortization of $836 million related to changes in actuarial estimates, mostly offset in incurred policy losses and benefits. Domestic Retirement Services includes a higher amortization of $104 million related to changes in actuarial estimates. (b) In 2007, includes $(118) million for the cumulative effect of adoption of SOP 05 1 and $189 million related to balance sheet reclassifications. In 2006, primarily represents a balance sheet reclassification. Because AIG operates in various global markets, the estimated gross profits used to amortize DAC, VOBA and sales inducements can be subject to differing market returns and interest rate environments in any single period. The combination of market returns and interest rates may lead to acceleration of amortization in some products and regions and simultaneous deceleration of amortization in other products and regions. DAC, VOBA and SIA for insurance oriented, investment oriented and retirement services products are reviewed for recoverability, which involves estimating the future profitability of current business. This review involves significant management judgment. If actual future profitability is substantially lower than estimated, AIGs DAC, VOBA and SIA may be subject to an impairment charge AIG 2007 Form 10 K 79 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continued and AIGs results of operations could be significantly affected in such future periods. Future Policy Benefit Reserves Periodically, the net benefit reserves (policy benefit reserves less DAC) established for Life Insurance & Retirement Services companies are tested to ensure that, including consideration of future expected premium payments, they are adequate to provide for future policyholder benefit obligations. The assumptions used to perform the tests are current best estimate assumptions as to policyholder mortality, morbidity, terminations, company maintenance expenses and invested asset returns. For long duration traditional business, a lock in principle applies, whereby the assumptions used to calculate the benefit reserves and DAC are set when a policy is issued and do not change with changes in actual experience. These assumptions include margins for adverse deviation in the event that actual experience might deviate from these assumptions. For business in force outside of North America, 45 percent of total policyholder benefit liabilities at December 31, 2007 resulted from traditional business where the lock in principle applies. In most foreign locations, various guarantees are embedded in policies in force that may remain applicable for many decades into the future. As experience changes over time, the best estimate assumptions are updated to reflect the observed changes. Because of the long term nature of many of AIGs liabilities subject to the lock in principle, small changes in certain of the assumptions may cause large changes in the degree of reserve adequacy. In particular, changes in estimates of future invested asset return assumptions have a large effect on the degree of reserve adequacy. During 2007, Life Insurance & Retirement Services continued its ongoing project to increase standardization of AIGs actuarial systems and processes throughout the world. In particular, there is an initiative within the Domestic Life Insurance & Retirement Services operations to consolidate the numerous actuarial valuation systems onto common platforms. This initiative began in 2006 and will continue into 2008. In the Foreign Life Insurance operations, actuarial reserves for certain blocks of business have been computed outside of the primary actuarial valuation systems and or used methodologies that approximate amounts that would have been reported had these blocks of business been included in the primary actuarial valuation systems. During 2007, Life Insurance & Retirement Services completed various system migrations, implemented more robust models for certain blocks of business and refined its method of approximation on any remaining blocks of business. The majority of these actions occurred in the fourth quarter of 2007 and any resulting changes in actuarial estimates were recorded in the fourth quarter of 2007 results of operations. The above changes in actuarial estimates, including unlockings, resulted in a net increase to operating income of $19 million during 2007. However, this net increase resulted from a number of items that had varying effects on the results of operations of certain operating units and lines of business. These adjustments resulted in an increase of $183 million in operating income for Foreign Life Insurance & Retirement Services and decreases in operating income of $52 million and $112 million for Domestic Life Insurance and Domestic Retirement Services, respectively. In addition, the related adjustments significantly affected both acquisition costs and incurred policy losses and benefits in the Consolidated Statement of Income due to reclassifications between DAC and future policy benefits reserves. Taiwan Beginning in 2000, the yield available on Taiwanese 10 year government bonds dropped from approximately 6 percent to 2.6 percent at December 31, 2007. Yields on most other invested assets have correspondingly dropped over the same period. Current sales are focused on products such as: variable separate account products which do not contain interest rate guarantees, participating products which contain very low implied interest rate guarantees, and accident and health policies and riders. In developing the reserve adequacy analysis for Nan Shan, several key best estimate assumptions have been made: Observed historical mortality improvement trends have been projected to 2014; Morbidity, expense and termination rates have been updated to reflect recent experience; Taiwan government bond rates are expected to remain at current levels for 10 years and gradually increase to best estimate assumptions of a market consensus view of long term interest rate expectations; Foreign assets are assumed to comprise 35 percent of invested assets, resulting in a composite long term investment assumption of approximately 4.9 percent; and The currently permitted practice of offsetting positive mortality experience with negative interest margins, thus eliminating the need for mortality dividends, will continue. Future results of the reserve adequacy tests will involve significant management judgment as to mortality, morbidity, expense and termination rates and investment yields. Adverse changes in these assumptions could accelerate DAC amortization and necessitate reserve strengthening. 80 AIG 2007 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries Financial Services Operations AIGs Financial Services subsidiaries engage in diversified activities including aircraft and equipment leasing, capital markets, consumer finance and insurance premium finance. Financial Services Results Financial Services results were as follows: Percentage Increase/(Decrease) (in millions) 2007 2006 2005 2007 vs. 2006 2006 vs. 2005 Revenues: Aircraft Leasing(a) $ 4,694 $ 4,082 $ 3,668 15 % 11 % Capital Markets(b) (9,979 ) (186 ) 3,260 Consumer Finance(c) 3,655 3,587 3,563 2 1 Other, including intercompany adjustments 321 294 186 9 58 Total $ (1,309 ) $ 7,777 $ 10,677 % (27 )% Operating income (loss): Aircraft Leasing(a) $ 873 $ 578 $ 769 51 % (25 )% Capital Markets(b) (10,557 ) (873 ) 2,661 Consumer Finance(c) 171 668 922 (74 ) (28 ) Other, including intercompany adjustments (2 ) 10 72 (86 ) Total $ (9,515 ) $ 383 $ 4,424 % (91 )% (a) Both revenues and operating income include gains (losses) from hedging activities that did not qualify for hedge accounting treatment under FAS 133, including the related foreign exchange gains and losses. In 2007, 2006 and 2005, the effect was $(37) million, $(73) million and $93 million, respectively. These amounts result primarily from interest rate and foreign currency derivatives that are effective economic hedges of borrowings. In the second quarter of 2007, ILFC began applying hedge accounting to most of its derivatives hedging interest rate and foreign exchange risks associated with its floating rate and foreign currency denominated borrowings. (b) Revenues, shown net of interest expense of $4.6 billion, $3.2 billion and $3.0 billion in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, were primarily from hedged financial positions entered into in connection with counterparty transactions. Both revenues and operating income include gains (losses) from hedging activities that did not qualify for hedge accounting treatment under FAS 133, including the related foreign exchange gains and losses. In 2007, 2006 and 2005, the effect was $211 million, $(1.8) billion and $2.0 billion, respectively. The year ended December 31, 2007 includes a $380 million out of period charge to reverse net gains recognized on transfers of available for sale securities among legal entities consolidated within AIGFP. The year ended December 31, 2006 includes an out of period charge of $223 million related to the remediation of the material weakness in internal control over the accounting for certain derivative transactions under FAS 133. In the first quarter of 2007, AIGFP began applying hedge accounting for certain of its interest rate swaps and foreign currency forward contracts hedging its investments and borrowings. In 2007, both revenues and operating income (loss) include an unrealized market valuation loss of $11.5 billion on AIGFPs super senior credit default swap portfolio and an other than temporary impairment charge of $643 million on AIGFPs available for sale investment securities recorded in other income. (c) Both revenues and operating income include gains (losses) from hedging activities that did not qualify for hedge accounting treatment under FAS 133, including the related foreign exchange gains and losses. In 2007, 2006 and 2005, the effect was $(20) million, $(94) million and $75 million, respectively. These amounts result primarily from interest rate and foreign currency derivatives that are effective economic hedges of borrowings. In the second quarter of 2007, AGF began applying hedge accounting to most of its derivatives hedging interest rate and foreign exchange risks associated with its floating rate and foreign currency denominated borrowings. In 2007, includes a pre tax charge of $178 million in connection with domestic consumer finances mortgage banking activities. 2007 and 2006 Comparison Financial Services reported an operating loss in 2007 compared to operating income in 2006 primarily due to an unrealized market valuation loss of $11.5 billion on AIGFPs super senior credit default swap portfolio, an other than temporary impairment charge on AIGFPs available for sale investment securities recorded in other income, and a decline in operating income for AGF. AGFs operating income declined in 2007 compared to 2006, due to reduced residential mortgage origination volumes, lower revenues from its mortgage banking activities and increases in the provision for finance receivable losses. In 2007, AGFs mortgage banking operations also recorded a pre tax charge of $178 million, representing the estimated cost of implementing the Supervisory Agreement entered into with the OTS. ILFC generated strong operating income growth in 2007 compared to 2006, driven to a large extent by a larger aircraft fleet, higher lease rates and higher utilization. In 2007, AIGFP began applying hedge accounting under FAS 133 to certain of its interest rate swaps and foreign currency forward contracts that hedge its investments and borrowings and AGF and ILFC began applying hedge accounting to most of their derivatives that hedge floating rate and foreign currency denominated borrowings. Prior to 2007, hedge accounting was not applied to any of AIGs derivatives and related assets and liabilities. Accordingly, revenues and operating income were exposed to volatility resulting from differences in the timing of revenue recognition between the derivatives and the hedged assets and liabilities. The year ended December 31, 2007 included an out of period charge of $380 million to reverse net gains recognized on transfers of available for sale securities among legal entities AIG 2007 Form 10 K 81 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continued consolidated within AIGFP. The year ended December 31, 2006 included out of period charges of $223 million related to the remediation of the material weakness in internal control over accounting for certain derivative transactions under FAS 133. In order to better align financial reporting with the manner in which AIGs chief operating decision makers manage their businesses, beginning in 2007, net realized capital gains and losses, including derivative gains and losses and foreign exchange transaction gains and losses for Financial Services entities other than AIGFP, which were historically reported as a component of AIGs Other category, are now reported in Financial Services revenues and operating income. Prior period amounts have been revised to conform to the current presentation. 2006 and 2005 Comparison Financial Services operating income decreased in 2006 compared to 2005, due primarily to the effect of hedging activities that did not qualify for hedge accounting treatment under FAS 133. Aircraft Leasing Aircraft Leasing operations represent the operations of ILFC, which generates its revenues primarily from leasing new and used commercial jet aircraft to foreign and domestic airlines. Revenues also result from the remarketing of commercial aircraft for ILFCs own account, and remarketing and fleet management services for airlines and financial institutions. ILFC finances its aircraft purchases primarily through the issuance of debt instruments. ILFC economically hedges part of its floating rate and substantially all of its foreign currency denominated debt using interest rate and foreign currency derivatives. Starting in the second quarter of 2007, ILFC began applying hedge accounting to most of its derivatives. All of ILFCs derivatives are effective economic hedges; however, since hedge accounting under FAS 133 was not applied prior to April 2, 2007, the benefits of using derivatives to hedge these exposures are not reflected in ILFCs 2006 corporate borrowing rate. The composite borrowing rates at December 31, 2007 and 2006 were 5.16 percent and 5.17 percent, respectively. ILFC typically contracts to re lease aircraft before the end of the existing lease term. For aircraft returned before the end of the lease term, ILFC has generally been able to re lease such aircraft within two to six months of their return. As a lessor, ILFC considers an aircraft idle or off lease when the aircraft is not subject to a signed lease agreement or signed letter of intent. ILFC had no aircraft off lease at December 31, 2007, and all new aircraft scheduled for delivery through 2008 have been leased. Aircraft Leasing Results 2007 and 2006 Comparison ILFCs operating income increased in 2007 compared to 2006. Rental revenues increased by $596 million or 15 percent, driven by a larger aircraft fleet and higher lease rates. As of December 31, 2007, 900 aircraft in ILFCs fleet were subject to operating leases compared to 824 aircraft as of December 31, 2006. During 2007, ILFC realized income of $31 million from the sale of its rights against bankrupt airlines. The increase in revenues was partially offset by reduced flight equipment marketing revenues and increases in depreciation and interest expense. Flight equipment marketing revenues decreased by $40 million compared to 2006 due to fewer aircraft sales. Depreciation expense increased by $166 million, or 11 percent, in line with the increase in the size of the aircraft fleet. Interest expense increased by $176 million, or 12 percent, driven by additional borrowings to fund aircraft purchases and the rising cost of funds. In 2007 and 2006, the losses from hedging activities that did not qualify for hedge accounting treatment under FAS 133, including the related foreign exchange gains and losses, were $37 million and $73 million, respectively, in both revenues and operating income. During 2006, ILFC recorded charges to income related to a tax settlement in Australia, increased credit reserves and increased lease accruals, all of which totaled $37 million. 2006 and 2005 Comparison ILFCs operating income decreased in 2006 compared to 2005. Rental revenues increased by $536 million or 16 percent, driven by a larger aircraft fleet, increased utilization and higher lease rates. During 2006, ILFCs fleet subject to operating leases increased by 78 airplanes to a total of 824. The increase in rental revenues was offset in part by increases in depreciation expense and interest expense, charges related to bankrupt airlines, as well as the settlement of a tax dispute in Australia related to the restructuring of ownership of aircraft. Depreciation expense increased by $200 million, or 14 percent, in line with the increase in the size of the aircraft fleet. Interest expense increased by $317 million, or 28 percent, driven by rising cost of funds, a weaker U.S. dollar against the Euro and the British Pound and additional borrowings funding aircraft purchases. As noted above, ILFCs interest expense did not reflect the benefit of hedging these exposures. In 2006 and 2005, the effect from hedging activities that did not qualify for hedge accounting treatment under FAS 133, including the related foreign exchange gains and losses, was a $73 million loss and a $93 million gain, respectively, in both revenues and operating income. Capital Markets Capital Markets represents the operations of AIGFP, which engages as principal in a wide variety of financial transactions, including standard and customized financial products involving commodities, credit, currencies, energy, equities and rates. The credit products include credit protection written through credit default swaps on super senior risk tranches of diversified pools of loans and debt securities. AIGFP also invests in a diversified portfolio of securities and principal investments and engages in borrowing activities involving the issuance of standard and structured notes and other securities, and entering into guaranteed investment agreements (GIAs). As Capital Markets is a transaction oriented operation, current and past revenues and operating results may not provide a basis for predicting future performance. AIGs Capital Markets opera 82 AIG 2007 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries tions derive a significant portion of their revenues from hedged financial positions entered into in connection with counterparty transactions. AIGFP also participates as a dealer in a wide variety of financial derivatives transactions. Revenues and operating income of the Capital Markets operations and the percentage change in these amounts for any given period are significantly affected by the number, size and profitability of transactions entered into during that period relative to those entered into during the prior period. Generally, the realization of transaction revenues as measured by the receipt of funds is not a significant reporting event as the gain or loss on AIGFPs trading transactions is currently reflected in operating income as the fair values change from period to period. AIGFPs products generally require sophisticated models and significant management assumptions to determine fair values and, particularly during times of market disruption, the absence of observable market data can result in fair values at any given balance sheet date which are not indicative of the ultimate settlement values of the products. Beginning in 2007, AIGFP applied hedge accounting under FAS 133 to certain of its interest rate swaps and foreign currency forward contracts hedging its investments and borrowings. As a result, AIGFP recognized in earnings the change in the fair value on the hedged items attributable to the hedged risks substantially offsetting the gains and losses on the derivatives designated as hedges. Prior to 2007, AIGFP did not apply hedge accounting under FAS 133 to any of its derivatives or related assets and liabilities. For further information on the effect of FAS 133 on AIGFPs business, see Risk Management Segment Risk Management Financial Services Capital Markets Derivative Transactions and Note 8 to Consolidated Financial Statements. Effective January 1, 2008, AIGFP elected to apply the fair value option to all eligible assets and liabilities, other than equity method investments. Electing the fair value option will allow AIGFP to more closely align its earnings with the economics of its transactions by recognizing the change in fair value on its derivatives and the offsetting change in fair value of the assets and liabilities being hedged concurrently through earnings. The adoption of FAS 159 with respect to elections made by AIGFP is currently being evaluated for the effect of recently issued draft guidance by the FASB, anticipated to be issued in final form in early 2008, and its potential effect on AIGs consolidated financial statements. Capital Markets Results 2007 and 2006 Comparison Capital Markets reported an operating loss in 2007 compared to operating income in 2006, primarily due to fourth quarter 2007 unrealized market valuation losses related to AIGFPs super senior credit default swap portfolio principally written on multi sector CDOs and an other than temporary impairment charge on AIGFPs investment portfolio of CDOs of ABS. These losses were partially offset by the effect of applying hedge accounting to certain hedging activities beginning in 2007, as described below, and net unrealized market gains related to certain credit default swaps purchased against the AAA to BBB rated risk layers on portfolios of reference obligations. AIGFP experienced higher transaction flow in 2007 in its rate and currency products which contributed to its revenues. The unrealized market valuation losses related to AIGFPs super senior credit default swap portfolio, the preponderance of which relates to credit derivatives written on multi sector CDO super senior tranches, were as follows: Three months ended Year ended (in millions) December 31, 2007 December 31, 2007 Multi sector CDO $10,894 $11,246 Corporate Debt/CLOs 226 226 Total $11,120 $11,472 Included in AIGFPs net operating loss was a net unrealized market valuation gain of $401 million on certain credit default swaps and embedded credit derivatives in credit linked notes in 2007. In these transactions, AIGFP purchased protection at the AAA to BBB rated risk layers on portfolios of reference obligations that include multi sector CDO obligations. During the fourth quarter of 2007, certain of AIGFPs available for sale investments in super senior and AAA rated bonds issued by multi sector CDOs experienced severe declines in their fair value. As a result, AIGFP recorded an other than temporary impairment charge in other income of $643 million. Notwithstanding AIGs intent and ability to hold such securities until they recover in value, and despite structures which indicate that a substantial amount of the securities should continue to perform in accordance with their original terms, AIG concluded that it could not reasonably assert that the recovery period would be temporary. See also Invested Assets Financial Services Invested Assets and Note 3 to Consolidated Financial Statements. The change in fair value of AIGFPs credit default swaps that reference CDOs and the decline in fair value of its investments in CDOs were caused by the significant widening in spreads in the fourth quarter on asset backed securities, principally those related to U.S. residential mortgages, the severe liquidity crisis affecting the structured finance markets and the effects of rating agency downgrades on those securities. AIG continues to believe that these unrealized market valuation losses are not indicative of the losses AIGFP may realize over time on this portfolio. Based upon its most current analyses, AIG believes that any credit impairment losses realized over time by AIGFP will not be material to AIGs consolidated financial condition, although it is possible that such realized losses could be material to AIGs consolidated results of operations for an individual reporting period. In addition, in 2007 AIGFP recognized a net gain of $211 million related to hedging activities that did not qualify for hedge accounting treatment under FAS 133, compared to a net loss of $1.82 billion in 2006. The year ended December 31, 2007 included an out of period charge of $380 million to reverse net gains recognized in previous periods on transfers of available for sale securities among legal entities consolidated within AIGFP, and a $166 million reduction in fair value at March 31, 2007 of certain derivatives that were an integral part of, and economically hedge, the structured transac AIG 2007 Form 10 K 83 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continued tions that were potentially affected by the proposed regulations issued by the U.S. Treasury Department discussed above in Overview of Operations and Business Results Outlook. The net loss on AIGFPs derivatives recognized in 2006 included an out of period charge of $223 million related to the remediation of the material weakness in internal control over accounting for certain derivative transactions under FAS 133. The net loss also reflects the effect of increases in U.S. interest rates and a weakening of the U.S. dollar on derivatives hedging AIGFPs assets and liabilities. Financial market conditions in 2007 were characterized by increases in global interest rates, widening of credit spreads, higher equity valuations and a slightly weaker U.S. dollar. The most significant component of Capital Markets operating expenses is compensation, which was approximately $423 million, $544 million and $481 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The amount of compensation was not affected by gains and losses arising from derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting treatment under FAS 133. In light of the unrealized market valuation loss related to the AIGFP super senior credit default swap portfolio, to retain and motivate the affected AIGFP employees, a special incentive plan relating to 2007 was established. Under this plan, certain AIGFP employees were granted cash awards vesting over two years and payable in 2013. The expense related to these awards will be recognized ratably over the vesting period, beginning in 2008. AIG elected to early adopt FAS 155, Accounting for Certain Hybrid Financial Instruments (FAS 155) in 2006. AIGFP elected to apply the fair value option permitted by FAS 155 to its structured notes and other financial liabilities containing embedded derivatives outstanding as of January 1, 2006. The cumulative effect of the adoption of FAS 155 on these instruments at January 1, 2006 was a pre tax loss of $29 million. AIGFP recognized a loss of $351 million in 2007 and a loss of $287 million in 2006 on hybrid financial instruments for which it applied the fair value option under FAS 155. These amounts were largely offset by gains and losses on economic hedge positions also reflected in AIGFPs operating income or loss. 2006 and 2005 Comparison Capital Markets reported an operating loss in 2006 compared to operating income in 2005. Improved results, primarily from increased transaction flow in AIGFPs credit, commodity index, energy and equity products, were more than offset by the loss resulting from the effect of derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting treatment under FAS 133. This loss was $1.82 billion in 2006 compared to a gain of $2.01 billion in 2005, a decrease of $3.83 billion. A large part of the net loss on AIGFPs derivatives recognized in 2006 was due to the weakening of the U.S. dollar, primarily against the British Pound and Euro, resulting in a decrease in the fair value of the foreign currency derivatives hedging AIGFPs available for sale securities. The majority of the net gain on AIGFPs derivatives in 2005 was due to the strengthening of the U.S. dollar, primarily against the British Pound and Euro, which increased the fair value of the foreign currency derivatives hedging available for sale securities. To a lesser extent, the net gain in 2005 was due to the decrease in long term U.S. interest rates, which increased the fair value of derivatives hedging AIGFPs assets and liabilities. Financial market conditions in 2006 were characterized by a general flattening of interest rate yield curves across fixed income markets globally, tightening of credit spreads, higher equity valuations and a weaker U.S. dollar. Consumer Finance AIGs Consumer Finance operations in North America are principally conducted through AGF. AGF derives a substantial portion of its revenues from finance charges assessed on outstanding real estate loans, secured and unsecured non real estate loans and retail sales finance receivables and credit related insurance. AGFs finance receivables are primarily sourced through its branches, although many of AGFs real estate loans are sourced through its centralized real estate operations, which include AGFs mortgage banking activities. The majority of the real estate loans originated by AGFs mortgage banking subsidiary are originated through broker relationships and are sold to investors on a servicing released basis. Beginning in July 2003, AGFs mortgage banking subsidiaries originated and sold loans through a services arrangement with AIG Federal Savings Bank (AIG Bank), a federally chartered thrift and non subsidiary of AGF. The services relationship was terminated in the first quarter of 2006. Since terminating the services relationship with AIG Bank, AGFs mortgage banking subsidiaries have originated these non conforming real estate loans using their own state licenses. On June 7, 2007, AIGs domestic consumer finance operations, consisting of AIG Bank, AGFs mortgage banking subsidiary Wilmington Finance, Inc. (WFI) and AGF, entered into a Supervisory Agreement with the OTS. The Supervisory Agreement pertains to certain mortgage loans originated in the name of AIG Bank from July 2003 through early May 2006 pursuant to the services agreement between WFI and AIG Bank, which was terminated in the first quarter of 2006. Pursuant to the terms of the Supervisory Agreement, AIG Bank, WFI and AGF have implemented a financial remediation program whereby certain borrowers may be provided loans on more affordable terms and or reimbursed for certain fees. Pursuant to the requirements of the Supervisory Agreement, the services of an external consultant have been engaged to monitor, evaluate and periodically report to the OTS on compliance with the remediation program. The Supervisory Agreement will remain in effect until terminated, modified, or suspended in writing by the OTS. Failure to comply with the terms of the Agreement could result in the initiation of formal enforcement action by the OTS. Separately, the domestic consumer finance operations also committed to donate $15 million over a three year period to certain not for profit organizations to support their efforts to promote financial literacy and credit counseling. Managements best estimate of the cost of implementing the financial remediation plan contemplated by the Supervisory Agreement, including the $15 million donation, was $178 million which was recorded in 2007. The actual cost of implementing the financial remediation plan may differ from this estimate. 84 AIG 2007 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries AIGs foreign consumer finance operations are principally conducted through AIG Consumer Finance Group, Inc. (AIGCFG). AIGCFG operates primarily in emerging and developing markets. AIGCFG has operations in Argentina, China, Hong Kong, Mexico, Philippines, Poland, Taiwan and Thailand and began operations in India in 2007 through the acquisition of a majority interest in a sales finance lending operation and the acquisition of a mortgage lending operation. In addition, in 2007, AIGCFG expanded its distribution channels in Thailand by acquiring an 80 percent interest in a company with a network of over 130 branches for secured consumer lending. AIGCFG is continuously exploring expansion opportunities in its existing operations as well as new geographic locations throughout the world. Certain of the AIGCFG operations are partly or wholly owned by life insurance subsidiaries of AIG. Accordingly, the financial results of those companies are allocated between Financial Services and Life Insurance & Retirement Services according to their ownership percentages. While products vary by market, the businesses generally provide credit cards, unsecured and secured non real estate loans, term deposits, savings accounts, retail sales finance and real estate loans. AIGCFG originates finance receivables through its branches and direct solicitation. AIGCFG also originates finance receivables indirectly through relationships with retailers, auto dealers, and independent agents. Consumer Finance Results 2007 and 2006 Comparison Consumer Finance operating income decreased in 2007 compared to 2006. Operating income from the domestic consumer finance operations, which include the operations of AGF and AIG Bank, decreased by $509 million, or 77 percent, in 2007 compared to 2006. In 2007, domestic results were adversely affected by the weakening housing market and tighter underwriting guidelines, which resulted in lower originations of real estate loans as well as the $178 million charge discussed above. AGFs revenues decreased $95 million or 3 percent during 2007 compared to 2006. Revenues from AGFs mortgage banking activities decreased $389 million during 2007 compared to 2006, which includes the charges relating to the Supervisory Agreement. The decrease in revenues also reflects a significantly reduced origination volume, lower yields based on market conditions, tighter underwriting guidelines, reduced margins on loans sold and higher warranty reserves, which cover obligations to repurchase loans sold to third party investors should there be a first payment default or breach of representations and warranties. AGFs revenues in 2007 also included a recovery of $65 million from a favorable out of court settlement. AGFs operating income decreased in 2007 compared to 2006, due to reduced residential mortgage origination volumes, lower revenues from its mortgage banking activities and increases in the provision for finance receivable losses. AGFs interest expense increased by $81 million or seven percent as its borrowing rate increased in 2007 compared to 2006. During 2007, AGF recorded a net loss of $28 million on its derivatives that did not qualify for hedge accounting under FAS 133, including the related foreign exchange losses, compared to a net loss of $89 million in 2006. Commencing in the second quarter of 2007, AGF began applying hedge accounting. AGFs net finance receivables totaled $25.5 billion at December 31, 2007, an increase of approximately $1.2 billion compared to December 31, 2006, including $19.5 billion of real estate secured loans, most of which were underwritten with full income verification. The increase in the net finance receivables resulted in a similar increase in revenues generated from these assets. Although real estate loan originations declined in 2007, the softening of home price appreciation (reducing the equity customers may be able to extract from their homes by refinancing) contributed to an increase in non real estate loans of 11 percent at December 31, 2007 compared to December 31, 2006. Retail sales finance receivables also increased 13 percent compared to December 31, 2006 due to increased marketing efforts and customer demand. AGFs centralized real estate operations finance receivables were essentially unchanged while branch business segment finance receivables increased by 8 percent during 2007. AGFs allowance for finance receivable losses as a percentage of outstanding receivables was 2.36 percent at December 31, 2007 compared to 2.01 percent at December 31, 2006. Revenues from the foreign consumer finance operations increased by 29 percent in 2007 compared to 2006. Loan growth, particularly in Poland, Thailand and Latin America, was the primary driver of the increased revenues. The increase in revenues was more than offset by higher expenses associated with branch expansions, acquisition activities and product promotion campaigns. Operating income in 2006 reflects AIGCFGs $47 million share of the allowance for losses related to industry wide credit deterioration in the Taiwan credit card market. 2006 and 2005 Comparison Consumer Finance operating income decreased in 2006 compared to 2005. Operating income from domestic consumer finance operations declined by $193 million, or 23 percent as a result of decreased originations and purchases of real estate loans and margin compression resulting from increased interest rates and flattened yield curves. The foreign operations operating income decreased primarily due to the credit deterioration in the Taiwan credit card market. Domestically, the U.S. housing market deteriorated throughout 2006 and as a result, the real estate loan portfolio decreased slightly during 2006 due to lower refinancing activity. This lower refinancing activity also caused a significant decrease in originations and whole loan sales in AGFs mortgage banking operation, which resulted in a substantial reduction of revenue and operating income compared to the prior year. However, softening home prices (reducing the equity customers are able to extract from their homes when refinancing) and higher mortgage rates contributed to customers utilizing non real estate loans, which increased 10 percent compared to 2005. Retail sales finance receivables also increased 23 percent due to increased marketing efforts and customer demand. Higher revenue resulting from portfolio growth was more than offset by higher interest expense. AGFs short term borrowing rates were 5.14 percent in 2006 compared to AIG 2007 Form 10 K 85 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continued 3.58 percent in 2005. AGFs long term borrowing rates were 5.05 percent in 2006 compared to 4.41 percent in 2005. During 2006, AGF recorded a net loss of $89 million on its derivatives that did not qualify for hedge accounting under FAS 133, including the related foreign exchange losses, compared to a net gain of $69 million in 2005. AGFs net charge off ratio improved to 0.95 percent in 2006 from 1.19 percent in 2005. The improvement in the net charge off ratio in 2006 was primarily due to positive economic fundamentals. The U.S. economy continued to expand during the year, and the unemployment rate remained low, which improved the credit quality of AGFs portfolio. AGFs delinquency ratio remained relatively low, although it increased to 2.06 percent at December 31, 2006 from 1.93 percent at December 31, 2005. AGF reduced the hurricane Katrina portion of its allowance for finance receivable losses to $15 million at December 31, 2006 after the reevaluation of its remaining estimated losses. AGFs allowance ratio was 2.01 percent at December 31, 2006 compared to 2.20 percent at December 31, 2005. Revenues from the foreign consumer finance operations increased by approximately 13 percent in 2006 compared to 2005. Loan growth, particularly in Poland and Argentina, was the primary driver behind the higher revenues. Higher revenues were more than offset, however, by AIGCFGs $47 million share of the allowance for losses related to industrywide credit deterioration in the Taiwan credit card market, increased cost of funds, and higher operating expenses in connection with expansion into new markets and distribution channels and new product promotions, resulting in lower operating income in 2006 compared to 2005. Asset Management Operations AIGs Asset Management operations comprise a wide variety of investment related services and investment products. Such services and products are offered to individuals, pension funds and institutions (including AIG subsidiaries) globally through AIGs Spread Based Investment business, Institutional Asset Management and Brokerage Services and Mutual Funds businesses. Also included in Asset Management operations are the results of certain SunAmerica sponsored partnership investments. The revenues and operating income for this segment are affected by the general conditions in the equity and credit markets. In addition, net realized gains and performance fees are contingent upon various fund closings, maturity levels and market conditions. Asset Management Results Asset Management results were as follows: Percentage Increase/ (Decrease) (in millions) 2007 2006 2005 2007 vs. 2006 2006 vs. 2005 Revenues: Spread Based Investment business $ 2,023 $ 2,713 $ 2,973 (25 )% (9 )% Institutional Asset Management* 2,900 1,240 1,026 134 21 Brokerage Services and Mutual Funds 322 293 257 10 14 Other Asset Management 380 297 326 28 (9 ) Total $ 5,625 $ 4,543 $ 4,582 24 % (1 )% Operating income: Spread Based Investment business $ (89 ) $ 732 $ 1,194 % (39 )% Institutional Asset Management* 784 438 387 79 13 Brokerage Services and Mutual Funds 100 87 66 15 32 Other Asset Management 369 281 316 31 (11 ) Total $ 1,164 $ 1,538 $ 1,963 (24 )% (22 )% * Includes the effect of consolidating the revenues and operating loss of warehoused investments totaling $778 million and $164 million, respectively, in 2007, a portion of which is offset in minority interest expense. 2007 and 2006 Comparison Asset Management revenues increased in 2007 compared to 2006 primarily due to increased partnership income, management fees, carried interest and the effect of consolidating several warehoused investments. AIG consolidates the operating results of warehoused investments until such time as they are sold or otherwise divested. Asset Management operating income decreased in 2007 compared to 2006, due to foreign exchange, interest rate and credit related mark to market losses and other than temporary impairment charges on fixed income investments. These other than temporary impairment charges were due primarily to changes in market liquidity and spreads. Partially offsetting these decreases were higher partnership income, increased gains on real estate investments and a gain on the sale of a portion of AIGs investment in Blackstone Group, L.P. in connection with its initial public offering. In order to better align financial reporting with the manner in which AIGs chief operating decision makers manage their businesses, beginning in 2007, net realized capital gains and losses, and foreign exchange transaction gains and losses, which were previously reported as part of AIGs Other category, are now included in Asset Management revenues and operating income. In addition, revenues and operating income related to foreign 86 AIG 2007 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries investment type contracts, which were historically reported as a component of the Spread Based Investment business, are now reported in the Life Insurance & Retirement Services segment. Also, commencing in 2007, the effect of consolidating managed partnerships and funds, which were historically reported as a component of the Institutional Asset Management business, are now reported in the Consolidation and eliminations category. Prior period amounts have been revised to conform to the current presentation. 2006 and 2005 Comparison Asset Management operating income decreased in 2006 compared to 2005 as a decline in Spread Based Investment operating income was partially offset by higher Institutional Asset Management operating income. Spread Based Investment Business Results 2007 and 2006 Comparison The Spread Based Investment business reported an operating loss in 2007 compared to operating income in 2006 due to foreign exchange, interest rate and credit related mark to market losses and other than temporary impairment charges on fixed income investments, partially offset by increased partnership income. In 2007, the GIC program incurred foreign exchange losses of $526 million on foreign denominated GIC reserves. Partially offsetting these losses were $269 million of net mark to market gains on derivative positions. These net gains included mark to market gains on foreign exchange derivatives used to economically hedge the effect of foreign exchange rate movements on foreign denominated GIC reserves and mark to market losses on interest rate hedges that did not qualify for hedge accounting treatment. The MIP experienced mark to market losses of $193 million due to interest rate and foreign exchange derivative positions that, while partially effective in hedging interest rate and foreign exchange risk, did not qualify for hedge accounting treatment and an additional $98 million due to credit default swap losses. The MIP credit default swaps are comprised of single name high grade corporate exposures. AIG enters into hedging arrangements to mitigate the effect of changes in currency and interest rates associated with the fixed and floating rate and foreign currency denominated obligations issued under these programs. Some of these hedging relationships qualify for hedge accounting treatment, while others do not. Commencing in the first quarter of 2007, AIG applied hedge accounting to certain derivative transactions related to the MIP. Income or loss from these hedges not qualifying for hedge accounting treatment are classified as net realized capital gains (losses) in AIGs Consolidated Statement of Income. The mark to market losses for 2007 were driven primarily by a decline in short term interest rates, the decline in the value of the U.S. dollar and widening credit spreads. Also contributing to the operating loss were other than temporary impairment charges on various fixed income investments held in the GIC and MIP portfolios of approximately $836 million as a result of movements in credit spreads and decreased market liquidity. See Invested Assets Other than temporary impairments. These losses were partially offset by an increase in partnership income associated with the GIC. In addition to other than temporary impairments, unrealized losses on fixed income investments were driven by widening credit spreads, partially offset by gains due to falling interest rates. These unrealized losses are recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). During 2007, AIG has issued the equivalent of $8.1 billion of securities to fund the MIP in the Euromarkets and the U.S. public and private markets compared to $5.3 billion issued in 2006. At December 31, 2007, total issuances were $13.4 billion. The following table illustrates the anticipated runoff of the domestic GIC portfolio at December 31, 2007: Less Than 1 3 3+ 5 Over Five (in billions) One Year Years Years Years Total Domestic GICs $ 9.4 $ 6.4 $ 2.7 $ 6.8 $ 25.3 2006 and 2005 Comparison Operating income related to the Spread Based Investment business declined in 2006 compared to 2005 due primarily to the continued runoff of GIC balances and spread compression related to increases in short term interest rates. A significant portion of the remaining GIC portfolio consists of floating rate obligations. AIG has entered into hedges to manage against increases in short term interest rates. AIG believes these hedges are economically effective, but they did not qualify for hedge accounting treatment. The decline in operating income was partially offset by improved partnership income, particularly during the fourth quarter of 2006. Institutional Asset Management Results 2007 and 2006 Comparison Operating income for Institutional Asset Management increased in 2007 compared to 2006 reflecting increased carried interest revenues driven by higher valuations of portfolio investments that are generally associated with improved performance in the equity markets. The increase also reflects a $398 million gain from the sale of a portion of AIGs investment in Blackstone Group, L.P. in connection with its initial public offering. Also contributing to this increase were higher base management fees driven by higher levels of third party assets under management. Partially offsetting these increases were the operating losses from warehousing activities. The consolidated warehoused private equity investments are not wholly owned by AIG and thus, a significant portion of the effect of consolidating these operating losses is offset in minority interest, which is not a component of operating income. AIGs unaffiliated client assets under management, including retail mutual funds and institutional accounts, increased 26 percent to $94.2 billion at December 31, 2007 compared to December 31, 2006. Additionally, AIG Investments successfully launched several new private equity and real estate funds in 2007, which provide both a base management fee and the opportunity for future incentive fees. AIG 2007 Form 10 K 87 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continued While unaffiliated client assets under management and the resulting management fees continue to increase, the growth in operating income has trailed the growth in revenues due to the additional costs associated with warehousing activities as well as the costs associated with sales and infrastructure enhancements. The sales and infrastructure enhancements are associated with AIGs planned expansion of marketing and distribution capabilities, combined with technology and operational infrastructure related improvements. 2006 and 2005 Comparison Operating income related to Institutional Asset Management increased in 2006 compared to 2005, primarily due to realized gains on real estate transactions as well as increased management fees. AIGs unaffiliated client assets under management, including both retail mutual funds and institutional accounts, increased 21 percent from year end 2005 to $75 billion, resulting in higher management fee income. Partially offsetting this growth were lower carried interest on private equity investments, and higher expenses related to the planned expansion of marketing and distribution capabilities, combined with technology and operational infrastructure related enhancements. Other Operations The operating loss of AIGs Other category for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 was as follows: (in millions) 2007 2006 2005 Other Operating Income (Loss): Equity earnings in partially owned companies $ 157 $ 193 $ (124 ) Interest expense (1,223 ) (859 ) (541 ) Unallocated corporate expenses* (560 ) (517 ) (413 ) Compensation expense SICO Plans (39 ) (108 ) (205 ) Compensation expense Starr tender offer (54 ) Net realized capital gains (losses) (409 ) (37 ) 269 Regulatory settlement costs (1,644 ) Other miscellaneous, net (66 ) (53 ) (107 ) Total Other $ (2,140 ) $ (1,435 ) $ (2,765 ) * Includes expenses of corporate staff not attributable to specific business segments, expenses related to efforts to improve internal controls, corporate initiatives and certain compensation plan expenses. 2007 and 2006 Comparison The operating loss of AIGs Other category increased in 2007 compared to 2006 reflecting higher interest expense that resulted from increased borrowings, higher unallocated corporate expenses and foreign exchange losses on foreign denominated debt, a portion of which was economically hedged but did not qualify for hedge accounting treatment under FAS 133. In addition, Net realized capital gains (losses) in 2007 included an other than temporary impairment charge of $144 million related to an investment in a partially owned company and foreign exchange losses of $221 million on unhedged debt. The operating loss in 2006 for AIGs Other category included an out of period charge of $61 million related to the SICO Plans and a one time charge related to the Starr tender offer of $54 million. For a further discussion of these items, see Note 19 to Consolidated Financial Statements. In 2007, no compensation cost was recognized, and compensation cost recognized in 2006 was reversed, with respect to awards under the Partners Plan because the performance threshold was not met. The amounts earned under the AIG Partners Plan will be determined by the Compensation Committee in the first quarter of 2008. In order to better align financial reporting with the manner in which AIGs chief operating decision makers manage their businesses, beginning in 2007, derivative gains and losses and foreign exchange transaction gains and losses for Asset Management and Financial Services entities (other than AIGFP) are now included in Asset Management and Financial Services revenues and operating income. These amounts were previously reported as part of AIGs Other category. Prior period amounts have been revised to conform to the current presentation. 2006 and 2005 Comparison Operating loss for AIGs Other category declined in 2006 compared to 2005, reflecting the regulatory settlement costs of $1.6 billion in 2005, as described under Item 3. Legal Proceedings, offset by increased interest expense in 2006 as a result of increased borrowings by the parent holding company and realized capital losses of $37 million. These declines were partially offset by increased equity earnings in certain partially owned companies. Capital Resources and Liquidity At December 31, 2007, AIG had total consolidated shareholders equity of $95.8 billion and total consolidated borrowings of $176.0 billion. At that date, $67.9 billion of such borrowings were subsidiary borrowings not guaranteed by AIG. In 2007, AIG issued an aggregate of $5.6 billion of junior subordinated debentures in five series of securities. Substantially all of the proceeds from these sales, net of expenses, are being used to purchase shares of AIGs common stock. A total of 76,361,209 shares were purchased during 2007. 88 AIG 2007 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries Borrowings Total borrowings at December 31, 2007 and 2006 were as follows: (in millions) 2007 2006 Borrowings issued by AIG: Notes and bonds payable $ 14,588 $ 8,915 Junior subordinated debt 5,809 Loans and mortgages payable 729 841 MIP matched notes and bonds payable 14,267 5,468 Series AIGFP matched notes and bonds payable 874 72 Total AIG borrowings 36,267 15,296 Borrowings guaranteed by AIG: AIGFP GIAs 19,908 20,664 Notes and bonds payable 36,676 37,528 Loans and mortgages payable 1,384 Hybrid financial instrument liabilities(a) 7,479 8,856 Total AIGFP borrowings 65,447 67,048 AIG Funding, Inc. commercial paper 4,222 4,821 AIGLH notes and bonds payable 797 797 Liabilities connected to trust preferred stock 1,435 1,440 Total borrowings issued or guaranteed by AIG 108,168 89,402 Borrowings not guaranteed by AIG: ILFC Commercial paper 4,483 2,747 Junior subordinated debt 999 999 Notes and bonds payable(b) 25,737 25,592 Total ILFC borrowings 31,219 29,338 AGF Commercial paper and extendible commercial notes 3,801 4,662 Junior subordinated debt 349 Notes and bonds payable 22,369 19,261 Total AGF borrowings 26,519 23,923 AIGCFG Commercial paper 287 227 Loans and mortgages payable 1,839 1,453 Total AIGCFG borrowings 2,126 1,680 AIG Finance Taiwan Limited commercial paper 26 Other subsidiaries 775 672 Borrowings of consolidated investments: A.I. Credit(c) 321 880 AIG Investments(d) 1,636 193 AIG Global Real Estate Investment(d) 5,096 2,307 AIG SunAmerica 186 203 ALICO 3 55 Total borrowings of consolidated investments 7,242 3,638 Total borrowings not guaranteed by AIG 67,881 59,277 Consolidated: Total commercial paper and extendible commercial notes $ 13,114 $ 13,363 Total long term borrowings 162,935 135,316 Total borrowings $ 176,049 $ 148,679 (a) Represents structured notes issued by AIGFP that are accounted for using the fair value option. (b) Includes borrowings under Export Credit Facility of $2.5 billion and $2.7 billion at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. (c) Represents commercial paper issued by a variable interest entity secured by receivables of A.I. Credit. (d) In 2007, increases in borrowings compared to 2006 were principally attributable to warehousing activities. AIG 2007 Form 10 K 89 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continued At December 31, 2007 and 2006, AIGs net borrowings amounted to $20.3 billion and $15.4 billion, respectively, as follows: (in millions) 2007 2006 AIGs total borrowings $ 176,049 $ 148,679 Less: Junior subordinated debt 5,809 Liabilities connected to trust preferred stock 1,435 1,440 MIP matched notes and bonds payable 14,267 5,468 Series AIGFP matched notes and bonds payable 874 72 AIGFP GIAs 19,908 20,664 Notes and bonds payable 36,676 37,528 Loans and mortgages payable 1,384 Hybrid financial instrument liabilities* 7,479 8,856 Borrowings not guaranteed by AIG 67,881 59,277 AIGs net borrowings $ 20,336 $ 15,374 * Represents structured notes issued by AIGFP that are accounted for at fair value. A roll forward of long term borrowings, excluding borrowings of consolidated investments, for the year ended December 31, 2007 is as follows: Balance at Maturities Effect of Balance at December 31, and Foreign Other December 31, (in millions) 2006 Issuances Repayments Exchange Changes 2007 AIG Notes and bonds payable $ 8,915 $ 5,591 $ (165 ) $ 122 $ 125 $ 14,588 Junior subordinated debt 5,590 218 1 5,809 Loans and mortgages payable 841 600 (724 ) 12 729 MIP matched notes and bonds payable 5,468 8,092 (4 ) 711 14,267 Series AIGFP matched notes and bonds payable 72 810 (10 ) 2 874 AIGFP GIAs 20,664 8,830 (10,172 ) 43 543 19,908 Notes and bonds payable and hybrid financial instrument liabilities 46,384 50,854 (53,540 ) 321 136 44,155 Loans and mortgages payable 1,388 (9 ) 9 (4 ) 1,384 AIGLH notes and bonds payable 797 797 Liabilities connected to trust preferred stock 1,440 (5 ) 1,435 ILFC notes and bonds payable 25,592 3,783 (3,938 ) 295 5 25,737 ILFC junior subordinated debt 999 999 AGF notes and bonds payable 19,261 7,481 (4,824 ) 255 196 22,369 AGF junior subordinated debt 349 349 AIGCFG loans and mortgages payable 1,453 3,941 (3,647 ) 98 (6 ) 1,839 Other subsidiaries 672 189 (189 ) 3 100 775 Total $ 132,558 $ 97,498 $ (77,218 ) $ 1,372 $ 1,804 $ 156,014 AIG (Parent Company) AIG intends to continue its customary practice of issuing debt securities from time to time to meet its financing needs and those of certain of its subsidiaries for general corporate purposes, as well as for the MIP. As of December 31, 2007, AIG had up to $17.5 billion of debt securities, preferred stock and other securities, and up to $12.0 billion of common stock, registered and available for issuance under its universal shelf registration statement. AIG maintains a medium term note program under its shelf registration statement. As of December 31, 2007, approximately $7.3 billion principal amount of senior notes were outstanding under the medium term note program, of which $3.2 billion was used for AIGs general corporate purposes, $873 million was used by AIGFP (referred to as Series AIGFP in the preceding tables) and $3.2 billion was used to fund the MIP. The maturity dates of these notes range from 2008 to 2052. To the extent deemed appropriate, AIG may enter into swap transactions to manage its effective borrowing rates with respect to these notes. AIG also maintains a Euro medium term note program under which an aggregate nominal amount of up to $20.0 billion of senior notes may be outstanding at any one time. As of December 31, 2007, the equivalent of $12.7 billion of notes were outstanding under the program, of which $9.8 billion were used to fund the MIP and the remainder was used for AIGs general 90 AIG 2007 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries corporate purposes. The aggregate amount outstanding includes $1.1 billion loss resulting from foreign exchange translation into U.S. dollars, of which $332 million loss relates to notes issued by AIG for general corporate purposes and $726 million loss relates to notes issued to fund the MIP. AIG has economically hedged the currency exposure arising from its foreign currency denominated notes. During 2007, AIG issued in Rule 144A offerings an aggregate of $3.0 billion principal amount of senior notes, of which $650 million was used to fund the MIP and $2.3 billion was used for AIGs general corporate purposes. AIG maintains a shelf registration statement in Japan, providing for the issuance of up to Japanese Yen 300 billion principal amount of senior notes, of which the equivalent of $450 million was outstanding as of December 31, 2007 and was used for AIGs general corporate purposes. AIG also maintains an Australian dollar debt program under which senior notes with an aggregate principal amount of up to 5 billion Australian dollars may be outstanding at any one time. Although as of December 31, 2007 there were no outstanding notes under the Australian program, AIG intends to use the program opportunistically to fund the MIP or for AIGs general corporate purposes. During 2007, AIG issued an aggregate of $5.6 billion of junior subordinated debentures in five series of securities. Substantially all of the proceeds from these sales, net of expenses, are being used to repurchase shares of AIGs common stock. In connection with each series of junior subordinated debentures, AIG entered into a Replacement Capital Covenant (RCC) for the benefit of the holders of AIGs 6.25 percent senior notes due 2036. The RCCs provide that AIG will not repay, redeem, or purchase the applicable series of junior subordinated debentures on or before a specified date, unless AIG has received qualifying proceeds from the sale of replacement capital securities. In October 2007, AIG borrowed a total of $500 million on an unsecured basis pursuant to a loan agreement with a third party bank. The entire amount of the loan remained outstanding at December 31, 2007 and matures in October 2008. AIG began applying hedge accounting for certain AIG parent transactions in the first quarter of 2007. AIGFP AIGFP uses the proceeds from the issuance of notes and bonds and GIA borrowings, as well as the issuance of Series AIGFP notes by AIG, to invest in a diversified portfolio of securities and derivative transactions. The borrowings may also be temporarily invested in securities purchased under agreements to resell. AIGFPs notes and bonds include structured debt instruments whose payment terms are linked to one or more financial or other indices (such as an equity index or commodity index or another measure that is not considered to be clearly and closely related to the debt instrument). These notes contain embedded derivatives that otherwise would be required to be accounted for separately under FAS 133. Upon AIGs early adoption of FAS 155, AIGFP elected the fair value option for these notes. The notes that are accounted for using the fair value option are reported separately under hybrid financial instrument liabilities. AIG guarantees the obligations of AIGFP under AIGFPs notes and bonds and GIA borrowings. See Liquidity herein and Note 8 to Consolidated Financial Statements. AIGFP has a Euro medium term note program under which an aggregate nominal amount of up to $20.0 billion of notes may be outstanding at any one time. As of December 31, 2007, $6.2 billion of notes were outstanding under the program. The notes issued under this program are guaranteed by AIG and are included in AIGFPs notes and bonds payable in the table of total borrowings. AIG Funding AIG Funding, Inc. (AIG Funding) issues commercial paper that is guaranteed by AIG in order to help fulfill the short term cash requirements of AIG and its subsidiaries. The issuance of AIG Fundings commercial paper, including the guarantee by AIG, is subject to the approval of AIGs Board of Directors or the Finance Committee of the Board if it exceeds certain pre approved limits. As backup for the commercial paper program and for other general corporate purposes, AIG and AIG Funding maintain revolving credit facilities, which, as of December 31, 2007, had an aggregate of $9.3 billion available to be drawn and which are summarized below under Revolving Credit Facilities. ILFC ILFC fulfills its short term cash requirements through operating cash flows and the issuance of commercial paper. The issuance of commercial paper is subject to the approval of ILFCs Board of Directors and is not guaranteed by AIG. ILFC maintains syndicated revolving credit facilities which, as of December 31, 2007, totaled $6.5 billion and which are summarized below under Revolving Credit Facilities. These facilities are used as back up for ILFCs maturing debt and other obligations. As a well known seasoned issuer, ILFC has filed an automatic shelf registration statement with the SEC allowing ILFC immediate access to the U.S. public debt markets. At December 31, 2007, $4.7 billion of debt securities had been issued under this registration statement and $5.9 billion had been issued under a prior registration statement. In addition, ILFC has a Euro medium term note program for $7.0 billion, under which $3.8 billion in notes were outstanding at December 31, 2007. Notes issued under the Euro medium term note program are included in ILFC notes and bonds payable in the preceding table of borrowings. The cumulative foreign exchange adjustment loss for the foreign currency denominated debt resulting from the effect of hedging activities that did not qualify for hedge accounting treatment under FAS 133 was $969 million at December 31, 2007 and $733 million at December 31, 2006. ILFC has substantially eliminated the currency exposure arising from foreign currency denominated notes by economically hedging the portion of the note exposure not already offset by Euro denominated operating lease payments. ILFC had a $4.3 billion Export Credit Facility for use in connection with the purchase of approximately 75 aircraft delivered through 2001. This facility was guaranteed by various European Export Credit Agencies. The interest rate varies from AIG 2007 Form 10 K 91 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continued 5.75 percent to 5.90 percent on these amortizing ten year borrowings depending on the delivery date of the aircraft. At December 31, 2007, ILFC had $664 million outstanding under this facility. The debt is collateralized by a pledge of the shares of a subsidiary of ILFC, which holds title to the aircraft financed under the facility. In May 2004, ILFC entered into a similarly structured Export Credit Facility for up to a maximum of $2.6 billion for Airbus aircraft to be delivered through May 31, 2005. The facility was subsequently increased to $3.6 billion and extended to include aircraft to be delivered through May 31, 2008. The facility becomes available as the various European Export Credit Agencies provide their guarantees for aircraft based on a nine month forward looking calendar, and the interest rate is determined through a bid process. At December 31, 2007, ILFC had $1.9 billion outstanding under this facility. Borrowings with respect to these facilities are included in ILFCs notes and bonds payable in the preceding table of borrowings. The debt is collateralized by a pledge of shares of a subsidiary of ILFC, which holds title to the aircraft financed under the facility. From time to time, ILFC enters into funded financing agreements. As of December 31, 2007, ILFC had a total of $1.1 billion outstanding, which has varying maturities through February 2012. The interest rates are LIBOR based, with spreads ranging from 0.30 percent to 1.625 percent. The proceeds of ILFCs debt financing are primarily used to purchase flight equipment, including progress payments during the construction phase. The primary sources for the repayment of this debt and the interest expense thereon are the cash flow from operations, proceeds from the sale of flight equipment and the rollover and refinancing of the prior debt. AIG does not guarantee the debt obligations of ILFC. See also Liquidity herein. AGF AGF fulfills most of its short term cash borrowing requirements through the issuance of commercial paper. The issuance of commercial paper is subject to the approval of AGFs Board of Directors and is not guaranteed by AIG. AGF maintains committed syndicated revolving credit facilities which, as of December 31, 2007, totaled $4.8 billion and which are summarized below under Revolving Credit Facilities. The facilities can be used for general corporate purposes and to provide backup for AGFs commercial paper programs. In January 2007, AGF issued junior subordinated debentures in an aggregate principal amount of $350 million that mature in January 2067. The debentures underlie a series of trust preferred securities sold by a trust sponsored by AGF in a Rule 144A/ Regulation S offering. AGF can redeem the debentures at par beginning in January 2017. As of December 31, 2007, notes and bonds aggregating $22.4 billion were outstanding with maturity dates ranging from 2008 to 2031 at interest rates ranging from 1.94 percent to 8.45 percent. To the extent deemed appropriate, AGF may enter into swap transactions to manage its effective borrowing rates with respect to these notes and bonds. As a well known seasoned issuer, AGF filed an automatic shelf registration statement with the SEC allowing AGF immediate access to the U.S. public debt markets. At December 31, 2007, AGF had remaining corporate authorization to issue up to $8.1 billion of debt securities under its shelf registration statements. AGFs funding sources include a medium term note program, private placement debt, retail note issuances, bank financing and securitizations of finance receivables that AGF accounts for as on balance sheet secured financings. In addition, AGF has become an established issuer of long term debt in the international capital markets. In addition to debt refinancing activities, proceeds from the collection of finance receivables are used to fund cash needs including the payment of principal and interest on AGFs debt. AIG does not guarantee any of the debt obligations of AGF. See also Liquidity. AIGCFG AIGCFG has a variety of funding mechanisms for its various markets, including retail and wholesale deposits, short and long term bank loans, securitizations and intercompany subordinated debt. AIG Credit Card Company (Taiwan), a consumer finance business in Taiwan, and AIG Retail Bank PLC, a full service consumer bank in Thailand, have issued commercial paper for the funding of their respective operations. AIG does not guarantee any borrowings for AIGCFG businesses, including this commercial paper. 92 AIG 2007 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries Revolving Credit Facilities AIG, ILFC and AGF maintain committed, unsecured revolving credit facilities listed on the table below in order to support their respective commercial paper programs and for general corporate purposes. AIG, ILFC and AGF expect to replace or extend these credit facilities on or prior to their expiration. Some of the facilities, as noted below, contain a term out option allowing for the conversion by the borrower of any outstanding loans at expiration into one year term loans. As of December 31, 2007 (in millions) One Year Available Term Out Facility Size Borrower(s) Amount Expiration Option AIG: 364 Day Syndicated Facility $2,125 AIG/AIG Funding(a) AIG Capital Corporation(a) $ 2,125 July 2008 Yes 5 Year Syndicated Facility 1,625 AIG/AIG Funding(a) AIG Capital Corporation(a) 1,625 July 2011 No 364 Day Bilateral Facility (b) 3,200 AIG/AIG Funding 210 December 2008 Yes 364 Day Intercompany Facility(c) 5,335 AIG 5,335 September 2008 Yes Total AIG $12,285 $ 9,295 ILFC: 5 Year Syndicated Facility $2,500 ILFC $ 2,500 October 2011 No 5 Year Syndicated Facility 2,000 ILFC 2,000 October 2010 No 5 Year Syndicated Facility 2,000 ILFC 2,000 October 2009 No Total ILFC $6,500 $ 6,500 AGF: 364 Day Syndicated Facility $2,625 American General Finance Corporation American General Finance, Inc.(d) $ 2,625 July 2008 Yes 5 Year Syndicated Facility 2,125 American General Finance Corporation 2,125 July 2010 No Total AGF $4,750 $ 4,750 (a) Guaranteed by AIG. (b) This facility can be drawn in the form of loans or letters of credit. All drawn amounts shown above are in the form of letters of credit. (c) Subsidiaries of AIG are the lenders on this facility. (d) American General Finance, Inc. is an eligible borrower for up to $400 million only. Credit Ratings The cost and availability of unsecured financing for AIG and its subsidiaries are generally dependent on their short and long term debt ratings. The following table presents the credit ratings of AIG and certain of its subsidiaries as of February 15, 2008. In parentheses, following the initial occurrence in the table of each rating, is an indication of that ratings relative rank within the agencys rating categories. That ranking refers only to the generic or major rating category and not to the modifiers appended to the rating by the rating agencies to denote relative position within such generic or major category. Short term Debt Senior Long term Debt Moodys S&P Fitch Moodys(a) S&P(b) Fitch(c) AIG P 1 (1st of 3) A 1+ (1st of 6) F1+ (1st of 5) Aa2(e) (2nd of 9) AA (2nd of 8) (f) AA (2nd of 9)(h) AIG Financial Products Corp.(d) P 1 A 1+ Aa2(e) AA(f) AIG Funding, Inc. (d) P 1 A 1+ F1+ ILFC P 1 A 1+ F1 (1st of 5) A1 (3rd of 9) AA (2nd of 8) (g) A+ (3rd of 9)(h) American General Finance Corporation P 1 A 1 (1st of 6) F1 A1 A+ (3rd of 8) A+(h) American General Finance, Inc. P 1 A 1 F1 A+(h) (a) Moodys Investors Service (Moodys) appends numerical modifiers 1, 2 and 3 to the generic rating categories to show relative position within rating categories. (b) Standard & Poors, a division of the McGraw Hill Companies (S&P) ratings may be modified by the addition of a plus or minus sign to show relative standing within the major rating categories. (c) Fitch Ratings (Fitch) ratings may be modified by the addition of a plus or minus sign to show relative standing within the major rating categories. (d) AIG guarantees all obligations of AIG Financial Products Corp. and AIG Funding, Inc. (e) Negative rating outlook on Senior Unsecured Debt Ratings. A negative outlook by Moodys indicates that a rating may be lowered but is not necessarily a precursor of a ratings change. (f) Negative rating outlook on Counterparty Credit Ratings. A negative outlook by S&P indicates that a rating may be lowered but is not necessarily a precursor of a ratings change. (g) Negative rating outlook on Corporate Credit Rating. A negative outlook by S&P indicates that a rating may be lowered but is not necessarily a precursor of a ratings change. (h) Issuer Default and Senior Unsecured Debt Ratings on Rating Watch Negative. Rating Watch Negative indicates that a rating has been placed on active rating watch status. AIG 2007 Form 10 K 93 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continued These credit ratings are current opinions of the rating agencies. As such, they may be changed, suspended or withdrawn at any time by the rating agencies as a result of changes in, or unavailability of, information or based on other circumstances. Ratings may also be withdrawn at AIG managements request. This discussion of ratings is not a complete list of ratings of AIG and its subsidiaries. Ratings triggers have been defined by one independent rating agency to include clauses or agreements the outcome of which depends upon the level of ratings maintained by one or more rating agencies. Ratings triggers generally relate to events which (i) could result in the termination or limitation of credit availability, or require accelerated repayment, (ii) could result in the termination of business contracts or (iii) could require a company to post collateral for the benefit of counterparties. AIG believes that any of its own or its subsidiaries contractual obligations that are subject to ratings triggers or financial covenants relating to ratings triggers would not have a material adverse effect on its financial condition or liquidity. Ratings downgrades could also trigger the application of termination provisions in certain of AIGs contracts, principally agreements entered into by AIGFP and assumed reinsurance contracts entered into by Transatlantic. It is estimated that, as of the close of business on February 14, 2008, based on AIGFPs outstanding municipal GIAs and financial derivatives transactions as of such date, a downgrade of AIGs long term senior debt ratings to Aa3 by Moodys or AA by S&P would permit counterparties to call for approximately $1.39 billion of collateral. Further, additional downgrades could result in requirements for substantial additional collateral, which could have a material effect on how AIGFP manages its liquidity. The actual amount of additional collateral that AIGFP would be required to post to counterparties in the event of such downgrades depends on market conditions, the fair value of the outstanding affected transactions and other factors prevailing at the time of the downgrade. Additional obligations to post collateral would increase the demand on AIGFPs liquidity. 94 AIG 2007 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries Contractual Obligations Contractual obligations in total, and by remaining maturity at December 31, 2007 were as follows: Payments due by Period Total Less Than 1 3 3+ 5 Over Five (in millions) Payments One Year Years Years Years Borrowings(a) $ 156,014 $ 43,891 $ 32,261 $ 26,032 $ 53,830 Interest payments on borrowings 83,551 5,326 8,899 7,073 62,253 Loss reserves(b) 85,500 23,513 26,078 12,397 23,512 Insurance and investment contract liabilities (c) 645,583 32,359 42,768 42,282 528,174 GIC liabilities(d) 29,797 9,266 8,052 3,458 9,021 Aircraft purchase commitments 20,104 4,174 3,852 2,095 9,983 Operating leases 4,426 747 1,041 693 1,945 Other purchase obligations(e) 1,091 1,056 35 Total(f) $ 1,026,066 $ 120,332 $ 122,986 $ 94,030 $ 688,718 (a) Excludes commercial paper and borrowings incurred by consolidated investments and includes hybrid financial instrument liabilities recorded at fair value. (b) Represents future loss and loss adjustment expense payments estimated based on historical loss development payment patterns. Due to the significance of the assumptions used, the periodic amounts presented could be materially different from actual required payments. (c) Insurance and investment contract liabilities include various investment type products with contractually scheduled maturities, including periodic payments of a term certain nature. Insurance and investment contract liabilities also include benefit and claim liabilities, of which a significant portion represents policies and contracts that do not have stated contractual maturity dates and may not result in any future payment obligations. For these policies and contracts (i) AIG is currently not making payments until the occurrence of an insurable event, such as death or disability, (ii) payments are conditional on survivorship, or (iii) payment may occur due to a surrender or other non scheduled event out of AIGs control. AIG has made significant assumptions to determine the estimated undiscounted cash flows of these contractual policy benefits, which assumptions include mortality, morbidity, future lapse rates, expenses, investment returns and interest crediting rates, offset by expected future deposits and premium on in force policies. Due to the significance of the assumptions used, the periodic amounts presented could be materially different from actual required payments. The amounts presented in this table are undiscounted and therefore exceed the future policy benefits and policyholder contract deposits included in the balance sheet. (d) Represents guaranteed maturities under GICs. (e) Includes a $1.0 billion commitment to purchase shares under AIGs share repurchase program which was paid in January 2008 and options to acquire aircraft. (f) Does not reflect unrecognized tax benefits of $1.3 billion, the timing of which is uncertain. However, it is reasonably possible that $50 million to $150 million may become payable during 2008. See Note 21 to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion on unrecognized tax benefits. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements and Commercial Commitments Off Balance Sheet Arrangements and Commercial Commitments in total, and by remaining maturity at December 31, 2007 were as follows: Amount of Commitment Expiration Total Amounts Less Than 1 3 3+ 5 Over Five (in millions) Committed One Year Years Years Years Guarantees: Liquidity facilities(a) $ 2,495 $ 8 $ 8 $ 1,503 $ 976 Standby letters of credit 1,713 1,485 42 38 148 Construction guarantees(b) 687 687 Guarantees of indebtedness 1,124 106 83 500 435 All other guarantees 767 249 8 35 475 Commitments: Investment commitments(c) 9,071 3,527 3,604 1,684 256 Commitments to extend credit 1,325 496 591 238 Letters of credit 1,196 910 6 121 159 Investment protection agreements(d) 11,991 3,088 2,094 855 5,954 Maturity shortening puts(e) 2,333 1,234 1,099 Other commercial commitments 1,269 114 111 83 961 Total(f) $ 33,971 $ 11,217 $ 7,646 $ 5,057 $ 10,051 (a) Primarily liquidity facilities provided in connection with certain municipal swap transactions and collateralized bond obligations. (b) Primarily AIG SunAmerica construction guarantees connected to affordable housing investments. (c) Includes commitments to invest in limited partnerships, private equity, hedge funds and mutual funds and commitments to purchase and develop real estate in the United States and abroad. (d) Written generally with respect to investments in hedge funds and funds of hedge funds. (e) Represents obligations under 2a 7 Puts to purchase certain multi sector CDOs at pre determined contractual prices. (f) Excludes commitments with respect to pension plans. The annual pension contribution for 2008 is expected to be approximately $118 million for U.S. and non U.S. plans. AIG 2007 Form 10 K 95 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continued Arrangements with Variable Interest Entities AIG enters into various off balance sheet (unconsolidated) arrangements with variable interest entities (VIEs) in the normal course of business. AIGs involvement with VIEs ranges from being a passive investor to designing and structuring, warehousing and managing the collateral of VIEs. AIG engages in transactions with VIEs as part of its investment activities to obtain funding and to facilitate client needs. AIG purchases debt securities (rated and unrated) and equity interests issued by VIEs, makes loans and provides other credit support to VIEs, enters into insurance, reinsurance and derivative transactions and leasing arrangements with VIEs, and acts as the warehouse agent and collateral manager for VIEs. Under FIN 46(R), AIG consolidates a VIE when it is the primary beneficiary of the entity. The primary beneficiary is the party that either (i) absorbs a majority of the VIEs expected losses; (ii) receives a majority of the VIEs expected residual returns; or (iii) both. For a further discussion of AIGs involvement with VIEs, see Note 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. A significant portion of AIGs overall exposure to VIEs results from AIG Investments real estate and investment funds. In certain instances, AIG Investments acts as the collateral manager or general partner of an investment fund, private equity fund or hedge fund. Such entities are typically registered investment companies or qualify for the specialized investment company accounting in accordance with the AICPA Investment Company Audit and Accounting Guide. For investment partnerships, hedge funds and private equity funds, AIG acts as the general partner or manager of the fund and is responsible for carrying out the investment mandate of the VIE. Often, AIGs insurance operations participate in these AIG managed structures as a passive investor in the debt or equity issued by the VIE. Typically, AIG does not provide any guarantees to the investors in the VIE. The following table summarizes, by investment activity, AIGs involvement with VIEs. Maximum exposure to loss, as detailed in the table below, is considered to be the notional amount of credit lines, guarantees and other credit support, and liquidity facilities, notional amounts of credit default swaps and certain total return swaps, and the amount invested in the debt or equity issued by the VIEs. Primary Significant Variable Beneficiary Interest Holder* (As of December 31,) Maximum Total Exposure Total Assets Assets to Loss (in billions) 2007 2006 2007 2007 Description Real estate and investment funds $ 21.7 $ 6.1 $ 139.0 $ 18.5 Tax planning VIEs 0.5 1.4 12.1 6.3 CLOs/ CDOs/ CBOs 0.4 107.8 9.7 Affordable housing partnerships 2.7 0.9 0.9 Other 1.7 1.6 15.3 9.2 Total $ 27.0 $ 9.1 $ 275.1 $ 44.6 * Includes $2.4 billion of assets held in an unconsolidated SIV sponsored by AIGFP in 2007. As of December 31, 2007, AIGFPs invested assets included $1.7 billion of securities purchased under agreements to resell, commercial paper and medium term and capital notes issued by this entity. Following is additional information concerning AIGs involvement with collateralized debt obligations and its structured investment vehicle. Collateralized Debt Obligations In the normal course of its asset management operations, AIG manages or sponsors CDOs which issue debt and equity interests sold to third party investors. AIGs subsidiaries also invest in the debt and equity securities issued by these CDOs as part of their normal investment activities. AIG also invests in and manages CDOs sponsored by third parties, warehouses assets prior to the establishment of and sale of the warehoused assets to a CDO, enters into derivative contracts with CDOs, including credit default swaps, and acts as an asset manager to CDOs. Categories of assets owned by these CDOs include residential and commercial mortgage and other asset backed securities, corporate loans, high yield and high grade loans and bonds, and credit default contracts, among other assets, that have ratings ranging from AAA to unrated. AIGFPs portfolio of multi sector CDOs and, to a lesser extent, certain AIG insurance subsidiaries direct investments in CDOs, have experienced some downgrades within their asset portfolios. AIG does not expect that it will have to consolidate any of these structures. These CDOs typically are funded with commercial paper, medium and long term financing and equity with ratings that range from AAA to unrated. AIG has no obligation to purchase, and has not purchased, any commercial paper issued by these CDOs or provided any support to these CDOs in obtaining financing, and does not intend to do so. However, AIGFP has written the 2a 7 Puts which are included as part of its multi sector credit default swap portfolio. Under the terms of these securities the holders are permitted or required, in certain circumstances, on a regular basis to tender their securities to the issuers at par. If an issuers remarketing agent is unable to resell 96 AIG 2007 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries the securities so tendered within the maximum interest rate spread range specified in the terms of the securities, AIGFP must purchase the securities at par as long as the securities have not experienced a default. During 2007, AIGFP purchased securities with a principal amount of approximately $754 million in connection with these obligations. In respect of certain of the 2a 7 Puts, AIGFP has contracted with third parties to provide liquidity for the securities if they are put to AIGFP for up to a three year period. Such liquidity facilities totaled approximately $3 billion at December 31, 2007. As of February 26, 2008, AIGFP has not utilized these liquidity facilities. At December 31, 2007, AIGFP had approximately $6.5 billion of notional exposure on these 2a 7 Puts. Structured Investment Vehicle AIGFP sponsors one unconsolidated SIV that invests in variable rate, investment grade debt securities with a weighted average remaining life of four years at December 31, 2007. Assets of the SIV totaled $2.4 billion at December 31, 2007. Approximately $31.9 million of these assets have been downgraded one notch from Aa3/AA to A1/A+ by Moodys and S&P, respectively, since the purchase of these assets by the SIV. The SIV funds its assets by issuing secured financing, commercial paper, and medium term notes that had a weighted average remaining life of less than six months at December 31, 2007. The mismatch between the weighted average remaining life of the SIVs assets and liabilities has been removed through the funding support from AIGFP described in the next paragraph. The SIV also issued approximately $300 million of capital notes originally rated Baa2 and BBB by Moodys and S&P, respectively, and subsequently downgraded in 2007 to B3 and BB (credit watch negative), respectively, of which AIGFP owns 12 percent. At December 31, 2007, AIGFP had $1.7 billion of balance sheet exposure to this SIV representing investments in securities purchased under agreements to resell, commercial paper, and medium term and capital notes. During the credit market disruptions during the last half of 2007, the SIV experienced difficulty attracting purchasers for its commercial paper and medium term notes. In January 2008, AIGFP agreed to provide funding support to the SIV, as necessary, to allow the SIV to redeem its commercial paper and medium term notes as they become due. Moodys affirmed the SIVs senior debt ratings of Aaa. S&P affirmed the SIVs long term issuer credit rating of AAA with a negative outlook and downgraded its capital notes from BB to CCC and this rating remains on credit watch negative. AIG does not believe its management of, and current or future investments in, the SIV could have any effect on AIGs debt ratings under any circumstances. Shareholders Equity The changes in AIGs consolidated shareholders equity during 2007 and 2006 follows: (in millions) 2007 2006 Beginning of year $ 101,677 $ 86,317 Net income 6,200 14,048 Unrealized appreciation (depreciation) of investments, net of tax (5,708 ) 1,735 Cumulative translation adjustment, net of tax 1,185 936 Dividends to shareholders (1,964 ) (1,690 ) Payments advanced to purchase shares, net (912 ) Share purchases (5,104 ) Other* 427 331 End of year $ 95,801 $ 101,677 * Reflects the effects of employee stock transactions and cumulative effect of accounting changes. As indicated in the table above, a significant portion of the 2007 decrease in AIGs consolidated equity during 2007 was the result of share purchases, substantially all of which were funded from the issuance of hybrid debt securities. The effect of these transactions was to replace high cost equity securities (common stock) with cost efficient hybrid securities, a substantial portion of which is treated as equity capital for the purpose of rating agency leverage calculations. AIG has in the past reinvested most of its unrestricted earnings in its operations and believes such continued reinvestment in the future will be adequate to meet any foreseeable capital needs. However, AIG may choose from time to time to raise additional funds through the issuance of additional securities. In February 2007, AIGs Board of Directors adopted a new dividend policy, which took effect with the dividend declared in the second quarter of 2007, providing that under ordinary circumstances, AIGs plan will be to increase its common stock dividend by approximately 20 percent annually. The payment of any dividend, however, is at the discretion of AIGs Board of Directors, and the future payment of dividends will depend on various factors, including the performance of AIGs businesses, AIGs consolidated financial position, results of operations and liquidity and the existence of investment opportunities. Share Repurchases From time to time, AIG may buy shares of its common stock for general corporate purposes, including to satisfy its obligations under various employee benefit plans. In February 2007, AIGs Board of Directors increased AIGs share repurchase program by authorizing the purchase of shares with an aggregate purchase price of $8 billion. In November 2007, AIGs Board of Directors authorized the purchase of an additional $8 billion in common stock. From March through December 31, 2007, AIG entered into structured share repurchase arrangements providing for the purchase of shares over time with an aggregate purchase price of AIG 2007 Form 10 K 97 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continued $7 billion, including a $1.0 billion commitment entered into in December 2007 but not funded until January 2008. A total of 76,361,209 shares were purchased during 2007. The portion of the payments advanced by AIG under the structured share repurchase arrangements that had not yet been utilized to repurchase shares at December 31, 2007, amounting to $912 million, has been recorded as a component of shareholders equity under the caption, Payments advanced to purchase shares. Purchases have continued subsequent to December 31, 2007, with an additional 12,196,187 shares purchased from January 1 through February 15, 2008. All shares purchased are recorded as treasury stock at cost. At February 15, 2008, $10.25 billion was available for purchases under the aggregate authorization. AIG does not expect to purchase additional shares under its share repurchase program for the foreseeable future, other than to meet commitments that existed at December 31, 2007. Dividends from Insurance Subsidiaries Payments of dividends to AIG by its insurance subsidiaries are subject to certain restrictions imposed by regulatory authorities. With respect to AIGs domestic insurance subsidiaries, the payment of any dividend requires formal notice to the insurance department in which the particular insurance subsidiary is domiciled. Under the laws of many states, an insurer may pay a dividend without prior approval of the insurance regulator when the amount of the dividend is below certain regulatory thresholds. Other foreign jurisdictions, notably Bermuda, Japan, Hong Kong, Taiwan, the U.K., Thailand and Singapore, may restrict the ability of AIGs foreign insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends. Largely as a result of these restrictions, approximately 81 percent of the aggregate equity of AIGs consolidated subsidiaries was restricted from immediate transfer to AIG parent at December 31, 2007. See Regulation and Supervision herein. AIG cannot predict how recent regulatory investigations may affect the ability of its regulated subsidiaries to pay dividends. To AIGs knowledge, no AIG company is currently on any regulatory or similar watch list with regard to solvency. See also Liquidity herein, Note 12 to Consolidated Financial Statements and Item 1A. Risk Factors Liquidity. Regulation and Supervision AIGs insurance subsidiaries, in common with other insurers, are subject to regulation and supervision by the states and jurisdictions in which they do business. In the United States, the NAIC has developed Risk Based Capital (RBC) requirements. RBC relates an individual insurance companys statutory surplus to the risk inherent in its overall operations. AIGs insurance subsidiaries file financial statements prepared in accordance with statutory accounting practices prescribed or permitted by domestic and foreign insurance regulatory authorities. The principal differences between statutory financial statements and financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP for domestic companies are that statutory financial statements do not reflect DAC, some bond portfolios may be carried at amortized cost, assets and liabilities are presented net of reinsurance, policyholder liabilities are valued using more conservative assumptions and certain assets are non admitted. In connection with the filing of the 2005 statutory financial statements for AIGs Domestic General Insurance companies, AIG agreed with the relevant state insurance regulators on the statutory accounting treatment of various items. The regulatory authorities have also permitted certain of the domestic and foreign insurance subsidiaries to support the carrying value of their investments in certain non insurance and foreign insurance subsidiaries by utilizing the AIG audited consolidated financial statements to satisfy the requirement that the U.S. GAAP basis equity of such entities be audited. In addition, the regulatory authorities have permitted the Domestic General Insurance companies to utilize audited financial statements prepared on a basis of accounting other than U.S. GAAP to value investments in joint ventures, limited partnerships and hedge funds. AIG has received similar permitted practices authorizations from insurance regulatory authorities in connection with the 2007 and 2006 statutory financial statements. These permitted practices did not affect the Domestic General Insurance companies compliance with minimum regulatory capital requirements. Statutory capital of each company continued to exceed minimum company action level requirements following the adjustments, but AIG nonetheless contributed an additional $750 million of capital into American Home effective September 30, 2005 and contributed a further $2.25 billion of capital in February 2006 for a total of approximately $3 billion of capital into Domestic General Insurance subsidiaries effective December 31, 2005. To enhance their current capital positions, AIG suspended dividends from the DBG companies from the fourth quarter 2005 through 2006, dividend payments resumed in the first quarter of 2007. AIG believes it has the capital resources and liquidity to fund any necessary statutory capital contributions. As discussed under Item 3. Legal Proceedings, various regulators have commenced investigations into certain insurance business practices. In addition, the OTS and other regulators routinely conduct examinations of AIG and its subsidiaries, including AIGs consumer finance operations. AIG cannot predict the ultimate effect that these investigations and examinations, or any additional regulation arising therefrom, might have on its business. Federal, state or local legislation may affect AIGs ability to operate and expand its various financial services businesses, and changes in the current laws, regulations or interpretations thereof may have a material adverse effect on these businesses. AIGs U.S. operations are negatively affected under guarantee fund assessment laws which exist in most states. As a result of operating in a state which has guarantee fund assessment laws, a solvent insurance company may be assessed for certain obligations arising from the insolvencies of other insurance companies which operated in that state. AIG generally records these assessments upon notice. Additionally, certain states permit at least a portion of the assessed amount to be used as a credit against a companys future premium tax liabilities. Therefore, the ultimate net assessment cannot reasonably be estimated. The guarantee fund assessments net of credits recognized 98 AIG 2007 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, were $87 million, $97 million and $124 million. AIG is also required to participate in various involuntary pools (principally workers compensation business) which provide insurance coverage for those not able to obtain such coverage in the voluntary markets. This participation is also recorded upon notification, as these amounts cannot reasonably be estimated. A substantial portion of AIGs General Insurance business and a majority of its Life Insurance & Retirement Services business are conducted in foreign countries. The degree of regulation and supervision in foreign jurisdictions varies. Generally, AIG, as well as the underwriting companies operating in such jurisdictions, must satisfy local regulatory requirements. Licenses issued by foreign authorities to AIG subsidiaries are subject to modification and revocation. Thus, AIGs insurance subsidiaries could be prevented from conducting future business in certain of the jurisdictions where they currently operate. AIGs international operations include operations in various developing nations. Both current and future foreign operations could be adversely affected by unfavorable political developments up to and including nationalization of AIGs operations without compensation. Adverse effects resulting from any one country may affect AIGs results of operations, liquidity and financial condition depending on the magnitude of the event and AIGs net financial exposure at that time in that country. Foreign insurance operations are individually subject to local solvency margin requirements that require maintenance of adequate capitalization, which AIG complies with by country. In addition, certain foreign locations, notably Japan, have established regulations that can result in guarantee fund assessments. These have not had a material effect on AIGs financial condition or results of operations. Liquidity AIG manages liquidity at both the subsidiary and parent company levels. At December 31, 2007, AIGs consolidated invested assets included $65.6 billion in cash and short term investments. Consolidated net cash provided from operating activities in 2007 amounted to $35.2 billion. At both the subsidiary and parent company level, liquidity management activities are intended to preserve and enhance funding stability, flexibility, and diversity through a wide range of potential operating environments and market conditions. As a result of market disruption in the credit markets, AIG took steps to enhance the liquidity of its portfolios. Cash and short term investments increased in all of AIGs major operating segments. In addition, AIG created an interdisciplinary Liquidity Risk Committee to measure, monitor, control and aggregate liquidity risks across AIG. While this Committees responsibilities are broad, the Committees initial focus is on portfolios with shorter term contractual liabilities, such as securities lending in the United States and retail deposit like products in the United Kingdom. Management believes that AIGs liquid assets, cash provided by operations and access to the capital markets will enable it to meet its anticipated cash requirements, including the funding of increased dividends under AIGs current dividend policy. See also Item 1A. Risk Factors Liquidity and Risk Management herein. Insurance Operations Insurance operating cash flow is derived from two sources, underwriting operations and investment operations. Cash flow from underwriting operations includes collections of periodic premiums and policyholders contract deposits, and paid loss recoveries, less reinsurance premiums, losses, benefits, and acquisition and operating expenses. Generally, there is a time lag from when premiums are collected and losses and benefits are paid. Investment cash flow is primarily derived from interest and dividends received and includes realized capital gains net of realized capital losses. Liquid assets include cash and short term investments, fixed maturities that are not designated as held to maturity, and publicly traded equity securities. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, AIGs insurance operations had liquid assets of $476.1 billion and $428.4 billion, respectively. The portion of liquid assets comprised of cash and short term investments was $45.5 billion and $19.9 billion at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. At December 31, 2007, $380.9 billion, or 95 percent of the fixed maturity investments that were not designated as held to maturity in AIGs insurance company general account portfolios were rated investment grade. Given the size and liquidity profile of AIGs investment portfolios, AIG believes that deviations from its projected claim experience do not constitute a significant liquidity risk. AIGs asset/liability management process takes into account the expected maturity of investments and expected benefit payments and policy surrenders as well as the specific nature and risk profile of these liabilities. Historically, there has been no significant variation between the expected maturities of AIGs investments and the payment of claims. See also Operating Review General Insurance Operations General Insurance Net Investment Income and Life Insurance & Retirement Services Operations Life Insurance & Retirement Services Net Investment Income and Realized Capital Gains (Losses) herein. General Insurance General Insurance operating cash flow is derived from underwriting and investment activities. With respect to General Insurance operations, if paid losses accelerated beyond AIGs ability to fund such paid losses from current operating cash flows, AIG might need to liquidate a portion of its General Insurance investment portfolio and or arrange for financing. A liquidity strain could result from the occurrence of several significant catastrophic events in a relatively short period of time. Additional strain on liquidity could occur if the investments liquidated to fund such paid losses were sold into a depressed market place and or reinsurance recoverable on such paid losses became uncollectible or collateral supporting such reinsurance recoverable significantly decreased in value. AIG 2007 Form 10 K 99 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continued Life Insurance & Retirement Services Life Insurance & Retirement Services operating cash flow is derived from underwriting and investment activities. If a substantial portion of the Life Insurance & Retirement Services operations bond portfolio diminished significantly in value and or defaulted, AIG might need to liquidate other portions of its Life Insurance & Retirement Services investment portfolio and or arrange financing. Possible events causing such a liquidity strain could include economic collapse of a nation or region in which Life Insurance & Retirement Services operations exist, nationalization, catastrophic terrorist acts, or other economic or political upheaval. In addition, a significant rise in interest rates in a particular region or regions leading to a major increase in policyholder surrenders could also create a liquidity strain. Financial Services AIGs major Financial Services operating subsidiaries consist of AIGFP, ILFC, AGF and AIGCFG. Sources of funds considered in meeting the liquidity needs of AIGFPs operations include GIAs, issuance of long and short term debt, proceeds from maturities, sales of securities available for sale and securities and spot commodities leased or sold under repurchase agreements. ILFC, AGF and AIGCFG utilize the commercial paper markets, bank loans and bank credit facilities as sources of liquidity. ILFC and AGF also fund in the domestic and international capital markets without reliance on any guarantee from AIG. An additional source of liquidity for ILFC is the use of export credit facilities. AIGCFG also uses wholesale and retail bank deposits as sources of funds. On occasion, AIG has provided equity capital to ILFC, AGF and AIGCFG and provides intercompany loans to AIGCFG. Financial Services liquidity could be impaired by an inability to access the capital markets or by collateral calls. The credit default swaps written by AIGFP on super senior tranches of multi sector CDOs require, in most cases, physical settlement following an event constituting a failure to pay in respect of the underlying super senior CDO securities. The majority of the other credit default swaps are cash settled, whereby AIGFP would be required upon an event constituting a failure to pay in respect of the underlying super senior CDO securities to make cash payments to the counterparty equal to any actual losses that attach to the super senior risk layer, rather than to purchase the reference obligation. Additionally, certain of the credit default swaps are subject to collateral call provisions. In the case of such swaps written on CDOs, the amount of the collateral to be posted is determined based on the value of the CDO securities referenced in the documentation for the credit default swaps. Asset Management Asset Managements sources of funds include cash flows from investment management fees, carried interest and returns on various investments. These investments are financed through the issuance of AIG debt in the MIP, the issuance of GICs and funding from AIG. From time to time, AIG Investments utilizes temporary debt funding from AIG primarily to acquire warehoused investments. Subsequent to the initial investment, there are generally no liquidity demands with respect to these warehoused investments. To the extent adverse market conditions prevent AIG Investments from transferring or otherwise divesting these warehoused investments, repayment of the temporary equity funding provided by AIG would be delayed until the investment is transferred or otherwise divested. AIG Investments incurs expenses associated with cash outflows from the operation of its business, including costs related to portfolio management and related back and middle office costs. In addition, cash is used in association with investment warehousing activities wherein AIG Investments funds and temporarily holds an investment until transferred, sold or otherwise divested. Cash needs for the Spread Based Investment business are principally the result of GIC maturities. Significant blocks of the GIC portfolio will mature over the next five years. AIG utilizes asset liability matching to control liquidity risks associated with this business. In addition, AIG believes that its products incorporate certain restrictions which encourage persistency, limiting the magnitude of unforeseen early surrenders in the GIC portfolio. Liquidity for Asset Management operations can be affected by significant credit or geopolitical events that might cause a delay in fund closings, securitizations or an inability of AIGs clients to fund their capital commitments. AIG (Parent Company) The liquidity of the parent company is principally derived from its subsidiaries. The primary sources of cash flow are dividends and other payments from its regulated and unregulated subsidiaries, as well as issuance of debt securities. Primary uses of cash flow are for debt service, subsidiary funding, shareholder dividend payments and common stock repurchases. In 2007, AIG parent collected $4.9 billion in dividends and other payments from subsidiaries (primarily from insurance company subsidiaries), issued $11.7 billion of debt and retired $865 million of debt, excluding MIP and Series AIGFP debt. AIG parent also advanced $6 billion for structured share repurchase arrangements. Excluding MIP and Series AIGFP debt, AIG parent made interest payments totaling $550 million, made $5.90 billion in capital contributions to subsidiaries, and paid $1.93 billion in dividends to shareholders in 2007. In February 2008, AIG contributed approximately $445 million in the form of forgiveness of Federal income tax recoverables to certain domestic general insurance subsidiaries and $500 million to certain domestic life insurance subsidiaries, both effective December 31, 2007. AIG parent funds its short term working capital needs through commercial paper issued by AIG Funding. As of December 31, 2007, AIG Funding had $4.2 billion of commercial paper outstanding with an average maturity of 29 days. As additional liquidity, AIG parent and AIG Funding maintain committed revolving credit facilities that, as of December 31, 2007, had an aggregate of $9.3 billion available to be drawn, and which are summarized above under Revolving Credit Facilities. At the parent company level, liquidity management activities are conducted in a manner intended to preserve and enhance funding stability, flexibility, and diversity through the full range of 100 AIG 2007 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries potential operating environments and market conditions. Assessing liquidity risk involves forecasting of cash inflows and outflows on both a short and long term basis. Corporate Treasury is responsible for formulating the parent companys liquidity and contingency planning efforts, as well as for execution of AIGs specific funding activities. Through active liquidity management, AIG seeks to retain stable, reliable and cost effective funding sources. In addition to current liquidity requirements, factors which affect funding decisions include market conditions, prevailing interest rates and the desired maturity profile of liabilities. The objectives of contingency planning are to ensure maintenance of appropriate liquidity during normal and stressed periods, to measure and project funding requirements during periods of stress, and to manage access to funding sources. Diversification of funding sources is an important element of AIGs liquidity risk management approach. AIGs liquidity could be impaired by an inability to access the capital markets or by unforeseen significant outflows of cash. This situation may arise due to circumstances that AIG may be unable to control, such as a general market disruption or an operational problem that affects third parties or AIG. Regulatory and other legal restrictions may limit AIGs ability to transfer funds freely, either to or from its subsidiaries. In particular, many of AIGs subsidiaries, including its insurance subsidiaries, are subject to laws and regulations that authorize regulatory bodies to block or reduce the flow of funds to the parent holding company, or that prohibit such transfers altogether in certain circumstances. These laws and regulations may hinder AIGs ability to access funds that it may need to make payments on its obligations. Because of the wide geographic profile of AIGs regulated subsidiaries, management believes that these cash flows represent a diversified source of liquidity for AIG. For a further discussion of the regulatory environment in which AIG subsidiaries operate and other issues affecting AIGs liquidity, see Item 1A. Risk Factors. Invested Assets The following tables summarize the composition of AIGs invested assets by segment: Life Insurance & General Retirement Financial Asset (in millions) Insurance Services Services Management Other Total 2007 Fixed maturities: Bonds available for sale, at fair value $ 74,057 $ 294,162 $ 1,400 $ 27,753 $ $ 397,372 Bonds held to maturity, at amortized cost 21,355 1 225 21,581 Bond trading securities, at fair value 9,948 34 9,982 Equity securities: Common stocks available for sale, at fair value 5,599 11,616 609 76 17,900 Common and preferred stocks trading, at fair value 321 21,026 29 21,376 Preferred stocks available for sale, at fair value 1,885 477 8 2,370 Mortgage and other loans receivable, net of allowance 13 24,851 1,365 7,442 56 33,727 Financial services assets: Flight equipment primarily under operating leases, net of accumulated depreciation 41,984 41,984 Securities available for sale, at fair value 40,305 40,305 Trading securities, at fair value 4,197 4,197 Spot commodities 238 238 Unrealized gain on swaps, options and forward transactions 17,134 (692 ) 16,442 Trade receivables 6,467 6,467 Securities purchased under agreements to resell, at contract value 20,950 20,950 Finance receivables, net of allowance 5 31,229 31,234 Securities lending invested collateral, at fair value 5,031 57,471 148 13,012 75,662 Other invested assets 11,895 19,015 3,663 17,261 6,989 58,823 Short term investments, at cost 7,356 25,236 12,249 4,919 1,591 51,351 Total investments and financial services assets as shown on the balance sheet 127,512 463,808 181,337 71,284 8,020 851,961 Cash 497 1,000 389 269 129 2,284 Investment income due and accrued 1,431 4,728 29 401 (2 ) 6,587 Real estate, net of accumulated depreciation 349 976 17 89 231 1,662 Total invested assets* $ 129,789 $ 470,512 $ 181,772 $ 72,043 $ 8,378 $ 862,494 * At December 31, 2007, approximately 65 percent and 35 percent of invested assets were held in domestic and foreign investments, respectively. AIG 2007 Form 10 K 101 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continued Life Insurance & General Retirement Financial Asset (in millions) Insurance Services Services Management Other Total 2006 Fixed maturities: Bonds available for sale, at fair value $ 67,994 $ 288,018 $ 1,357 $ 29,500 $ $ 386,869 Bonds held to maturity, at amortized cost 21,437 21,437 Bond trading securities, at fair value 1 10,835 10,836 Equity securities: Common stocks available for sale, at fair value 4,245 8,705 226 80 13,256 Common stocks trading, at fair value 350 14,505 14,855 Preferred stocks available for sale, at fair value 1,884 650 5 2,539 Mortgage and other loans receivable, net of allowance 17 21,043 2,398 4,884 76 28,418 Financial services assets: Flight equipment primarily under operating leases, net of accumulated depreciation 39,875 39,875 Securities available for sale, at fair value 47,205 47,205 Trading securities, at fair value 5,031 5,031 Spot commodities 220 220 Unrealized gain on swaps, options and forward transactions 19,607 (355 ) 19,252 Trade receivables 4,317 4,317 Securities purchased under agreements to resell, at contract value 30,291 30,291 Finance receivables, net of allowance 29,573 29,573 Securities lending invested collateral, at fair value 5,376 50,099 76 13,755 69,306 Other invested assets 9,207 13,962 2,212 13,198 3,532 42,111 Short term investments, at cost 3,281 15,192 2,807 6,198 5 27,483 Total investments and financial services assets as shown on the balance sheet 113,792 423,009 184,974 67,761 3,338 792,874 Cash 334 740 390 118 8 1,590 Investment income due and accrued 1,363 4,378 23 326 1 6,091 Real estate, net of accumulated depreciation 570 698 17 75 26 1,386 Total invested assets(a)(b) $ 116,059 $ 428,825 $ 185,404 $ 68,280 $ 3,373 $ 801,941 (a) Certain reclassifications and format changes have been made to prior period amounts to conform to the current period presentation. (b) At December 31, 2006, approximately 68 percent and 32 percent of invested assets were held in domestic and foreign investments, respectively. Investment Strategy AIGs investment strategies are tailored to the specific business needs of each operating unit. The investment objectives are driven by the business model for each of the businesses: General Insurance, Life Insurance, Retirement Services and Asset Managements Spread Based Investment business. The primary objectives are in terms of preservation of capital, growth of surplus and generation of investment income to support the insurance products. At the local operating unit level, the strategies are based on considerations that include the local market, liability duration and cash flow characteristics, rating agency and regulatory capital considerations, legal investment limitations, tax optimization and diversification. In addition to local risk management considerations, AIGs corporate risk management guidelines impose limitations on concentrations to promote diversification by industry, asset class and geographic sector. 102 AIG 2007 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries The amortized cost or cost and estimated fair value of AIGs available for sale and held to maturity securities at December 31, 2007 and 2006 were as follows: December 31, 2007* December 31, 2006 Amortized Gross Gross Amortized Gross Gross Cost or Unrealized Unrealized Fair Cost or Unrealized Unrealized Fair (in millions) Cost Gains Losses Value Cost Gains Losses Value Available for sale:* U.S. government and government sponsored entities $ 7,956 $ 333 $ 37 $ 8,252 $ 7,667 $ 221 $ 140 $ 7,748 Obligations of states, municipalities and political subdivisions 46,087 927 160 46,854 59,785 1,056 210 60,631 Non U.S. governments 67,023 3,920 743 70,200 62,860 5,461 437 67,884 Corporate debt 239,822 6,216 4,518 241,520 257,383 7,443 2,536 262,290 Mortgage backed, asset backed and collateralized 140,982 1,221 7,703 134,500 104,687 502 362 104,827 Total bonds $ 501,870 $ 12,617 $ 13,161 $ 501,326 $ 492,382 $ 14,683 $ 3,685 $ 503,380 Equity securities 15,188 5,545 463 20,270 13,147 2,807 159 15,795 Total $ 517,058 $ 18,162 $ 13,624 $ 521,596 $ 505,529 $ 17,490 $ 3,844 $ 519,175 Held to maturity:* Bonds Obligations of states, municipalities and political subdivisions $ 21,581 $ 609 $ 33 $ 22,157 $ 21,437 $ 731 $ 14 $ 22,154 * At December 31, 2007 and 2006, fixed maturities held by AIG that were below investment grade or not rated totaled $27.0 billion and $26.6 billion, respectively. AIGs held to maturity and available for sale fixed maturity investments totaled $523.5 billion at December 31, 2007, compared to $525.5 billion at December 31, 2006. At December 31, 2007, approximately 63 percent of the fixed maturities investments were in domestic portfolios. Approximately 53 percent of such domestic securities were rated AAA by one or more of the principal rating agencies. Approximately five percent were below investment grade or not rated. AIGs investment decision process relies primarily on internally generated fundamental analysis and internal risk ratings. Third party rating services ratings and opinions provide one source of independent perspectives for consideration in the internal analysis. A significant portion of the foreign fixed income portfolio is rated by Moodys, S&P or similar foreign rating services. Rating services are not available in all overseas locations. The Credit Risk Committee (CRC) closely reviews the credit quality of the foreign portfolios non rated fixed income investments. At December 31, 2007, approximately 19 percent of the foreign fixed income investments were either rated AAA or, on the basis of AIGs internal analysis, were equivalent from a credit standpoint to securities so rated. Approximately five percent were below investment grade or not rated at that date. A large portion (approximately one third) of the foreign fixed income portfolio is sovereign fixed maturity securities supporting the policy liabilities in the country of issuance. The credit ratings of AIGs fixed maturity investments, other than those of AIGFP, at December 31, 2007 and 2006 were as follows: Rating 2007 2006 AAA 38 % 37 % AA 28 26 A 18 20 BBB 11 12 Below investment grade 4 4 Non rated 1 1 Total 100 % 100 % AIG 2007 Form 10 K 103 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continued The industry categories of AIGs available for sale corporate debt securities at December 31, 2007 were as follows: Industry Category Percentage Industrials 47 % Financial Institutions 42 Utilities/Other 11 Total* 100 % * At December 31, 2007 approximately 95% of these investments were rated investment grade. The amortized cost, gross unrealized gains (losses) and fair value of AIGs investments in mortgage backed, asset backed and collateralized securities at December 31, 2007 were as follows: December 31, 2007 Gross Gross Amortized Unrealized Unrealized Fair (in millions) Cost Gains Losses Value AIG, excluding AIGFP: RMBS $ 89,851 $ 433 $ 5,504 $ 84,780 CMBS 23,918 237 1,156 22,999 CDO/ ABS 10,844 196 593 10,447 Subtotal, excluding AIGFP 124,613 866 7,253 118,226 Total AIGFP investments in mortgage backed, asset backed and collateralized securities 16,369 355 450 16,274 Total $ 140,982 $ 1,221 $ 7,703 $ 134,500 Investments in Residential Mortgage Backed Securities As part of its strategy to diversify its investments, AIG invests in various types of securities, including residential mortgage backed securities (RMBS). The amortized cost, gross unrealized gains (losses) and estimated fair value of AIGs investments in RMBS securities, other than those of AIGFP, at December 31, 2007 were as follows: December 31, 2007 Gross Gross Amortized Unrealized Unrealized Percent (in millions) Cost Gains Losses Fair Value of Total Residential mortgage backed securities: U.S. agencies $ 14,575 $ 320 $ 70 $ 14,825 17 % Prime non agency(a) 21,552 72 550 21,074 25 Alt A 25,349 17 1,620 23,746 28 Other housing related(b) 4,301 2 357 3,946 5 Subprime 24,074 22 2,907 21,189 25 Total $ 89,851 $ 433 $ 5,504 $ 84,780 100 % (a) Includes foreign and jumbo RMBS related securities. (b) Primarily wrapped second lien. AIGs operations, other than AIGFP, held investments in RMBS with an estimated fair value of $84.8 billion at December 31, 2007, or approximately 10 percent of AIGs total invested assets. In addition, AIGs insurance operations held investments with a fair value totaling $4.0 billion in CDOs, of which $58 million included some level of subprime exposure. AIGs RMBS investments are predominantly in highly rated tranches that contain substantial protection features through collateral subordination. At December 31, 2007, approximately 92 percent of these investments were rated AAA, and approximately 6 percent were rated AA by one or more of the principal rating agencies. AIGs investments rated BBB or below totaled $621 million, or less than 0.1 percent of AIGs total invested assets at December 31, 2007. As of February 25, 2008, $3.6 billion of AIGs RMBS backed primarily by subprime collateral had been downgraded as a result of rating agency actions since January 1, 2008, and $6 million of such investments had been upgraded. Subsequent to December 31, 2007, rating agencies have placed on watch for downgrade a majority of 2006 and 2007 vintage AAA rated subprime RMBS in the market. For AIG, $9.7 billion was on watch for downgrade. 104 AIG 2007 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries The fair value of AIGs RMBS investments, other than those of AIGFP, at December 31, 2007 by year of vintage and credit rating were as follows: Year of Vintage (in millions) Prior 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 Total Rating: AAA $ 4,053 $ 6,202 $ 7,070 $ 16,011 $ 25,392 $ 18,937 $ 77,665 AA 63 785 555 1,092 2,117 512 5,124 A 46 242 345 480 248 138 1,499 BBB and below 53 74 214 114 37 492 Total $ 4,162 $ 7,282 $ 8,044 $ 17,797 $ 27,871 $ 19,624 $ 84,780 The fair value of AIGs Alt A investments included in the RMBS investments above, other than those of AIGFP, at December 31, 2007 by year of vintage and credit rating were as follows: Year of Vintage (in millions) Prior 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 Total Rating: AAA $208 $623 $ 960 $4,899 $9,301 $6,512 $22,503 AA 23 199 150 391 117 11 891 A 1 37 51 137 48 6 280 BBB and below 11 19 36 6 72 Total $232 $870 $1,180 $5,463 $9,472 $6,529 $23,746 The fair value of AIGs subprime RMBS investments, other than those of AIGFP, at December 31, 2007 by year of vintage and credit rating were as follows: Year of Vintage (in millions) Prior 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 Total Rating: AAA $127 $362 $557 $5,403 $7,926 $4,081 $18,456 AA 6 35 116 277 1,562 357 2,353 A 10 82 100 120 34 26 372 BBB and below 8 8 Total $143 $479 $773 $5,808 $9,522 $4,464 $21,189 AIGs underwriting practices for investing in RMBS, other asset backed securities and CDOs take into consideration the quality of the originator, the manager, the servicer, security credit ratings, underlying characteristics of the mortgages, borrower characteristics, and the level of credit enhancement in the transaction. AIGs strategy is typically to invest in securities rated AA or better and create diversification across multiple underlying asset classes. General Insurance Invested Assets In AIGs General Insurance business, the duration of liabilities for long tail casualty lines is greater than other lines. As differentiated from the Life Insurance & Retirement Services companies, the focus is not on asset liability matching, but on preservation of capital and growth of surplus. Fixed income holdings of the Domestic General Insurance companies are comprised primarily of tax exempt securities, which provide attractive risk adjusted after tax returns. These high quality municipal investments have an average rating of AA. Fixed income assets held in Foreign General Insurance are of high quality and short to intermediate duration, averaging 3.6 years compared to 7.0 years for those in Domestic General Insurance. While invested assets backing reserves are invested in conventional fixed income securities in Domestic General Insurance, a modest portion of surplus is allocated to large capitalization, high dividend, public equity strategies and to alternative investments, including private equity and hedge funds. These investments have provided a combination of added diversification and attractive long term returns. General Insurance invested assets grew by $13.7 billion, or 12 percent, during 2007 as bond holdings grew by $6 billion. Listed equity holdings grew by $1.3 billion. AIG 2007 Form 10 K 105 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continued Life Insurance & Retirement Services Invested Assets With respect to Life Insurance & Retirement Services, AIG uses asset liability management as a tool worldwide in the life insurance business to influence the composition of the invested assets and appropriate marketing strategies. AIGs objective is to maintain a matched asset liability structure. However, in certain markets, the absence of long dated fixed income investment instruments may preclude a matched asset liability position. In addition, AIG may occasionally determine that it is economically advantageous to be temporarily in an unmatched position. To the extent that AIG has maintained a matched asset liability structure, the economic effect of interest rate fluctuations is partially mitigated. AIGs investment strategy for the Life Insurance & Retirement Services segment is to produce cash flows greater than maturing insurance liabilities. AIG actively manages the asset liability relationship in its foreign operations, even though certain territories lack qualified long term investments or certain local regulatory authorities may impose investment restrictions. For example, in several Southeast Asian countries, the duration of investments is shorter than the effective maturity of the related policy liabilities. Therefore, there is risk that the reinvestment of the proceeds at the maturity of the initial investments may be at a yield below that of the interest required for the accretion of the policy liabilities. Additionally, there exists a future investment risk associated with certain policies currently in force which will have premium receipts in the future. That is, the investment of these future premium receipts may be at a yield below that required to meet future policy liabilities. AIG actively manages the interest rate assumptions and crediting rates used for its new and in force business. Business strategies continue to evolve to maintain profitability of the overall business. In some countries, new products are being introduced with minimal investment guarantees, resulting in a shift toward investment linked savings products and away from traditional savings products with higher guarantees. The investment of insurance cash flows and reinvestment of the proceeds of matured securities and coupons requires active management of investment yields while maintaining satisfactory investment quality and liquidity. AIG may use alternative investments, including equities, real estate and foreign currency denominated fixed income instruments in certain foreign jurisdictions where interest rates remain low and there are limited long dated bond markets to extend the duration or increase the yield of the investment portfolio to more closely match the requirements of the policyholder liabilities and DAC recoverability. This strategy has been effectively used in Japan and more recently by Nan Shan in Taiwan. In Japan, foreign assets, excluding those matched to foreign liabilities, were approximately 31 percent of statutory assets, which is below the maximum allowable percentage under current local regulation. Foreign assets comprised approximately 33 percent of Nan Shans invested assets at December 31, 2007, slightly below the maximum allowable percentage under current local regulation. The majority of Nan Shans in force policy portfolio is traditional life and endowment insurance products with implicit interest rate guarantees. New business with lower interest rate guarantees are gradually reducing the overall interest requirements, but asset portfolio yields have declined faster due to the prolonged low interest rate environment. As a result, although the investment margins for a large block of in force policies are negative, the block remains profitable overall because the mortality and expense margins presently exceed the negative investment spread. In response to the low interest rate environment and the volatile exchange rate of the Taiwanese dollar, Nan Shan is emphasizing new products with lower implied guarantees, including participating endowments and investment linked products. Although the risks of a continued low interest rate environment coupled with a volatile Taiwanese dollar could increase net liabilities and require additional capital to maintain adequate local solvency margins, Nan Shan currently believes it has adequate resources to meet all future policy obligations. AIG actively manages the asset liability relationship in its domestic operations. This relationship is more easily managed through the availability of qualified long term investments. A number of guaranteed benefits, such as living benefits or guaranteed minimum death benefits, are offered on certain variable life and variable annuity products. AIG manages its exposure resulting from these long term guarantees through reinsurance or capital market hedging instruments. AIG invests in equities for various reasons, including diversifying its overall exposure to interest rate risk. Available for sale bonds and equity securities are subject to declines in fair value. Such declines in fair value are presented in unrealized appreciation or depreciation of investments, net of taxes, as a component of Accumulated other comprehensive income. Declines that are determined to be other than temporary are reflected in income in the period in which the intent to hold the securities to recovery no longer exists. See Valuation of Invested Assets herein. Generally, insurance regulations restrict the types of assets in which an insurance company may invest. When permitted by regulatory authorities and when deemed necessary to protect insurance assets, including invested assets, from adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and equity prices, AIG and its insurance subsidiaries may enter into derivative transactions as end users to hedge their exposures. For a further discussion of AIGs use of derivatives, see Risk Management Credit Risk Management Derivatives herein. In certain jurisdictions, significant regulatory and or foreign governmental barriers exist which may not permit the immediate free flow of funds between insurance subsidiaries or from the insurance subsidiaries to AIG parent. For a discussion of these restrictions, see Item 1. Business Regulation. Life Insurance & Retirement Services invested assets grew by $41.7 billion, or 10 percent, during 2007 as bond holdings grew by $5.3 billion, and listed equity holdings grew by $9.3 billion, or 39 percent. 106 AIG 2007 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries Financial Services Invested Assets Financial Services Securities Financial Services securities available for sale of $40.3 billion at December 31, 2007 is predominantly a diversified portfolio of high grade fixed income securities where the individual securities have varying degrees of credit risk. At December 31, 2007, the average credit rating of this portfolio was in the AA+ category or the equivalent thereto as determined through rating agencies or internal review. AIGFP has also entered into credit derivative transactions to economically hedge its credit risk associated with $82 million of these securities. Securities deemed below investment grade at December 31, 2007 totalled $797 million in fair value, representing two percent of Financial Services securities available for sale. There have been no significant downgrades of these securities through February 15, 2008. AIGFPs management objective is to minimize interest rate, currency, commodity and equity risks associated with its securities available for sale. When AIGFP purchases a security for its securities available for sale investment portfolio, it simultaneously enters into an offsetting hedge such that the payment terms of the hedging transaction offset the payment terms of the investment security. This achieves the economic result of converting the return on the underlying security to U.S. dollar LIBOR plus or minus a spread based on the underlying profit on each security on the initial trade date. The market risk associated with such hedges is managed on a portfolio basis. Because hedge accounting treatment was not applied in 2006, the unrealized gains and losses on the derivative transactions with unaffiliated third parties were reflected in operating income. The unrealized gains and losses on the underlying securities available for sale resulting from changes in interest rates and currency rates and commodity and equity prices were included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), or in operating income, as appropriate. When a security is sold, the realized gain or loss with respect to this security is included in operating income. Securities purchased under agreements to resell are treated as collateralized financing transactions. AIGFP takes possession of or obtains a security interest in securities purchased under agreements to resell. Capital Markets AIGFP uses the proceeds from the issuance of notes and bonds and GIAs to invest in a diversified portfolio of securities, including securities available for sale, and derivative transactions. The funds may also be invested in securities purchased under agreements to resell. The proceeds from the disposal of the aforementioned securities available for sale and securities purchased under agreements to resell are used to fund the maturing GIAs or other AIGFP financings, or to invest in new assets. For a further discussion of AIGFPs borrowings, see Capital Resources and Liquidity Borrowings herein. Capital Markets derivative transactions are carried at fair value. AIGFP reduces its economic risk exposure through similarly valued offsetting transactions including swaps, trading securities, options, forwards and futures. AIGFPs super senior credit default swaps include structural protection to help minimize risk. For a further discussion on the use of derivatives by Capital Markets, see Operating Review Financial Services Operations Capital Markets and Risk Management Derivatives herein and Note 8 to Consolidated Financial Statements. AIGFP owns inventories in certain commodities in which it trades, and may reduce the exposure to market risk through the use of swaps, forwards, futures, and option contracts. Physical commodities held in AIGFPs wholly owned broker dealer subsidiary are recorded at fair value. All other commodities are recorded at the lower of cost or fair value. Trading securities, at fair value, and securities and spot commodities sold but not yet purchased, at fair value, are marked to fair value daily with the unrealized gain or loss recognized in income. These trading securities are purchased and sold as necessary to meet the risk management and business objectives of Capital Markets operations. The gross unrealized gains and gross unrealized losses of Capital Markets operations included in Financial Services assets and liabilities at December 31, 2007 were as follows: Gross Gross Unrealized Unrealized (in millions) Gains Losses Securities available for sale, at fair value $ 939 $ 777 Unrealized gain/loss on swaps, options and forward transactions* 17,134 22,982 * These amounts are also presented as the respective balance sheet amounts. ILFC The cash used for the purchase of flight equipment is derived primarily from the proceeds of ILFCs debt financings. The primary sources for the repayment of this debt and the related interest expense are ILFCs cash flow from operations, proceeds from the sale of flight equipment and the rollover and refinancing of the prior debt. During 2007, ILFC acquired flight equipment costing $4.7 billion. For a further discussion of ILFCs borrowings, see Operating Review Financial Services Operations Aircraft Leasing and Capital Resources and Liquidity Borrowings herein. At December 31, 2007, ILFC had committed to purchase 234 new aircraft deliverable from 2008 through 2017 for an estimated aggregate purchase price of $20.1 billion. As of February 22, 2008, ILFC has entered into leases for all of the new aircraft to be delivered in 2008, and for 65 of 161 of the new aircraft to be delivered subsequent to 2008. ILFC will be required to find customers for any aircraft currently on order and any aircraft to be ordered, and it must arrange financing for portions of the purchase price of such equipment. ILFC has been successful to date both in placing its new aircraft on lease or under sales contract and obtaining adequate financing, but there can be no assurance that such success will continue in future environments. AIG 2007 Form 10 K 107 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continued Asset Management Invested Assets Asset Management invested assets are primarily comprised of assets supporting AIGs Spread Based Investment business, which includes AIGs MIP and domestic GIC programs. The Spread Based Investment business strategy is to generate spread income from investments yielding returns greater than AIGs cost of funds. The asset liability relationship is actively managed. The goal of the MIP investment strategy is to capture a spread between income earned on investments and the funding costs of the program while mitigating interest rate and foreign currency exchange rate risk. The invested assets are predominantly fixed income securities and include U.S. residential mortgage backed securities, asset backed securities and commercial mortgage backed securities. In addition, the MIP sold credit protection by issuing single name high grade corporate credit default swaps in 2007. Asset Management invested assets grew by $3.8 billion during 2007. The growth in invested assets was primarily attributable to growth in other invested assets and mortgage and other loans receivable partially offset by a decrease in bond holdings, and short term investments. These increases were primarily driven by continued growth of the MIP and the growth of AIGs Institutional Asset Management business. These increases were partially offset by the decrease in assets associated with the runoff of the domestic GIC program. Securities Lending Activities AIGs securities lending program is a centrally managed program facilitated by AIG Investments primarily for the benefit of certain of AIGs Insurance companies. Securities are loaned to various financial institutions, primarily major banks and brokerage firms. Cash collateral equal to 102 percent of the fair value of the loaned securities is received. The cash collateral is invested in highly rated fixed income securities to earn a net spread. AIGs liability to the borrower for collateral received was $82.0 billion and the fair value of the collateral reinvested was $75.7 billion as of December 31, 2007. In addition to the invested collateral, the securities on loan as well as all of the assets of the participating companies are generally available to satisfy the liability for collateral received. The composition of the securities lending invested collateral by credit rating at December 31, 2007 was as follows: BBB/Not Short (in millions) AAA AA A Rated Term Total Corporate debt $ 1,191 $ 9,341 $ 3,448 $ 160 $ $ 14,140 Mortgage backed, asset backed and collateralized 47,180 2,226 22 82 49,510 Cash and short term investments 12,012 12,012 Total $ 48,371 $ 11,567 $ 3,470 $ 242 $ 12,012 $ 75,662 Participation in the securities lending program by reporting unit at December 31, 2007 was as follows: Percent Participation Domestic Life Insurance and Retirement Services 79 % Foreign Life Insurance 10 Domestic General Insurance 3 Foreign General Insurance 4 Asset Management 4 Total 100.0 % On December 31, 2007, $11.4 billion (or 13.7 percent) of the liabilities were one day tenor. These one day tenor loans do not have a contractual end date but are terminable by either party on demand. The balance of the liabilities contractually mature within three months; however, the maturing loans are frequently renewed and rolled over to extended dates. Collateral held for this program at December 31, 2007 included interest bearing cash equivalents with overnight maturities of $12.0 billion. Liquidity in the securities pool is managed based upon historical experience regarding volatility of daily, weekly and biweekly loan balances. Despite the current environment, the program has not experienced a significant decrease in loan balances. In addition, the invested securities are carried at fair value with unrealized gains and losses recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) while net realized gains and losses are recorded in earnings. The net unrealized loss on the investments was $5.0 billion as of December 31, 2007. During 2007, AIG incurred net realized losses of $1.0 billion on this portfolio, predominantly related to other than temporary impairments. Valuation of Invested Assets Traded Securities The valuation of AIGs investment portfolio involves obtaining a fair value for each security. The source for the fair value is generally from market exchanges or dealer quotations, with the exception of nontraded securities. Nontraded Securities AIG considers nontraded securities to mean certain fixed income investments, certain structured securities, direct private equities, limited partnerships, and hedge funds. The aggregate carrying value of AIGs nontraded securities at December 31, 2007 was approximately $70 billion. The methodology used to estimate fair value of nontraded fixed income investments is by reference to traded securities with similar attributes and using a matrix pricing methodology. This methodology takes into account such factors as the issuers industry, the securitys rating and tenor, its coupon rate, its position in the capital structure of the issuer, and other relevant factors. For certain structured securities, the carrying value is based on an estimate of the securitys future cash flows pursuant to the requirements of Emerging Issues Task Force Issue No. 99 20, 108 AIG 2007 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries Recognition of Interest Income and Impairment on Purchased and Retained Beneficial Interests in Securitized Financial Assets. Hedge funds and limited partnerships in which AIG holds in the aggregate less than a five percent interest are carried at fair value. With respect to hedge funds and limited partnerships in which AIG holds in the aggregate a five percent or greater interest, or less than a five percent interest but where AIG has more than a minor influence over the operations of the investee, AIG accounts for these investments using the equity method. AIG obtains the fair value of its investments in limited partnerships and hedge funds from information provided by the general partner or manager of these investments, the accounts of which generally are audited on an annual basis. Each of these investment categories is regularly tested to determine if impairment in value exists. Various valuation techniques are used with respect to each category in this determination. For a discussion of accounting policies related to changes in fair value of invested assets, see Note 1 to Consolidated Financial Statements. Portfolio Review Other Than Temporary Impairments AIG assesses its ability to hold any fixed maturity security in an unrealized loss position to its recovery, including fixed maturity securities classified as available for sale, at each balance sheet date. The decision to sell any such fixed maturity security classified as available for sale reflects the judgment of AIGs management that the security sold is unlikely to provide, on a relative value basis, as attractive a return in the future as alternative securities entailing comparable risks. With respect to distressed securities, the sale decision reflects managements judgment that the risk discounted anticipated ultimate recovery is less than the value achievable on sale. AIG evaluates its investments for impairments in valuation. The determination that a security has incurred an other than temporary impairment in value and the amount of any loss recognition requires the judgment of AIGs management and a regular review of its investments. See Note 1(c) to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on AIGs policy. Once a security has been identified as other than temporarily impaired, the amount of such impairment is determined by reference to that securitys contemporaneous fair value and recorded as a charge to earnings. In light of the recent significant disruption in the U.S. residential mortgage and credit markets, particularly in the fourth quarter, AIG has recognized an other than temporary impairment charge (severity loss) of $2.2 billion (including $643 million related to AIGFPs available for sale investment securities recorded in other income), primarily with respect to certain residential mortgage backed securities and other structured securities. Even while retaining their investment grade ratings, such securities were priced at a significant discount to cost. Notwithstanding AIGs intent and ability to hold such securities indefinitely, and despite structures which indicate that a substantial amount of the securities should continue to perform in accordance with original terms, AIG concluded that it could not reasonably assert that the recovery period would be temporary. As a result of AIGs periodic evaluation of its securities for other than temporary impairments in value, AIG recorded other than temporary impairment charges of $4.7 billion (including $643 million related to AIGFP recorded on other income), $944 million and $598 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. In addition to the above severity losses, AIG recorded other than temporary impairment charges in 2007, 2006 and 2005 related to: securities which AIG does not intend to hold until recovery; declines due to foreign exchange; issuer specific credit events; certain structured securities impaired under EITF No. 99 20; and other impairments, including equity securities and partnership investments. Net realized capital gains (losses) for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 were as follows: (in millions) 2007 2006 2005 Sales of fixed maturities $ (468 ) $ (382 ) $ 372 Sales of equity securities 1,087 813 643 Sales of real estate and other assets 619 303 88 Other than temporary impairments (4,072 ) (944 ) (598 ) Foreign exchange transactions (643 ) (382 ) 701 Derivative instruments (115 ) 698 (865 ) Total $ (3,592 ) $ 106 $ 341 AIGFP other than temporary impairments* $ (643 ) $ $ * Reported as part of other income. AIG 2007 Form 10 K 109 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continued Other than temporary impairment charges for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 were as follows: (in millions) 2007 2006 2005 Impairment type: Severity* $ 2,200 $ $ Lack of intent to hold to recovery 1,054 619 335 Foreign currency declines 500 Issuer specific credit events 515 279 257 Adverse projected cash flows on structured securities (EITF 99 20) 446 46 6 Total $ 4,715 $ 944 $ 598 * Includes $643 million related to AIGFP reported in other income. Other than temporary impairment charges for the year ended December 31, 2007 by Reporting Segment were as follows: Life Insurance & General Retirement Financial Asset (in millions) Insurance Services Services Management Other Total Impairment Type: Severity $ 71 $ 1,070 $ 643 $ 416 $ $ 2,200 Lack of intent to hold to recovery 91 885 7 71 1,054 Foreign currency declines 500 500 Issuer specific credit events 113 177 69 156 515 Adverse projected cash flows on structured securities 1 166 279 446 Total $ 276 $ 2,798 $ 650 $ 835 $ 156 $ 4,715 Other than temporary severity related impairment charges for the year ended December 31, 2007 were as follows: Rating: RMBS CDO CMBS Other Securities Total AAA $ 168 $ 621 $ $ $ 789 AA 870 53 6 929 A 66 32 77 175 BBB and below 28 52 80 Nonrated 227 227 Total $ 1,132 $ 706 $ 135 $ 227 $ 2,200 No other than temporary impairment charge with respect to any one single credit was significant to AIGs consolidated financial condition or results of operations, and no individual other than temporary impairment charge exceeded two percent of consolidated net income in 2007. In periods subsequent to the recognition of an other than temporary impairment charge for fixed maturity securities, which is not credit or foreign exchange related, AIG generally accretes into income the discount or amortizes the reduced premium resulting from the reduction in cost basis over the remaining life of the security. Commercial Mortgage Loan Exposure At December 31, 2007, AIG had direct commercial mortgage loan exposure of $17.1 billion, with $16.3 billion representing U.S. loan exposure. At that date, none of the U.S. loans were in default or delinquent by 90 days or more. The remaining commercial mortgage loans are secured predominantly by properties in Japan. In addition, at December 31, 2007, AIG had approximately $2.0 billion in residential mortgage loans in jurisdictions outside the United States, primarily backed by properties in Taiwan and Thailand. At December 31, 2007, AIG owned $23.9 billion in cost basis of CMBS. Approximately 78 percent of such holdings were rated AAA, approximately 98 percent were rated A or higher, and less than 2 percent were rated BBB or below. At December 31, 2007, all such securities were current in the payment of principal and interest and none had default rates on underlying collateral at levels viewed by AIG as likely to result in the loss of principal or interest. 110 AIG 2007 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries There have been disruptions in the commercial mortgage markets in general, and the CMBS market in particular, with credit default swaps indices and quoted prices of securities at levels consistent with a severe correction in lease rates, occupancy and fair value of properties. In addition, spreads in the primary mortgage market have widened significantly. While this capital market stress has not to date been reflected in the performance of commercial mortgage securitization in the form of increased defaults in underlying mortgage pools, pricing of CMBS has been adversely affected by market perceptions that underlying mortgage defaults will increase. As a result, AIG recognized $135 million of other than temporary impairment charges on CMBS trading at a severe discount to cost, despite the absence of any deterioration in performance of the underlying credits, because AIG concluded that it could not reasonably assert that the recovery period was temporary. At this time, AIG anticipates full recovery of principal and interest on the securities to which such other than temporary impairment charges were recorded. An aging of the pre tax unrealized losses of fixed maturity and equity securities, distributed as a percentage of cost relative to unrealized loss (the extent by which the fair value is less than amortized cost or cost), including the number of respective items, was as follows at December 31, 2007: Greater than 50% Less than or equal to Greater than 20% to of Cost(e) 20% of Cost(e) 50% of Cost(e) Total Aging(d) Unrealized Unrealized Unrealized Unrealized (dollars in millions) Cost(a) Loss Items Cost(a) Loss Items Cost(a) Loss Items Cost(a) Loss(b) Items Investment grade bonds 0 6 months $ 124,681 $ 5,099 16,539 $ 2,588 $ 681 633 $ $ $ 127,269 $ 5,780 17,172 7 12 months 53,515 3,078 7,174 3,219 859 1,110 56,734 3,937 8,284 12 months 63,146 2,966 9,598 699 180 119 63,845 3,146 9,717 Total $ 241,342 $ 11,143 33,311 $ 6,506 $ 1,720 1,862 $ $ $ 247,848 $ 12,863 35,173 Below investment grade bonds 0 6 months $ 5,909 $ 147 1,611 $ 68 $ 18 24 $ $ $ 5,977 $ 165 1,635 7 12 months 782 45 246 47 8 14 829 53 260 12 months 1,222 61 204 70 19 9 1,292 80 213 Total $ 7,913 $ 253 2,061 $ 185 $ 45 47 $ $ $ 8,098 $ 298 2,108 Total bonds 0 6 months $ 130,590 $ 5,246 18,150 $ 2,656 $ 699 657 $ $ $ 133,246 $ 5,945 18,807 7 12 months 54,297 3,123 7,420 3,266 867 1,124 57,563 3,990 8,544 12 months 64,368 3,027 9,802 769 199 128 65,137 3,226 9,930 Total(c) $ 249,255 $ 11,396 35,372 $ 6,691 $ 1,765 1,909 $ $ $ 255,946 $ 13,161 37,281 Equity securities 0 6 months $ 3,603 $ 297 2,051 $ 262 $ 69 39 $ $ $ 3,865 $ 366 2,090 7 12 months 283 33 181 285 64 36 568 97 217 12 months Total $ 3,886 $ 330 2,232 $ 547 $ 133 75 $ $ $ 4,433 $ 463 2,307 (a) For bonds, represents amortized cost. (b) The effect on net income of unrealized losses after taxes will be mitigated upon realization because certain realized losses will be charged to participating policyholder accounts, or realization will result in current decreases in the amortization of certain DAC. (c) Includes securities lending invested collateral. (d) Represents the number of continuous months that fair value has been less than cost by any amount. (e) Represents the percentage by which fair value is less than cost at the balance sheet date. Unrealized gains and losses At December 31, 2007, the fair value of AIGs fixed maturity and equity securities aggregated $587.1 billion. At December 31, 2007, aggregate pre tax unrealized gains for fixed maturity and equity securities were $18.1 billion ($11.8 billion after tax). At December 31, 2007, the aggregate pre tax gross unrealized losses on fixed maturity and equity securities were $13.6 billion AIG 2007 Form 10 K 111 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continued ($8.9 billion after tax). Additional information about these securities is as follows: These securities were valued, in the aggregate, at approximately 95 percent of their current amortized cost. Less than three percent of these securities were valued at less than 20 percent of their current cost, or amortized cost. Less than four percent of the fixed income securities had issuer credit ratings which were below investment grade. AIG did not consider these securities in an unrealized loss position to be other than temporarily impaired at December 31, 2007, as management has the intent and ability to hold these investments until they recover their cost basis. AIG believes the securities will generally continue to perform in accordance with the original terms, notwithstanding the present price declines. At December 31, 2007, unrealized losses for fixed maturity securities and equity securities did not reflect any significant industry concentrations. In 2007, unrealized losses related to investment grade bonds increased $9.3 billion ($6.1 billion after tax), reflecting the widening of credit spreads, partially offset by the effects of a decline in risk free interest rates. The amortized cost and fair value of fixed maturity securities available for sale in an unrealized loss position at December 31, 2007, by contractual maturity, is shown below: (in millions) Amortized Cost Fair Value Due in one year or less $ 9,408 $ 9,300 Due after one year through five years 36,032 35,267 Due after five years through ten years 54,198 52,394 Due after ten years 56,557 53,578 Mortgage backed, asset backed and collateralized 99,751 92,246 Total $ 255,946 $ 242,785 For the year ended December 31, 2007, the pre tax realized losses incurred with respect to the sale of fixed maturities and equity securities were $1.3 billion. The aggregate fair value of securities sold was $38.0 billion, which was approximately 94 percent of amortized cost. The average period of time that securities sold at a loss during 2007 were trading continuously at a price below book value was approximately five months. See Risk Management Investments herein for an additional discussion of investment risks associated with AIGs investment portfolio. Risk Management Overview AIG believes that strong risk management practices and a sound internal control environment are fundamental to its continued success and profitable growth. Failure to manage risk properly exposes AIG to significant losses, regulatory issues and a damaged reputation. The major risks to which AIG is exposed include the following: Credit risk the potential loss arising from an obligors inability or unwillingness to meet its obligations to AIG. Market risk the potential loss arising from adverse fluctuations in interest rates, foreign currencies, equity and commodity prices, and their levels of volatility. Operational risk the potential loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people, and systems, or from external events. Liquidity risk the potential inability to meet all payment obligations when they become due. General insurance risk the potential loss resulting from inadequate premiums, insufficient reserves and catastrophic exposures. Life insurance risk the potential loss resulting from experience deviating from expectations for mortality, morbidity and termination rates in the insurance oriented products and insufficient cash flows to cover contract liabilities in the retirement savings products. AIG senior management establishes the framework, principles and guidelines for risk management. The primary focus of risk management is to assess the risk of AIG incurring economic losses from the risk categories outlined above. The business executives are responsible for establishing and implementing risk management processes and responding to the individual needs and issues within their business, including risk concentrations within their respective businesses with appropriate oversight by Enterprise Risk Management (ERM). Corporate Risk Management AIGs major risks are addressed at the corporate level through ERM, which is headed by AIGs Chief Risk Officer (CRO). ERM is responsible for assisting AIGs business leaders, executive management and the Board of Directors to identify, assess, quantify, manage and mitigate the risks incurred by AIG. Through the CRO, ERM reports to AIGs Chief Financial Officer, various senior management committees and the Board of Directors through the Finance and Audit Committees. An important goal of ERM is to ensure that once appropriate governance, authorities, procedures and policies have been established, aggregated risks do not result in inappropriate concentrations. Senior management defines the policies, has established general operating parameters for its global businesses and has established various oversight committees to monitor the risks attendant to its businesses: The Financial Risk Committee (FRC) oversees AIGs market risk exposures to interest rates, foreign exchange and fair values of shares, partnership interests, real estate and other equity investments and provides strategic direction for AIGs asset liability management. The FRC meets monthly and acts as a central mechanism for AIG senior management to review comprehensive information on AIGs financial exposures and to exercise broad control over these exposures. There are two subcommittees of the FRC. The Foreign Exchange Committee monitors trends in foreign exchange rates, reviews AIGs foreign exchange exposures, and provides recommendations on foreign currency asset allocation and remittance hedging. 112 AIG 2007 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries The Liquidity Risk Committee is responsible for liquidity policy and implementation at AIG Parent and exercises oversight and control of liquidity policies at each AIG entity. See Capital Resources and Liquidity herein. The CRC is responsible for the following: approving credit risk policies and procedures for use throughout AIG; delegating credit authority to business unit credit officers and select business unit managers; approving transaction requests and limits for corporate, sovereign and cross border credit exposures that exceed the delegated authorities; establishing and maintaining AIGs risk rating process for corporate, financial and sovereign obligors; and conducting regular reviews of credit risk exposures in the portfolios of all credit incurring business units. The Derivatives Committee (DC) reviews any proposed derivative transaction or program not otherwise managed by AIGFP. The DC examines, among other things, the nature and purpose of the derivative transaction, its potential credit exposure, if any, and the estimated benefits. The CSFTC has the authority and responsibility to review and approve any proposed CSFT. A CSFT is any transaction or product that may involve a heightened legal, regulatory, accounting or reputational risk that is developed, marketed or proposed by AIG or a third party. The CSFTC provides guidance to and monitors the activities of transaction review committees (TRCs) which have been established in all major business units. TRCs have the responsibility to identify, review and refer CSFTs to the CSFTC. Credit Risk Management AIG devotes considerable resources, expertise and controls to managing its direct and indirect credit exposures, such as investments, deposits, loans, reinsurance recoverables and leases, as well as counterparty risk in derivatives activities, cessions of insurance risk to reinsurers and customers and credit risk assumed through credit derivatives written and financial guarantees. Credit risk is defined as the risk that AIGs customers or counterparties are unable or unwilling to repay their contractual obligations when they become due. Credit risk may also be manifested: (i) through the downgrading of credit ratings of counterparties whose credit instruments AIG may be holding, or, in some cases, insuring, causing the value of the assets to decline or insured risks to rise; and (ii) as cross border risk where a country (sovereign government risk) or one or more non sovereign obligors within a country are unable to repay an obligation or are unable to provide foreign exchange to service a credit or equity exposure incurred by another AIG business unit located outside that country. AIGs credit risks are managed at the corporate level by the Credit Risk Management department (CRM) whose primary role is to support and supplement the work of the CRC. CRM is headed by AIGs Chief Credit Officer (CCO), who reports to AIGs CRO. AIGs CCO is primarily responsible for the development and maintenance of credit risk policies and procedures approved by the CRC. In discharging this function CRM has the following responsibilities: Manage the approval process for all requests for credit limits, program limits and transactions. Approve delegated credit authorities to CRM credit executives and business unit credit officers. Aggregate globally all credit exposure data by counterparty, country and industry and report risk concentrations regularly to the CRC and the Finance Committee of the Board of Directors. Administer regular in depth portfolio credit reviews of all investment, derivative and credit incurring business units and recommend any corrective actions where required. Develop methodologies for quantification and assessment of credit risks, including the establishment and maintenance of AIGs internal risk rating process. Approve appropriate credit reserves and methodologies at the business unit and enterprise levels. AIG closely monitors and controls its company wide credit risk concentrations and attempts to avoid unwanted or excessive risk accumulations, whether funded or unfunded. To minimize the level of credit risk in certain circumstances, AIG may require third party guarantees, collateral, such as letters of credit or trust account deposits or reinsurance. These guarantees, letters of credit and reinsurance recoverables are also treated as credit exposure and are added to AIGs risk concentration exposure data. AIG defines its aggregate credit exposures to a counterparty as the sum of its fixed maturities, loans, finance leases, derivatives (mark to market), deposits (in the case of financial institutions) and the specified credit equivalent exposure to certain insurance products which embody credit risk. AIG 2007 Form 10 K 113 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continued The following table presents AIGs largest credit exposures at December 31, 2007 as a percentage of total shareholders equity: Credit Exposure as a Percentage of Total Category Risk Rating(a) Shareholders Equity Investment Grade: 10 largest combined A+ (weighted average ) (b) 84.8 % Single largest non sovereign (financial institution) AA 8.4 Single largest corporate AAA 5.4 Single largest sovereign A 15.7 Non Investment Grade: Single largest sovereign BB 1.8 Single largest non sovereign B + 0.5 (a) Risk rating is based on external ratings, or equivalent, based on AIGs internal risk rating process. (b) Six of the ten largest credit exposures are to highly rated financial institutions and three are to investment grade rated sovereigns; none is rated lower than BBB+ or its equivalent. AIG closely controls its aggregate cross border exposures to avoid excessive concentrations in any one country or regional group of countries. AIG defines its cross border exposure to include both cross border credit exposures and its large cross border investments in its own international subsidiaries. Ten countries had cross border exposures in excess of 10 percent of total shareholders equity; seven are AAA rated and three are AA rated. In addition, AIG closely monitors its industry concentrations, the risks of which are often mitigated by the breadth and scope of AIGs international operations. AIGs single largest industry credit exposure is to the highly rated global financial institutions sector, accounting for 87 percent of total shareholders equity at December 31, 2007. Excluding the U.S. residential and commercial mortgage sectors, AIGs other industry credit concentrations in excess of 10 percent of total shareholders equity at December 31, 2007 are to the following industries (in descending order by approximate size): Electric and water utilities; Oil and gas; European regional financial institutions; Global telecommunications companies; Global life insurance carriers; U.S. based regional financial institutions; Global securities firms and exchanges; and Global reinsurance firms. AIG participates in the U.S. residential and commercial mortgage markets through AGF, which originates principally first lien mortgage loans and, to a lesser extent, second lien mortgage loans to buyers and owners of residential housing; UGC which provides first loss mortgage guaranty insurance for high loan to value first and second lien residential mortgages; AIG Investments which invests in mortgage backed securities and collateralized debt obligations, on behalf of AIG insurance and financial services subsidiaries, in which the underlying collateral comprises residential or commercial mortgage loans; and AIGFP which invests in highly rated tranches of RMBS, CMBS and CDOs and provides credit protection through credit default swaps on certain super senior tranches of CDOs. In addition, AIG Investments invests directly in commercial real estate properties and provides real estate commercial mortgage loans. Some of AIGs exposures are insured (wrapped) by financial guarantor insurance companies, also known as monoline insurers, which at December 31, 2007, provide AIG over $44 billion (carrying value) in financial support. The monoline insurers include MBIA, Ambac, FGIC, and others and provide support predominantly in the United States. AIG does not rely on the monoline insurance as its principal source of repayment when evaluating securities for purchase. All investment securities are evaluated primarily based on the underlying cash flow generation capacities of the issuer or cash flow characteristics of the security. Approximately 96 percent of the monoline protection is provided on AIG Investments fixed maturities exposures, of which municipal securities represent 74 percent of assets insured, substantially all of which had underlying credit ratings of A or higher. AIG considers that the monoline wrap for such securities is of limited support, as the default rate on single A and higher rated municipal bonds has historically been negligible. However, AIG anticipates that the failure of one or more monoline insurers may cause price volatility and other disruption in the municipal bond market, as market participants adjust to the absence of monoline credit support. AIG maintains a credit staff to evaluate its municipal bond holdings, and does not rely on monoline insurers in evaluating securities for its municipal bond portfolios. Approximately four percent of AIGs monoline insurance supports AIGFP investment exposures. For the non municipal assets in the AIG Investments portfolio, at December 31, 2007, AIG owned $9.5 billion in cost basis or $8.8 billion in fair value of various types of asset backed securities wrapped by one or more of the monoline insurers. Based on internal analysis, approximately $6.7 billion in cost basis represented holdings with underlying ratings estimated at BBB or higher. AIG has generally viewed the monoline credit support on these securities as significant only to tail risk, that is, the risk that as pools of underlying assets amortize, the remaining assets, or tail, may suffer from adverse selection on prepayments or from a lack of adequate risk diversification. While 114 AIG 2007 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries these securities initially had underlying investment grade ratings, poor pool performance has in some cases resulted in current ratings of below investment grade. The amount of ultimate loss exposure of these securities to the monoline insurers is a function of the ultimate performance of the collateral pools and cannot be reliably estimated. AIG believes that monoline insurers are currently providing payment support on approximately $380 million of such securities. The CRC reviews quarterly concentration reports in all categories listed above as well as credit trends by risk ratings. The CRC may adjust limits to provide reasonable assurance that AIG does not incur excessive levels of credit risk and that AIGs credit risk profile is properly calibrated across business units. Market Risk Management AIG is exposed to market risks, primarily within its insurance and capital markets businesses. These asset liability exposures are predominantly structural in nature, and not the result of speculative positioning to take advantage of short term market opportunities. The Market Risk Management department (MRM), which reports to the CRO, is responsible for control and oversight of market risks in all aspects of AIGs financial services, insurance, and investment activities. AIGs market exposures arise from the following: AIG is a globally diversified enterprise with capital deployed in a variety of currencies. Capital deployed in AIGs overseas businesses, when converted into U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes, constitutes a long foreign currency/short U.S. dollar market exposure on AIGs balance sheet. Similarly, overseas earnings denominated in foreign currency also represent a long foreign currency/short U.S. dollar market exposure on AIGs income statement. Much of AIGs domestic capital is invested in U.S. fixed income or equity securities, leading to exposures to U.S. yields and equity markets. Several of AIGs Foreign Life Insurance subsidiaries operate in developing markets where maturities on longer term life insurance liabilities exceed the maximum maturities of available local currency assets. As a globally diversified enterprise, AIG is exposed to a variety of foreign currency risks. AIG earns a significant portion of its income from operations conducted in foreign currencies which must be translated into U.S. dollars for consolidated reporting purposes. Consequently, exchange rate fluctuations can cause volatility in AIGs reported earnings. When the U.S. dollar weakens against other currencies, AIGs earnings increase. When the U.S. dollar strengthens against other currencies, AIGs earnings decline. The sensitivity of AIGs consolidated shareholders equity to foreign exchange volatility is more complex. AIG has significant capital committed overseas, which rises in value on AIGs consolidated balance sheet when the U.S. dollar weakens. AIG also has significant U.S. dollar asset holdings overseas, which offset the foreign exchange exposure arising from AIGs overseas capital. Similar to the income statement, AIGs overall balance sheet is net long foreign currencies and net short U.S. dollars. The table below provides an estimate of the sensitivity of shareholders equity and net income to 10 percent changes in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies as of December 31, 2007, assuming a tax rate of 35 percent: U.S. dollar up U.S. dollar down (in millions) 10 percent 10 percent Shareholders equity $(466 ) $466 Net income $(220 ) $220 AIG analyzes market risk using various statistical techniques including Value at Risk (VaR). VaR is a summary statistical measure that uses the estimated volatility and correlation of market factors to calculate the maximum loss that could occur over a defined period of time with a specified level of statistical confidence. VaR measures not only the size of individual exposures but also the interaction between different market exposures, thereby providing a portfolio approach to measuring market risk. Similar VaR methodologies are used to determine capital requirements for market risk within AIGs economic capital framework. Insurance, Asset Management and Non Trading Financial Services VaR AIG performs one comprehensive VaR analysis across all of its non trading businesses, and a separate VaR analysis for its trading business at AIGFP. The comprehensive VaR is categorized by AIG business segment (General Insurance, Life Insurance & Retirement Services, Financial Services and Asset Management) and also by market risk factor (interest rate, currency and equity). AIGs market risk VaR calculations include exposures to benchmark Treasury or swap interest rates, but do not include exposures to credit based factors such as credit spreads. AIGs credit exposures within its invested assets and credit derivative portfolios are discussed in Credit Risk Management Financial Services herein. For the insurance segments, assets included are invested assets (excluding direct holdings of real estate) and liabilities included are reserve for losses and loss expenses, reserve for unearned premiums, future policy benefits for life and accident and health insurance contracts and other policyholders funds. For financial services companies, loans and leases represent the majority of assets represented in the VaR calculation, while bonds and notes issued represent the majority of liabilities. AIG calculated the VaR with respect to net fair values as of December 31, 2007 and 2006. The VaR number represents the maximum potential loss as of those dates that could be incurred with a 95 percent confidence (i.e., only five percent of historical scenarios show losses greater than the VaR figure) within a one month holding period. AIG uses the historical simulation methodology that entails repricing all assets and liabilities under explicit changes in market rates within a specific historical time period. AIG uses the most recent three years of historical market information for interest rates, foreign exchange rates, and equity AIG 2007 Form 10 K 115 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continued index prices. For each scenario, each transaction was repriced. Segment and AIG wide scenario values are then calculated by netting the values of all the underlying assets and liabilities. The following table presents the period end, average, high and low VaRs on a diversified basis and of each component of market risk for AIGs non trading businesses. The diversified VaR is usually smaller than the sum of its components due to correlation effects. 2007 2006 For the Year Ended For the Year Ended December 31, December 31, (in millions) As of December 31 Average High Low As of December 31 Average High Low Total AIG Non Trading Market Risk: Diversified $ 5,593 $ 5,316 $ 5,619 $ 5,073 $ 5,073 $ 5,209 $ 5,783 $ 4,852 Interest rate 4,383 4,600 4,757 4,383 4,577 4,962 5,765 4,498 Currency 785 729 785 685 686 641 707 509 Equity 2,627 2,183 2,627 1,873 1,873 1,754 1,873 1,650 General Insurance: Diversified $ 1,363 $ 1,637 $ 1,892 $ 1,363 $ 1,717 $ 1,697 $ 1,776 $ 1,617 Interest rate 1,117 1,492 1,792 1,117 1,541 1,635 1,717 1,541 Currency 255 222 255 205 212 162 212 119 Equity 835 659 835 573 573 551 573 535 Life Insurance & Retirement Services: Diversified $ 5,180 $ 4,848 $ 5,180 $ 4,574 $ 4,574 $ 4,672 $ 5,224 $ 4,307 Interest rate 4,405 4,465 4,611 4,287 4,471 4,563 5,060 4,229 Currency 649 621 678 568 568 538 592 459 Equity 1,810 1,512 1,810 1,293 1,293 1,228 1,299 1,133 Non Trading Financial Services: Diversified $ 99 $ 117 $ 170 $ 85 $ 125 $ 165 $ 252 $ 125 Interest rate 95 116 168 76 127 166 249 127 Currency 13 12 13 11 11 8 11 7 Equity 1 1 1 1 1 1 2 1 Asset Management: Diversified $ 38 $ 49 $ 74 $ 26 $ 64 $ 144 $ 190 $ 64 Interest rate 32 45 72 22 63 145 192 63 Currency 2 3 5 2 3 4 7 3 Equity 13 11 13 8 8 9 13 8 AIGs total non trading VaR increased from $5.1 billion at December 31, 2006 to $5.6 billion at December 31, 2007, primarily due to higher exposures to U.S. equity risk. The higher contribution of U.S. equity risk during 2007 was driven by a combination of three factors: increased U.S. equity investment allocation in the General Insurance and Life Insurance & Retirement Services segments, increased volatility in U.S. equity prices, and rising correlations between U.S. equities and AIGs structural duration exposures in Asia. Interest rate and foreign exchange volatilities generally moderated during 2007. Operational Risk Management AIGs corporate level Operational Risk Management department (ORM) oversees AIGs operational risk management practices. The Director of ORM reports to the CRO. ORM is responsible for establishing the framework, principles and guidelines for operational risk management. ORM also manages compliance with the requirements of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002. Each business unit is responsible for implementing the components of AIGs operational risk management program to ensure that effective operational risk management practices are utilized throughout AIG. Upon full implementation, the program will consist of a risk and control self assessment (RCSA) process, risk event data analysis, key risk indicators and governance. To date, AIG has developed the methodology for performing a combined operational risk and compliance RCSA in each of AIGs key business units. Insurance Risk Management Reinsurance AIG uses reinsurance programs for its insurance risks as follows: facultative to cover large individual exposures; quota share treaties to cover specific books of business; excess of loss treaties to cover large losses; excess or surplus automatic treaties to cover individual life risks in excess of stated per life retention limits; and catastrophe treaties to cover specific catastrophes including earthquake, windstorm and flood. 116 AIG 2007 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries AIGs Reinsurance Security Department (RSD) conducts periodic detailed assessments of the financial status and condition of current and potential reinsurers, both foreign and domestic. The RSD monitors both the nature of the risks ceded to the reinsurers and the aggregation of total reinsurance recoverables ceded to reinsurers. Such assessments may include, but are not limited to, identifying if a reinsurer is appropriately licensed and has sufficient financial capacity, and evaluating the local economic environment in which a foreign reinsurer operates. The RSD reviews the nature of the risks ceded to reinsurers and the need for credit risk mitigants. For example, in AIGs treaty reinsurance contracts, AIG frequently includes provisions that require a reinsurer to post collateral when a referenced event occurs. Furthermore, AIG limits its unsecured exposure to reinsurers through the use of credit triggers, which include, but are not limited to, insurer financial strength rating downgrades, declines in policyholders surplus below predetermined levels, decreases in the NAIC risk based capital (RBC) ratio or reaching maximum limits of reinsurance recoverables. In addition, AIGs CRC reviews all reinsurer exposures and credit limits and approves most large reinsurer credit limits that represent actual or potential credit concentrations. AIG believes that no exposure to a single reinsurer represents an inappropriate concentration of risk to AIG, nor is AIGs business substantially dependent upon any single reinsurance contract. AIG enters into intercompany reinsurance transactions for its General Insurance and Life Insurance & Retirement Services operations. AIG enters into these transactions as a sound and prudent business practice in order to maintain underwriting control and spread insurance risk among AIGs various legal entities and to leverage economies of scale with external reinsurers. When required for statutory recognition, AIG obtains letters of credit from third party financial institutions to collateralize these intercompany transactions. At December 31, 2007, approximately $8.8 billion of letters of credit were outstanding to cover intercompany reinsurance transactions between subsidiaries. Although reinsurance arrangements do not relieve AIG subsidiaries from their direct obligations to insureds, an efficient and effective reinsurance program substantially mitigates AIGs exposure to potentially significant losses. AIG continually evaluates the reinsurance markets and the relative attractiveness of various arrangements for coverage, including structures such as catastrophe bonds, insurance risk securitizations, sidecars and similar vehicles. Based on this ongoing evaluation and other factors, effective December 31, 2007, Lexington and Concord Re Limited agreed to commute their quota share reinsurance agreement covering U.S. commercial property insurance business written by Lexington on a risk attaching basis. This agreement was effective in July 2006 and was due to expire on January 15, 2008. For 2008, AIG purchased a U.S. catastrophe coverage of approximately $1.1 billion in excess of a per occurrence deductible of $1.5 billion. For Life Insurance & Retirement Services, AIGs 2008 catastrophe program covers losses of $250 million in excess of $200 million for Japan and Taiwan only. Reinsurance Recoverable General reinsurance recoverable assets are comprised of: balances due from reinsurers for indemnity losses and loss expenses billed to, but not yet collected from, reinsurers (Paid Losses Recoverable); ultimate ceded reserves for indemnity losses and expenses includes reserves for claims reported but not yet paid and estimates for IBNR (collectively, Ceded Loss Reserves); and Ceded Reserves for Unearned Premiums. At December 31, 2007, general reinsurance assets of $21.5 billion include Paid Losses Recoverable of $1.8 billion and Ceded Loss Reserves of $16.2 billion, and $4.0 billion of Ceded Reserves for Unearned Premiums. The methods used to estimate IBNR and to establish the resulting ultimate losses involve projecting the frequency and severity of losses over multiple years and are continually reviewed and updated by management. Any adjustments are reflected in income currently. It is AIGs belief that the ceded reserves for losses and loss expenses at December 31, 2007 were representative of the ultimate losses recoverable. Actual losses may differ from the reserves currently ceded. AIG manages the credit risk in its reinsurance relationships by transacting with reinsurers that it considers financially sound, and when necessary AIG requires reinsurers to post substantial collateral in the form of funds, securities and or irrevocable letters of credit. This collateral can be drawn on for amounts that remain unpaid beyond specified time periods on an individual reinsurer basis. At December 31, 2007, approximately 55 percent of the general reinsurance assets were from unauthorized reinsurers. The terms authorized and unauthorized pertain to regulatory categories, not creditworthiness. More than 50 percent of these balances were collateralized, permitting statutory recognition. Additionally, with the approval of insurance regulators, AIG posted approximately $1.8 billion of letters of credit issued by commercial banks in favor of certain Domestic General Insurance companies to permit those companies statutory recognition of balances otherwise uncollateralized at December 31, 2007. The remaining 45 percent of the general reinsurance assets were from authorized reinsurers. At December 31, 2007, approximately 87 percent of the balances with respect to authorized reinsurers are from reinsurers rated A (excellent) or better, as rated by A.M. Best, or A (strong) or better, as rated by S&P. These ratings are measures of financial strength. AIG 2007 Form 10 K 117 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continued The following table provides information for each reinsurer representing in excess of five percent of AIGs reinsurance assets at December 31, 2007: Gross Percent of Uncollateralized A.M. General General General S&P Best Reinsurance Reinsurance Collateral Reinsurance (in millions) Rating(a) Rating(a) Assets Assets, Net Held(b) Assets Reinsurer: Swiss Reinsurance Group AA A+ $ 1,818 8.5% $ 372 $ 1,446 Berkshire Hathaway Insurance Group AAA A++ $ 1,618 7.5% $ 212 $ 1,406 Munich Reinsurance Group AA A+ $ 1,200 5.6% $ 430 $ 770 Lloyds Syndicates Lloyds of London(c) A+ A $ 1,089 5.1% $ 113 $ 976 (a) Rating designations as of February 19, 2008. (b) Excludes collateral held in excess of applicable treaty balances. (c) Excludes Equitas gross reinsurance assets that are unrated, which are less than five percent of AIGs general reinsurance assets. AIG maintains an allowance for estimated unrecoverable reinsurance of $520 million. At December 31, 2007, AIG had no significant reinsurance recoverables due from any individual reinsurer that was financially troubled (i.e., liquidated, insolvent, in receivership or otherwise subject to formal or informal regulatory restriction). Segment Risk Management Other than as described above, AIG manages its business risk oversight activities through its business segments. Insurance Operations AIGs multiple insurance businesses conducted on a global basis expose AIG to a wide variety of risks with different time horizons. These risks are managed throughout the organization, both centrally and locally, through a number of procedures, including: (i) pre launch approval of product design, development and distribution; (ii) underwriting approval processes and authorities; (iii) exposure limits with ongoing monitoring; (iv) modeling and reporting of aggregations and limit concentrations at multiple levels (policy, line of business, product group, country, individual/group, correlation and catastrophic risk events); (v) compliance with financial reporting and capital and solvency targets; (vi) extensive use of reinsurance, both internal and third party; and (vii) review and establishment of reserves. AIG closely manages insurance risk by overseeing and controlling the nature and geographic location of the risks in each line of business underwritten, the terms and conditions of the underwriting and the premiums charged for taking on the risk. Concentrations of risk are analyzed using various modeling techniques and include, but are not limited to, wind, flood, earthquake, terrorism and accident. AIG has two major categories of insurance risks as follows: General Insurance risks covered include property, casualty, fidelity/surety, management liability and mortgage insurance. Risks in the general insurance segment are managed through aggregations and limitations of concentrations at multiple levels: policy, line of business, correlation and catastrophic risk events. Life Insurance & Retirement Services risks include mortality and morbidity in the insurance oriented products and insufficient cash flows to cover contract liabilities in the retirement savings oriented products. Risks are managed through product design, sound medical underwriting, external traditional reinsurance programs and external catastrophe reinsurance programs. AIG is a major purchaser of reinsurance for its insurance operations. The use of reinsurance facilitates insurance risk management (retention, volatility, concentrations) and capital planning locally (branch and subsidiary). AIG may purchase reinsurance on a pooling basis. Pooling of AIGs reinsurance risks enables AIG to purchase reinsurance more efficiently at a consolidated level, manage global counterparty risk and relationships and manage global catastrophe risks, both for the General Insurance and Life Insurance & Retirement Services businesses. General Insurance In General Insurance, underwriting risks are managed through the application approval process, exposure limitations as well as through exclusions, coverage limits and reinsurance. The risks covered by AIG are managed through limits on delegated underwriting authority, the use of sound underwriting practices, pricing procedures and the use of actuarial analysis as part of the determination of overall adequacy of provisions for insurance contract liabilities. A primary goal of AIG in managing its General Insurance operations is to achieve an underwriting profit. To achieve this goal, AIG must be disciplined in its risk selection, and premiums must be adequate and terms and conditions appropriate to cover the risk accepted. Catastrophe Exposures The nature of AIGs business exposes it to various catastrophic events in which multiple losses across multiple lines of business can occur in any calendar year. In order to control this exposure, AIG uses a combination of techniques, including setting aggregate limits in key business units, monitoring and modeling accumulated exposures, and purchasing catastrophe reinsurance to supplement its other reinsurance protections. Natural disasters such as hurricanes, earthquakes and other catastrophes have the potential to adversely affect AIGs operating results. Other risks, such as an outbreak of a pandemic disease, such as the Avian Influenza A Virus (H5N1), could 118 AIG 2007 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries adversely affect AIGs business and operating results to an extent that may be only partially offset by reinsurance programs. AIG evaluates catastrophic events and assesses the probability of occurrence and magnitude of catastrophic events through the use of industry recognized models, among other techniques. AIG updates these models by periodically monitoring the exposure to risks of AIGs worldwide General Insurance operations and adjusting such models accordingly. Following is an overview of modeled losses associated with the more significant natural perils, which includes exposures for DBG, Personal Lines, Foreign General (other than Ascot), and The Hartford Steam Boiler Inspection and Insurance Company. Transatlantic and Ascot utilize a different model, and their combined results are presented separately below. Significant life insurance and accident and health (A&H) exposures have been added to these results as well. The modeled results assume that all reinsurers fulfill their obligations to AIG in accordance with their terms. It is important to recognize that there is no standard methodology to project the possible losses from total property and workers compensation exposures. Further, there are no industry standard assumptions to be utilized in projecting these losses. The use of different methodologies and assumptions could materially change the projected losses. Therefore, these modeled losses may not be comparable to estimates made by other companies. These estimates are inherently uncertain and may not reflect AIGs maximum exposures to these events. It is highly likely that AIGs losses will vary, perhaps significantly, from these estimates. AIG has revised the catastrophe exposure disclosures presented below from those included in the 2006 Annual Report on Form 10 K to reflect more recent data, as well as reinsurance programs in place as of January 31, 2008. The modeled results provided in the table below were based on the aggregate exceedence probability (AEP) losses which represent total property, workers compensation, life insurance, and A&H losses that may occur in any single year from one or more natural events. The life insurance and A&H data include exposures for United States, Japan, and Taiwan earthquakes. These represent the largest share of life insurance and A&H exposures to earthquake. A&H losses were modeled using December 2006 data, and life insurance losses were modeled using March 2006 data. Modeled life insurance results using more recent data will be available by May 2008. However, management does not believe that changes in the life insurance and A&H exposures will materially increase AIGs overall exposures. The updated property exposures were generally modeled with exposure data as of June 2007. Lexington commercial lines exposure, which represents the largest share of the modeled losses, was based on data as of October 2007. All reinsurance program structures, including both domestic and international structures, have also been updated. The values provided are based on 100 year return period losses, which have a one percent likelihood of being exceeded in any single year. Thus, the model projects that there is a one percent probability that AIG could incur in any year losses in excess of the modeled amounts for these perils. Losses include loss adjustment expenses and the net values include reinstatement premiums. Net After % of Consolidated Net of 2008 Income Shareholders Equity at (in millions) Gross Reinsurance Tax December 31, 2007 Natural Peril: Earthquake $ 5,625 $ 3,397 $2,208 2.3% Tropical Cyclone* $ 5,802 $ 3,430 $2,230 2.3% * Includes hurricanes, typhoons and other wind related events. Gross earthquake and tropical cyclone modeled losses increased $1.9 billion and $1.0 billion, respectively, while net losses increased $923 million and $234 million, respectively. The earthquake probable maximum loss for 2007 now includes AIGs life insurance and A&H exposures that were previously not included. These changes also reflect overall increased exposure, changes in the Lexington quota share program, the inclusion of loss adjustment expenses, and changes in corporate catastrophe structure. In addition to the return period loss, AIG evaluates potential single event earthquake and hurricane losses that may be incurred. The single events utilized are a subset of potential events identified and utilized by Lloyds (as described in Lloyds Realistic Disaster Scenarios, Scenario Specifications, April 2006) and referred to as Realistic Disaster Scenarios (RDSs). The purpose of this analysis is to utilize these RDSs to provide a reference frame and place into context the model results. However, it is important to note that the specific events used for this analysis do not necessarily represent the worst case loss that AIG could incur from this type of an event in these regions. The losses associated with the RDSs are included in the table below. Single event modeled property and workers compensation losses to AIGs worldwide portfolio of risk for key geographic areas are set forth below. Gross values represent AIGs liability after the application of policy limits and deductibles, and net values represent losses after reinsurance is applied and include reinsurance reinstatement premiums. Both gross and net losses include loss adjustment expenses. Net of 2008 (in millions) Gross Reinsurance Natural Peril: San Francisco Earthquake $ 6,236 $ 3,809 Miami Hurricane $ 5,829 $ 3,280 Northeast Hurricane $ 5,287 $ 3,739 Los Angeles Earthquake $ 5,375 $ 3,297 Gulf Coast Hurricane $ 3,730 $ 2,088 Japanese Earthquake $ 1,109 $ 406 European Windstorm $ 252 $ 89 Japanese Typhoon $ 177 $ 103 AIG 2007 Form 10 K 119 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continued AIG also monitors key international property risks utilizing modeled statistical return period losses. Based on these simulations, the 100 year return period loss for Japanese Earthquake is $510 million gross, and $170 million net, the 100 year return period loss for European Windstorm is $448 million gross, and $154 million net, and the 100 year return period loss for Japanese Typhoon is $340 million gross, and $212 million net. The losses provided above do not include Transatlantic and Ascot. The combined earthquake and tropical cyclone 100 year return period modeled losses for Ascot and Transatlantic together are estimated to be $1.0 billion, on a gross basis, $749 million, net of reinsurance. ACTUAL RESULTS IN ANY PERIOD ARE LIKELY TO VARY, PERHAPS MATERIALLY, FROM THE MODELED SCENARIOS, AND THE OCCURRENCE OF ONE OR MORE SEVERE EVENTS COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON AIGS FINANCIAL CONDITION, RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND LIQUIDITY. Measures Implemented to Control Hurricane and Earthquake Catastrophic Risk Catastrophic risk from the earthquake and hurricane perils is proactively managed through reinsurance programs, and aggregate accumulation monitoring. Catastrophe reinsurance is purchased by AIG from financially sound reinsurers. Recoveries under this program, along with other non catastrophic reinsurance protections, are reflected in the net values provided in the tables above. In addition to catastrophic reinsurance programs, hurricane and earthquake exposures are controlled by periodically monitoring aggregate exposures. The aggregate exposures are calculated by compiling total liability within AIG defined hurricane and earthquake catastrophe risk zones and therefore represent the maximum that could be lost in any individual zone. These aggregate accumulations are tracked over time in order to monitor both long and short term trends. AIGs major property writers, Lexington and AIG Private Client Group, have also implemented catastrophe related underwriting procedures and manage their books at an account level. Lexington individually models most accounts prior to binding in order to specifically quantify catastrophic risk for each account. Terrorism Exposure to loss from terrorist attack is controlled by limiting the aggregate accumulation of workers compensation and property insurance that is underwritten within defined target locations. Modeling is used to provide projections of probable maximum loss by target location based upon the actual exposures of AIG policyholders. Terrorism risk is monitored to manage AIGs exposure. AIG shares its exposures to terrorism risks under the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act, which was recently extended through December 31, 2014 by the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization Act of 2007 (TRIA). During 2007, AIGs deductible under TRIA was approximately $4.0 billion, with a 15 percent share of certified terrorism losses in excess of the deductible. As of January 1, 2008, the deductible increased to $4.2 billion, with a 15 percent share of certified terrorism losses in excess of the deductible. AIG actively monitors and controls its aggregate accumulated exposure within the parameters of the protection provided by the TRIA. Life Insurance & Retirement Services In Life Insurance & Retirement Services, the primary risks are the following: underwriting, which represents the exposure to loss resulting from the actual policy experience emerging adversely in comparison to the assumptions made in the product pricing associated with mortality, morbidity, termination and expenses; and investment risk which represents the exposure to loss resulting from the cash flows from the invested assets being less than the cash flows required to meet the obligations of the expected policy and contract liabilities and the necessary return on investments. AIG businesses manage these risks through exposure limitations and the active management of the asset liability relationship in their operations. The emergence of significant adverse experience would require an adjustment to DAC and benefit reserves that could have a material adverse effect on AIGs consolidated results of operations for a particular period. AIGs Foreign Life Insurance & Retirement Services companies generally limit their maximum underwriting exposure on life insurance of a single life to approximately $1.7 million of coverage. AIGs Domestic Life Insurance & Retirement Services companies limit their maximum underwriting exposure on life insurance of a single life to $15 million of coverage in certain circumstances by using yearly renewable term reinsurance. In Life Insurance & Retirement Services, the reinsurance programs provide risk mitigation per policy, per individual life for life and group covers and for catastrophic risk events. Pandemic Influenza The potential for a pandemic influenza outbreak has received much recent attention. While outbreaks of the Avian Flu continue to occur among poultry or wild birds in a number of countries in Asia, Europe, including the U.K., and Africa, transmission to humans has been rare to date. If the virus mutates to a form that can be transmitted from human to human, it has the potential to spread rapidly worldwide. If such an outbreak were to take place, early quarantine and vaccination could be critical to containment. The contagion and mortality rates of any mutated H5N1 virus that can be transmitted from human to human are highly speculative. AIG continues to monitor the developing facts. A significant global outbreak could have a material adverse effect on Life Insurance & Retirement Services operating results and liquidity from increased mortality and morbidity rates. AIG continues to analyze its exposure to this serious threat and has engaged an external risk management firm to model loss scenarios associated with an outbreak of Avian Flu. For a mild scenario, AIG estimates its after tax net losses under its life insurance policies due to Avian Flu at approximately 2 percent of consolidated shareholders equity as of December 31, 2007. This estimate was calculated over a 3 year period, although the 120 AIG 2007 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries majority of the losses would be incurred in the first year. The modeled losses calculated were based on 2006 policy data representing approximately 92 percent of AIGs individual life, group life and credit life books of business, net of reinsurance. This estimate does not include claims that could be made under other policies, such as business interruption or general liability policies, and does not reflect estimates for losses resulting from disruption of AIGs own business operations or asset losses that may arise out of such a pandemic. The model used to generate this estimate has only recently been developed. The reasonableness of the model and its underlying assumptions cannot readily be verified by reference to comparable historical events. As a result, AIGs actual losses from a pandemic influenza outbreak are likely to vary significantly from those predicted by the model. Financial Services AIGs Financial Services subsidiaries engage in diversified activities including aircraft and equipment leasing, capital markets, consumer finance and insurance premium finance. Capital Markets The Capital Markets operations of AIG are conducted primarily through AIGFP, which engages as principal in standard and customized interest rate, currency, equity, commodity, energy and credit products with top tier corporations, financial institutions, governments, agencies, institutional investors and high net worth individuals throughout the world. The senior management of AIG defines the policies and establishes general operating parameters for Capital Markets operations. AIGs senior management has established various oversight committees to monitor on an ongoing basis the various financial market, operational and credit risk attendant to the Capital Markets operations. The senior management of AIGFP reports the results of its operations to and reviews future strategies with AIGs senior management. AIGFP actively manages its exposures to limit potential economic losses, while maximizing the rewards afforded by these business opportunities even though some products or derivatives may result in operating income volatility. In doing so, AIGFP must continually manage a variety of exposures including credit, market, liquidity, operational and legal risks. Derivative Transactions A counterparty may default on any obligation to AIG, including a derivative contract. Credit risk is a consequence of extending credit and or carrying trading and investment positions. Credit risk exists for a derivative contract when that contract has a positive fair value to AIG. The maximum potential exposure will increase or decrease during the life of the derivative commitments as a function of maturity and market conditions. To help manage this risk, AIGFPs credit department operates within the guidelines set by the CRC. Transactions which fall outside these pre established guidelines require the specific approval of the CRC. It is also AIGs policy to establish reserves for potential credit impairment when necessary. In addition, AIGFP utilizes various credit enhancements, including letters of credit, guarantees, collateral, credit triggers, credit derivatives and margin agreements to reduce the credit risk relating to its outstanding financial derivative transactions. AIGFP requires credit enhancements in connection with specific transactions based on, among other things, the creditworthiness of the counterparties, and the transactions size and maturity. Furthermore, AIGFP generally seeks to enter into agreements that have the benefit of set off and close out netting provisions. These provisions provide that, in the case of an early termination of a transaction, AIGFP can setoff its receivables from a counterparty against its payables to the same counterparty arising out of all covered transactions. As a result, where a legally enforceable netting agreement exists, the fair value of the transaction with the counterparty represents the net sum of estimated positive fair values. The fair value of AIGFPs interest rate, currency, commodity and equity swaps, options, swaptions, and forward commitments, futures, and forward contracts approximated $17.13 billion at December 31, 2007 and $19.61 billion at December 31, 2006. Where applicable, these amounts have been determined in accordance with the respective master netting agreements. AIGFP evaluates the counterparty credit quality by reference to ratings from rating agencies or, where such ratings are not available, by internal analysis consistent with the risk rating policies of the CRC. In addition, AIGFPs credit approval process involves pre set counterparty and country credit exposure limits and, for particularly credit intensive transactions, requires approval from the CRC. AIG estimates that the average credit rating of Capital Markets derivatives counterparties, measured by reference to the fair value of its derivative portfolio as a whole, is equivalent to the AA rating category. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, the fair value of Capital Markets derivatives portfolios by counterparty credit rating was as follows: (in millions) 2007 2006 Rating: AAA $ 5,069 $ 5,465 AA 5,166 8,321 A 4,796 3,690 BBB 1,801 2,032 Below investment grade 302 99 Total $ 17,134 $ 19,607 Credit Derivatives AIGFP enters into credit derivative transactions in the ordinary course of its business. The majority of AIGFPs credit derivatives require AIGFP to provide credit protection on a designated portfolio of loans or debt securities. AIGFP provides such credit protection on a second loss basis, under which AIGFPs payment obligations arise only after credit losses in the designated portfolio exceed a specified threshold amount or level of first losses. The threshold amount of credit losses that must be realized before AIGFP has any payment obligation is negotiated AIG 2007 Form 10 K 121 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continued by AIGFP for each transaction to provide that the likelihood of any payment obligation by AIGFP under each transaction is remote, even in severe recessionary market scenarios. The underwriting process for these derivatives included assumptions of severely stressed recessionary market scenarios to minimize the likelihood of realized losses under these obligations. In certain cases, the credit risk associated with a designated portfolio is tranched into different layers of risk, which are then analyzed and rated by the credit rating agencies. Typically, there will be an equity layer covering the first credit losses in respect of the portfolio up to a specified percentage of the total portfolio, and then successive layers ranging from generally a BBB rated layer to one or more AAA rated layers. In transactions that are rated with respect to the risk layer or tranche that is immediately junior to the threshold level above which AIGFPs payment obligation would generally arise, a significant majority are rated AAA by the rating agencies. In transactions that are not rated, AIGFP applies the same risk criteria for setting the threshold level for its payment obligations. Therefore, the risk layer assumed by AIGFP with respect to the designated portfolio in these transactions is often called the super senior risk layer, defined as the layer of credit risk senior to a risk layer that has been rated AAA by the credit rating agencies, or if the transaction is not rated, equivalent thereto. At December 31, 2007 the notional amounts and unrealized market valuation loss of the super senior credit default swap portfolio by asset classes were as follows: Notional Unrealized Market Amount Valuation Loss (in billions) (in millions) Corporate loans(a) $ 230 $ Prime residential mortgages(a) 149 Corporate Debt/CLOs 70 226 Multi sector CDO(b) 78 11,246 Total $ 527 $ 11,472 (a) Predominantly represent transactions written to facilitate regulatory capital relief. (b) Approximately $61.4 billion in notional amount of the multi sector CDO pools include some exposure to U.S. subprime mortgages. Approximately $379 billion (consisting of the corporate loans and prime residential mortgages) of the $527 billion in notional exposure of AIGFPs super senior credit default swap portfolio as of December 31, 2007 represents derivatives written for financial institutions, principally in Europe, for the purpose of providing them with regulatory capital relief rather than risk mitigation. In exchange for a minimum guaranteed fee, the counterparties receive credit protection in respect of diversified loan portfolios they own, thus improving their regulatory capital position. These derivatives are generally expected to terminate at no additional cost to the counterparty upon the counterpartys adoption of models compliant with the Basel II Accord. AIG expects that the majority of these transactions will be terminated within the next 12 to 18 months by AIGFPs counterparties as they implement models compliant with the new Basel II Accord. As of February 26, 2008, $54 billion in notional exposures have either been terminated or are in the process of being terminated. AIGFP was not required to make any payments as part of these terminations and in certain cases was paid a fee upon termination. In light of this experience to date and after other comprehensive analyses, AIG did not recognize an unrealized market valuation adjustment for this regulatory capital relief portfolio for the year ended December 31, 2007. AIG will continue to assess the valuation of this portfolio and monitor developments in the marketplace. There can be no assurance that AIG will not recognize unrealized market valuation losses from this portfolio in future periods. In addition to writing credit protection on the super senior risk layer on designated portfolios of loans or debt securities, AIGFP also wrote protection on tranches below the super senior risk layer. At December 31, 2007 the notional amount of the credit default swaps in the regulatory capital relief portfolio written on tranches below the super senior risk layer was $5.8 billion, with an estimated fair value of $(25) million. AIGFP has also written credit protection on the super senior risk layer of diversified portfolios of investment grade corporate debt, collateralized loan obligations (CLOs) and multi sector CDOs. AIGFP is at risk only on the super senior portion related to a diversified portfolio referenced to loans or debt securities. The super senior risk portion is the last tranche to suffer losses after significant subordination. Credit losses would have to erode all tranches junior to the super senior tranche before AIGFP would suffer any realized losses. The subordination level required for each transaction is determined based on internal modeling and analysis of the pool of underlying assets and is not dependent on ratings determined by the rating agencies. While the credit default swaps written on corporate debt obligations are cash settled, the majority of the credit default swaps written on CDOs and CLOs require physical settlement. Under a physical settlement arrangement, AIGFP would be required to purchase the referenced super senior security at par in the event of a non payment on that security. Certain of these credit derivatives are subject to collateral posting provisions. These provisions differ among counterparties and asset classes. In the case of most of the multi sector CDO transactions, the amount of collateral required is determined based on the change in value of the underlying cash security that represents the super senior risk layer subject to credit protection, and not the change in value of the super senior credit derivative. AIGFP is indirectly exposed to U.S. residential mortgage subprime collateral in the CDO portfolios, the majority of which is from 2004 and 2005 vintages. However, certain of the CDOs on which AIGFP provided credit protection permit the collateral manager to substitute collateral during the reinvestment period, subject to certain restrictions. As a result, in certain transactions, U.S. residential mortgage subprime collateral of 2006 and 2007 vintages has been added to the collateral pools. At December 31, 2007, U.S. residential mortgage subprime collateral of 2006 and 2007 vintages comprised approximately 4.9 percent of the total collateral pools underlying the entire portfolio of CDOs with credit protection. AIGFP has written 2a 7 Puts in connection with certain multi sector CDOs that allow the holders of the securities to treat the securities as eligible short term 2a 7 investments under the 122 AIG 2007 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries Investment Company Act of 1940. Holders of securities are permitted, in certain circumstances, to tender their securities to the issuers at par. If an issuers remarketing agent is unable to resell the securities so tendered, AIGFP must purchase the securities at par as long as the security has not experienced a default. During 2007, AIGFP repurchased securities with a principal amount of approximately $754 million pursuant to these obligations. In certain transactions, AIGFP has contracted with third parties to provide liquidity for the securities if they are put to AIGFP for up to a three year period. Such liquidity facilities totaled approximately $3 billion at December 31, 2007. As of February 26, 2008, AIGFP has not utilized these liquidity facilities. At December 31, 2007, AIGFP had approximately $6.5 billion of notional exposure on 2a 7 Puts, included as part of the multi sector CDO portfolio discussed herein. As of January 31, 2008, a significant majority of AIGFPs super senior exposures continued to have tranches below AIGFPs attachment point that have been explicitly rated AAA or, in AIGFPs judgment, would have been rated AAA had they been rated. AIGFPs portfolio of credit default swaps undergoes regular monitoring, modeling and analysis and contains protection through collateral subordination. AIGFP accounts for its credit default swaps in accordance with FAS 133 Accounting For Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities and Emerging Issues Task Force 02 3, Issues Involved in Accounting for Derivative Contracts Held for Trading Purposes and Contracts Involved in Energy Trading and Risk Management Activities (EITF 02 3). In accordance with EITF 02 3, AIGFP does not recognize income in earnings at the inception of each transaction because the inputs to value these instruments are not derivable from observable market data. The valuation of the super senior credit derivatives has become increasingly challenging given the limitation on the availability of market observable information due to the lack of trading and price transparency in the structured finance market, particularly in the fourth quarter of 2007. These market conditions have increased the reliance on management estimates and judgments in arriving at an estimate of fair value for financial reporting purposes. Further, disparities in the valuation methodologies employed by market participants and the varying judgments reached by such participants when assessing volatile markets has increased the likelihood that the various parties to these instruments may arrive at significantly different estimates as to their fair values. AIGFPs valuation methodologies for the super senior credit default swap portfolio have evolved in response to the deteriorating market conditions and the lack of sufficient market observable information. AIG has sought to calibrate the model to market information and to review the assumptions of the model on a regular basis. AIGFP employs a modified version of the BET model to value its super senior credit default swap portfolio, including the 2a 7 Puts. The BET model utilizes default probabilities derived from credit spreads implied from market prices for the individual securities included in the underlying collateral pools securing the CDOs. AIGFP obtained prices on these securities from the CDO collateral managers. The BET model also utilizes diversity scores, weighted average lives, recovery rates and discount rates. The determination of some of these inputs require the use of judgment and estimates, particularly in the absence of market observable data. AIGFP also employed a Monte Carlo simulation to assist in quantifying the effect on valuation of the CDO of the unique features of the CDOs structure such as triggers that divert cash flows to the most senior level of the capital structure. The credit default swaps written by AIGFP cover only the failure of payment on the super senior CDO security. AIGFP does not own the securities in the CDO collateral pool. The credit spreads implied from the market prices of the securities in the CDO collateral pool incorporate the risk of default (credit risk), the markets price for liquidity risk and in distressed markets, the risk aversion costs. Spreads on credit derivatives tend to be narrower because, unlike in the case of investing in a bond, there is no need to fund the position (except when an actual credit event occurs). In times of illiquidity, the difference between spreads on cash securities and derivative instruments (the negative basis) may be even wider for high quality assets. AIGFP was unable to reliably verify this negative basis due to the accelerating severe dislocation, illiquidity and lack of trading in the asset backed securities market during the fourth quarter of 2007 and early 2008. The valuations produced by the BET model therefore represent the valuations of the underlying super senior CDO cash securities with no recognition of the effect of the basis differential on that valuation. AIGFP also considered the valuation of the super senior CDO securities provided by third parties, including counterparties to these transactions, and made adjustments as necessary. As described above, AIGFP uses numerous assumptions in determining its best estimate of the fair value of the super senior credit default swap portfolio. The most significant assumption utilized in developing the estimate is the pricing of the securities within the CDO collateral pools. If the actual pricing of the securities within the collateral pools differs from the pricing used in estimating the fair value of the super senior credit default swap portfolio, there is potential for significant variation in the fair value estimate. A decrease by five points (for example, from 87 cents per dollar to 82 cents per dollar) in the aggregate price of the securities would cause an additional unrealized market valuation loss of approximately $3.7 billion, while an increase in the aggregate price of the securities by five points (for example, from 90 cents per dollar to 95 cents per dollar) would reduce the unrealized market valuation loss by approximately $3 billion. The effect on the unrealized market valuation loss is not proportional to the change in the aggregate price of the securities. In the case of credit default swaps written on investment grade corporate debt and CLOs, AIGFP estimated the value of its obligations by reference to the relevant market indices or third party quotes on the underlying super senior tranches where available. AIGFP monitors the underlying portfolios to determine whether the credit loss experience for any particular portfolio has caused AIG 2007 Form 10 K 123 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continued the likelihood of AIGFP having a payment obligation under the transaction to be greater than super senior risk. As of February 26, 2008, AIGFP had received collateral calls from counterparties in respect of certain super senior credit default swaps (including those entered into by counterparties for regulatory capital relief purposes and those in respect of corporate debt/CLOs). AIG is aware that valuation estimates made by certain of the counterparties with respect to certain super senior credit default swaps or the underlying reference CDO securities, for purposes of determining the amount of collateral required to be posted by AIGFP in connection with such instruments, differ significantly from AIGFPs estimates. AIGFP has been able to successfully resolve some of the differences, including in certain cases entering into compromise collateral arrangements, some of which are for specified periods of time. AIGFP is also in discussions with other counterparties to resolve such valuation differences. As of February 26, 2008, AIGFP had posted collateral (or had received collateral, where offsetting exposures on other transactions resulted in the counterparty posting to AIGFP) based on exposures, calculated in respect of super senior default swaps, in an aggregate amount of approximately $5.3 billion. Valuation estimates made by counterparties for collateral purposes were considered in the determination of the fair value estimates of AIGFPs super senior credit default swap portfolio. Both AIGs ERM department and AIGFP have conducted risk analyses of the super senior multi sector CDO credit default swap portfolio of AIGFP. There is currently no probable and reasonably estimable realized loss in this portfolio at December 31, 2007. AIGs analyses have been conducted to assess the risk of incurring net realized losses over the remaining life of the portfolio. In addition to analyses of each individual risk in the portfolio, AIG conducted certain ratings based stress tests, which centered around scenarios of further stress on the portfolio resulting from downgrades by the rating agencies from current levels on the underlying collateral in the CDO structures supported by AIGFPs credit default swaps. These rating actions would be prompted by factors such as the worsening beyond current estimates of delinquency and residential housing price deterioration in the underlying assets in the collateral securities of the CDO structures. The results of these stress tests indicated possible realized losses on a static basis, since the assumptions of losses in these stress tests assumed immediate realization of loss. Actual realized losses would only be experienced over time given the timing of losses incurred in the underlying portfolios and the timing of breaches of the subordination afforded to AIGFP through the structures of the CDO. No benefit was taken in these stress tests for cash flow diversion features, recoveries upon default or other risk mitigant benefits. Based on these analyses and stress tests, AIG believes that any losses realized over time by AIGFP as a result of meeting its obligations under these derivatives will not be material to AIGs consolidated financial condition, although it is possible that such realized losses could be material to AIGs consolidated results of operations for an individual reporting period. Capital Markets Trading VaR AIGFP attempts to minimize risk in benchmark interest rates, equities, commodities and foreign exchange. Market exposures in option implied volatilities, correlations and basis risks are also minimized over time but those are the main types of market risks that AIGFP manages. AIGFPs minimal reliance on market risk driven revenue is reflected in its VaR. AIGFPs VaR calculation is based on the interest rate, equity, commodity and foreign exchange risk arising from its portfolio. Credit related factors, such as credit spreads or credit default, are not included in AIGFPs VaR calculation. Because the market risk with respect to securities available for sale, at market, is substantially hedged, segregation of the financial instruments into trading and other than trading was not deemed necessary. AIGFP operates under established market risk limits based upon this VaR calculation. In addition, AIGFP backtests its VaR. In the calculation of VaR for AIGFP, AIG uses the historical simulation methodology based on estimated changes to the value of all transactions under explicit changes in market rates and prices within a specific historical time period. AIGFP attempts to secure reliable and independent current market prices, such as published exchange prices, external subscription services such as Bloomberg or Reuters, or third party or broker quotes. When such prices are not available, AIGFP uses an internal methodology which includes extrapolation from observable and verifiable prices nearest to the dates of the transactions. Historically, actual results have not deviated from these models in any material respect. AIGFP reports its VaR level using a 95 percent confidence interval and a one day holding period, facilitating risk comparison with AIGFPs trading peers and reflecting the fact that market risks can be actively assumed and offset in AIGFPs trading portfolio. 124 AIG 2007 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries The following table presents the year end, average, high, and low VaRs* on a diversified basis and of each component of market risk for Capital Markets operations for the years 2007 and 2006. The diversified VaR is usually smaller than the sum of its components due to correlation effects. For the Year Ended For the Year Ended December 31, 2007 December 31, 2006 (in millions) As of December 31 Average High Low As of December 31 Average High Low Total AIG trading market risk: Diversified $5 $5 $8 $4 $4 $4 $7 $3 Interest rate 3 2 3 2 2 2 3 1 Currency 1 1 2 1 1 1 3 1 Equity 3 3 5 2 3 3 4 2 Commodity 3 3 7 2 5 3 5 2 * The VaR calculation has been changed from a 3 year time series to a 5 year time series. The December 31, 2006 VaR reflects this change. Aircraft Leasing AIGs Aircraft Leasing operations represent the operations of ILFC, which generates its revenues primarily from leasing new and used commercial jet aircraft to foreign and domestic airlines and companies associated with the airline industry. Risks inherent in this business, and which are managed at the business unit level, include the following: the risk that there will be no market for the aircraft acquired; the risk that aircraft cannot be placed with lessees; the risk of nonperformance by lessees; and the risk that aircraft and related assets cannot be disposed of at the time and in a manner desired. The airline industry is sensitive to changes in economic conditions and is cyclical and highly competitive. Airlines and related companies may be affected by political or economic instability, terrorist activities, changes in national policy, competitive pressures on certain air carriers, fuel prices and shortages, labor stoppages, insurance costs, recessions, world health issues and other political or economic events adversely affecting world or regional trading markets. ILFCs revenues and operating income may be adversely affected by the volatile competitive environment in which its customers operate. ILFC is exposed to operating loss and liquidity strain through nonperformance of aircraft lessees, through owning aircraft which it is unable to sell or re lease at acceptable rates at lease expiration and, in part, through committing to purchase aircraft which it is unable to lease. ILFC manages the risk of nonperformance by its lessees with security deposit requirements, repossession rights, overhaul requirements and close monitoring of industry conditions through its marketing force. Approximately 90 percent of ILFCs fleet is leased to non U.S. carriers, and the fleet, comprised of the most efficient aircraft in the airline industry, continues to be in high demand from such carriers. Management formally reviews regularly, and no less frequently than quarterly, issues affecting ILFCs fleet, including events and circumstances that may cause impairment of aircraft values. Management evaluates aircraft in the fleet as necessary based on these events and circumstances in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets (FAS 144). ILFC has not recognized any impairment related to its fleet in 2007, 2006 or 2005. ILFC has been able to re lease the aircraft without diminution in lease rates that would result in an impairment under FAS 144. Consumer Finance AIGs Consumer Finance operations provide a wide variety of consumer finance products, including real estate and other consumer loans, credit card loans, retail sales finance and credit related insurance to customers both domestically and overseas, particularly in emerging markets. Consumer Finance operations include AGF as well as AIGCFG. AGF provides a wide variety of consumer finance products, including real estate loans, non real estate loans, retail sales finance and credit related insurance to customers in the United States, the U.K., Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. AIGCFG, through its subsidiaries, is engaged in developing a multi product consumer finance business with an emphasis on emerging markets. Many of AGFs borrowers are non prime or subprime. The real estate loans are comprised principally of first lien mortgages on residential real estate generally having a maximum term of 360 months, and are considered non conforming. The real estate loans may be closed end accounts or open end home equity lines of credit and are principally fixed rate products. AGF does not offer mortgage products with borrower payment options that allow for negative amortization of the principal balance. The secured non real estate loans are secured by consumer goods, automobiles or other personal property. Both secured and unsecured non real estate loans and retail sales finance receivables generally have a maximum term of 60 months. Current economic conditions, such as interest rate and employment levels, can have a direct effect on the borrowers ability to repay these loans. AGF manages the credit risk inherent in its portfolio by using credit scoring models at the time of credit applications, established underwriting criteria, and, in certain cases, individual loan reviews. AGF monitors the quality of the finance receivables portfolio and determines the appropriate level of the allowance for losses through its Credit Strategy and Policy Committee. This Committee bases its conclusions on quantitative analyses, qualitative factors, current economic conditions and trends, and each Committee members experience in the consumer finance industry. AIG 2007 Form 10 K 125 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continued Through 2007, the overall credit quality of AGFs finance receivables portfolio deteriorated modestly primarily due to negative economic fundamentals, a higher proportion of non real estate loans and retail sales finance loans and the aging of the real estate loan portfolio. As of December 31, 2007, the 60 day delinquency rate for the entire portfolio increased by 78 basis points to 2.84 percent compared to 2006, while the 60 day delinquency rate for the real estate loans increased by 88 basis points to 2.64 percent. In 2007, AGFs net charge off rate increased to 1.16 percent compared to 0.95 percent in 2006, which reflected $6 million of non recurring recoveries. Further weakening in the U.S. housing market or the overall U.S. economy may adversely affect the credit quality of AGFs finance receivables. AIGCFG monitors the quality of its finance receivable portfolio and determines the appropriate level of the allowance for losses through several internal committees. These committees base their conclusions on quantitative analysis, qualitative factors, current economic conditions and trends, political and regulatory implications, competition and the judgment of the committees members. AIGs Consumer Finance operations are exposed to credit risk and risk of loss resulting from adverse fluctuations in interest rates and payment defaults. Credit loss exposure is managed through a combination of underwriting controls, mix of finance receivables, collateral and collection efficiency. Large product programs are subject to CRC approval. Over half of the finance receivables are real estate loans which are collateralized by the related properties. With respect to credit losses, the allowance for losses is maintained at a level considered adequate to absorb anticipated credit losses existing in that portfolio as of the balance sheet date. Asset Management AIGs Asset Management operations are exposed to various forms of credit, market and operational risks. Asset Management complies with AIGs corporate risk management guidelines and framework and is subject to periodic reviews by the CRC. In addition, transactions are referred to the Asset Management investment committees for approval of investment decisions. The majority of the credit and market risk exposures within Asset Management results from the Spread Based Investment business and the investment activities of AIG Global Real Estate. In the Spread Based Investment businesses, GIC and MIP, the primary risk is investment risk, which represents the exposure to loss resulting from the cash flows from the invested assets being less than the cash flows required to meet the obligations of the liabilities and the necessary return on investments. Credit risk is also a significant component of the investment strategy for these businesses. Market risk is taken in the form of duration and convexity risk. While AIG generally maintains a matched asset liability relationship, it may occasionally determine that it is economically advantageous to be in an unmatched duration position. The risks in the spread based businesses are managed through exposure limitations, active management of the investment portfolios and close oversight of the asset liability relationship. AIG Global Real Estate is exposed to the general conditions in global real estate markets and the credit markets. Such exposure can subject Asset Management to delays in real estate property development and sales, additional carrying costs and in turn affect operating results within the segment. These risks are mitigated through the underwriting process, transaction and contract terms and conditions and portfolio diversification by type of project, sponsor, real estate market and country. AIGs exposure to real estate investments is monitored on an ongoing basis by the Asset Management Real Estate Investment Committee. Asset Management is also exposed to market risk with respect to the warehoused investing activities of AIG Investments. During the warehousing period, AIG bears the cost and risks associated with carrying these investments and consolidates them on its balance sheet and records the operating results until the investments are transferred, sold or otherwise divested. Changes in market conditions may negatively affect the fair value of these warehoused investments. Market conditions may impede AIG from launching new investment products for which these warehoused assets are being held, which could result in AIG not recovering its investment upon transfer or divestment. In the event that AIG is unable to transfer or otherwise divest its interest in the warehoused investment to third parties, AIG could be required to hold these investments indefinitely. Economic Capital Since mid 2005, AIG has been developing a firm wide economic capital model to improve decision making and to enhance shareholder value. Economic Capital is the amount of capital the organization, its segments, profit centers, products or transactions require to cover potential, unexpected losses within a confidence level consistent with the risk appetite and risk tolerances specified by management. The Economic Capital requirement can then be compared with the Economic Capital resources available to AIG. The Economic Capital requirement is driven by exposures to risks and interrelationships among various types of risks. As a global leader in insurance and financial services, AIG is exposed to various risks including underwriting, financial and operational risks. The Economic Capital initiative has modeled these risks into five major categories: property & casualty insurance risk, life insurance risk, market risk, credit risk and operational risk. Within each risk category, there are sub risks that have been modeled in greater detail. The Economic Capital initiative also analyzes the interrelationships among various types of risk, aggregate exposure accumulation and concentration, and includes diversification benefits within and across risk categories and business segments. A primary objective of the Economic Capital initiative is to develop a comprehensive framework to discuss capital and performance on a risk adjusted basis internally with AIG management and externally with the investment community, credit providers, regulators and rating agencies. Economic Capital analysis provides a framework to validate AIGs capital adequacy, to measure more precisely capital efficiency at various levels throughout the organization, to allocate capital consistently among 126 AIG 2007 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries AIGs businesses, to quantify the specific areas of diversification benefits and to assess relative economic value added by a business, product or transaction to AIG as a whole. The Economic Capital initiative will also provide necessary and relevant analyses and inputs in developing a more efficient capital structure. Other key areas of Economic Capital applications include strategic decision making for mergers, acquisitions and divestitures, risk accumulation and concentration, risk retention, reinsurance and hedging strategies and product development and pricing. During 2006, AIG developed a methodology framework that incorporates financial services industry best practices, maintains consistency with regulatory frameworks and reflects AIGs distinct global business and management strategies. By utilizing stochastic simulation techniques, where appropriate, AIG enhanced existing models or developed new ones through a collaborative effort among business executives, actuaries, finance specialists and risk professionals. The initial assessments provided useful insight into the overall capital strength of AIG and its segments. Throughout 2007, AIGs focus has been on a wide range of business applications of the model together with the continued enhancement of the granularity of the model. Key methodology enhancements introduced during 2007 include capital fungibility and diversification among legal entities, business units and geographic regions, consistent economic scenarios in developed and developing markets, and extensive catastrophic scenario analysis and stress testing. Furthermore, AIG enhanced its comprehensive set of risk governance structures to support the models inputs, assumptions and methodologies. Finally, AIG has engaged a panel of independent experts to provide further assurance to AIGs senior management, business segment executives and external constituents as to the validity of the model and its results for business segments and for AIG in the aggregate. Besides model enhancements and firm wide capital strength analysis, during 2007 AIG also incorporated its Economic Capital model and analysis into a number of specific business issues and in developing new business strategies. For example, economic capital analysis is being incorporated into the assessment phase for mergers, acquisitions and divestures, and in the development of capital markets solutions. In the reinsurance area, economic capital considerations are fundamental to the development of optimal risk retention and reinsurance strategies and management of credit exposures to reinsurance counterparties. In the Life Insurance & Retirement Services segment, the Economic Capital model has been used for product development, pricing and hedging strategies for living benefits in the variable annuity business. For life insurance products in Asian markets, enhanced asset liability management strategies have been formulated for long duration liability structures and low interest rate environments in certain markets using the technology developed for AIGs Economic Capital model. In 2008, AIG plans to extend the models application by building on the work performed in 2007 for a wider range of businesses, segments, geographies and product lines. Commencing in 2008, the economic value added for each of AIGs business segments will be considered as an element, alongside other existing measures, in the evaluation of senior management performance. The capital planning and allocation process will continue to be enhanced by incorporating the regulatory, rating agency and economic capital requirements for business segments as well as the assessment of the mobility of excess economic capital. Recent Accounting Standards Accounting Changes In September 2005, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) issued Statement of Position 05 1, Accounting by Insurance Enterprises for Deferred Acquisition Costs in Connection with Modifications or Exchanges of Insurance Contracts. In February 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued FAS 155, Accounting for Certain Hybrid Financial Instruments an amendment of FAS 140 and FAS 133. In July 2006, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109. In July 2006, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position (FSP) No. 13 2, Accounting for a Change or Projected Change in the Timing of Cash Flows Relating to Income Taxes Generated by a Leveraged Lease Transaction. In September 2006, the FASB issued FAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements. In September 2006, the FASB issued FAS 158, Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106 and 132R. In February 2007, the FASB issued FAS No. 159, The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities. In June 2007, the AICPA issued Statement of Position No. 07 1, Clarification of the Scope of the Audit and Accounting Guide Audits of Investment Companies and Accounting by Parent Companies and Equity Method Investors for Investments in Investment Companies. (Indefinitely deferred by the FASB) In December 2007, the FASB issued FAS No. 141 (revised 2007), Business Combinations. In December 2007, the FASB issued FAS No. 160, Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements, an amendment of ARB No. 51. For further discussion of these recent accounting standards and their application to AIG, see Note 1(hh) to Consolidated Financial Statements. AIG 2007 Form 10 K 127 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Included in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 
 
