Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Throughout this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, AIG presents its operations in the way it believes will be most meaningful. Statutory underwriting profit (loss) is presented in accordance with accounting principles prescribed by insurance regulatory authorities because these are standard measures of performance used in the insurance industry and thus allow more meaningful comparisons with AIGs insurance competitors. AIG has also incorporated into this discussion a number of cross references to additional information included throughout this Annual Report on Form 10 K to assist readers seeking additional information related to a particular subject. Index Page Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward Looking Information 39 Overview 39 Liquidity Events in the Second Half of 2008 40 Debt 53 Results of Operations 63 Consolidated Results 63 Segment Results 71 General Insurance Operations 71 Liability for unpaid claims and claims adjustment expense 79 Life Insurance Retirement Services Operations 99 Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs and Sales Inducement Assets 113 Financial Services Operations 115 Asset Management Operations 119 Critical Accounting Estimates 123 Capital Resources and Liquidity 152 Shareholders Equity 152 Investments 154 Investment Strategy 155 Portfolio Review 167 Other than temporary impairments 167 Unrealized gains and losses 171 Risk Management 172 Overview 172 Corporate Risk Management 173 Credit Risk Management 174 Market Risk Management 176 Operational Risk Management 178 Insurance Risk Management 179 Segment Risk Management 181 Insurance Operations 181 Financial Services 185 Asset Management 188 Recent Accounting Standards 189 38 AIG 2008 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward Looking Information This Annual Report on Form 10 K and other publicly available documents may include, and AIGs officers and representatives may from time to time make, projections and statements which may constitute forward looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These projections and statements are not historical facts but instead represent only AIGs belief regarding future events, many of which, by their nature, are inherently uncertain and outside AIGs control. These projections and statements may address, among other things, the outcome of proposed transactions with the NY Fed and the United States Department of the Treasury, the number, size, terms, cost and timing of dispositions and their potential effect on AIGs businesses, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity (and AIG at any time and from time to time may change its plans with respect to the sale of one or more businesses), AIGs exposures to subprime mortgages, monoline insurers and the residential and commercial real estate markets and AIGs strategy for growth, product development, market position, financial results and reserves. It is possible that AIGs actual results and financial condition will differ, possibly materially, from the anticipated results and financial condition indicated in these projections and statements. Factors that could cause AIGs actual results to differ, possibly materially, from those in the specific projections and statements include a failure to complete the proposed transactions with the NY Fed and the United States Department of the Treasury, developments in global credit markets and such other factors as discussed throughout this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and in Item 1A. Risk Factors of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. AIG is not under any obligation (and expressly disclaims any obligation) to update or alter any projection or other statement, whether written or oral, that may be made from time to time, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Overview Operations AIG identifies its operating segments by product line, consistent with its management structure. These segments are General Insurance, Life Insurance Retirement Services, Financial Services and Asset Management. Through these operating segments, AIG provides insurance, financial and investment products and services to both businesses and individuals in more than 130 countries and jurisdictions. AIGs subsidiaries serve commercial, institutional and individual customers through an extensive property casualty and life insurance and retirement services network. AIGs Financial Services businesses include commercial aircraft and equipment leasing, capital markets operations and consumer finance, both in the United States and abroad. AIG also provides asset management services to institutions and individuals. General Business Environment The 2008 business environment was one of the most difficult in recent decades. In the U.S., real GDP shrank at annual rates of more than 4 percent in the second half of the year and almost 4 percent in the fourth quarter alone. At the beginning of 2008, the unemployment rate was 4.9 percent and by year end was 7.2 percent. The strong declines in the overall U.S. economy during the second half of 2008 occurred despite repeated reductions of interest rates by the Federal Reserve, the creation of numerous credit facilities for the banking system and the passage of a stimulus package. Consideration of AIGs Ability to Continue as a Going Concern In connection with the preparation of this Annual Report on Form 10 K, management has assessed whether AIG has the ability to continue as a going concern (See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). In making this assessment, AIG has considered: The commitment of the NY Fed and the United States Department of the Treasury to the orderly restructuring of AIG and their commitment to continuing to work with AIG to maintain its ability to meet its obligations as they come due; The liquidity events in the second half of 2008, including transactions with the NY Fed and the United States Department of the Treasury; AIG 2008 Form 10 K 39 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries AIGs liquidity related actions and plans to stabilize its businesses and repay the Fed Facility; The level of AIGs realized and unrealized losses and the negative impact of these losses in shareholders equity and on the capital levels of AIGs insurance subsidiaries; The substantial resolution of the liquidity issues surrounding AIGFPs multi sector super senior credit default swap portfolio and the U.S. securities lending program; The additional capital provided to AIG by the United States Department of the Treasury; Anticipated transactions with the NY Fed and the United States Department of the Treasury; The continuing liquidity issues in AIGs businesses and AIGs actions to address such issues; and The substantial risks to which AIG is subject. Each of these items is discussed in more detail below. In considering these items, management has made significant judgments and estimates with respect to the potentially adverse financial and liquidity effects of AIGs risks and uncertainties. Management has also assessed other items and risks arising in AIGs businesses and made reasonable judgments and estimates with respect thereto. After consideration, management believes that it will have adequate liquidity to finance and operate AIGs businesses and continue as a going concern for at least the next twelve months. It is possible that the actual outcome of one or more of managements plans could be materially different or that one or more of managements significant judgments or estimates about the potential effects of the risks and uncertainties could prove to be materially incorrect or that the principal transactions disclosed in Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements (and as discussed below) are not consummated. If one or more of these possible outcomes is realized, AIG may need additional U.S. government support to meet its obligations as they come due. Liquidity Liquidity Events in the Second Half of 2008 In the second half of 2008, AIG experienced an unprecedented strain on liquidity. This strain led to a series of transactions with the NY Fed and the United States Department of the Treasury. The two principal causes of the liquidity strain were demands for the return of cash collateral under the U.S. securities lending program and collateral calls on AIGFPs super senior multi sector CDO credit default swap portfolio. Under AIGs securities lending program, cash collateral was received from borrowers in exchange for loans of securities owned by AIGs insurance company subsidiaries. The cash was invested by AIG in fixed income securities, primarily residential mortgage backed securities (RMBS), to earn a spread. During September 2008, borrowers began in increasing numbers to request a return of their cash collateral. Because of the illiquidity in the market for RMBS, AIG was unable to sell RMBS at acceptable prices and was forced to find alternative sources of cash to meet these requests. As of the end of August, AIGs U.S. securities lending program had approximately $69 billion of borrowings outstanding. See Investments Securities Lending Activities for additional information about the securities lending program. Additionally, throughout the second half of 2008, declines in the fair values of the super senior multi sector CDO securities protected by AIGFPs credit default swap portfolio, together with ratings downgrades of the CDO securities, resulted in AIGFP being required to post significant additional collateral. As of the end of August 2008, AIG had posted approximately $19.7 billion of collateral under its super senior credit default swap portfolio. See Critical Accounting Estimates Fair Value Measurements of Certain Financial Assets and Liabilities for additional information about AIGFPs super senior multi sector CDO credit default swap portfolio. Both of these liquidity strains were significantly exacerbated by the downgrades of AIGs long term debt ratings by SP, Moodys and Fitch on September 15, 2008. 40 AIG 2008 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries Arrangements with the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and the United States Department of the Treasury Fed Credit Agreement Because of these immediate liquidity requirements, AIGs Board of Directors determined that the only viable alternative was to accept an arrangement offered by the NY Fed, and on September 16, 2008, approved borrowing from the NY Fed based on a term sheet that set forth the terms of the secured credit agreement and related equity participation. Over the next six days, AIG elected Edward M. Liddy Director, Chairman and CEO, replacing Robert Willumstad in those positions, negotiated a definitive credit agreement with the NY Fed and borrowed, on a secured basis, approximately $37 billion from the NY Fed, enabling AIG to meet its liquidity requirements before formally entering into a credit agreement with the NY Fed. On September 22, 2008, AIG entered into the Fed Credit Agreement in the form of a two year secured loan and the Pledge Agreement with the NY Fed. On November 9, 2008, AIG and the NY Fed agreed to amend the Fed Credit Agreement to reduce the total commitment under the Fed Facility to $60 billion following the issuance of the Series D Preferred Stock (described below), extend the term of the Fed Facility to 5 years and reduce the related interest and fees payable under the Fed Facility. See Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the terms of and borrowings under the Fed Credit Agreement. Series D Preferred Stock Issuance On November 25, 2008, AIG entered into a Securities Purchase Agreement (the Series D Preferred Stock Purchase Agreement) with the United States Department of the Treasury pursuant to which, among other things, AIG issued and sold to the United States Department of the Treasury, as part of the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP) and the Systemically Significant Failing Institutions Program, $40 billion of Series D Preferred Stock, and a warrant to purchase 53,798,766 shares of common stock (the Warrant). The proceeds from the sale of the Series D Preferred Stock and the Warrant were used to repay borrowings under the Fed Facility. See Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on the Series D Preferred Stock and the Warrant. Termination of $62 billion of CDS On November 25, 2008, AIG entered into a Master Investment and Credit Agreement (the ML III Agreement) with the NY Fed, Maiden Lane III LLC (ML III), and The Bank of New York Mellon, which established arrangements, through ML III, to fund the purchase of the multi sector CDOs underlying or related to certain credit default swaps and other similar derivative instruments (CDS) written by AIG Financial Products Corp. in connection with the termination of such CDS transactions. Concurrently, AIG Financial Products Corp.s counterparties to such CDS transactions agreed to terminate those CDS transactions relating to the multi sector CDOs purchased from them by ML III. Through December 31, 2008, ML III had purchased from counterparties a total of $62.1 billion in par amount of CDO securities, and the associated credit default swaps had been terminated. Approximately $12.2 billion notional amount of AIG Financial Products Corp.s CDS transactions referencing super senior multi sector CDOs remained outstanding as of February 18, 2009. See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on the transactions with ML III. Resolution of U.S. Securities Lending Program On December 12, 2008, AIG, certain of AIGs wholly owned U.S. life insurance subsidiaries, and AIG Securities Lending Corp. (the AIG Agent), another AIG subsidiary, entered into an Asset Purchase Agreement (the ML II Agreement) with Maiden Lane II LLC (ML II), a Delaware limited liability company whose sole member is the NY Fed. Pursuant to the ML II Agreement, the life insurance subsidiaries sold to ML II all of their undivided interests in a pool of $39.3 billion face amount of RMBS held by the AIG Agent as agent of the life insurance subsidiaries in connection with AIGs U.S. securities lending program. In exchange for the RMBS, the life insurance subsidiaries received an initial purchase price of approximately $19.8 billion plus the right to receive deferred contingent portions of the total purchase price of $1 billion plus participation in the residual, each of which is subordinated to the repayment of the NY Fed loan to ML II. These life insurance subsidiaries applied the net cash proceeds of sale of AIG 2008 Form 10 K 41 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries the RMBS toward the amounts due by such life insurance subsidiaries in terminating both the U.S. securities lending program and the interim agreement entered into with the NY Fed whereby the NY Fed borrowed securities from AIG subsidiaries in exchange for cash collateral. See Investments Securities Lending Activities and Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on the transaction with ML II. AIG Affiliates Participate in the NY Feds Commercial Paper Funding Facility On October 27, 2008, four affiliates of AIG (including ILFC) applied for participation in the CPFF. Currently, AIG Funding, Inc., an AIG subsidiary, and two of AIGFPs sponsored vehicles, Curzon Funding LLC and Nightingale Finance LLC may issue up to approximately $6.9 billion, $7.2 billion and $1.1 billion, respectively, of commercial paper under the CPFF. AIG Funding uses the proceeds to refinance AIGs outstanding commercial paper as it matures, meet other working capital needs and make prepayments under the Fed Facility while the two other programs use the proceeds to refinance maturing commercial paper. On January 21, 2009, SP downgraded ILFCs short term credit rating and, as a result, ILFC can no longer participate in the CPFF. Series C Preferred Stock Issuance On March 1, 2009, AIG entered into the Series C Preferred Stock Purchase Agreement with the Trust, pursuant to which AIG agreed to issue and sell 100,000 shares of Series C Preferred Stock to the Trust. AIG expects to issue the Series C Preferred Stock to the Trust in early March, 2009. The aggregate purchase price for the Series C Preferred Stock was $500,000, with an understanding that additional and independently sufficient consideration was also furnished in September 2008 by the NY Fed in the form of its $85 billion lending commitment under the Fed Credit Agreement. The Series C Preferred Stock Purchase Agreement, among other things: provides the Trust with rights to require registration of the Series C Preferred Stock under the Securities Act of 1933 and for AIG to facilitate other dispositions; prohibits AIG from issuing capital stock without the approval of the Trust so long as the Trust owns 50 percent of the Series C Preferred Stock, subject to certain exceptions relating to existing obligations and employee benefit plans; requires AIG and its Board of Directors to work in good faith with the Trust to ensure satisfactory corporate governance arrangements; requires the following proposals to be presented to AIGs shareholders at AIGs 2009 Annual Meeting of Shareholders: to amend AIGs Restated Certificate of Incorporation to permit AIGs Board of Directors to issue classes of preferred stock that are not of equal rank and cause the Series D Preferred Stock and any other series of preferred stock subsequently issued to the United States Department of the Treasury to rank senior to the Series C Preferred Stock and any other subsequently issued series of preferred stock that is not issued to the United States Department of the Treasury; and to eliminate any restriction on the pledging of all or substantially all of AIGs properties or assets; and requires the following proposals to be presented to AIGs shareholders at a special shareholders meeting or at a future annual shareholders meeting following notice from the Trust: to amend AIGs Restated Certificate of Incorporation to decrease the par value of AIGs common stock, increase the authorized number of shares of common stock and, if these amendments are not approved; to amend the terms of AIGs Restated Certificate of Incorporation to decrease the par value of AIGs serial preferred stock and increase the number of authorized shares of AIGs serial preferred stock, and amend the terms of the Series C Preferred Stock to increase the number of shares of Series C Preferred Stock so that each share of Series C Preferred Stock would be convertible into common stock on approximately a one to one basis. 42 AIG 2008 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries The Series C Preferred Stock is not redeemable by AIG and, upon the effectiveness of the required amendments to AIGs Restated Certificate of Incorporation, will be convertible into common stock. From issuance, the Series C Preferred Stock will, to the extent permitted by law, vote with the common stock as a single class and represent approximately 77.9 percent of the voting power of the common stock, treating the Series C Preferred Stock as converted. The Series C Preferred Stock will also participate in any dividends paid on the common stock, with approximately 77.9 percent of all dividends paid allocated to the Series C Preferred Stock, treating the Series C Preferred Stock as converted. Upon the liquidation, dissolution or winding up of AIG, the Series C Preferred Stock is entitled to a liquidation preference per share equal to the greater of (i) $5.00 and (ii) the amount that would be payable with respect to the shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of such share of Series C Preferred Stock. For additional information about the Series C Preferred Stock, see Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. March 2009 Agreements in Principle On March 2, 2009, AIG, the NY Fed and the United States Department of the Treasury announced agreements in principle to modify the terms of the Fed Credit Agreement and the Series D Preferred Stock and to provide a $30 billion equity capital commitment facility. The United States Government has issued the following statement referring to the agreements in principle and other transactions they expect to undertake with AIG intended to strengthen AIGs capital position, enhance its liquidity, reduce its borrowing costs and facilitate AIGs asset disposition program. The steps announced today provide tangible evidence of the U.S. governments commitment to the orderly restructuring of AIG over time in the face of continuing market dislocations and economic deterioration. Orderly restructuring is essential to AIGs repayment of the support it has received from U.S. taxpayers and to preserving financial stability. The U.S. government is committed to continuing to work with AIG to maintain its ability to meet its obligations as they come due. See Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Modification to Series D Preferred Stock On March 2, 2009, AIG and the United States Department of the Treasury announced their agreement in principle to enter into a transaction pursuant to which the United States Department of the Treasury would modify the terms of the Series D Preferred Stock. The modification will be effected by an exchange of 100 percent of the outstanding shares of Series D Preferred Stock for newly issued perpetual serial preferred stock (Series E Preferred Stock), with a liquidation preference equal to the issuance date liquidation preference of the Series D Preferred Stock surrendered plus accumulated but unpaid dividends thereon. The terms of the Series E Preferred Stock will be the same as for the Series D Preferred Stock except that the dividends will not be cumulative. The Series D Preferred Stock bore cumulative dividends. The dividend rate on both the cumulative Series D Preferred Stock and the non cumulative Series E Preferred Stock is 10 percent per annum. Concurrent with the exchange of the shares of Series D Preferred Stock for the Series E Preferred Stock, AIG will enter into a replacement capital covenant in favor of the holders of a series of AIG debt, pursuant to which AIG will agree that prior to the third anniversary of the issuance of the Series E Preferred Stock AIG will not repay, redeem or purchase, and no subsidiary of AIG will purchase, all or any part of the Series E Preferred Stock except with the proceeds obtained from the issuance by AIG or any subsidiary of AIG of certain capital securities. AIG will make a statement of intent substantially similar to the replacement capital covenant with respect to subsequent years. The Series D Preferred Stock was not subject to a replacement capital covenant. Equity Capital Commitment Facility On March 2, 2009, AIG and the United States Department of the Treasury announced its agreement in principle to provide AIG with a 5 year equity capital commitment facility of $30 billion. AIG may use the facility to sell to the United States Department of the Treasury fixed rate, non cumulative perpetual serial preferred stock AIG 2008 Form 10 K 43 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries (Series F Preferred Stock). The facility will be available to AIG so long as AIG is not the debtor in a pending case under Title 11, United States Code, and the Trust (or any successor entity established for the benefit of the United States Treasury) beneficially owns more than 50 percent of the aggregate voting power of AIGs voting securities at the time of such drawdown. The terms of the Series F Preferred Stock will be substantially similar to the Series E Preferred Stock, except that the Series F Preferred Stock will not be subject to a replacement capital covenant or the statement of intent. In connection with the equity capital commitment facility, the United States Department of the Treasury will also receive warrants exercisable for a number of shares of common stock of AIG equal to 1 percent of AIGs then outstanding common stock and, upon issuance of the warrants, the dividends payable on, and the voting power of, the Series C Preferred Stock will be reduced by the number of shares subject to the warrant. Repayment of Fed Facility with Subsidiary Preferred Equity On March 2, 2009, AIG and the NY Fed announced their intent to enter into a transaction pursuant to which AIG will transfer to the NY Fed preferred equity interests in newly formed special purpose vehicles (SPVs). Each SPV will have (directly or indirectly) as its only asset 100 percent of the common stock of an AIG operating subsidiary (AIA in one case and ALICO in the other). AIG expects to own the common interests of each SPV and will initially have the right to appoint the entire board of directors of each SPV. In exchange for the preferred equity interests received by the NY Fed, there would be a concurrent substantial reduction in the outstanding balance and maximum available amount to be borrowed on the Fed Facility. Securitizations On March 2, 2009, AIG and the NY Fed announced their intent to enter into a transaction pursuant to which AIG will issue to the NY Fed senior certificates in one or more newly formed SPVs backed by inforce blocks of life insurance policies in settlement of a portion of the outstanding balance of the Fed Facility. The amount of the Fed Facility reduction will be based on the proceeds received. The SPVs are expected to be consolidated by AIG. Modification to Fed Facility On March 2, 2009, AIG and the NY Fed announced their agreement in principle to amend the Fed Credit Agreement to remove the interest rate floor. Under the current terms, interest accrues on the outstanding borrowings under the Fed Facility at three month LIBOR (no less than 3.5 percent) plus 3.0 percent per annum. The 3.5 percent LIBOR floor will be eliminated following the amendment. In addition, the Fed Facility will be amended to ensure that the total commitment will be at least $25 billion, even after giving effect to the repayment of the Fed Facility with subsidiary preferred equity and securitization transactions described above. These proceeds are expected to substantially reduce the outstanding borrowings under the Fed Facility from the amount outstanding as of December 31, 2008. Liquidity Position At December 31, 2008, AIG had outstanding borrowings under the Fed Facility of $36.8 billion, with a remaining borrowing capacity of $23.2 billion, and accrued compounding interest and fees totaled $3.6 billion. 44 AIG 2008 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries Borrowings outstanding and remaining available amount that can be borrowed under the Fed Facility were as follows: Inception through Inception through December 31, February 18, 2008 2009(c) (In millions) Borrowings: Loans to AIGFP for collateral postings, GIA and other debt maturities $ 46,997 $ 47,547 Capital contributions to insurance companies(a) 20,850 20,850 Repayment of obligations to securities lending program 3,160 3,160 Repayment of intercompany loans 1,528 1,528 Contributions to AIGCFG subsidiaries 1,672 1,686 Debt repayments 2,109 2,319 Funding of equity interest in ML III 5,000 5,000 Repayment from the proceeds of the issuance of Series D Preferred Stock and common stock warrant (40,000 ) (40,000 ) Other(a)(b) (4,516 ) (6,890 ) Net borrowings 36,800 35,200 Total Fed Facility 60,000 60,000 Remaining available amount $ 23,200 $ 24,800 Net borrowings $ 36,800 $ 35,200 Accrued compounding interest and fees 3,631 3,631 Total balance outstanding $ 40,431 $ 38,831 (a) Includes securities lending activities. (b) Includes repayments from funds received from the Fed Securities Lending Agreement and the CPFF. (c) At February 25, 2009, $36 billion was outstanding under the Fed Facility. AIGs Strategy for Stabilization and Repayment of AIGs Obligations as They Come Due Future Cash Requirements The following table shows the maturing debt of AIG and its subsidiaries for each quarter of 2009: First Second Third Fourth Quarter Quarter Quarter Quarter 2009 2009 2009 2009 Total (In millions) AIG $ 418 $ $ $ 1,000 $ 1,418 AIG MIP 1,156 1,156 AIGFP 1,421 765 2,132 1,125 5,443 ILFC 917 1,097 1,151 2,986 6,151 AGF 835 931 3,209 1,661 6,636 Other subsidiaries 312 227 114 124 777 Total $ 3,903 $ 4,176 $ 6,606 $ 6,896 $ 21,581 In addition, at February 18, 2009, AIG affiliates had issued $14 billion in commercial paper to the CPFF with the majority of maturities in April of 2009. If AIGs short term ratings are downgraded, AIG Funding may lose access to the CPFF and would be required to find other sources to fund the maturing commercial paper. AIG 2008 Form 10 K 45 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries AIG expects to meet these obligations primarily through borrowings from the Fed Facility and the cash flows, including from dispositions, of assets supporting these obligations. Approximately $3.1 billion of AIGFPs debt maturities through December 31, 2009 are fully collateralized with assets backing the corresponding liabilities. It is expected that AGF and ILFC will require support from AIG, in addition to their cash flows from operations and proceeds from asset sales and securitizations, to meet their 2009 obligations. See Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the terms of the Fed Credit Agreement and the related Pledge Agreement. In 2009, AIG made capital contributions of $1.25 billion to certain of its Domestic Life Insurance Retirement Services companies. If a substantial portion of the Domestic Life Insurance Retirement Services bond portfolio diminishes significantly in value or suffers credit events, AIG may need to provide additional capital support for these operations. AIG has developed certain plans (described below), some of which have already been implemented, to provide stability to its businesses and to provide for the timely repayment of the Fed Facility; other plans are still being formulated. Asset Disposition Plan On October 3, 2008, AIG announced a restructuring plan under which AIGs Life Insurance Retirement Services operations and certain other businesses would be divested in whole or in part. Since that time, AIG has sold certain businesses and assets and has entered into contracts to sell others. However, global market conditions have continued to deteriorate, posing risks to AIGs ability to divest assets at acceptable values. As announced on March 2, 2009 and as described in Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, AIGs restructuring plan has evolved in response to these market conditions. Specifically, AIGs current plans involve transactions between AIG and the NY Fed with respect to AIA and ALICO, as well as plans to retain the majority of AIGs U.S. property and casualty and foreign general insurance businesses. AIG believes that these current plans are necessary to maximize the value of its businesses over a longer time frame. Therefore, some businesses that have previously been prepared for sale will be divested, some will be held for later divestiture, and some businesses will be prepared for potential subsequent offerings to the public. Dispositions of certain businesses will be subject to regulatory approval. Proceeds from these dispositions, to the extent they do not represent required capital of AIGs insurance company subsidiaries, are contractually required to be applied toward the repayment of the Fed Facility as mandatory repayments. In connection with AIGs asset disposition plan, through February 18, 2009, AIG had sold, or entered into contracts to sell the following operations: On November 26, 2008, AIG sold its 50 percent stake in the Brazilian joint venture Unibanco AIG Seguros S.A. to AIGs JV partner Unibanco Unio de Bancos Brasileiros S.A. On December 1, 2008, AIG entered into a contract to sell AIG Private Bank Ltd. to Aabar Investments PJSC. On December 18, 2008, AIG sold the assets of its Taiwan Finance business to Taiwan Acceptance Corporation. On December 19, 2008, AIG entered into a contract to sell Deutsche Versicherungs und Rckversicherungs Aktiengesellschaft (Darag), a German general insurance subsidiary of AIG affiliate Wrttembergische und Badische Versicherungs AG(WBa) in Germany, to Augur. On December 22, 2008, AIG entered into a contract to sell HSB Group, Inc., the parent company of HSB, to Munich Re Group. On January 13, 2009, AIG entered into a contract to sell AIG Life Insurance Company of Canada to BMO Financial Group. AIG 2008 Form 10 K 46 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries On January 23, 2009, AIG entered into a contract to sell AIG PhilAm Savings Bank, PhilAm Auto Financing and Leasing, and PFL Holdings to EastWest Banking Corporation. On February 5, 2009, AIG entered into a contract to sell AIG Retail Bank Public Company Limited and AIG Card (Thailand) to Bank of Ayudhya. Subject to satisfaction of certain closing conditions, including regulatory approvals, AIG expects those sales that are under contract to close during the first half of 2009. These operations had total assets and liabilities with carrying values of approximately $14.1 billion and $12.6 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2008. Aggregate proceeds from the sale of these businesses, including repayment of intercompany loan facilities, are expected to be $2.8 billion. These eight transactions are expected to generate $2.1 billion of net cash proceeds to repay outstanding borrowings on the Fed Facility, after taking insurance affiliate capital requirements into account. AIG expects to divest its Institutional Asset Management businesses that manage third party assets. These businesses offered for sale exclude those providing traditional fixed income and shorter duration asset and liability management for AIGs insurance company subsidiaries. The extraction of these asset management businesses will require the establishment of shared service arrangements between the remaining asset management businesses and those that are sold as well as the establishment of new asset management contracts, which will be determined in conjunction with the buyers of these businesses. AIGFP is engaged in a multi step process of unwinding its businesses and portfolios. In connection with that process, certain assets have been sold, or are under contract to be sold. The proceeds from these sales will be used for AIGFPs liquidity and are not included in the amounts above. The NY Fed has waived the requirement under the Fed Credit Agreement that the proceeds of these sales be applied as a mandatory repayment under the Fed Facility, which would result in a permanent reduction of the NY Feds commitment to lend to AIG. Instead, the NY Fed has given AIGFP permission to retain the proceeds of the completed sales, and has required that the proceeds of pending sales be used to voluntarily repay the Fed Facility, with the amounts repaid available for future reborrowing subject to the terms of the Fed Facility. AIGFP is also opportunistically terminating contracts. AIGFP is entering into new derivative transactions only to hedge its current portfolio, reduce risk and hedge the currency, interest rate and other market risks associated with its affiliated businesses. Due to the long term duration of AIGFPs derivative contracts and the complexity of AIGFPs portfolio, AIG expects that an orderly wind down will take a substantial period of time. The cost of executing the wind down will depend on many factors, many of which are not within AIGFPs control, including market conditions, AIGFPs access to markets via market counterparties, the availability of liquidity and the potential implications of further rating downgrades. AIG continually evaluates overall market conditions, performance of businesses that are for sale, and market and business performance of competitors and likely bidders for the assets. This evaluation informs decision making about the timing and process of putting businesses up for sale. Depending on market and business conditions, as noted above, AIG can modify its sales approach to maximize value for AIG and the U.S. taxpayers in the disposition process. Such a modification could result in the sale of additional or other assets. Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets (FAS 144) requires that certain criteria be met in order for AIG to classify a business as held for sale. At December 31, 2008, the held for sale criteria in FAS 144 was not met for AIGs significant businesses included in its asset disposition plan. Expense Reductions and Preservation of Cash and Capital AIG developed a plan to review significant projects and eliminated, delayed, or curtailed those that are discretionary or non essential to make available internal resources and to improve liquidity by reducing cash outflows to outside service providers. AIG also suspended the dividend on its common stock to preserve capital. AIG 2008 Form 10 K 47 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries Liquidity of Parent and Subsidiaries AIG (Parent Company) At February 18, 2009, AIG parent had the following sources of liquidity: $24.8 billion of available borrowings under the Fed Facility; $753 million of available commercial paper borrowings under the CPFF; and $1.1 billion of cash and short term investments. These sources of liquidity will be supplemented when the liquidity arrangements expected to be entered into among AIG, the NY Fed and the United States Department of the Treasury are implemented. As a result, AIG believes that it has sufficient liquidity at the parent level to meet its obligations through at least the next twelve months. However, no assurance can be given that AIGs cash needs will not exceed projected amounts. Additional collateral calls at AIGFP, a further downgrade of AIGs credit ratings or unexpected capital or liquidity needs of AIGs subsidiaries may result in significant additional cash needs. For a further discussion of this risk, see Item 1A. Risk Factors. Since the fourth quarter of 2008, AIG has not had access to its traditional sources of long term or short term financing through the public debt markets. Further, in light of AIGs current common stock price, AIG does not expect to be able to issue equity securities in the public markets in the foreseeable future. Traditionally AIG depended on dividends, distributions, and other payments from subsidiaries to fund payments on its obligations. In light of AIGs current financial situation, many of its regulated subsidiaries are restricted from making dividend payments, or advancing funds, to AIG (see Item 1A. Risk Factors). Primary uses of cash flow are for debt service and subsidiary funding. In 2008, AIG parent collected $2.7 billion in dividends and other payments from subsidiaries (primarily from insurance company subsidiaries), issued $12.8 billion of debt and retired $3.2 billion of debt, excluding MIP and Series AIGFP debt. Excluding MIP and Series AIGFP debt, AIG parent made interest payments totaling $1.5 billion, and made $27.2 billion in net capital contributions to subsidiaries. AIG paid $1.7 billion in dividends to shareholders in 2008, prior to the suspension of dividends in September 2008. AIG parent funds a portion of its short term working capital needs through commercial paper issued by AIG Funding. Since October 2008, all commercial paper issuance for AIG Funding has been through the CPFF program. As of December 31, 2008, AIG Funding had $6.9 billion of commercial paper outstanding with an average maturity of 32 days, of which $6.6 billion was issued through the CPFF. AIGs liquidity could also be further impaired by unforeseen significant outflows of cash. This situation may arise due to circumstances that AIG may be unable to control, such as more extensive general market disruption or an operational problem that affects third parties or AIG. Regulatory and other legal restrictions would likely limit AIGs ability to transfer funds freely, either to or from its subsidiaries. For a further discussion of the regulatory environment in which AIG subsidiaries operate and other issues affecting AIGs liquidity, see Item 1A. Risk Factors. General Insurance AIG currently expects that its general insurance subsidiaries will be able to continue to meet their obligations as they come due through cash from operations and, to the extent necessary, asset dispositions. One or more large catastrophes, however, may require AIG to provide additional support to the affected general insurance operations. In addition, further downgrades in AIGs credit ratings could put pressure on the insurer financial strength ratings of these subsidiaries. A downgrade in the insurer financial strength ratings of an insurance company subsidiary could result in non renewals or cancellations by policyholders and adversely affect these companies ability to meet their own obligations and require that AIG provide capital or liquidity support to them. For a discussion of AIGs potential inability to support its subsidiaries, see Item 1A. Risk Factors Liquidity. 48 AIG 2008 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries General Insurance operating cash flow is derived from underwriting and investment activities. Cash flow from underwriting operations includes collections of periodic premiums and paid loss recoveries, less reinsurance premiums, losses, and acquisition and operating expenses. Generally, there is a time lag from when premiums are collected and losses and benefits are paid. Investment cash flow is primarily derived from interest and dividends received, and includes investment maturities and repayments. With respect to General Insurance operations, if paid losses accelerated beyond AIGs ability to fund such losses from current operating cash flows, AIG might need to liquidate a portion of its General Insurance investment portfolio and or attempt to arrange for financing. A liquidity strain could result from the occurrence of one or several significant catastrophic events in a relatively short period of time. Additional strain on liquidity could occur if the investments liquidated to fund such paid losses were sold in a depressed market place. Further liquidity strains could also arise if reinsurance recoverable on such paid losses became uncollectible or collateral supporting such reinsurance recoverable significantly decreased in value. At December 31, 2008, General Insurance had liquidity in the form of cash and short term investments of $11.7 billion. In the event additional liquidity is required, management believes it can provide such liquidity through sale of a portion of its substantial holdings in government and corporate bonds as well as equity securities. Government and corporate bonds represented 97.6 percent of total fixed income investments at December 31, 2008. Given the size and liquidity profile of AIGs General Insurance investment portfolios, AIG believes that deviations from its projected claim experience do not constitute a significant liquidity risk. AIGs asset/liability management process takes into account the expected maturity of investments and the specific nature and risk profile of liabilities. Historically, there has been no significant variation between the expected maturities of AIGs General Insurance investments and the payment of claims. AIG has arranged for letters of credit that totaled $1.6 billion and funded trusts totaling $2.9 billion at December 31, 2008, to allow certain AIG Property and Casualty Group subsidiaries to obtain admitted surplus credit for reinsurance provided by non admitted carriers. Substantially all the letters of credit may be cancelled on December 31, 2010. The inability of AIG to renew or replace these letters of credit or otherwise obtain equivalent financial support would result in a reduction of the statutory surplus of these property and casualty companies. AIG Property Casualty Group maintains liquidity in its investment portfolio through holdings of $6.2 billion of municipal securities which have been refunded and are escrowed to the call or to maturity. The maturities of these holdings are all less than ten years, and the bonds are secured by the United States Department of the Treasury or Government Agency securities held in escrow by trustees. These municipal holdings have substantial unrealized gains and demonstrated liquidity even during the market dislocations experienced during the fourth quarter of 2008. Life Insurance Retirement Services Life Insurance Retirement Services operating cash flow is derived from underwriting and investment activities. Cash flow from underwriting operations includes collections of periodic premiums and policyholders contract deposits, and paid loss recoveries, less reinsurance premiums, losses, benefits, surrenders, and acquisition and operating expenses. Generally, there is a time lag from when premiums are collected and losses and benefits are paid. Investment cash flow is primarily derived from interest and dividends received, and includes investment maturities and repayments. Contributions from AIG parent also represent a liquidity source. If a substantial portion of the Life Insurance Retirement Services operations bond portfolio diminished significantly in value and or defaulted, AIG might need to provide capital or liquidity support to these operations. For a discussion of AIGs potential inability to support its subsidiaries, see Item 1A. Risk Factors Liquidity. A significant increase in policy surrenders and withdrawals, which could be triggered by a variety of factors, including AIG specific concerns, could result in a substantial liquidity strain. Other potential events causing a liquidity strain could include economic collapse of a nation or region in which Life Insurance Retirement Services operations exist, nationalization, catastrophic terrorist acts, or other economic or political upheaval. At December 31, 2008, Life Insurance Retirement Services had liquidity in the form of cash and short term investments of $32.3 billion. In the event additional liquidity is required, management believes it can provide such liquidity through sale of a portion of its substantial holdings in government and corporate bonds as well as equity AIG 2008 Form 10 K 49 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries securities. Government and corporate bonds represented 84.8 percent of total fixed income investments at December 31, 2008. Given the size and liquidity profile of AIGs Life Insurance Retirement Services investment portfolios, AIG believes that deviations from its projected claim experience do not constitute a significant liquidity risk. AIGs asset/liability management process takes into account the expected maturity of investments and expected benefit payments and policy surrenders as well as the specific nature and risk profile of these liabilities. The Life Insurance Retirement Services subsidiaries have been able to meet liquidity needs, even during the period of higher surrenders which was experienced from mid September through year end 2008, and expect to be able to do so in the foreseeable future. Foreign Life Insurance Companies AIGs Foreign Life Insurance companies (including ALICO) have had significant capital needs following publicity of AIG parents liquidity issues and related credit ratings downgrades and reflecting the decline in the equity markets. AIG contributed $4.4 billion to the Foreign Life Insurance companies during 2008 ($4.0 billion of which was contributed using borrowings under the Fed Facility). In Taiwan, AIG contributed approximately $1.8 billion to Nan Shan in 2008 as a result of the continued declines in the Taiwan equity market and foreign currency movements. AIG made capital contributions of $2.6 billion to support foreign life operations in Hong Kong and Japan, principally due to the steep decline in AIGs common stock price. AIG believes that its Foreign Life Insurance subsidiaries have adequate capital to support their business plans through 2009; however, to the extent the investment portfolios of the Foreign Life Insurance companies continue to be adversely affected by market conditions, AIG may need to make additional capital contributions to these companies. For a discussion of AIGs potential inability to support its subsidiaries, see Item 1A. Risk Factors Liquidity. Domestic Life Insurance and Domestic Retirement Services Companies AIGs Domestic Life Insurance and Domestic Retirement Services companies have two primary liquidity needs: the funding of surrenders, and obtaining capital to offset statutory other than temporary impairment charges. At the current rate of surrenders, AIG believes that its Domestic Life Insurance and Domestic Retirement Services companies will have sufficient resources to meet these obligations. A substantial increase in surrender activity could, however, place stress on the liquidity of these companies and require asset sales or contributions from AIG. During the year ended December 31, 2008 and through February 27, 2009, AIG contributed capital totaling $22.7 billion ($18.0 billion of which was contributed using borrowings under the Fed Facility) to certain of its Domestic Life Insurance and Domestic Retirement Services subsidiaries to replace a portion of the capital lost as a result of net realized capital losses (primarily resulting from other than temporary impairment charges). Further capital contributions may be required to the extent additional statutory net realized capital losses are incurred. For a discussion of AIGs potential inability to support its subsidiaries, see Item 1A. Risk Factors Liquidity. Financial Services AIGs major Financial Services operating subsidiaries consist of ILFC, AIGFP, AGF and AIGCFG. Traditional sources of funds considered in meeting the liquidity needs of these operations are generally no longer available. These sources included GIAs issuance of long and short term debt, issuance of commercial paper, bank loans and bank credit facilities. However, AIGCFG has been able to retain a significant portion of customer deposits, providing a measure of liquidity. ILFC ILFCs traditional source of liquidity had been collections of lease payments and borrowing in the public debt markets to fund aircraft purchases and to satisfy maturing debt. Additional liquidity is provided by the proceeds of aircraft sales. 50 AIG 2008 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries In September 2008, ILFC was unable to borrow in the public debt markets, and therefore, ILFC borrowed the full $6.5 billion amount available under its credit facilities. ILFC was also accepted into the CPFF and had borrowed approximately $1.7 billion under the CPFF as of December 31, 2008. On January 21, 2009, however, SP downgraded ILFCs short term credit rating and, as a result, ILFC lost access to the CPFF. The $1.7 billion ILFC had borrowed under the CPFF was due and paid on January 28, 2009. ILFC is currently seeking secured financing. ILFC has the capacity under its present facilities and indentures, to enter into secured financings in excess of $5.0 billion. If ILFC continues to be limited in its ability to use this capacity, AIG expects that these borrowings and cash flows from operations, which may include aircraft sales, will be inadequate to permit ILFC to meet its obligations for 2009. Therefore, AIG will need to provide support through additional asset sales or funding for the remaining amounts. As a result of Moodys downgrade of ILFCs long term debt rating, ILFC received notice under the provisions of the Export Credit Facilities to segregate security deposits and maintenance reserves related to aircraft funded under the facilities into separate accounts. ILFC had 90 days from the date of the notice to comply and, subsequent to December 31, 2008, ILFC segregated approximately $260 million of deposits and maintenance reserves. The amount of funds required to be segregated under the facility agreements fluctuates with the changes in the related deposits, maintenance reserves, and debt maturities. Further rating downgrades would impose additional restrictions under these facilities including the requirement to segregate rental payments and would require prior consent to withdraw funds from the segregated account. AIGFP AIGFP had historically funded its operations through the issuance of notes and bonds, GIA borrowings and other structured financing transactions. AIGFP also obtained funding through repurchase agreements. In the last half of 2008, AIGFPs access to its traditional sources of liquidity were significantly reduced and it relied on AIG Parent to meet most of its liquidity needs. AIGFPs asset backed commercial paper conduit, Curzon Funding LLC, was accepted into the CPFF with a total borrowing limit of $7.2 billion, and had approximately $6.8 billion outstanding at February 18, 2009. Separately, a structured investment vehicle sponsored, but not consolidated, by AIGFP, Nightingale Finance LLC, was also accepted into the CPFF with a borrowing limit of $1.1 billion. As of February 18, 2009, this vehicle had approximately $1.1 billion outstanding under the CPFF. AGF AGFs traditional source of liquidity has been collections of customer receivables and borrowing in the public markets. In September 2008, AGF was unable to borrow in the public debt markets and drew down $4.6 billion, the full amount available, under its primary credit facilities. AGF anticipates that its primary source of funds to support its operations and repay its obligations will be customer receivable collections. In order to improve cash flow, AGF will limit its lending activities and manage its expenses. In addition, AGF is pursuing sales of certain of its finance receivables and seeking securitization financing. AIG expects that AGFs existing sources of funds will be inadequate to meet its debt and other obligations for 2009. Therefore, AIG will need to provide support through additional asset sales or funding for the remaining amounts. AIGCFG AIGCFG experienced significant deposit withdrawals in Hong Kong during September 2008. AIGCFG subsidiaries borrowed $1.6 billion from AIG in September and October of 2008 to meet these withdrawals and other cash needs. No further material funding was required during the remainder of the fourth quarter of 2008. Since November of 2008, AIGCFG subsidiaries have been able to retain significant deposit balances as a result of the lowered perceived risk, as well as depository insurance support provided by various regulatory authorities in countries in which AIGCFG units operate. AIG 2008 Form 10 K 51 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries AIG believes that the funding needs of AIGCFG have stabilized, but it is possible that renewed customer and counterparty concerns could substantially increase AIGCFGs liquidity needs in 2009. Through February 18, 2009, AIGCFG had entered into contracts to sell certain of its operations in Taiwan, Thailand and the Philippines. Asset Management Asset Managements principal cash requirements are to fund general working capital needs, investment commitments related to proprietary investments originally acquired for warehouse purposes, contractual capital commitments, proprietary investments of AIG Global Real Estate and any liquidity mismatches in the Spread Based Investment business. Requirements related to Institutional Asset Management are funded through general operating cash flows from management and performance fees, proceeds from events in underlying funds (capital calls to third parties, sale of portfolio companies, etc.) as well as intercompany funding provided by AIG. Accordingly, Institutional Asset Managements ability to fund certain of its needs may depend on advances from AIG under various intercompany borrowing facilities. Restrictions on these facilities would have adverse consequences on the ability of the business to satisfy its respective obligations. With respect to the Global Real Estate business, investing activities are also funded through third party financing arrangements which are secured by the relevant properties. The GIC and MIP programs are in run off. AIG expects to fund its obligations under these programs through cash flows generated from invested assets (principal and interest) as well as sales of investments, primarily fixed maturity securities. However, illiquidity and diminished values within the investment portfolios may impair AIGs ability to sell the related program assets or sell such assets for a price adequate to settle the corresponding liabilities when they come due. In such a case, AIG parent would need to fund the payments. 52 AIG 2008 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries Debt Total debt was as follows: At December 31, 2008 2007 (In millions) Debt issued by AIG: Fed Facility (secured) $ 40,431 $ Notes and bonds payable 11,756 14,588 Junior subordinated debt 11,685 5,809 Junior subordinated debt attributable to equity units 5,880 Loans and mortgages payable 416 729 MIP matched notes and bonds payable 14,446 14,267 AIGFP matched notes and bonds payable 4,660 874 Total AIG debt 89,274 36,267 Debt guaranteed by AIG: AIGFP(a) Commercial paper(b) 6,802 GIAs 13,860 19,908 Notes and bonds payable 5,250 36,676 Loans and mortgages payable 2,175 1,384 Hybrid financial instrument liabilities(c) 2,113 7,479 Total AIGFP debt 30,200 65,447 AIG Funding commercial paper(b) 6,856 4,222 AIGLH notes and bonds payable 798 797 Liabilities connected to trust preferred stock 1,415 1,435 Total debt issued or guaranteed by AIG 128,543 108,168 Debt not guaranteed by AIG: ILFC Commercial paper(b) 1,748 4,483 Junior subordinated debt 999 999 Notes and bonds payable(d) 30,047 25,737 Total ILFC debt 32,794 31,219 AGF Commercial paper and extendible commercial notes 188 3,801 Junior subordinated debt 349 349 Notes and bonds payable 23,089 22,369 Total AGF debt 23,626 26,519 AIGCFG Commercial paper 124 287 Loans and mortgages payable 1,596 1,839 Total AIGCFG debt 1,720 2,126 Other subsidiaries 670 775 Debt of consolidated investments held through: AIG 2008 Form 10 K 53 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries At December 31, 2008 2007 (In millions) A.I. Credit(e) 321 AIG Investments 1,300 1,636 AIG Global Real Estate 4,545 5,096 AIG SunAmerica 5 186 ALICO 3 Total debt of consolidated investments 5,850 7,242 Total debt not guaranteed by AIG 64,660 67,881 Consolidated: Total commercial paper and extendible commercial notes 613 13,114 Federal Reserve Bank of New York commercial paper funding facility 15,105 Total long term debt 177,485 162,935 Total debt $ 193,203 $ 176,049 (a) In 2008, AIGFP borrowings are carried at fair value. (b) Includes borrowings of $6.8 billion, $6.6 billion and $1.7 billion for AIGFP (through Curzon Funding LLC, AIGFPs asset backed commercial paper conduit), AIG Funding and ILFC, respectively, under the CPFF at December 31, 2008. (c) Represents structured notes issued by AIGFP that are accounted at fair value. (d) Includes borrowings under Export Credit Facility of $2.4 billion and $2.5 billion at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. (e) Represents commercial paper issued by a variable interest entity secured by receivables of A.I. Credit. 54 AIG 2008 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries Long Term Debt A roll forward of long term debt, excluding debt of consolidated investments is as follows: for the year ended December 31, 2008 Balance at Maturities Effect of Other Balance at December 31, and Foreign Non Cash December 31, 2007 Issuances Repayments Exchange Changes(b) 2008 (In millions) AIG Fed Facility $ $ 96,650 $ (59,850 ) $ $ 3,631 $ 40,431 Notes and bonds payable 14,588 (2,700 ) (1 ) (131 ) 11,756 Junior subordinated debt 5,809 6,953 (1,078 ) 1 11,685 Junior subordinated debt attributable to equity units 5,880 5,880 Loans and mortgages payable 729 457 (762 ) 8 (16 ) 416 MIP matched notes and bonds payable 14,267 (194 ) (38 ) 411 14,446 AIGFP matched notes and bonds payable 874 3,464 (198 ) 520 4,660 AIGFP(a) GIAs 19,908 5,070 (16,576 ) 5,458 13,860 Notes and bonds payable and hybrid financial instrument liabilities 44,155 63,803 (99,531 ) (1,064 ) 7,363 Loans and mortgages payable 1,384 9,254 (8,512 ) 49 2,175 AIGLH notes and bonds payable 797 1 798 Liabilities connected to trust preferred stock 1,435 (19 ) (1 ) 1,415 ILFC notes and bonds payable 25,737 9,389 (4,575 ) (507 ) 3 30,047 ILFC junior subordinated debt 999 999 AGF notes and bonds payable 22,369 5,844 (4,659 ) (427 ) (38 ) 23,089 AGF junior subordinated debt 349 349 AIGCFG loans and mortgages payable 1,839 2,278 (2,431 ) (214 ) 124 1,596 Other subsidiaries 775 23 (165 ) 26 11 670 Total $ 156,014 $ 209,065 $ (200,172 ) $ (2,231 ) $ 8,959 $ 171,635 (a) In 2008, AIGFP borrowings are carried at fair value. (b) Includes the change in fair value and cumulative effect of the adoption of FAS 159, The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities (FAS 159). Also includes commitment fee and accrued compounding interest of $3.63 billion on the Fed Facility. AIG (Parent Company) AIG traditionally issued debt securities from time to time to meet its financing needs and those of certain of its subsidiaries, as well as to opportunistically fund the MIP. The maturities of the debt securities issued by AIG to fund the MIP are generally expected to be paid using the cash flows of assets held by AIG as part of the MIP portfolio. However, mismatches in the timing of cash inflows and outflows of the MIP, as well as shortfalls due to impairments of MIP assets, would need to be funded by AIG parent. AIG 2008 Form 10 K 55 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries On August 18, 2008, AIG sold $3.25 billion principal amount of senior unsecured notes in a Rule 144A/Regulation S offering which bear interest at a per annum rate of 8.25 percent and mature in 2018. The proceeds from the sale of these notes were used by AIGFP for its general corporate purposes, and the notes are included within AIGFP matched notes and bonds payable in the preceding tables. AIG has agreed to use commercially reasonable efforts to consummate an exchange offer for the notes pursuant to an effective registration statement within 360 days of the date on which the notes were issued. As of December 31, 2008, approximately $7.5 billion principal amount of senior notes were outstanding under AIGs medium term note program, of which $3.2 billion was used for AIGs general corporate purposes, $893 million was used by AIGFP (included within AIGFP matched notes bonds and payable in the preceding tables) and $3.4 billion was used to fund the MIP. The maturity dates of these notes range from 2009 to 2052. To the extent considered appropriate, AIG may enter into swap transactions to manage its effective borrowing rates with respect to these notes. As of December 31, 2008, the equivalent of $12.0 billion of notes were outstanding under AIGs Euro medium term note program, of which $9.7 billion were used to fund the MIP and the remainder was used for AIGs general corporate purposes. The aggregate amount outstanding includes a $588 million loss resulting from foreign exchange translation into U.S. dollars, of which $0.1 million gain relates to notes issued by AIG for general corporate purposes and $588 million loss relates to notes issued to fund the MIP. AIG has economically hedged the currency exposure arising from its foreign currency denominated notes. In May 2008, AIG raised a total of approximately $20 billion through the sale of (i) 196,710,525 shares of AIG common stock in a public offering at a price per share of $38; (ii) 78.4 million Equity Units in a public offering at a price per unit of $75; and (iii) $6.9 billion in unregistered offerings of junior subordinated debentures in three series. The Equity Units and junior subordinated debentures receive hybrid equity treatment from the major rating agencies under their current policies but are recorded as long term debt on the consolidated balance sheet. The Equity Units consist of an ownership interest in AIG junior subordinated debentures and a stock purchase contract obligating the holder of an equity unit to purchase, and obligating AIG to sell, a variable number of shares of AIG common stock on three dates in 2011 (a minimum of 128,944,480 shares and a maximum of 154,738,080 shares, subject to anti dilution adjustments). During 2007 and 2008, AIG issued an aggregate of $12.5 billion of junior subordinated debentures in U.S. dollars, British Pounds and Euros in eight series. In connection with each series of junior subordinated debentures, AIG entered into a Replacement Capital Covenant (RCC) for the benefit of the holders of AIGs 6.25 percent senior notes due 2036. The RCCs provide that AIG will not repay, redeem, or purchase the applicable series of junior subordinated debentures on or before a specified date, unless AIG has received qualifying proceeds from the sale of the replacement capital securities. In October 2007, AIG borrowed a total of $500 million on an unsecured basis pursuant to a loan agreement with a third party bank. The entire amount of the loan was repaid on September 30, 2008. AIGFP Approximately $3.1 billion of AIGFPs debt maturities through December 31, 2009 are fully collateralized with assets backing the corresponding liabilities. However, mismatches in the timing of cash inflows on the assets and outflows with respect to the liabilities may require assets to be sold to satisfy maturing liabilities. Depending on market conditions and AIGFPs ability to sell assets at that time, proceeds from sales may not be sufficient to satisfy the full amount due on maturing liabilities. Any shortfalls would need to be funded by AIG parent. ILFC ILFC has a $4.3 billion Export Credit Facility for use in connection with the purchase of approximately 75 aircraft delivered through 2001. This facility was guaranteed by various European Export Credit Agencies. The interest rate varies from 5.75 percent to 5.86 percent on these amortizing ten year borrowings depending on the delivery date of the aircraft. At December 31, 2008, ILFC had $365 million outstanding under this facility. The debt is collateralized by a pledge of the shares of a subsidiary of ILFC, which holds title to the aircraft financed under the facility. 56 AIG 2008 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries ILFC has a similarly structured Export Credit Facility for up to a maximum of $3.6 billion for Airbus aircraft to be delivered through May 31, 2009. The facility becomes available as the various European Export Credit Agencies provide their guarantees for aircraft based on a forward looking calendar, and the interest rate is determined through a bid process. The interest rates are either LIBOR based with spreads ranging from (0.04) percent to 0.90 percent or at fixed rates ranging from 4.2 percent to 4.7 percent. At December 31, 2008, ILFC had $2.1 billion outstanding under this facility. At December 31, 2008, the interest rate of the loans outstanding ranged from 2.51 percent to 4.71 percent. The debt is collateralized by a pledge of shares of a subsidiary of ILFC, which holds title to the aircraft financed under the facility. Borrowings with respect to these facilities are included in ILFCs notes and bonds payable in the preceding table of borrowings. At December 31, 2008, the total funded amount of ILFCs bank financings was $7.6 billion. The fundings mature through February 2012. The interest rates are LIBOR based, with spreads ranging from 0.30 percent to 1.625 percent. At December 31, 2008, the interest rates ranged from 2.15 percent to 4.36 percent. AIG does not guarantee any of the debt obligations of ILFC. AGF As of December 31, 2008, notes and bonds aggregating $23.1 billion were outstanding with maturity dates ranging from 2009 to 2031 at interest rates ranging from 0.23 percent to 9 percent. To the extent considered appropriate, AGF may enter into swap transactions to manage its effective borrowing rates with respect to these notes and bonds. AIG does not guarantee any of the debt obligations of AGF but has provided a capital support agreement for the benefit of AGFs lenders under the AGF 364 Day Syndicated Facility. Under this support agreement, AIG has agreed to cause AGF to maintain (1) consolidated net worth of $2.2 billion and (2) an adjusted tangible leverage ratio of less than or equal to 8 to 1 at the end of each fiscal quarter. Revolving Credit Facilities AIG, ILFC and AGF maintain committed, unsecured revolving credit facilities listed on the table below in order to support their respective commercial paper programs and for general corporate purposes. Some of the facilities, as noted below, contain a term out option allowing for the conversion by the borrower of any outstanding loans at expiration into one year term loans. Both ILFC and AGF have drawn the full amount available under their revolving credit facilities. AIGs syndicated facilities contain a covenant requiring AIG to maintain total shareholders equity (calculated on a consolidated basis consistent with GAAP) of at least $50 billion at all times. If AIG fails to maintain this level of total shareholders equity at any time, it will lose access to those facilities. Additionally, if an event of default occurs under those facilities, including AIG failing to maintain $50 billion of total shareholders equity at any time, which causes the banks to terminate either of those facilities, then AIG may be required to collateralize approximately AIG 2008 Form 10 K 57 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries $2.7 billion of letters of credit that AIG has obtained for the benefit of its insurance subsidiaries so that these subsidiaries may obtain statutory recognition of their intercompany reinsurance transactions. At December 31, 2008 One Year (in millions) Available Term Out Facility Size Borrower(s) Amount Expiration Option (In millions) AIG: 364 Day Syndicated Facility(a) $ 2,125 AIG/AIG Funding(b) $ 2,125 July 2009 Yes 5 Year Syndicated Facility(a) 1,625 AIG/AIG Funding(b) 1,625 July 2011 No Total AIG $ 3,750 $ 3,750 ILFC: 5 Year Syndicated Facility $ 2,500 ILFC $ October 2011 No 5 Year Syndicated Facility 2,000 ILFC October 2010 No 5 Year Syndicated Facility 2,000 ILFC October 2009 No Total ILFC $ 6,500 $ AGF: 364 Day Syndicated Facility $ 2,450 American General Finance Corporation $ July 2009 Yes American General Finance, Inc.(c) 5 Year Syndicated Facility 2,125 American General Finance Corporation July 2010 No Total AGF $ 4,575 $ (a) On October 5, 2008, Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LBHI), the parent company of Lehman Brothers Bank, FSB (LBB), filed for bankruptcy protection. LBB is a lender under AIGs 364 Day Syndicated Facility and 5 Year Syndicated Facility and had committed to provide $100 million and $42.5 million, respectively, under these facilities. While LBB is not included in the LBHI bankruptcy filing, AIG cannot be certain whether LBB would fulfill it commitments under these facilities. (b) Guaranteed by AIG. In September 2008, AIG Capital Corporation was removed as a borrower on the syndicated facilities. (c) AGF is an eligible borrower for up to $400 million only. Credit Ratings The cost and availability of unsecured financing for AIG and its subsidiaries are generally dependent on their short and long term debt ratings. The following table presents the credit ratings of AIG and certain of its subsidiaries as of February 18, 2009. In parentheses, following the initial occurrence in the table of each rating, is an indication of that ratings relative rank within the agencys rating categories. That ranking refers only to the 58 AIG 2008 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries generic or major rating category and not to the modifiers appended to the rating by the rating agencies to denote relative position within such generic or major category. Short term Debt Senior Long term Debt Moodys SP Fitch Moodys(a) SP(b) Fitch(c) AIG P 1 (1st of 3)(g) A 1 (1st of 8)(e) F1 (1st of 5) A3 (3rd of 9)(g) A (3rd of 8)(e) A (3rd of 9) AIG Financial Products Corp.(d) P 1(g) A 1(e) A3(g) A (e) AIG Funding(d) P 1(g) A 1(e) F1 ILFC P 2 (2nd of 3)(h) A 2 (2nd of 8)(f) F1(j) Baa1 (4th of 9)(h) BBB+ (4th of 8)(f) A(j) American General Finance Corporation P 2(i) B (4th of 8) F1(j) Baa1(g) BB+ (5th of 8)(i) BBB (4th of 9)(j) American General Finance, Inc. P 2(g) A 3 (3rd of 8) F1(j) BBB(j) (a) Moodys appends numerical modifiers 1, 2 and 3 to the generic rating categories to show relative position within the rating categories. (b) SP ratings may be modified by the addition of a plus or minus sign to show relative standing within the major rating categories. (c) Fitch ratings may be modified by the addition of a plus or minus sign to show relative standing within the major rating categories. (d) AIG guarantees all obligations of AIG Financial Products Corp. and AIG Funding. (e) Credit Watch Negative. (f) Credit Watch Developing. (g) Under Review for Possible Downgrade. (h) Under Review with Direction Uncertain. (i) Negative Outlook. (j) Rating Watch Evolving. These credit ratings are current opinions of the rating agencies. As such, they may be changed, suspended or withdrawn at any time by the rating agencies as a result of changes in, or unavailability of, information or based on other circumstances. Ratings may also be withdrawn at AIG managements request. This discussion of ratings is not a complete list of ratings of AIG and its subsidiaries. Ratings triggers have been defined by one independent rating agency to include clauses or agreements the outcome of which depends upon the level of ratings maintained by one or more rating agencies. Ratings triggers generally relate to events that (i) could result in the termination or limitation of credit availability, or require accelerated repayment, (ii) could result in the termination of business contracts or (iii) could require a company to post collateral for the benefit of counterparties. A significant portion of AIGFPs GIAs, structured financing arrangements and financial derivative transactions include provisions that require AIGFP, upon a downgrade of AIGs long term debt ratings, to post collateral or, with the consent of the counterparties, assign or repay its positions or arrange a substitute guarantee of its obligations by an obligor with higher debt ratings. Furthermore, certain downgrades of AIGs long term senior debt ratings would permit either AIG or the counterparties to elect early termination of contracts. The actual amount of collateral that AIGFP would be required to post to counterparties in the event of such downgrades, or the aggregate amount of payments that AIG could be required to make, depends on market conditions, the fair value of outstanding affected transactions and other factors prevailing at the time of the downgrade. For the impact of a downgrade in AIGs credit ratings, see Item 1A. Risk Factors Credit Ratings. AIG 2008 Form 10 K 59 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries Contractual Obligations Contractual obligations in total, and by remaining maturity were as follows: Payments due by Period Total Less Than 1 3 3+ 5 More Than At December 31, 2008 Payments One Year Years Years Five Years (In millions) Borrowings(a) $ 131,204 $ 20,417 $ 33,574 $ 18,607 $ 58,606 Fed Facility 40,431 40,431 Interest payments on borrowings 81,860 5,361 9,281 22,832 44,386 Loss reserves(b) 89,258 24,546 27,224 12,942 24,546 Insurance and investment contract liabilities(c) 620,440 32,059 41,703 38,103 508,575 GIC liabilities(d) 18,020 6,175 2,472 3,406 5,967 Aircraft purchase commitments 16,677 3,028 448 2,917 10,284 Operating leases 4,258 800 1,094 699 1,665 Other long term obligations 562 228 308 12 14 Total(e)(f) $ 1,002,710 $ 92,614 $ 116,104 $ 139,949 $ 654,043 (a) Excludes commercial paper and borrowings incurred by consolidated investments and includes hybrid financial instrument liabilities recorded at fair value. (b) Represents future loss and loss adjustment expense payments estimated based on historical loss development payment patterns. Due to the significance of the assumptions used, the periodic amounts presented could be materially different from actual required payments. (c) Insurance and investment contract liabilities include various investment type products with contractually scheduled maturities, including periodic payments of a term certain nature. Insurance and investment contract liabilities also include benefit and claim liabilities, of which a significant portion represents policies and contracts that do not have stated contractual maturity dates and may not result in any future payment obligations. For these policies and contracts (i) AIG is currently not making payments until the occurrence of an insurable event, such as death or disability, (ii) payments are conditional on survivorship, or (iii) payment may occur due to a surrender or other non scheduled event out of AIGs control. AIG has made significant assumptions to determine the estimated undiscounted cash flows of these contractual policy benefits, which assumptions include mortality, morbidity, future lapse rates, expenses, investment returns and interest crediting rates, offset by expected future deposits and premiums on inforce policies. Due to the significance of the assumptions used, the periodic amounts presented could be materially different from actual required payments. The amounts presented in this table are undiscounted and therefore exceed the future policy benefits and policyholder contract deposits included in the balance sheet. (d) Represents guaranteed maturities under GICs. (e) Does not reflect unrecognized tax benefits of $3.4 billion, the timing of which is uncertain. (f) The majority of AIGFPs credit default swaps require AIGFP to provide credit protection on a designated portfolio of loans or debt securities. At December 31, 2008, the fair value derivative liability was $5.9 billion relating to AIGFPs super senior multi sector CDO credit default swap portfolio, net of amounts realized in extinguishing derivative obligations. Due to the long term maturities of these credit default swaps, AIG is unable to make reasonable estimates of the periods during which any payments would be made. 60 AIG 2008 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries Off Balance Sheet Arrangements and Commercial Commitments Off Balance Sheet Arrangements and Commercial Commitments in total, and by remaining maturity were as follows: Amount of Commitment Expiration Total Amounts Less Than 1 3 3+ 5 Over Five at December 31, 2008 Committed One Year Years Years Years (In millions) Guarantees: Liquidity facilities(a) $ 912 $ $ $ 799 $ 113 Standby letters of credit 1,541 1,340 41 25 135 Construction guarantees(b) 155 155 Guarantees of indebtedness 776 77 134 307 258 All other guarantees 1,857 69 48 28 1,712 Commitments: Investment commitments(c) 9,185 2,575 3,742 1,951 917 Commitments to extend credit 629 132 437 54 6 Letters of credit 316 306 10 Other commercial commitments(d) 1,034 3 160 871 Total $ 16,405 $ 4,502 $ 4,412 $ 3,324 $ 4,167 (a) Primarily liquidity facilities provided in connection with certain municipal swap transactions and collateralized bond obligations. (b) Primarily AIG SunAmerica construction guarantees connected to affordable housing investments. (c) Includes commitments to invest in limited partnerships, private equity, hedge funds and mutual funds and commitments to purchase and develop real estate in the United States and abroad. (d) Includes options to acquire aircraft. Excludes commitments with respect to pension plans. The annual pension contribution for 2009 is expected to be approximately $600 million for U.S. and non U.S. plans. Arrangements with Variable Interest Entities AIG enters into various arrangements with variable interest entities (VIEs) in the normal course of business. AIGs insurance companies are involved with VIEs primarily as passive investors in debt securities (rated and unrated) and equity interests issued by VIEs. Through its Financial Services and Asset Management operations, AIG has participated in arrangements that included designing and structuring entities, warehousing and managing the collateral of the entities, entering into insurance transactions with VIEs. Interest holders in the VIEs generally have recourse only to the assets and cash flows of the VIEs and do not have recourse to AIG, except, in limited circumstances, when AIG has provided a guarantee to the VIEs interest holders. Under FIN 46(R), AIG consolidates a VIE when it is the primary beneficiary of the entity. The primary beneficiary is the party that either (i) absorbs a majority of the VIEs expected losses; (ii) receives a majority of the VIEs expected residual returns; or (iii) both. For a further discussion of AIGs involvement with VIEs, see Note 9 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Outlook General disruptions in the global equity and credit markets and the liquidity issues at AIG have negatively affected the results of each of AIGs operating segments as discussed below. General Insurance Commercial Insurance has been generally successful in retaining clients, although some have reduced the number of lines or limits of coverage due in part to concerns over AIGs financial strength. In addition, the number AIG 2008 Form 10 K 61 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries of new business opportunities has declined since September of 2008. Senior management has spent considerable time since September 2008 meeting with policyholders and brokers explaining the financial strength of Commercial Insurance and the protections afforded policyholders by insurance regulations. However, net premiums written declined 22 percent in the fourth quarter of 2008 compared to the same period of 2007. The retention of existing business continues to be moderately lower than in the comparable prior year period, however retention levels have improved in the early part of 2009 compared to the fourth quarter of 2008. Overall, rates in Commercial Insurance are essentially flat in early 2009 compared to the first quarter of 2008. The stabilization of rates is an improvement from the fourth quarter of 2008 and reflects the offsetting effects of downward pressure on premiums from the current recessionary environment and the recent introduction of new competitors in the marketplace and the upward pressure on premiums from the combination of investment and underwriting losses suffered by the commercial insurance industry. AIG expects that the current recessionary environment will continue to affect UGCs operating results for the foreseeable future and will result in a significant operating loss for UGC in 2009. Foreign General Insurance has been successful in retaining business in its property, casualty and consumer lines. During the critical first quarter 2009 renewal period with more than 30 percent of the annual production expected, business retention was strong in Foreign General Insurances top three regions, U.K./Ireland, Europe and the Far East, with the significant majority of clients maintaining their relationship with AIG. However, there was some expected de risking among customers to further diversify their portfolios as well as a slight reduction in new business production. Because the three regions represent the majority of business, recent business activity is comparable to 2008. Overall, gross premiums to date for 2009 were essentially flat from the comparable period of 2008 as measured in original currency. Life Insurance Retirement Services AIG expects that the aforementioned events and AIGs previously announced asset disposition plan will continue to adversely affect Life Insurance Retirement Services operating results in 2009, specifically net investment income, deferred policy acquisition costs and sales inducement asset (SIA) amortization and net realized capital gains (losses). In addition, AIGs liquidity issues have affected certain operations through higher surrender activity, primarily in the U.S. domestic retirement fixed annuity business and foreign investment oriented and retirement products in Japan and Asia. While surrender levels have declined from their peaks in mid September of 2008, they continue to be higher than historic levels in certain products and countries and AIG expects them to continue to be volatile. These uncertainties, together with rating agency downgrades, have resulted in significantly reduced levels of new sales activity, particularly among products and markets where ratings are critical. Sales of investment oriented and retirement services products have also declined due to the general decline in the equity markets. New sales activity is expected to remain at lower levels until the uncertainties relating to AIG are resolved. Financial Services AIGFP began unwinding its businesses and portfolios during the fourth quarter of 2008, and these activities are expected to continue at least through 2009. In connection with these activities, AIGFP has disaggregated its portfolio of existing transactions into a number of separate books, and has developed a plan for addressing each book, including each books risks, risk mitigation options, monitoring metrics and certain implications of various potential outcomes. Each plan has been reviewed by a steering committee whose membership includes senior executives of AIG. The plans are subject to change as efforts progress and as conditions in the financial markets evolve, and they contemplate, depending on the book in question, alternative strategies, including sales, assignments or other transfers of positions, terminations of positions, and or run offs of positions in accordance with existing terms. Execution of the plans is overseen by a transaction approval process involving increasingly senior members of AIGFPs and AIGs respective management groups as specific actions entail greater liquidity and revenue consequences. Successful execution of the plans is subject, to varying degrees depending on the transactions of a given book, to market conditions and, in many circumstances, counterparty negotiation and agreement. 62 AIG 2008 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries As a consequence of its wind down strategy, AIGFP is entering into new derivative transactions only to hedge its current portfolio, reduce risk and hedge the currency, interest rate and other market risks associated with its affiliated businesses. AIGFP has already reduced the size of certain portions of its portfolio, including effecting a substantial reduction in credit derivative transactions in respect of multi sector CDOs (see Termination of $62 billion of CDS below), a sale of its commodity index business, termination of its activities as a foreign exchange prime broker, sale and other disposition of the large majority of its energy/infrastructure investment portfolio. Due to the long term duration of many of AIGFPs derivative contracts and to the complexity of AIGFPs portfolio, AIG expects that an orderly wind down will take a substantial period of time. The cost of executing the wind down will depend on many factors, many of which are not within AIGFPs control, including market conditions, AIGFPs access to markets via market counterparties, the availability of liquidity and the potential implications of further rating downgrades. AIGCFG experienced significant deposit withdrawals in Hong Kong during September 2008. The inability of AIGCFG to access its traditional sources of funding resulted in AIG lending $1.6 billion to subsidiaries of AIGCFG in September and October of 2008. Additional funding during the remainder of the fourth quarter of 2008 was not material. AIG has entered into contracts to sell certain finance operations in Taiwan, Thailand and the Philippines. Asset Management Distressed global markets have reduced the value of assets under management, translating to lower base management fees and reduced carried interest revenues. Tight credit markets have put pressure on the commercial and residential real estate markets, which has caused values in certain geographic locations to fall, resulting in impairment charges on real estate held for investment purposes. Liquidity issues at AIG parent and lower asset performance as a result of challenging market conditions have contributed to the loss of institutional and retail clients, as well as higher redemptions from some of AIG subsidiaries managed hedge and mutual funds, have prevented AIG subsidiaries from launching new funds and will continue to adversely affect Asset Management results. Within the Spread Based Investment business, distressed markets have resulted in significant loss of invested asset value, and AIG expects such losses to continue through mid 2009. In addition, AIG does not expect to issue any additional debt to fund the Matched Investment Program for the foreseeable future. As AIG implements the proposed transactions with the NY Fed and United States Department of the Treasury described above and in Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, AIG expects to incur significant additional restructuring related charges, such as accelerated amortization of the pre paid commitment asset and, potentially, the write off of intangible assets. Further, if AIG continues to incur losses in its businesses, AIG may need to write off material amounts of goodwill. Results of Operations Consolidated Results Fourth quarter 2008 net loss Due to continued severe market deterioration and charges related to ongoing restructuring activities, AIG incurred a substantial net loss of $61.7 billion in the fourth quarter of 2008. This loss resulted primarily from the following: net realized capital losses arising from other than temporary impairment charges of $18.6 billion ($13.0 billion after tax) reflecting severity losses primarily related to CMBS, other structured securities and securities of financial institutions due to rapid and severe market valuation declines where the impairment period was not deemed temporary; losses related to the change in AIGs intent and ability to hold to recovery certain securities; and issuer specific credit events, including charges associated with investments in financial institutions; net realized capital losses of $2.4 billion ($1.7 billion after tax) related to certain securities lending activities which were deemed to be sales due to reduced levels of collateral provided by counterparties; AIG 2008 Form 10 K 63 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries net realized capital losses of $2.3 billion ($1.6 billion after tax) related to declines in fair values of RMBS for the month of October prior to the sale of these securities to ML II; net realized capital losses of $1.7 billion ($1.2 billion after tax) primarily related to foreign exchange transactions and derivatives activity; unrealized market valuation losses on AIGFPs super senior credit default swap portfolio totaling $6.9 billion ($4.5 billion after tax); a credit valuation loss of $7.8 billion ($5.1 billion after tax) representing the effect of changes in credit spreads on the valuation of AIGFPs assets and liabilities; and losses primarily from winding down of AIGFPs businesses and portfolios of $1.5 billion ($1.0 billion after tax); losses on hedges not qualifying for hedge accounting treatment under FAS 133 of $3.3 billion ($2.2 billion after tax) largely due to the significant decline in U.S. interest rates, resulting in a decrease in the fair value of the derivatives, which primarily economically hedge AIGs debt. To a lesser extent, the strengthening of the U.S. dollar, mainly against the British Pound and Euro decreased the fair value of the foreign currency derivatives economically hedging AIGs non U.S. dollar denominated debt and foreign exchange transactions; interest expense associated with the Fed Facility of $10.6 billion ($6.9 billion after tax), including accelerated amortization of the prepaid commitment fee of $6.6 billion ($4.3 billion after tax); goodwill impairment charges of $3.6 billion, principally related to the General Insurance and Domestic Life Insurance and Domestic Retirement Services businesses; and the inability to obtain a tax benefit for a significant amount of the losses incurred during the quarter as reflected in the addition to the valuation allowance of $17.6 billion, and other discrete items of $3.4 billion. AIGs consolidated statements of income (loss) for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 were as follows: Years Ended December 31, Percentage Increase/(Decrease) 2008 2007 2006 2008 vs. 2007 2007 vs. 2006 (In millions, except per share data) Revenues: Premiums and other considerations $ 83,505 $ 79,302 $ 74,213 5 % 7 % Net investment income 12,222 28,619 26,070 (57 ) 10 Net realized capital gains (losses) (55,484 ) (3,592 ) 106 Unrealized market valuation losses on AIGFP super senior credit default swap portfolio (28,602 ) (11,472 ) Other income (loss) (537 ) 17,207 12,998 32 Total revenues 11,104 110,064 113,387 (90 ) (3 ) Benefits, claims and expenses: Policyholder benefits and claims incurred 63,299 66,115 60,287 (4 ) 10 Policy acquisition and other insurance expenses 27,565 20,396 19,413 35 5 Interest expense 17,007 4,751 3,657 258 30 Restructuring expenses and related asset impairment and other expenses 758 Other expenses 11,236 9,859 8,343 14 18 Total benefits, claims and expenses 119,865 101,121 91,700 19 10 Income (loss) before income tax expense (benefit), minority interest and cumulative effect of change in accounting principles (108,761 ) 8,943 21,687 (59 ) Income tax expense (benefit): 64 AIG 2008 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries Years Ended December 31, Percentage Increase/(Decrease) 2008 2007 2006 2008 vs. 2007 2007 vs. 2006 (In millions, except per share data) Current 1,706 3,219 5,489 (47 ) (41 ) Deferred (10,080 ) (1,764 ) 1,048 Total income tax expense (benefit) (8,374 ) 1,455 6,537 (78 ) Income (loss) before minority interest and cumulative effect of change in accounting principles (100,387 ) 7,488 15,150 (51 ) Minority interest 1,098 (1,288 ) (1,136 ) 13 Income (loss) before cumulative effect of change in accounting principles (99,289 ) 6,200 14,014 (56 ) Cumulative effect of change in accounting principles, net of tax 34 Net income (loss) $ (99,289 ) $ 6,200 $ 14,048 % (56 )% Premiums and Other Considerations 2008 and 2007 Comparison Premiums and other considerations increased in 2008 compared to 2007 primarily due to: growth in Foreign Life Insurance Retirement Services of $3.3 billion resulting from increased production and favorable foreign exchange rates; an increase of $1.7 billion in Foreign General Insurance due to growth in commercial and consumer lines driven by new business from both established and new distribution channels, a decrease in the use of reinsurance and favorable foreign exchange rates; and growth in Domestic Life Insurance due to an increase in sales of payout annuities sales and growth in life insurance business in force. These increases were partially offset by a decline in Commercial Insurance premiums of $1.5 billion primarily from lower U.S. workers compensation premiums attributable to declining rates, lower employment levels and increased competition, as well as a decline in other casualty lines of business. 2007 and 2006 Comparison Premiums and other considerations increased in 2007 compared to 2006 primarily due to: growth in Foreign Life Insurance Retirement Services of $2.4 billion as a result of increased life insurance production, growing group products business in Europe, improved sales in Thailand and the favorable effect of foreign exchange rates; an increase of $1.8 billion in Foreign General Insurance primarily due to growth in new business from both established and new distribution channels, including Central Insurance Co. Ltd. Taiwan acquired in late 2006; and growth in Domestic Life Insurance primarily due an increase in life insurance business in force and payout annuity premiums. AIG 2008 Form 10 K 65 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries Net Investment Income The components of consolidated net investment income were as follows: Years Ended December 31, Percentage Increase/(Decrease) 2008 2007 2006 2008 vs. 2007 2007 vs. 2006 (In millions) Fixed maturities, including short term investments $ 20,839 $ 21,445 $ 19,773 (3 )% 8 % Equity securities 592 575 277 3 108 Interest on mortgage and other loans 1,516 1,423 1,253 7 14 Partnerships (2,022 ) 1,986 1,596 24 Mutual funds (989 ) 535 948 (44 ) Trading account losses (725 ) (150 ) Other investments* 1,002 959 1,241 4 (23 ) Total investment income before policyholder income and trading gains (losses) 20,213 26,773 25,088 (25 ) 7 Policyholder investment income and trading gains (losses) (6,984 ) 2,903 2,016 44 Total investment income 13,229 29,676 27,104 (55 ) 9 Investment expenses 1,007 1,057 1,034 (5 ) 2 Net investment income $ 12,222 $ 28,619 $ 26,070 (57 )% 10 % * Includes net investment income from securities lending activities, representing interest earned on securities lending invested collateral offset by interest expense on securities lending payable. 2008 and 2007 Comparison Net investment income decreased in 2008 compared to 2007 due to: losses from partnership and mutual fund investments reflecting significantly weaker market conditions in 2008 than in 2007; significant policyholder investment income and trading losses for Life Insurance Retirement Services (together, policyholder trading losses), which were $7.0 billion in 2008 compared to policyholder trading gains of $2.9 billion for 2007, reflecting equity market declines. Policyholder trading gains (losses) are offset by a change in incurred policy losses and benefits expense. Policyholder trading gains (losses) generally reflect the trends in equity markets, principally in Japan and Asia; losses related to AIGs economic interest in ML II and investment in ML III of approximately $1.1 billion in 2008; and the effect of increased levels of short term investments, for liquidity purposes. 2007 and 2006 Comparison Net investment income increased in 2007 compared to 2006 due to higher levels of interest income on fixed maturity securities, an increase in income from partnerships as well as higher policyholder trading gains. Partially offsetting these increases were trading account losses related to certain investment oriented products in the U.K. for Life Insurance Retirement Services. The policyholder trading gains for 2007 generally reflected the trends in equity markets, principally in Japan and Asia. 66 AIG 2008 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries Years Ended December 31, Net Realized Capital Gains (Losses) 2008 2007 2006 (In millions) Sales of fixed maturity securities $ (5,266 ) $ (468 ) $ (382 ) Sales of equity securities (119 ) 1,087 813 Sales of real estate and other assets 1,239 619 303 Other than temporary impairments: Severity* (29,146 ) (1,557 ) Lack of intent to hold to recovery (12,110 ) (1,054 ) (636 ) Trading at 25 percent or more discount for nine consecutive months Foreign currency declines (1,903 ) (500 ) Issuer specific credit events (5,985 ) (515 ) (262 ) Adverse projected cash flows on structured securities (1,661 ) (446 ) (46 ) Foreign exchange transactions 3,123 (643 ) (382 ) Derivative instruments (3,656 ) (115 ) 698 Total $ (55,484 ) $ (3,592 ) $ 106 * In 2007, includes $643 million related to AIGFP reported in other income. 2008 and 2007 Comparison Net realized capital losses increased $51.9 billion in 2008 compared to 2007 primarily due to an increase in other than temporary impairment charges of $46.7 billion. The increase in other than temporary impairment charges included the following significant items: an increase in severity losses primarily related to certain RMBS, other structured securities and securities of financial institutions due to rapid and severe market valuation declines where the impairment period was not deemed temporary; losses related to the change in AIGs intent and ability to hold to recovery certain securities, primarily those held as collateral in the securities lending program; issuer specific credit events, including charges associated with investments in financial institutions; and adverse projected cash flows on certain structured securities impaired under Emerging Issues Task Force Issue No. 99 20, Recognition of Interest Income and Impairment on Purchased Beneficial Interests and Beneficial Interests that Continue to be Held by a Transferor in Securitized Financial Assets (EITF 99 20) and related interpretive guidance. These other than temporary impairment charges were partially offset by the favorable effect of foreign exchange transactions due to strengthening of the U.S. dollar. See Investments Portfolio Review Other Than Temporary Impairments. During the fourth quarter of 2008, in connection with certain securities lending transactions, AIG met the requirements of sale accounting under FAS 140 because collateral received was insufficient to fund substantially all of the cost of purchasing replacement assets for the securities lent to various counterparties. Accordingly, AIG recognized a loss of $2.4 billion on deemed sales of these securities. Also, net realized capital losses in 2008 included a loss of $2.3 billion, incurred in the fourth quarter of 2008, on RMBS prior to their purchase by ML II. See Investments Securities Lending Activities and Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 2007 and 2006 Comparison AIG recorded net realized capital losses in 2007 compared to net realized capital gains in 2006 primarily due to an increase in other than temporary impairment charges. Other than temporary impairment charges included an AIG 2008 Form 10 K 67 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries increase in severity losses primarily related to certain RMBS and other structured securities, resulting from the disruption in the U.S. residential mortgage and credit markets. Unrealized Market Valuation Losses on AIGFP Super Senior Credit Default Swap Portfolio The unrealized market valuation losses on AIGFPs super senior credit default swap portfolio increased in 2008 compared to 2007 due to significant widening in credit spreads and the downgrades of RMBS and CDO securities by rating agencies in 2008 driven by the credit concerns resulting from U.S. residential mortgages and the severe liquidity crisis affecting the markets. In connection with the termination of $62.1 billion net notional amount of CDS transactions related to multi sector CDOs purchased in the ML III transaction, AIG Financial Products Corp. paid $32.5 billion through the surrender of collateral previously posted (net of $2.5 billion received pursuant to the shortfall agreement), of which $2.5 billion (included in Other income (loss)) is related to certain 2a 7 Put transactions written on multi sector CDOs purchased by ML III. These losses did not affect income, as unrealized market valuation losses were already recorded in income. See Capital Markets Results and Critical Accounting Estimates Valuation of Level 3 Assets and Liabilities and Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Other Income (loss) 2008 and 2007 Comparison Other Income (loss) decreased in 2008 compared to 2007 primarily due to increased losses in Capital Markets of $13.7 billion, which includes a credit valuation adjustment of $9.1 billion on AIGFPs assets and liabilities which are measured at fair value. Asset Management other income decreased by $2.4 billion primarily as a result of lower partnership income related to the Spread Based Investment Business reflecting weaker market conditions in 2008 and a decline in Institutional Asset Management revenues reflecting lower carried interest and losses on sales of real estate investments. These decreases were partially offset by increased rental revenues for ILFC, driven by a larger aircraft fleet and higher lease rates. 2007 and 2006 Comparison Other Income increased in 2007 compared to 2006 primarily due to a $2 billion positive effect for AIGFP related to hedging activities that did not qualify for hedge accounting treatment under FAS 133, increased Asset Management revenues primarily resulting from higher partnership income and carried interest as well as increased rental revenues for ILFC, driven by a larger aircraft fleet and higher lease rates. Policyholder Benefits and Claims Incurred 2008 and 2007 Comparison Policyholder benefits and claims incurred decreased in 2008 compared to 2007 due to a reduction in incurred policy losses and benefits expense for Life Insurance Retirement Services of $7.0 billion in 2008 compared to an increase of $2.9 billion in 2007 related to policyholder trading gains (losses) as discussed above in net investment income. These losses more than offset increased claims and claims adjustment expenses of $5.6 billion in AIGs General Insurance operations, which reflected increased catastrophe losses of $1.5 billion principally from hurricanes Ike and Gustav and a $1.8 billion increase in Mortgage Guaranty claims incurred, reflecting the continued deterioration of the U.S. housing market. 2007 and 2006 Comparison Policyholder benefits and claims incurred increased in 2007 compared to 2006 primarily due to increases in policyholder benefits and claims incurred of $3.2 billion in Life Insurance Retirement Services due to losses and benefits arising from policyholder trading losses of $886 million discussed above in Net Investment Income, a $1.1 billion increase in Foreign General Insurance resulting from the June 2007 U.K. floods, an increase in severe but non catastrophic losses and higher frequency of non severe losses, and a $1.1 billion increase in Mortgage Guaranty claims incurred resulting from the deterioration of the U.S. housing market. 68 AIG 2008 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries Policy Acquisition and Other Insurance Expenses 2008 and 2007 Comparison Policy acquisition and other insurance expenses increased in 2008 compared to 2007 primarily due to a $3.6 billion increase in General Insurance expenses and a $3.7 billion increase in Life Insurance Retirement Services expenses. General Insurance expenses increased primarily due to goodwill impairment charges of $2.0 billion, including $1.2 billion from Commercial Insurance and $696 million from Personal Lines, respectively, primarily related to goodwill arising from acquisitions. Life Insurance Retirement Services expenses increased primarily due to $1.2 billion of goodwill impairment charges related to Domestic Life Insurance and Domestic Retirement Services of $402 million and $817 million, respectively. Life Insurance Retirement Services expenses also increased as a result of the effect of foreign exchange, growth in the business and the effect of FAS 159 implementation. 2007 and 2006 Comparison Policy acquisition and other insurance expenses increased in 2007 compared to 2006 primarily due costs associated with realigning certain legal entities through which Foreign General Insurance operates and the increased significance of Foreign General consumer lines business, which have higher acquisition costs. Life Insurance Retirement Services expenses increased principally as a result of the effect of growth in the Foreign Life Insurance Retirement Services business, increased DAC amortization related to the adoption of SOP 05 1, higher operating expenses related to remediation activities and the effect of foreign exchange. Interest Expense 2008 and 2007 Comparison Interest expense increased in 2008 compared to 2007 on higher levels of borrowings. Interest expense in 2008 included $11.4 billion of interest expense on the Fed Facility which was comprised of $9.3 billion of amortization of the prepaid commitment fee asset associated with the Fed Facility, including accelerated amortization of the prepaid commitment asset of $6.6 billion in connection with the restructuring of the Fed Facility and $1.9 billion of accrued compounding interest. Interest expense in 2008 also included interest on the debt and Equity Units from the dates of issuance in May 2008. The above amounts are reflected in the Other category in AIGs segment results. 2007 and 2006 Comparison Interest expense increased in 2007 compared to 2006 reflecting higher levels of borrowings, including interest on the junior subordinated debt issued in March and June 2007, borrowings used to fund the MIP and borrowings used for general corporate purposes. Restructuring expenses and related asset impairment and other expenses As described in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, AIG commenced an organization wide restructuring plan under which some of its businesses will be divested, some will be held for later divestiture, and some businesses will be prepared for potential subsequent offerings to the public. In connection with activities under this plan, AIG recorded restructuring and separation expenses of $758 million in 2008, consisting of severance expenses of $89 million, contract termination expenses of $27 million, asset write downs of $51 million, other exit expenses of $140 million and separation expenses of $451 million. Other exit expenses primarily include consulting and other professional fees related to (i) asset disposition activities, (ii) AIGs debt and capital restructuring program with the NY Fed and the United States Department of the Treasury and (iii) unwinding of AIGFPs businesses and portfolios. Severance and separation expenses described above include retention awards of $492 million to key employees to maintain ongoing business operations and facilitate the successful execution of the restructuring and asset disposition plan. This amount also includes retention awards to AIGFPs employees under its retention program, which was established in the first quarter of 2008 due to the declining market environment, to manage and AIG 2008 Form 10 K 69 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries unwind its complex businesses. The total amount expected to be incurred related to these retention programs is approximately $1.0 billion. For the year ended December 31, 2008, $139 million, $68 million, $287 million and $69 million of the restructuring and separation expenses have been recorded within the General Insurance, Life Insurance Retirement Services, Financial Services and Asset Management segments, respectively, while $195 million has been recorded in Other operations. Total restructuring and separation expenses could have a material affect on future results of operations and cash flows. Other Expenses 2008 and 2007 Comparison Other Expenses increased in 2008 compared to 2007 primarily due to goodwill impairment charges of $791 million in 2008 in the Financial Services segment related to the Consumer Finance and Capital Markets businesses, which resulted from the downturn in the housing markets, the credit crisis and the intent to unwind AIGFPs businesses and portfolios. In addition, other expenses in 2008 increased compared to 2007 due to higher AGF provisions for finance receivable losses of $674 million in response to the higher levels of delinquencies in AGFs finance receivable portfolio. 2007 and 2006 Comparison Other Expenses increased in 2007 compared to 2006 primarily due to increases in MIP and compensation related expenses in Asset Management, increases in depreciation expense on flight equipment in line with the increase in the size of the aircraft fleet and an increase in AGFs provision for finance receivable losses of $206 million. Income tax expense (benefit) 2008 and 2007 Comparison The effective tax rate on the pre tax loss for 2008 was 7.7 percent. The effective tax rate was lower than the statutory rate of 35 percent due primarily to $26.1 billion of deferred tax expense recorded during 2008, comprising $5.5 billion of deferred tax expense attributable to the potential sale of foreign businesses and a $20.6 billion valuation allowance to reduce its deferred tax asset to an amount that AIG believes is more likely than not to be realized. Realization of the deferred tax asset depends on AIGs ability to generate sufficient taxable income of the appropriate character within the carryforward periods of the jurisdictions in which the net operating losses and deductible temporary differences were incurred. AIG assessed its ability to realize its deferred tax asset of $31.9 billion and concluded a $20.6 billion valuation allowance was required to reduce the deferred tax asset to an amount AIG believes is more likely than not that to be realized. See Note 20 to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion regarding deferred tax asset realization. 2007 and 2006 Comparison The effective tax rate declined from 30.1 percent in 2006 to 16.3 percent in 2007, primarily due to the unrealized market valuation losses on AIGFPs super senior credit default swap portfolio and other than temporary impairment charges. These losses, which are taxed at a U.S. tax rate of 35 percent and are included in the calculation of income tax expense, reduced AIGs overall effective tax rate. In addition, other tax benefits, including tax exempt interest and effects of foreign operations were proportionately larger in 2007 than in 2006 due to the decline in pre tax income in 2007. Furthermore, tax deductions taken in 2007 for SICO compensation plans for which the expense had been recognized in prior years also reduced the effective tax rate in 2007. 70 AIG 2008 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries Segment Results The following table summarizes the operations of each operating segment. See also Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Years Ended December 31, Percentage Increase/(Decrease) 2008 2007 2006 2008 vs. 2007 2007 vs. 2006 (In millions) Total Revenues: General Insurance $ 44,676 $ 51,708 $ 49,206 (14 )% 5 % Life Insurance Retirement Services 3,054 53,570 50,878 (94 ) 5 Financial Services (31,095 ) (1,309 ) 7,777 Asset Management (4,526 ) 5,625 4,543 24 Other (81 ) 457 483 (5 ) Consolidation and eliminations (924 ) 13 500 (97 ) Total $ 11,104 $ 110,064 $ 113,387 (90 ) (3 ) Net realized capital gains (losses): General Insurance $ (5,023 ) $ (106 ) $ 59 Life Insurance Retirement Services (44,347 ) (2,398 ) 88 Financial Services (498 ) (100 ) (133 ) Asset Management (8,758 ) (1,000 ) (125 ) Other 3,142 12 217 (95 ) Total $ (55,484 ) $ (3,592 ) $ 106 Operating Income (loss): General Insurance $ (5,746 ) $ 10,526 $ 10,412 1 Life Insurance Retirement Services (37,446 ) 8,186 10,121 (19 ) Financial Services (40,821 ) (9,515 ) 383 Asset Management (9,187 ) 1,164 1,538 (24 ) Other (15,055 ) (2,140 ) (1,435 ) Consolidation and eliminations (506 ) 722 668 8 Total $ (108,761 ) $ 8,943 $ 21,687 % (59 )% General Insurance Operations AIGs General Insurance subsidiaries are multiple line companies writing substantially all lines of property and casualty insurance and various personal lines both domestically and abroad and constitute the AIG Property Casualty Group (formerly known as Domestic General Insurance) and the Foreign General Insurance Group. As previously noted, AIG believes it should present and discuss its financial information in a manner most meaningful to its financial statement users. Accordingly, in its General Insurance business, AIG uses certain regulatory measures, where AIG has determined these measurements to be useful and meaningful. A critical discipline of a successful general insurance business is the objective to produce profit from underwriting activities taking into account costs of capital. AIG views underwriting results to be critical in the overall evaluation of performance. Statutory underwriting profit is derived by reducing net premiums earned by net losses and loss expenses incurred and net expenses incurred. Statutory accounting generally requires immediate expense recognition and AIG 2008 Form 10 K 71 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries ignores the matching of revenues and expenses as required by GAAP. That is, for statutory purposes, expenses (including acquisition costs) are recognized immediately, not over the same period that the revenues are earned. Thus, statutory expenses exclude changes in DAC. GAAP provides for the recognition of certain acquisition expenses at the same time revenues are earned, the accounting principle of matching. Therefore, acquisition expenses are deferred and amortized over the period the related net premiums written are earned. DAC is reviewed for recoverability, and such review requires management judgment. The most comparable GAAP measure to statutory underwriting profit is income before income taxes, minority interest and cumulative effect of change in accounting principles. A table reconciling statutory underwriting profit to income before income taxes, minority interest and cumulative effect of change in accounting principles is contained in footnote (b) to the following table. See also Critical Accounting Estimates herein and Notes 1 and 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. AIG, along with most property and casualty insurance companies, uses the loss ratio, the expense ratio and the combined ratio as measures of underwriting performance. The loss ratio is the sum of claims and claims adjustment expenses divided by net premiums earned. The expense ratio is underwriting expenses divided by net premiums earned. These ratios are relative measurements that describe, for every $100 of net premiums earned, the cost of losses and expenses, respectively. A combined ratio of less than 100 percent indicates an underwriting profit and over 100 percent indicates an underwriting loss. Net premiums written are initially deferred and earned based upon the terms of the underlying policies. The net unearned premium reserve constitutes deferred revenues which are generally earned ratably over the policy period. Thus, the net unearned premium reserve is not fully recognized in income as net premiums earned until the end of the policy period. The underwriting environment varies from country to country, as does the degree of litigation activity. Regulation, product type and competition have a direct effect on pricing and consequently on profitability as reflected in underwriting profit and general insurance ratios. General Insurance Results General Insurance operating income is comprised of statutory underwriting profit (loss), changes in DAC, net investment income and net realized capital gains and losses. Operating income (loss), as well as net premiums written, net premiums earned, net investment income and net realized capital gains (losses) and statutory ratios were as follows: Years Ended December 31, Percentage Increase/(Decrease) 2008 2007 2006 2008 vs. 2007 2007 vs. 2006 (In millions, except ratios) Net premiums written: AIG Property Casualty Group Commercial Insurance $ 21,099 $ 24,112 $ 24,312 (12 )% (1 )% Transatlantic 4,108 3,953 3,633 4 9 Personal Lines 4,514 4,808 4,654 (6 ) 3 Mortgage Guaranty 1,123 1,143 866 (2 ) 32 Foreign General Insurance 14,390 13,051 11,401 10 14 Total $ 45,234 $ 47,067 $ 44,866 (4 )% 5 % 72 AIG 2008 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries Years Ended December 31, Percentage Increase/(Decrease) 2008 2007 2006 2008 vs. 2007 2007 vs. 2006 (In millions, except ratios) Net premiums earned: AIG Property Casualty Group Commercial Insurance $ 22,351 $ 23,849 $ 23,910 (6 )% % Transatlantic 4,067 3,903 3,604 4 8 Personal Lines 4,679 4,695 4,645 1 Mortgage Guaranty 1,038 886 740 17 20 Foreign General Insurance 14,087 12,349 10,552 14 17 Total $ 46,222 $ 45,682 $ 43,451 1 % 5 % Net investment income: AIG Property Casualty Group Commercial Insurance $ 1,969 $ 3,879 $ 3,411 (49 )% 14 % Transatlantic 440 470 435 (6 ) 8 Personal Lines 223 231 225 (3 ) 3 Mortgage Guaranty 183 158 140 16 13 Foreign General Insurance 651 1,388 1,484 (53 ) (6 ) Reclassifications and eliminations 11 6 1 Total $ 3,477 $ 6,132 $ 5,696 (43 )% 8 % Net realized capital gains (losses) $ (5,023 ) $ (106 ) $ 59 % % Operating income (loss)(a): AIG Property Casualty Group Commercial Insurance $ (3,065 ) $ 7,305 $ 5,845 % 25 % Transatlantic (61 ) 661 589 12 Personal Lines (785 ) 67 432 (84 ) Mortgage Guaranty (2,475 ) (637 ) 328 Foreign General Insurance 618 3,137 3,228 (80 ) (3 ) Reclassifications and eliminations 22 (7 ) (10 ) Total $ (5,746 ) $ 10,526 $ 10,412 % 1 % Statutory underwriting profit (loss)(a)(b): AIG Property Casualty Group Commercial Insurance $ (1,465 ) $ 3,404 $ 2,322 % 47 % Transatlantic (80 ) 165 129 28 Personal Lines (944 ) (191 ) 204 Mortgage Guaranty (2,666 ) (849 ) 188 Foreign General Insurance 1,014 1,544 1,565 (34 ) (1 ) Total $ (4,141 ) $ 4,073 $ 4,408 % (8 )% AIG Property Casualty Group(a): Loss ratio 86.3 71.2 69.6 Expense ratio 30.1 20.6 21.7 Combined ratio 116.4 91.8 91.3 AIG 2008 Form 10 K 73 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries Years Ended December 31, Percentage Increase/(Decrease) 2008 2007 2006 2008 vs. 2007 2007 vs. 2006 (In millions, except ratios) Foreign General Insurance(a): Loss ratio 55.6 50.6 48.9 Expense ratio 36.9 35.1 34.3 Combined ratio 92.5 85.7 83.2 Consolidated(a): Loss ratio 76.9 65.6 64.6 Expense ratio 32.2 24.5 24.7 Combined ratio 109.1 90.1 89.3 (a) Catastrophe related losses in 2008 and 2007 by reporting unit were as follows. There were no significant catastrophe related losses in 2006. 2008 2007 Insurance Net Reinstatement Insurance Net Reinstatement Related Losses Premium Cost Related Losses Premium Cost (In millions) Reporting Unit: Commercial Insurance $ 1,408 $ 5 $ 113 $ (13 ) Transatlantic 191 (14 ) 11 (1 ) Personal Lines 105 2 61 14 Foreign General Insurance 128 15 90 1 Total $ 1,832 $ 8 $ 275 $ 1 (b) Statutory underwriting profit (loss) is a measure that U.S. domiciled insurance companies are required to report to their regulatory authorities. The following table reconciles statutory underwriting profit (loss) to operating income (loss) for General Insurance for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006: 74 AIG 2008 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries Foreign Commercial Personal Mortgage General Reclassifications Years Ended December 31, Insurance Transatlantic Lines Guaranty Insurance and Eliminations Total (In millions) 2008 Statutory underwriting profit (loss) $ (1,465 ) $ (80 ) $ (944 ) $ (2,666 ) $ 1,014 $ $ (4,141 ) Increase (decrease) in DAC (90 ) 7 (10 ) 1 33 (59 ) Net investment income 1,969 440 223 183 651 11 3,477 Net realized capital gains (losses) (3,479 ) (428 ) (54 ) 7 (1,080 ) 11 (5,023 ) Operating income (loss) $ (3,065 ) $ (61 ) $ (785 ) $ (2,475 ) $ 618 $ 22 $ (5,746 ) 2007 Statutory underwriting profit (loss) $ 3,404 $ 165 $ (191 ) $ (849 ) $ 1,544 $ $ 4,073 Increase in DAC 97 17 29 57 227 427 Net investment income 3,879 470 231 158 1,388 6 6,132 Net realized capital gains (losses) (75 ) 9 (2 ) (3 ) (22 ) (13 ) (106 ) Operating income (loss) $ 7,305 $ 661 $ 67 $ (637 ) $ 3,137 $ (7 ) $ 10,526 2006 Statutory underwriting profit (loss) $ 2,322 $ 129 $ 204 $ 188 $ 1,565 $ $ 4,408 Increase in DAC 14 14 2 3 216 249 Net investment income 3,411 435 225 140 1,484 1 5,696 Net realized capital gains (losses) 98 11 1 (3 ) (37 ) (11 ) 59 Operating income (loss) $ 5,845 $ 589 $ 432 $ 328 $ 3,228 $ (10 ) $ 10,412 AIG transacts business in most major foreign currencies. The following table summarizes the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on the growth of General Insurance net premiums written: Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 Growth in original currency* (5.5 )% 3.5 % Foreign exchange effect 1.6 1.4 Growth as reported in U.S. dollars (3.9 )% 4.9 % * Computed using a constant exchange rate for each period. 2008 and 2007 Comparison General Insurance reported an operating loss in 2008 compared to operating income in 2007 due to declines in underwriting results and net investment income as well as increased net realized capital losses. The combined ratio for 2008 increased to 109.1, an increase of 19.0 points compared to the same period in 2007, primarily due to an increase in the loss ratio of 11.3 points. The loss ratio for accident year 2008 recorded in 2008 was 6.8 points higher than the loss ratio for accident year 2007 recorded in 2007. Catastrophe related losses were $1.8 billion and $276 million in 2008 and 2007, accounting for 3.4 points of the increase in the accident year loss ratio. Increases in Mortgage Guaranty losses accounted for 2.8 points of the increase in the 2008 accident year loss ratio. The loss ratio also increased for other property and casualty lines due to premium rate decreases and changes in loss trends. Development from prior years increased incurred losses by $155 million in 2008 and decreased incurred losses by $606 million in 2007. The expense ratio increased primarily due to goodwill impairment charges of $2.0 billion in AIG 2008 Form 10 K 75 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries 2008, principally attributable to goodwill arising from the acquisitions of HSB, 21st Century, and Transatlantic as well as the recognition of a premium deficiency reserve of $222 million in 2008 related to UGCs second lien business. Also contributing to the operating loss was Personal Lines, primarily resulting from the goodwill impairment charge noted above. General Insurance net premiums written declined $1.8 billion in 2008 compared to 2007, including a decline in U.S. workers compensation net premiums of $1.7 billion due to declining rates, lower employment levels and increased competition. Declining rates in other casualty lines within Commercial Insurance and a reduction in Personal Lines net premiums earned were largely offset by growth in Foreign General Insurance from both established and new distribution channels and the positive effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. See Results of Operations Consolidated Results for further discussion on Net investment income and Realized capital gains (losses). 2007 and 2006 Comparison General Insurance operating income increased in 2007 compared to 2006 due to growth in net investment income, partially offset by a decline in underwriting profit and net realized capital losses. The 2007 combined ratio increased to 90.1, an increase of 0.9 points compared to 2006, primarily due to an increase in the loss ratio of 1.0 points. The loss ratio for accident year 2007 recorded in 2007 was 2.3 points higher than the loss ratio for accident year 2006 recorded in 2006. Increases in Mortgage Guaranty losses accounted for a 2.1 point increase in the 2007 accident year loss ratio. The higher 2007 accident year loss ratio was partially offset by favorable development on prior years, which reduced incurred losses by $606 million and $53 million in 2007 and 2006, respectively. Additional favorable loss development of $50 million (recognized in consolidation and related to certain asbestos settlements) reduced overall incurred losses. Commercial Insurance Results 2008 and 2007 Comparison Commercial Insurance operating income decreased in 2008 compared to 2007, primarily due to significant declines in underwriting results and net investment income, as well as significantly greater net realized capital losses in 2008. The decline in underwriting results is also reflected in the combined ratio, which increased 21.6 points in 2008 compared to 2007. The loss ratio for accident year 2008 recorded in 2008 included a 6.0 point effect related to catastrophe losses, and was 13.3 points higher than the loss ratio for accident year 2007 recorded in 2007. Prior year development and increases in the loss reserve discount reduced incurred losses by $169 million and $555 million in 2008 and 2007, respectively, accounting for an additional 1.6 point increase in the combined ratio. Commercial Insurance net premiums written declined in 2008 compared to 2007 primarily due to declines in premiums from workers compensation and other casualty lines. Declines in other casualty lines were due to declining rates and reduced activity in the construction and transportation industries. Management and Professional liability lines declined due to increased competition, particularly in the fourth quarter of 2008. Commercial Insurance expense ratio increased to 26.8 in 2008 compared to 18.4 in 2007. The most significant driver of the increase was goodwill impairment charges principally attributable to goodwill arising from the acquisition of HSB, representing 5.4 points of the increase in the expense ratio. Additionally, the provision for uncollectible premiums and other provisions increased approximately $178 million due to economic conditions, compared to a reduction of $18 million of expenses in 2007 as provisions established in 2006 were released, accounting for 0.9 points of the increase in the expense ratio. The remaining increase is due to the decline in net premiums earned and mix of business. While AIG is aggressively pursuing expense reductions, the impact of expense savings will lag the decline in net written premiums. 2007 and 2006 Comparison Commercial Insurance operating income increased in 2007 compared to 2006 primarily due to growth in both net investment income and underwriting profit. The improvement is also reflected in the combined ratio, which declined 4.9 points in 2007 compared to 2006, primarily due to an improvement in the loss ratio of 3.3 points. Catastrophe related losses increased the 2007 loss ratio by 0.4 points. The loss ratio for accident year 2007 recorded 76 AIG 2008 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries in 2007 was 0.9 points lower than the loss ratio recorded in 2006 for accident year 2006. The loss ratio for accident year 2006 has improved in each quarter since September 30, 2006. As a result, the 2007 accident year loss ratio is 2.8 points higher than the 2006 accident year loss ratio, reflecting reductions in 2006 accident year losses recorded through December 31, 2007. Prior year development reduced incurred losses by $390 million in 2007 and increased incurred losses by $175 million in 2006, accounting for 2.4 points of the improvement in the loss ratio. Commercial Insurance expense ratio decreased to 18.4 in 2007 compared to 20.1 in 2006, primarily due to the 2006 charge related to the remediation of the material weakness in internal control over certain balance sheet reconciliations that accounted for 2.1 points of the decline. The decline was partially offset by increases in operating expenses for marketing initiatives and operations. Mortgage Guaranty Results 2008 and 2007 Comparison Mortgage Guaranty operating loss increased in 2008 compared to 2007 due to declining housing values, increasing mortgage foreclosures and the recognition of a premium deficiency reserve on the second lien business. The domestic first lien operating loss increased by $1.0 billion in 2008 to $1.1 billion compared to 2007 while the second lien operating loss of $1.2 billion in 2008, which includes the recognition of a $222 million premium deficiency reserve, increased $656 million compared to 2007. During 2008, UGC tightened underwriting standards and increased premium rates for its first lien business and ceased insuring second lien business as of September 30, 2008. During the fourth quarter of 2008, UGC ceased insuring new private student loan business and suspended insuring new business throughout its European operations. All of these actions were in response to the deteriorating market conditions and resulted in a significant decline in new business written during the second half of 2008. Net premiums written declined in 2008 compared to 2007. First and second lien business net premiums written grew moderately, primarily due to increased persistency year over year. However, new insurance written, which is a measure of the amount of new insurance added to the portfolio, decreased 45 percent, 82 percent and 42 percent for first and second lien business and international business, respectively, during 2008 compared to 2007. These declines are primarily due to UGCs tightening of underwriting guidelines and rate increases during the year and the actions described above. Claims and claims adjustment expenses increased $1.8 billion compared to 2007 primarily due to the continuing decline in the domestic housing market. Domestic first lien losses incurred of $1.8 billion increased 159 percent compared to the same period in 2007 resulting in a 2008 first lien loss ratio of 276 compared to a 2007 loss ratio of 122. Second lien losses incurred of $1.2 billion increased 61 percent compared to the same period in 2007. UGC strengthened international loss reserves by $96 million during the fourth quarter of 2008. Increases in both domestic and international losses incurred resulted in an overall loss ratio for Mortgage Guaranty (excluding the second lien business in run off) of 257 in 2008 compared to 111 in 2007. UGCs ability to cede losses to captive insurers will be reduced in future periods primarily due to captive reinsurers exceeding the limits of the reinsurance agreements. Historically, Mortgage Guaranty included all mortgage insurance risks in a single premium deficiency test because the manner of acquiring, servicing and measuring the profitability of all Mortgage Guaranty contracts was consistent. Due to the run off in the second lien business, management no longer measures the profitability for the second lien business in the same manner as that for Mortgage Guarantys ongoing businesses, and will no longer report loss ratio or expense ratio information for the second lien business. As a result, UGC performs a separate premium deficiency calculation for the second lien business. At December 31, 2008, the present value of expected second lien future losses and expenses (net of expected future recoveries) was $1.4 billion, and was offset by the present value of expected second lien future premiums of $499 million and the already established liability for unpaid claims and claims adjustment expense of $701 million, resulting in a premium deficiency reserve of $222 million. The second lien risk in force at December 31, 2008 totaled $2.9 billion with 530 thousand second lien policies in force compared to $3.8 billion of risk in force and 644 thousand policies in force at December 31, 2007. The second lien business is expected to run off over the next 10 to 12 years. Risk in force represents the full amount of second lien loans insured reduced for contractual AIG 2008 Form 10 K 77 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries aggregate loss limits on certain pools of loans, usually 10 percent of the full amount of loans insured in each pool. Mortgage Guaranty may record net losses on this business in future periods because the timing of future delinquencies may precede recognition of future premiums in an amount in excess of the premium deficiency reserve. UGCs domestic mortgage risk in force totaled $30.1 billion as of December 31, 2008 and the 60 day delinquency ratio was 7.5 percent (based on number of policies, consistent with mortgage industry practice) compared to domestic mortgage risk in force of $29.8 billion and a delinquency ratio of 3.7 percent at December 31, 2007. Approximately 84 percent of the domestic mortgage risk is secured by first lien, owner occupied properties. 2007 and 2006 Comparison Mortgage Guaranty incurred an operating loss in 2007 compared to operating income in 2006 as the deteriorating U.S. residential housing market adversely affected losses incurred for both the domestic first and second lien businesses. Domestic first and second lien losses incurred increased 362 percent and 346 percent respectively, compared to 2006, resulting in loss ratios of 122.0 and 357.0, respectively, in 2007. Increases in domestic losses incurred resulted in an overall loss ratio of 168.6 in 2007 compared to 47.2 in 2006. Prior year development reduced incurred losses in 2007 by $25 million compared to a reduction of $115 million in 2006, which accounted for 10.2 points of the increase in the loss ratio. Net premiums written increased in 2007 compared to 2006 primarily due to growth in the international markets, accounting for 58 percent of the increase in net premiums written. In addition, the increased use of mortgage insurance for credit enhancement as well as better persistency resulted in an increase in domestic first lien premiums. The expense ratio in 2007 was 21.2, down from 23.4 in 2006 as premium growth offset the effect of increased expenses related to UGCs international expansion and the employment of additional operational resources in the second lien business. Foreign General Insurance Results 2008 and 2007 Comparison Foreign General Insurance operating income decreased in 2008 compared to 2007 due to a decrease in statutory underwriting profit and change in DAC of $724 million, an increase in net realized capital losses reflecting other than temporary impairment charges related to the deterioration in the fixed income markets (see Results of Operations Consolidated Results Net Realized Gains (losses) for further discussion), and a decrease in net investment income reflecting lower mutual fund and partnership income related to poor performance in the equity markets (see Results of Operations Consolidated Results Net Investment Income for further discussion). Net premiums written increased 10 percent (5 percent in original currency) in 2008 compared to 2007 due to growth in commercial and consumer lines driven by new business from established and new distribution channels, including the late 2007 acquisition of Wrttembergische und Badische Versicherungs AG (WBa) in Germany. New business in the commercial lines in the U.K. and Europe and decreases in the use of reinsurance increased net premiums earned, but were partially offset by declines in premium rates. Growth in personal accident business in Latin America, South East Asia and Europe also contributed to the increase, however, premiums from the Lloyds Syndicate Ascot continued to decline. The loss ratio in 2008 increased 5.1 points compared to 2007 due to: The loss ratio for accident year 2008 recorded in 2008 was 3.2 points higher than the loss ratio recorded in 2007 for accident year 2007 primarily due to continued rate erosion and increased lower level claims frequency. Loss development on prior accident years increased the loss ratio by 1.9 points. 78 AIG 2008 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries 2007 and 2006 Comparison Foreign General Insurance operating income decreased in 2007 compared to 2006, due primarily to decreases in net investment income and statutory underwriting profit. Net investment income in 2006 included income of $424 million from unit investment trusts (UCITS) adjustments. Underwriting profit decreased due to losses from the June 2007 U.K. floods, an increase in severe but non catastrophic losses and higher frequency of non severe losses compared to 2006, partially offset by higher favorable loss development on prior accident years. Net premiums written increased 14 percent (10 percent in original currency) in 2007 compared to 2006, reflecting growth in commercial and consumer lines driven by new business from both established and new distribution channels, including Central Insurance Co. Ltd. in Taiwan acquired in late 2006. Net premiums written for commercial lines increased due to new business in the U.K. and Europe and decreases in the use of reinsurance, partially offset by declines in premium rates. Growth in consumer lines in Latin America, Asia and Europe also contributed to the increase. Net premiums written for the Lloyds syndicate Ascot (Ascot) and Aviation declined due to rate decreases and increased market competition. The 2007 loss ratio increased a total of 1.7 points compared to 2006. Losses of $90 million from the June 2007 U.K. floods added 0.7 points to the loss ratio and higher severe but non catastrophic losses and higher loss frequency for personal accident business in Japan and personal lines business in Asia and Latin America added 1.6 points to the loss ratio. Partially offsetting these increases was favorable loss development on prior accident years of $286 million in 2007 compared to $183 million in 2006, which decreased the loss ratio by 0.6 points. The 2007 expense ratio increased 1.3 points compared to 2006. This increase reflected the cost of realigning certain legal entities through which Foreign General Insurance operates and the increased significance of consumer lines of business, which have higher acquisition costs. These factors contributed 0.7 points to the 2007 expense ratio. Liability for unpaid claims and claims adjustment expense The following table presents the components of the General Insurance gross liability for unpaid claims and claims adjustment expense (loss reserves) by major lines of business on a statutory annual statement basis:* At December 31, 2008 2007 (In millions) Other liability occurrence $ 19,773 $ 20,580 Workers compensation 15,170 15,568 Other liability claims made 13,189 13,878 International 11,786 7,036 Auto liability 5,593 6,068 Property 5,201 4,274 Mortgage guaranty/credit 3,137 1,426 Reinsurance 3,102 3,127 Products liability 2,400 2,416 Medical malpractice 2,210 2,361 Aircraft 1,693 1,623 Accident and health 1,451 1,818 Commercial multiple peril 1,163 1,900 Fidelity/surety 1,028 1,222 Other 2,362 2,203 Total $ 89,258 $ 85,500 * Presented by lines of business pursuant to statutory reporting requirements as prescribed by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners. AIG 2008 Form 10 K 79 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries Reserves for non U.S. domiciled companies are carried in the International line of business. As a result of restructuring of certain foreign operations in 2008, reserves for the International line of business included amounts formerly reported in other lines of business. AIGs gross liability for unpaid claims and claims adjustment expense represents the accumulation of estimates of ultimate losses, including estimates for incurred but not yet reported reserves (IBNR) and loss expenses. The methods used to determine loss reserve estimates and to establish the resulting reserves are continually reviewed and updated. Any adjustments resulting therefrom are currently reflected in operating income. Because loss reserve estimates are subject to the outcome of future events, changes in estimates are unavoidable given that loss trends vary and time is often required for changes in trends to be recognized and confirmed. Reserve changes that increase previous estimates of ultimate cost are referred to as unfavorable or adverse development or reserve strengthening. Reserve changes that decrease previous estimates of ultimate cost are referred to as favorable development. Estimates for mortgage guaranty insurance losses and loss adjustment expense reserves are based on notices of mortgage loan delinquencies and estimates of delinquencies that have been incurred but have not been reported by loan servicers, based upon historical reporting trends. Mortgage Guaranty establishes reserves using a percentage of the contractual liability (for each delinquent loan reported) that is based upon past experience regarding certain loan factors such as age of the delinquency, cure rates, dollar amount of the loan and type of mortgage loan. Because mortgage delinquencies and claims payments are affected primarily by macroeconomic events, such as changes in home price appreciation or depreciation, interest rates and unemployment, the determination of the ultimate loss cost requires a high degree of judgment. AIG believes it has provided appropriate reserves for currently delinquent loans. Consistent with industry practice, AIG does not establish a reserve for insured loans that are not currently delinquent, but that may become delinquent in future periods. At December 31, 2008, General Insurance net loss reserves increased $3.17 billion from 2007 to $72.46 billion. The net loss reserves represent loss reserves reduced by reinsurance recoverable, net of an allowance for unrecoverable reinsurance and applicable discount for future investment income. The following table classifies the components of the General Insurance net liability for unpaid claims and claims adjustment expense by business unit: At December 31, 2008 2007 (In millions) Commercial Insurance $ 48,789 $ 47,392 Transatlantic 7,349 6,900 Personal Lines 2,460 2,417 Mortgage Guaranty 3,004 1,339 Foreign General Insurance 10,853 11,240 Total net loss reserves $ 72,455 $ 69,288 Discounting of Reserves At December 31, 2008, AIGs overall General Insurance net loss reserves reflect a loss reserve discount of $2.57 billion, including tabular and non tabular calculations. The tabular workers compensation discount is calculated using a 3.5 percent interest rate and the 1979 81 Decennial Mortality Table. The non tabular workers compensation discount is calculated separately for companies domiciled in New York and Pennsylvania, and follows the statutory regulations for each state. For New York companies, the discount is based on a five percent interest rate and the companies own payout patterns. For Pennsylvania companies, the statute has specified discount factors for accident years 2001 and prior, which are based on a six percent interest rate and an industry payout pattern. For accident years 2002 and subsequent, the discount is based on the payout patterns and investment yields of the companies. Certain other liability occurrence and products liability occurrence business in AIRCO that was written by Commercial Insurance is discounted based on the yield of United States Department of the Treasury securities ranging from one to twenty years and the Commercial Insurance payout pattern for this business. The discount is comprised of the following: $733 million tabular discount for workers compensation in Commercial 80 AIG 2008 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries Insurance; $1.67 billion non tabular discount for workers compensation in Commercial Insurance; and, $170 million non tabular discount for other liability occurrence and products liability occurrence in AIRCO for Commercial Insurance business. Since 1998 AIRCO has assumed on a quota share basis certain general liability and products liability business written by Commercial Insurance, and the reserves for this business are carried on a discounted basis by AIRCO. Results of the Reserving Process AIG believes that the General Insurance net loss reserves are adequate to cover General Insurance net losses and loss expenses as of December 31, 2008. While AIG regularly reviews the adequacy of established loss reserves, there can be no assurance that AIGs ultimate loss reserves will not develop adversely and materially exceed AIGs loss reserves as of December 31, 2008. In the opinion of management, such adverse development and resulting increase in reserves is not likely to have a material adverse effect on AIGs consolidated financial condition, although it could have a material adverse effect on AIGs consolidated results of operations for an individual reporting period. See Item 1A. Risk Factors Casualty Insurance and Underwriting Reserves. The following table presents the reconciliation of net loss reserves: At December 31, 2008 2007 2006 (In millions) Net liability for unpaid claims and claims adjustment expense at beginning of year $ 69,288 $ 62,630 $ 57,476 Foreign exchange effect (2,113 ) 955 741 Acquisitions and dispositions(a) (269 ) 317 55 Losses and loss expenses incurred: Current year 35,085 30,261 27,805 Prior years, other than accretion of discount(b) 118 (656 ) (53 ) Prior years, accretion of discount 317 327 300 Losses and loss expenses incurred 35,520 29,932 28,052 Losses and loss expenses paid: Current year 13,440 9,684 8,368 Prior years 16,531 14,862 15,326 Losses and loss expenses paid 29,971 24,546 23,694 Net liability for unpaid claims and claims adjustment expense at end of year $ 72,455 $ 69,288 $ 62,630 (a) Reflects the closing balance with respect to Unibanco divested in the fourth quarter of 2008 and the opening balance with respect to the acquisitions of WBa and the Central Insurance Co., Ltd. in 2007 and 2006, respectively. (b) Includes $88 million and $181 million in 2007 and 2006, respectively, for the general reinsurance operations of Transatlantic and, $7 million, $64 million and $103 million of losses incurred in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, resulting from 2005 and 2004 catastrophes. AIG 2008 Form 10 K 81 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries The following tables summarize development, (favorable) or unfavorable, of incurred losses and loss expenses for prior years (other than accretion of discount): Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 (In millions) Prior Accident Year Development by Reporting Unit: Commercial Insurance $ (24 ) $ (390 ) $ 175 Personal Lines 65 7 (111 ) Mortgage Guaranty 177 (25 ) (115 ) Foreign General Insurance (62 ) (286 ) (183 ) Subtotal 156 (694 ) (234 ) Transatlantic (1 ) 88 181 Asbestos settlements* (37 ) (50 ) Prior years, other than accretion of discount $ 118 $ (656 ) $ (53 ) * Represents the effect of settlements of certain asbestos liabilities. Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 (In millions) Prior Accident Year Development by Major Class of Business: Excess casualty (Commercial Insurance) $ 1,105 $ 73 $ 102 DO and related management liability (Commercial Insurance) (430 ) (305 ) (20 ) Excess workers compensation (Commercial Insurance) (12 ) (14 ) 74 Healthcare (Commercial insurance) (310 ) (194 ) (130 ) Reinsurance (Transatlantic) (1 ) 88 181 Asbestos and environmental (primarily Commercial Insurance) 51 18 208 All other, net (285 ) (322 ) (468 ) Prior years, other than accretion of discount $ 118 $ (656 ) $ (53 ) Years Ended December 31, Calendar Year 2008 2007 2006 (In millions) Prior Accident Year Development by Accident Year: Accident Year 2007 $ (370 ) 2006 (590 ) $ (1,248 ) 2005 (455 ) (446 ) $ (1,576 ) 2004 (335 ) (428 ) (511 ) 2003 200 37 (212 ) 2002 176 234 373 2001 238 263 29 2000 341 321 338 1999 346 47 382 1998 and prior 567 564 1,124 Prior years, other than accretion of discount $ 118 $ (656 ) $ (53 ) 82 AIG 2008 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries In determining the loss development from prior accident years, AIG conducts analyses to determine the change in estimated ultimate loss for each accident year for each profit center. For example, if loss emergence for a profit center is different than expected for certain accident years, the actuaries examine the indicated effect such emergence would have on the reserves of that profit center. In some cases, the higher or lower than expected emergence may result in no clear change in the ultimate loss estimate for the accident years in question, and no adjustment would be made to the profit centers reserves for prior accident years. In other cases, the higher or lower than expected emergence may result in a larger change, either favorable or unfavorable, than the difference between the actual and expected loss emergence. Such additional analyses were conducted for each profit center, as appropriate, in 2008 to determine the loss development from prior accident years for 2008. As part of its reserving process, AIG also considers notices of claims received with respect to emerging issues, such as those related to the U.S. mortgage and housing market. 2008 Net Loss Development In 2008, net loss development from prior accident years was adverse by approximately $118 million, including approximately $339 million of favorable development relating to loss sensitive business in the first three months of 2008 (which was offset by an equal amount of negative earned premium development), and excluding approximately $317 million from accretion of loss reserve discount. Excluding both the favorable development relating to loss sensitive business and accretion of loss reserve discount, net loss development from prior accident years in 2008 was adverse by approximately $457 million. The overall adverse development of $118 million consisted of approximately $1.75 billion of favorable development from accident years 2004 through 2007 offset by approximately $1.87 billion of adverse loss development from accident years 2003 and prior. The adverse development from accident years 2003 and prior was primarily related to excess casualty business within Commercial Insurance; this business accounted for approximately $1.25 billion of the adverse development from accident years 2003 and prior. The favorable development from accident years 2004 through 2007 included approximately $590 million in favorable development from business written by Lexington Insurance Company, including healthcare, catastrophic casualty, casualty and program businesses. Financial Services divisions within Commercial Insurance, including DO and related management liability business, contributed approximately $430 million to the favorable development from accident years 2004 through 2007, relating primarily to DO, and related management liability business from accident years 2004 and 2005. The adverse development from accident years 2003 and prior included approximately $200 million related to claims involving MTBE, a gasoline additive, primarily on excess casualty business within Commercial Insurance from accident years 2000 and prior. In addition, the excess casualty adverse development reflect continued emergence of latent claims such as construction defect, product aggregate, and pharmaceutical related exposures, as well as higher than expected large loss activity from these accident years. AIGs exposure to these latent exposures was reduced after 2002 due to significant changes in policy terms and conditions as well as underwriting guidelines. (See Net Loss Development by Class of Business below). Other segments throughout AIG also contributed to the adverse development from accident year 2003 and prior, including approximately $215 million relating to Transatlantic. Mortgage Guaranty contributed approximately $177 million of overall adverse development in 2008, with $159 million relating to accident year 2007. See Year to Date Mortgage Guaranty Results 2008 and 2007 Comparison above. 2007 Net Loss Development In 2007, net loss development from prior accident years was favorable by approximately $656 million, including approximately $88 million of adverse development from Transatlantic; and excluding approximately $327 million from accretion of loss reserve discount. Excluding Transatlantic, as well as accretion of discount, net loss development in 2007 from prior accident years was favorable by approximately $744 million. The overall favorable development of $656 million consisted of approximately $2.12 billion of favorable development from accident years 2004 through 2006, partially offset by approximately $1.43 billion of adverse development from accident years 2002 and prior and $37 million of adverse development from accident year 2003. In 2007, most classes of AIGs business continued to experience favorable development for accident years 2004 through 2006. The majority of the adverse development from accident years 2002 and prior was related to development from excess casualty and primary workers compensation business within Commercial Insurance and from Transatlantic. The development from accident year 2003 was primarily related to adverse development from excess casualty and primary workers compensation business within Commercial Insurance offset by favorable development from most AIG 2008 Form 10 K 83 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries other classes of business. The overall favorable development of $656 million included approximately $305 million pertaining to the DO and related management liability classes of business within Commercial Insurance, consisting of approximately $335 million of favorable development from accident years 2003 through 2006, partially offset by approximately $30 million of adverse development from accident years 2002 and prior. The overall favorable development of $656 million also included approximately $300 million of adverse development from primary workers compensation business within Commercial Insurance. 2006 Net Loss Development In 2006, net loss development from prior accident years was favorable by approximately $53 million, including approximately $198 million in net adverse development from asbestos and environmental reserves resulting from the updated ground up analysis of these exposures in the fourth quarter of 2006; approximately $103 million of adverse development pertaining to the major hurricanes in 2004 and 2005; and $181 million of adverse development from Transatlantic; and excluding approximately $300 million from accretion of loss reserve discount. Excluding the fourth quarter asbestos and environmental reserve increase, catastrophes and Transatlantic, as well as accretion of discount, net loss development in 2006 from prior accident years was favorable by approximately $535 million. The overall favorable development of $53 million consisted of approximately $2.30 billion of favorable development from accident years 2003 through 2005, partially offset by approximately $2.25 billion of adverse development from accident years 2002 and prior. In 2006, most classes of AIGs business continued to experience favorable development for accident years 2003 through 2005. The adverse development from accident years 2002 and prior reflected development from excess casualty, workers compensation, excess workers compensation, and post 1986 environmental liability classes of business, all within Commercial Insurance, from asbestos reserves within Commercial Insurance and Foreign General Insurance, and from Transatlantic. Net Loss Development by Class of Business The following is a discussion of the primary reasons for the development in 2008, 2007 and 2006 for those classes of business that experienced significant prior accident year developments during the three year period. See Asbestos and Environmental Reserves below for a further discussion of asbestos and environmental reserves and development. Excess Casualty: Excess Casualty reserves experienced significant adverse loss development in 2008, following relatively minor adverse development in 2006 and 2007. However, all three years exhibited significant adverse development from accident years 2002 and prior. The increase in loss costs resulted primarily from medical inflation, which increased the economic loss component of tort claims, advances in medical care, which extended the life span of severely injured claimants, and larger jury verdicts, which increased the value of severe tort claims. An additional factor affecting AIGs excess casualty experience in recent years has been the exhaustion of underlying primary policies for products liability coverage and for homebuilders. This has led to increased loss emergence relating to claims involving exhaustion of underlying product aggregates and increased construction defect related claims activity on AIGs excess and umbrella policies. Many excess casualty policies were written on a multi year basis in the late 1990s, which limited AIGs ability to respond to emerging market trends as rapidly as would otherwise be the case. In subsequent years, AIG responded to these emerging trends by increasing rates and implementing numerous policy form and coverage changes. This led to a significant improvement in experience beginning with accident year 2001. In 2007 and 2008, a significant portion of the adverse development from accident years 2002 and prior also related to latent exposures, including pharmaceutical exposures as well as the construction defect and product aggregate related exposures noted above. AIGs exposure to these latent exposures was sharply reduced after 2002 due to significant changes in policy terms and conditions as well as underwriting guidelines. Another contributor to the adverse development during 2006 through 2008 is that actual loss development for other large losses for accident years 1998 and subsequent have emerged at higher than expected levels as compared to the loss emergence pattern exhibited from earlier accident years. This has caused significant additional development for accident years 1998 to 2002, and to a lesser extent 2003. In 2008, this phenomenon also caused some adverse development for accident year 2004; however the accident year results for accident years 2003 and 2004 both remain very favorable. For the year end 2007 loss reserve review, AIG claims staff updated its review of accounts with significant exposure to construction defect related claims. AIGs actuaries determined that no significant changes in the 84 AIG 2008 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries assumptions were required. Prior accident year loss development in 2007 was adverse by approximately $75 million, a minor amount for this class of business. However, AIG continued to experience adverse development in this class for accident years 2002 and prior, amounting to approximately $450 million in 2007. In addition, loss reserves developed adversely for accident year 2003 by approximately $100 million in 2007 for this class. The loss ratio for accident year 2003 remained very favorable for this class and had been relatively stable over the past several years. Favorable development in 2007 for accident years 2004 through 2006 largely offset the adverse development from accident years 2003 and prior. A significant portion of the adverse development from accident years 2002 and prior related to the latent exposures described above. For the year end 2006 loss reserve review, AIG claims staff updated the separate review for accounts with significant exposure to construction defect related claims in order to assist the actuaries in determining the proper reserve for this exposure. AIGs actuaries determined that no significant changes in the assumptions were required. Prior accident year loss development in 2006 was adverse by approximately $100 million, a relatively minor amount for this class of business. However, AIG continued to experience adverse development for this class for accident years prior to 2003. For the year end 2008 loss reserve review, AIG claims staff again updated its review of accounts with significant exposure to construction defect related claims. In response to the continued upward developments on these claims, and based on an updated analysis of this development, AIG increased the reserves by an additional $75 million beyond the increases identified in the claims review. In response to the continued adverse development of product aggregate related claims during 2007 and 2008, AIGs actuaries conducted a special analysis of product aggregate related claims development, resulting in an increase in the IBNR reserve for this exposure of $175 million. In response to the high level of pharmaceutical related claim emergence during 2007 and 2008, AIG claims staff reviewed the remaining exposure, and based on this review an additional reserve of $10 million was established. In response to the much greater than expected actual loss emergence for other large losses for accident years 1998 and subsequent during 2007 and 2008, AIGs actuaries increased the loss development factor assumptions for this business, resulting in a further increase of approximately $200 million in loss reserves for this class. In total, the specific increases in reserves related to these items increased the excess casualty reserves by approximately $460 million during 2008, of which $370 million was recognized in AIGs fourth quarter 2008 results. In the first three months of 2008, AIG also recognized approximately $200 million of losses relating to MTBE, a gasoline additive, which primarily related to excess casualty business from accident years 2000 and prior. While the various adjustments described above were intended to respond appropriately to the recent adverse trends in loss experience, excess casualty remains a highly volatile class of business and there cannot be any assurance that further adjustments to assumptions in the loss reserve process for this class of business will not be necessary. Loss reserves pertaining to the excess casualty class of business are generally included in the other liability occurrence line of business, with a small portion of the excess casualty reserves included in the other liability claims made line of business, as presented in the table above. DO and Related Management Liability Classes of Business: AIG experienced an insignificant amount of favorable development in 2006 for the DO and related management liability class of business, followed by significant favorable development during 2007 and 2008. The favorable development throughout the three year period related primarily to accident years 2004 and 2005, and to a lesser extent accident years 2003 and 2006. Loss cost trends for DO and related management liability classes of business were adverse in accident years 2002 and prior due to a variety of factors, including an increase in frequency and severity of corporate bankruptcies; the increase in the frequency of financial restatements; the sharp rise in market capitalization of publicly traded companies; and the increase in the number of initial public offerings. The 2003 through 2006 period was marked by a significant reduction in claims related to these factors; thus the expected loss ratios initially established for these accident years have developed favorably, particularly for 2004 and 2005. Beginning in accident year 2007, claims relating to the credit crisis have resulted in increased overall claim activity, and accident year 2007 reserves developed adversely by a relatively insignificant amount during 2008. AIG utilizes ground up claims projections by AIG claims staff as a benchmark to select the loss reserves for this business; these projections are updated annually. For the year end 2008 loss reserve review, AIGs actuaries took into account the continued favorable loss emergence for accident years 2006 and prior. They determined that, in order to respond to the significant favorable loss emergence during 2007 and 2008, greater weight should be applied to the improving loss experience for AIG 2008 Form 10 K 85 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries accident years 2006 and prior. Loss reserve selections therefore gave increased weight to the improved experience and less weight to the ground up claim projections for these accident years, as the experience has continued to improve relative to the claim benchmark that was originally established for these accident years. For accident year 2007, the claim projections include claims relating to the credit crisis. The recognition of these projections resulted in a significant increase in loss reserves for some DO subclasses. However this was partially offset by favorable loss development for other subclasses that were significantly less affected by the credit crisis. The overall development for accident year 2007 was thus only a modest increase in loss reserves. The reserves established for accident year 2008 reflect AIGs expectation of increased claim activity relating to the credit crisis. Given the uncertainty of the ultimate development from claims relating to the credit crisis in accident years 2007 and 2008, there is a greater than normal potential variation in the loss ratios for these accident years. The increased responsiveness to the improving loss trends for accident years 2006 and prior resulted in approximately $225 million of favorable loss development in the fourth quarter of 2008 for this business, primarily in accident years 2004 and 2005. For the year end 2007 loss reserve review, AIGs actuaries determined that no significant changes in the assumptions were required. Prior accident year reserve development in 2007 was favorable by approximately $305 million, due primarily to favorable development from accident years 2004 and 2005, and to a lesser extent 2003 and 2006. AIGs actuaries continued to benchmark the loss reserve indications to the ground up claim projections provided by AIG claims staff for this class of business. For the year end 2007 loss reserve review, the ground up claim projections included all accident years through 2006, and included stock options backdating related exposures from accident year 2006. For the year end 2006 loss reserve review, AIGs actuaries determined that no significant changes in the assumptions were required. Prior accident year loss development in 2006 was favorable by approximately $20 million, an insignificant amount for these classes. AIGs actuaries continued to benchmark the loss reserve indications to the ground up claim projections provided by AIG claims staff for this class of business. For the year end 2006 loss reserve review, the ground up claim projections included all accident years through 2005. Loss reserves pertaining to DO and related management liability classes of business are included in the other liability claims made line of business, as presented in the table above. Healthcare: Healthcare business written by Commercial Insurance produced moderate favorable development in 2006 and 2007 and significant favorable development in 2008. Healthcare loss reserves have benefited from favorable market conditions and an improved legal environment in accident years 2002 and subsequent, following a period of adverse loss trends and market conditions that began in the mid 1990s. For the year end 2008 loss reserve review, AIGs actuaries responded to the consistently favorable experience observed during the latest three years by utilizing more responsive assumptions relating to loss development factors, loss trend factors, and expected loss ratios for this business. These modified assumptions resulted in approximately $140 million of additional favorable development that was recognized in the fourth quarter of 2008 for this business. Overview of Loss Reserving Process The General Insurance loss reserves can generally be categorized into two distinct groups. One group is short tail classes of business consisting principally of property, personal lines and certain casualty classes. The other group is long tail casualty classes of business which includes excess and umbrella liability, DO, professional liability, medical malpractice, workers compensation, general liability, products liability and related classes. Short Tail Reserves For operations writing short tail coverages, such as property coverages, the process of recording quarterly loss reserves is generally geared toward maintaining an appropriate reserve for the outstanding exposure, rather than determining an expected loss ratio for current business. For example, the IBNR reserve required for a class of property business might be expected to approximate 20 percent of the latest years earned premiums, and this level of reserve would generally be maintained regardless of the loss ratio emerging in the current quarter. The 20 percent factor would be adjusted to reflect changes in rate levels, loss reporting patterns, known exposure to unreported losses, or other factors affecting the particular class of business. 86 AIG 2008 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries Long Tail Reserves Estimation of ultimate net losses and loss expenses (net losses) for long tail casualty classes of business is a complex process and depends on a number of factors, including the class and volume of business involved. Experience in the more recent accident years of long tail casualty classes of business shows limited statistical credibility in reported net losses because a relatively low proportion of net losses would be reported claims and expenses and an even smaller percentage would be net losses paid. Therefore, IBNR would constitute a relatively high proportion of net losses. AIGs carried net long tail loss reserves are tested using loss trend factors that AIG considers appropriate for each class of business. A variety of actuarial methods and assumptions is normally employed to estimate net losses for long tail casualty classes of businesses. These methods ordinarily involve the use of loss trend factors intended to reflect the annual growth in loss costs from one accident year to the next. For the majority of long tail casualty classes of business, net loss trend factors approximated five percent. Loss trend factors reflect many items including changes in claims handling, exposure and policy forms, current and future estimates of monetary inflation and social inflation and increases in litigation and awards. These factors are periodically reviewed and adjusted, as appropriate, to reflect emerging trends which are based upon past loss experience. Thus, many factors are implicitly considered in estimating the year to year growth in loss costs. A number of actuarial assumptions are generally made in the review of reserves for each class of business. For longer tail classes of business, actuarial assumptions generally are made with respect to the following: Loss trend factors which are used to establish expected loss ratios for subsequent accident years based on the projected loss ratio for prior accident years. Expected loss ratios for the latest accident year (i.e., accident year 2008 for the year end 2008 loss reserve analysis) and, in some cases for accident years prior to the latest accident year. The expected loss ratio generally reflects the projected loss ratio from prior accident years, adjusted for the loss trend (see above) and the effect of rate changes and other quantifiable factors on the loss ratio. For low frequency, high severity classes such as excess casualty, expected loss ratios generally are used for at least the three most recent accident years. Loss development factors which are used to project the reported losses for each accident year to an ultimate basis. Generally, the actual loss development factors observed from prior accident years would be used as a basis to determine the loss development factors for the subsequent accident years. AIG records quarterly changes in loss reserves for each of its many General Insurance classes of business. The overall change in AIGs loss reserves is based on the sum of these classes of business changes. For most long tail classes of business, the process of recording quarterly loss reserve changes involves determining the estimated current loss ratio for each class of coverage. This loss ratio is multiplied by the current quarters net earned premium for that class of coverage to determine the current accident quarters total estimated net incurred loss and loss expense. The change in loss reserves for the quarter for each class is thus the difference between the net incurred loss and loss expense, estimated as described above, and the net paid losses and loss expenses in the quarter. Also any change in estimated ultimate losses from prior accident years, either positive or negative, is reflected in the loss reserve for the current quarter. Details of the Loss Reserving Process The process of determining the current loss ratio for each class of business is based on a variety of factors. These include, but are not limited to, the following considerations: prior accident year and policy year loss ratios; rate changes; changes in coverage, reinsurance, or mix of business; and actual and anticipated changes in external factors affecting results, such as trends in loss costs or in the legal and claims environment. The current loss ratio for each class of business reflects input from actuarial, underwriting and claims staff and is intended to represent managements best estimate of the current loss ratio after reflecting all of the factors described above. At the close of each quarter, the assumptions underlying the loss ratios are reviewed to determine if the loss ratios remain appropriate. This process includes a review of the actual claims experience in the quarter, actual rate changes achieved, actual changes in coverage, reinsurance or mix of business, and changes in certain other factors that may AIG 2008 Form 10 K 87 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries affect the loss ratio. When this review suggests that the initially determined loss ratio is no longer appropriate, the loss ratio for current business is changed to reflect the revised assumptions. A comprehensive annual loss reserve review is completed in the fourth quarter of each year for each AIG general insurance subsidiary. These reviews are conducted in full detail for each class of business for each subsidiary, and thus consist of hundreds of individual analyses. The purpose of these reviews is to confirm the appropriateness of the reserves carried by each of the individual subsidiaries, and therefore of AIGs overall carried reserves. The reserve analysis for each class of business is performed by the actuarial personnel who are most familiar with that class of business. In completing these detailed actuarial reserve analyses, the actuaries are required to make numerous assumptions, including the selection of loss development factors and loss cost trend factors. They are also required to determine and select the most appropriate actuarial methods to employ for each business class. Additionally, they must determine the appropriate segmentation of data from which the adequacy of the reserves can be most accurately tested. In the course of these detailed reserve reviews a point estimate of the loss reserve is determined. The sum of these point estimates for each class of business for each subsidiary provides an overall actuarial point estimate of the loss reserve for that subsidiary. The ultimate process by which the actual carried reserves are determined considers both the actuarial point estimate and numerous other internal and external factors including a qualitative assessment of inflation and other economic conditions in the United States and abroad, changes in the legal, regulatory, judicial and social environment, underlying policy pricing, terms and conditions, and claims handling. Loss reserve development can also be affected by commutations of assumed and ceded reinsurance agreements. Actuarial Methods for Major Classes of Business In testing the reserves for each class of business, a determination is made by AIGs actuaries as to the most appropriate actuarial methods. This determination is based on a variety of factors including the nature of the claims associated with the class of business, such as frequency or severity. Other factors considered include the loss development characteristics associated with the claims, the volume of claim data available for the applicable class, and the applicability of various actuarial methods to the class. In addition to determining the actuarial methods, the actuaries determine the appropriate loss reserve groupings of data. For example, AIG writes a great number of unique subclasses of professional liability. For pricing or other purposes, it is appropriate to evaluate the profitability of each subclass individually. However, for purposes of estimating the loss reserves for professional liability, it is appropriate to combine the subclasses into larger groups. The greater degree of credibility in the claims experience of the larger groups may outweigh the greater degree of homogeneity of the individual subclasses. This determination of data segmentation and actuarial methods is carefully considered for each class of business. The segmentation and actuarial methods chosen are those which together are expected to produce the most accurate estimate of the loss reserves. Actuarial methods used by AIG for most long tail casualty classes of business include loss development methods and expected loss ratio methods, including Bornhuetter Ferguson methods described below. Other methods considered include frequency/severity methods, although these are generally used by AIG more for pricing analysis than for loss reserve analysis. Loss development methods utilize the actual loss development patterns from prior accident years to project the reported losses to an ultimate basis for subsequent accident years. Loss development methods generally are most appropriate for classes of business which exhibit a stable pattern of loss development from one accident year to the next, and for which the components of the classes have similar development characteristics. For example, property exposures would generally not be combined into the same class as casualty exposures, and primary casualty exposures would generally not be combined into the same class as excess casualty exposures. Expected loss ratio methods are generally utilized by AIG where the reported loss data lacks sufficient credibility to utilize loss development methods, such as for new classes of business or for long tail classes at early stages of loss development. Expected loss ratio methods rely on the application of an expected loss ratio to the earned premium for the class of business to determine the loss reserves. For example, an expected loss ratio of 70 percent applied to an earned premium base of $10 million for a class of business would generate an ultimate loss estimate of $7 million. Subtracting any reported paid losses and loss expense would result in the indicated loss reserve for this class. Bornhuetter Ferguson methods are expected loss ratio methods for which the expected loss ratio is applied only to the expected unreported portion of the losses. For example, for a long tail class of business for which only 88 AIG 2008 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries 10 percent of the losses are expected to be reported at the end of the accident year, the expected loss ratio would be applied to the 90 percent of the losses still unreported. The actual reported losses at the end of the accident year would be added to determine the total ultimate loss estimate for the accident year. Subtracting the reported paid losses and loss expenses would result in the indicated loss reserve. In the example above, the expected loss ratio of 70 percent would be multiplied by 90 percent. The result of 63 percent would be applied to the earned premium of $10 million resulting in an estimated unreported loss of $6.3 million. Actual reported losses would be added to arrive at the total ultimate losses. If the reported losses were $1 million, the ultimate loss estimate under the Bornhuetter Ferguson method would be $7.3 million versus the $7 million amount under the expected loss ratio method described above. Thus, the Bornhuetter Ferguson method gives partial credibility to the actual loss experience to date for the class of business. Loss development methods generally give full credibility to the reported loss experience to date. In the example above, loss development methods would typically indicate an ultimate loss estimate of $10 million, as the reported losses of $1 million would be estimated to reflect only 10 percent of the ultimate losses. A key advantage of loss development methods is that they respond quickly to any actual changes in loss costs for the class of business. Therefore, if loss experience is unexpectedly deteriorating or improving, the loss development method gives full credibility to the changing experience. Expected loss ratio methods would be slower to respond to the change, as they would continue to give more weight to the expected loss ratio, until enough evidence emerged for the expected loss ratio to be modified to reflect the changing loss experience. On the other hand, loss development methods have the disadvantage of overreacting to changes in reported losses if in fact the loss experience is not credible. For example, the presence or absence of large losses at the early stages of loss development could cause the loss development method to overreact to the favorable or unfavorable experience by assuming it will continue at later stages of development. In these instances, expected loss ratio methods such as Bornhuetter Ferguson have the advantage of properly recognizing large losses without extrapolating unusual large loss activity onto the unreported portion of the losses for the accident year. AIGs loss reserve reviews for long tail classes typically utilize a combination of both loss development and expected loss ratio methods. Loss development methods are generally given more weight for accident years and classes of business where the loss experience is highly credible. Expected loss ratio methods are given more weight where the reported loss experience is less credible, or is driven more by large losses. Expected loss ratio methods require sufficient information to determine the appropriate expected loss ratio. This information generally includes the actual loss ratios for prior accident years, and rate changes as well as underwriting or other changes which would affect the loss ratio. Further, an estimate of the loss cost trend or loss ratio trend is required in order to allow for the effect of inflation and other factors which may increase or otherwise change the loss costs from one accident year to the next. Frequency/severity methods generally rely on the determination of an ultimate number of claims and an average severity for each claim for each accident year. Multiplying the estimated ultimate number of claims for each accident year by the expected average severity of each claim produces the estimated ultimate loss for the accident year. Frequency/severity methods generally require a sufficient volume of claims in order for the average severity to be predictable. Average severity for subsequent accident years is generally determined by applying an estimated annual loss cost trend to the estimated average claim severity from prior accident years. Frequency/severity methods have the advantage that ultimate claim counts can generally be estimated more quickly and accurately than can ultimate losses. Thus, if the average claim severity can be accurately estimated, these methods can more quickly respond to changes in loss experience than other methods. However, for average severity to be predictable, the class of business must consist of homogeneous types of claims for which loss severity trends from one year to the next are reasonably consistent. Generally these methods work best for high frequency, low severity classes of business such as personal auto. AIG also utilizes these methods in pricing subclasses of professional liability. However, AIG does not generally utilize frequency/severity methods to test loss reserves, due to the general nature of AIGs reserves being applicable to lower frequency, higher severity commercial classes of business where average claim severity is volatile. Excess Casualty: AIG generally uses a combination of loss development methods and expected loss ratio methods for excess casualty classes. Expected loss ratio methods are generally utilized for at least the three latest accident years, due to the relatively low credibility of the reported losses. The loss experience is generally reviewed separately for lead umbrella classes and for other excess classes, due to the relatively shorter tail for lead umbrella business. Automobile related claims are generally reviewed separately from non auto claims, due to the shorter tail AIG 2008 Form 10 K 89 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries nature of the automobile related claims. Claims relating to certain latent exposures such as construction defects or exhaustion of underlying product aggregate limits are reviewed separately due to the unique emergence patterns of losses relating to these claims. The expected loss ratios utilized for recent accident years are based on the projected ultimate loss ratios of prior years, adjusted for rate changes, estimated loss cost trends and all other changes that can be quantified. The estimated loss cost trend utilized in the year end 2008 reviews averaged approximately five percent for excess casualty classes. Frequency/severity methods are generally not utilized as the vast majority of reported claims do not result in a claim payment. In addition, the average severity varies significantly from accident year to accident year due to large losses which characterize this class of business, as well as changing proportions of claims which do not result in a claim payment. DO: AIG generally utilizes a combination of loss development methods and expected loss ratio methods for DO and related management liability classes of business. Expected loss ratio methods are given more weight in the two most recent accident years, whereas loss development methods are given more weight in more mature accident years. In addition to these traditional actuarial methods, AIGs actuaries utilize ground up claim projections provided by AIG claims staff as a benchmark for determining the indicated ultimate losses for all accident years other than the most recent accident year. For the year end 2008 loss reserve review, claims projections for accident years 2007 and prior were utilized. These classes of business reflect claims made coverage, and losses are characterized by low frequency and high severity. Thus, the claim projections can produce an overall indicator of the ultimate loss exposure for these classes by identifying and estimating all large losses. Frequency/severity methods are generally not utilized for these classes as the overall losses are driven by large losses more than by claim frequency. Severity trends have varied significantly from accident year to accident year. Workers Compensation: AIG generally utilizes loss development methods for all but the most recent accident year. Expected loss ratio methods generally are given significant weight only in the most recent accident year. Workers compensation claims are generally characterized by high frequency, low severity, and relatively consistent loss development from one accident year to the next. AIG is a leading writer of workers compensation, and thus has sufficient volume of claims experience to utilize development methods. AIG does not believe frequency/severity methods are as appropriate, due to significant growth and changes in AIGs workers compensation business over the years. AIG generally segregates California business from other business in evaluating workers compensation reserves. Certain classes of workers compensation, such as construction, are also evaluated separately. Additionally, AIG writes a number of very large accounts which include workers compensation coverage. These accounts are generally priced by AIG actuaries, and to the extent appropriate, the indicated losses based on the pricing analysis may be utilized to record the initial estimated loss reserves for these accounts. Excess Workers Compensation: AIG generally utilizes a combination of loss development methods and expected loss ratio methods. Loss development methods are given the greater weight for mature accident years such as 2002 and prior. Expected loss ratio methods are given the greater weight for the more recent accident years. Excess workers compensation is an extremely long tail class of business, with loss emergence extending for decades. Therefore there is limited credibility in the reported losses for many of the more recent accident years. For the mature accident years, AIGs actuaries utilize claims projections provided by AIG claims staff to help determine the loss development factors for this class of business. General Liability: AIG generally uses a combination of loss development methods and expected loss ratio methods for primary general liability or products liability classes. For certain classes of business with sufficient loss volume, loss development methods may be given significant weight for all but the most recent one or two accident years, whereas for smaller or more volatile classes of business, loss development methods may be given limited weight for the five or more most recent accident years. Expected loss ratio methods would be utilized for the more recent accident years for these classes. The loss experience for primary general liability business is generally reviewed at a level that is believed to provide the most appropriate data for reserve analysis. For example, primary claims made business is generally segregated from business written on an occurrence policy form. Additionally, certain subclasses, such as construction, are generally reviewed separately from business in other subclasses. Due to the fairly long tail nature of general liability business, and the many subclasses that are reviewed individually, there is less credibility in the reported losses and increased reliance on expected loss ratio methods. AIGs actuaries generally do not utilize frequency/severity methods to test reserves for this business, due to significant changes and growth in AIGs general liability and products liability business over the years. 90 AIG 2008 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries Commercial Automobile Liability: AIG generally utilizes loss development methods for all but the most recent accident year for commercial automobile classes of business. Expected loss ratio methods are generally given significant weight only in the most recent accident year. Frequency/severity methods are generally not utilized due to significant changes and growth in this business over the years. Healthcare: AIG generally uses a combination of loss development methods and expected loss ratio methods for healthcare classes of business. The largest component of the healthcare business consists of coverage written for hospitals and other healthcare facilities. Reserves for excess coverage are tested separately from those for primary coverage. For primary coverages, loss development methods are generally given the majority of the weight for all but the latest three accident years, and are given some weight for all years other than the latest accident year. For excess coverages, expected loss methods are generally given all the weight for the latest three accident years, and are also given considerable weight for accident years prior to the latest three years. For other classes of healthcare coverage, an analogous weighting between loss development and expected loss ratio methods is utilized. The weights assigned to each method are those which are believed to result in the best combination of responsiveness and stability. Frequency/severity methods are sometimes utilized for pricing certain healthcare accounts or business. However, in testing loss reserves the business is generally combined into larger groupings to enhance the credibility of the loss experience. The frequency/severity methods that are applicable in pricing may not be appropriate for reserve testing and thus frequency/severity methods are not generally employed in AIGs healthcare reserve analyses. Professional Liability: AIG generally uses a combination of loss development methods and expected loss ratio methods for professional liability classes of business. Loss development methods are used for the more mature accident years. Greater weight is given to expected loss ratio methods in the more recent accident years. Reserves are tested separately for claims made classes and classes written on occurrence policy forms. Further segmentations are made in a manner believed to provide an appropriate balance between credibility and homogeneity of the data. Frequency/severity methods are used in pricing and profitability analyses for some classes of professional liability; however, for loss reserve testing, the need to enhance credibility generally results in classes that are not sufficiently homogenous to utilize frequency/severity methods. Catastrophic Casualty: AIG utilizes expected loss ratio methods for all accident years for catastrophic casualty business. This class of business consists of casualty or financial lines coverage which attaches in excess of very high attachment points; thus the claims experience is marked by very low frequency and high severity. Because of the limited number of claims, loss development methods are not utilized. The expected loss ratios and loss development assumptions utilized are based upon the results of prior accident years for this business as well as for similar classes of business written above lower attachment points. The business is generally written on a claims made basis. AIG utilizes ground up claim projections provided by AIG claims staff to assist in developing the appropriate reserve. Aviation: AIG generally uses a combination of loss development methods and expected loss ratio methods for aviation exposures. Aviation claims are not very long tail in nature; however, they are driven by claim severity. Thus a combination of both development and expected loss ratio methods are used for all but the latest accident year to determine the loss reserves. Expected loss ratio methods are used to determine the loss reserves for the latest accident year. Frequency/severity methods are not employed due to the high severity nature of the claims and different mix of claims from year to year. Personal Auto (Domestic): AIG generally utilizes frequency/severity methods and loss development methods for domestic personal auto classes. For many classes of business, greater reliance is placed on frequency/severity methods as claim counts emerge quickly for personal auto and allow for more immediate analysis of resulting loss trends and comparisons to industry and other diagnostic metrics. Fidelity/Surety: AIG generally uses loss development methods for fidelity exposures for all but the latest accident year. Expected loss ratio methods are also given weight for the more recent accident years, and for the latest accident year they may be given 100 percent weight. For surety exposures, AIG generally uses the same method as for short tail classes. Mortgage Guaranty: AIG tests mortgage guaranty reserves using loss development methods, supplemented by an internal claim analysis by actuaries and staff who specialize in the mortgage guaranty business. The claim AIG 2008 Form 10 K 91 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries analysis projects ultimate losses for claims within each of several categories of delinquency based on actual historical experience and is essentially a frequency/severity analysis for each category of delinquency. Additional reserve tests using Bornhuetter Ferguson methods are also employed, as well as tests measuring losses as a percent of risk in force. Reserves are reviewed separately for each class of business to consider the loss development characteristics associated with the claims, the volume of claim data available for the applicable class and the applicability of various actuarial methods to the class. Short Tail Classes: AIG generally uses either loss development methods or IBNR factor methods to set reserves for short tail classes such as property coverages. Where a factor is used, it generally represents a percent of earned premium or other exposure measure. The factor is determined based on prior accident year experience. For example, the IBNR for a class of property coverage might be expected to approximate 20 percent of the latest years earned premium. The factor is continually reevaluated in light of emerging claim experience as well as rate changes or other factors that could affect the adequacy of the IBNR factor being employed. International: Business written by AIGs Foreign General Insurance sub segment includes both long tail and short tail classes of business. For long tail classes of business, the actuarial methods utilized would be analogous to those described above. However, the majority of business written by Foreign General Insurance is short tail, high frequency and low severity in nature. For this business, loss development methods are generally employed to test the loss reserves. AIG maintains a data base of detailed historical premium and loss transactions in original currency for business written by Foreign General Insurance, thereby allowing AIG actuaries to determine the current reserves without any distortion from changes in exchange rates over time. In testing the Foreign General Insurance reserves, AIGs actuaries segment the data by region, country or class of business as appropriate to determine an optimal balance between homogeneity and credibility. Loss Adjustment Expenses: AIG determines reserves for legal defense and cost containment loss adjustment expenses for each class of business by one or more actuarial methods. The methods generally include development methods analogous to those described for loss development methods. The developments could be based on either the paid loss adjustment expenses or the ratio of paid loss adjustment expenses to paid losses, or both. Other methods include the utilization of expected ultimate ratios of paid loss expense to paid losses, based on actual experience from prior accident years or from similar classes of business. AIG generally determines reserves for adjuster loss adjustment expenses based on calendar year ratios of adjuster expenses paid to losses paid for the particular class of business. AIG generally determines reserves for other unallocated loss adjustment expenses based on the ratio of the calendar year expenses paid to overall losses paid. This determination is generally done for all classes of business combined, and reflects costs of home office claim overhead as a percent of losses paid. Catastrophes: Special analyses are conducted by AIG in response to major catastrophes in order to estimate AIGs gross and net loss and loss expense liability from the events. These analyses may include a combination of approaches, including modeling estimates, ground up claim analysis, loss evaluation reports from on site field adjusters, and market share estimates. AIGs loss reserve analyses do not calculate a range of loss reserve estimates. Because a large portion of the loss reserves from AIGs General Insurance business relates to longer tail casualty classes of business driven by severity rather than frequency of claims, such as excess casualty and DO, developing a range around loss reserve estimates would not be meaningful. Using the reserving methodologies described above, AIGs actuaries determine their best estimate of the required reserve and advise management of that amount. AIG then adjusts its aggregate carried reserves as necessary so that the actual carried reserves as of December 31 reflect this best estimate. Volatility of Reserve Estimates and Sensitivity Analyses As described above, AIG uses numerous assumptions in determining its best estimate of reserves for each class of business. The importance of any specific assumption can vary by both class of business and accident year. If actual experience differs from key assumptions used in establishing reserves, there is potential for significant variation in the development of loss reserves, particularly for long tail casualty classes of business such as excess casualty, DO or workers compensation. Set forth below is a sensitivity analysis that estimates the effect on the loss reserve position of using alternative loss trend or loss development factor assumptions rather than those actually used in determining AIGs best estimates in the year end loss reserve analyses in 2008. The analysis addresses each major class of business for which a material deviation to AIGs overall reserve position is believed reasonably 92 AIG 2008 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries possible, and uses what AIG believes is a reasonably likely range of potential deviation for each class. There can be no assurance, however, that actual reserve development will be consistent with either the original or the adjusted loss trend or loss development factor assumptions, or that other assumptions made in the reserving process will not materially affect reserve development for a particular class of business. Excess Casualty: For the excess casualty class of business, the assumed loss cost trend was approximately five percent. After evaluating the historical loss cost trends from prior accident years since the early 1990s, in AIGs judgment, it is reasonably likely that actual loss cost trends applicable to the year end 2008 loss reserve review for excess casualty will range from negative five percent to positive 15 percent, or approximately ten percent lower or higher than the assumption actually utilized in the year end 2008 reserve review. A ten percent change in the assumed loss cost trend for excess casualty would cause approximately a $2.4 billion increase or a $1.6 billion decrease in the net loss and loss expense reserve for this class of business. It should be emphasized that the ten percent deviations are not considered the highest possible deviations that might be expected, but rather what is considered by AIG to reflect a reasonably likely range of potential deviation. Actual loss cost trends in the early 1990s were negative for several years, including amounts below the negative five percent cited above, whereas actual loss cost trends in the late 1990s ran well into the double digits for several years, including amounts greater than the 15 percent cited above. Thus, there can be no assurance that loss trends will not deviate by more than ten percent. The loss cost trend assumption is critical for the excess casualty class of business due the long tail nature of the claims and therefore is applied across many accident years. For the excess casualty class of business, the assumed loss development factors are also a key assumption. After evaluating the historical loss development factors from prior accident years since the early 1990s, in AIGs judgment, it is reasonably likely that actual loss development factors will range from approximately 4.4 percent below those actually utilized in the year end 2008 reserve review to approximately 6.4 percent above those factors actually utilized. If the loss development factor assumptions were changed by 4.4 percent and 6.4 percent, respectively, the net loss reserves for the excess casualty class would decrease by approximately $900 million under the lower assumptions or increase by approximately $1.5 billion under the higher assumptions. Generally, actual historical loss development factors are used to project future loss development. However there can be no assurance that future loss development patterns will be the same as in the past, or that they will not deviate by more than the amounts illustrated above. Moreover, as excess casualty is a long tail class of business, any deviation in loss cost trends or in loss development factors might not be discernible for an extended period of time subsequent to the recording of the initial loss reserve estimates for any accident year. Thus, there is the potential for the reserves with respect to a number of accident years to be significantly affected by changes in the loss cost trends or loss development factors that were initially relied upon in setting the reserves. These changes in loss trends or loss development factors could be attributable to changes in inflation or in the judicial environment, or in other social or economic conditions affecting claims. Thus, there is the potential for variations greater than the amounts cited above, either positively or negatively. DO and Related Management Liability Classes of Business: For DO and related management liability classes of business, the assumed loss cost trend was approximately four percent. After evaluating the historical loss cost trends from prior accident years since the early 1990s, including the potential effect of recent claims relating to the credit crisis, in AIGs judgment, it is reasonably likely that actual loss cost trends applicable to the year end 2008 loss reserve review for these classes will range from negative 11 percent to positive 24 percent, or approximately 15 percent lower or 20 percent higher than the assumption actually utilized in the year end 2008 reserve review. A 20 or 15 percent change in the assumed loss cost trend for these classes would cause approximately a $950 million increase or a $600 million decrease, respectively, in the net loss and loss expense reserves for these classes of business. It should be emphasized that the 20 and 15 percent deviations are not considered the highest possible deviations that might be expected, but rather what is considered by AIG to reflect a reasonably likely range of potential deviation. Actual loss cost trends for these classes since the early 1990s were negative for several years, including amounts below the negative 11 percent cited above, whereas actual loss cost trends exceeded the 24 percent figure cited above for several other years. Because the DO class of business has exhibited highly volatile loss trends from one accident year to the next, there is the possibility of an exceptionally high deviation. For DO and related management liability classes of business, the assumed loss development factors are also an important assumption but less critical than for excess casualty. Because these classes are written on a claims AIG 2008 Form 10 K 93 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries made basis, the loss reporting and development tail is much shorter than for excess casualty. However, the high severity nature of the claims does create the potential for significant deviations in loss development patterns from one year to the next. After evaluating the historical loss development factors for these classes of business for accident years since the early 1990s, in AIGs judgment, it is reasonably likely that actual loss development factors will range from approximately 8.5 percent lower to 3.5 percent higher than those factors actually utilized in the year end 2008 loss reserve review for these classes. If the loss development factor assumptions were changed by 8.5 percent and 3.5 percent, respectively, the net loss reserves for these classes would be estimated to decrease or increase by approximately $300 million and $150 million, respectively. As noted above for excess casualty, actual historical loss development factors are generally used to project future loss development. However, there can be no assurance that future loss development patterns will be the same as in the past, or that they will not deviate by more than the 8.5 percent or 3.5 percent amounts. Excess Workers Compensation: For excess workers compensation business, loss costs were trended at six percent per annum. After reviewing actual industry loss trends for the past ten years, in AIGs judgment, it is reasonably likely that actual loss cost trends applicable to the year end 2008 loss reserve review for excess workers compensation will range five percent lower or higher than this estimated loss trend. A five percent change in the assumed loss cost trend would cause approximately a $425 million increase or a $275 million decrease in the net loss reserves for this business. It should be emphasized that the actual loss cost trend could vary significantly from this assumption, and there can be no assurance that actual loss costs will not deviate, perhaps materially, by greater than five percent. For excess workers compensation business, the assumed loss development factors are a critical assumption. Excess workers compensation is an extremely long tail class of business, with a much greater than normal uncertainty as to the appropriate loss development factors for the tail of the loss development. After evaluating the historical loss development factors for prior accident years since the 1980s, in AIGs judgment, it is reasonably likely that actual loss development factors will range from approximately 12 percent lower to 20 percent higher than those factors actually utilized in the year end 2008 loss reserve review for excess workers compensation. If the loss development factor assumptions were increased by 20 percent or decreased by 12 percent, the net loss reserves for excess workers compensation would increase or decrease by approximately $950 million and $550 million, respectively. Given the exceptionally long tail for this class of business, there is the potential for actual deviations in the loss development tail to exceed the deviations assumed, perhaps materially. Primary Workers Compensation: For primary workers compensation, the loss cost trend assumption is not believed to be material with respect to AIGs loss reserves. This is primarily because AIGs actuaries are generally able to use loss development projections for all but the most recent accident years reserves, so there is limited need to rely on loss cost trend assumptions for primary workers compensation business. However, for primary workers compensation business the loss development factor assumptions are important. Generally, AIGs actual historical workers compensation loss development factors would be expected to provide a reasonably accurate predictor of future loss development. However, workers compensation is a long tail class of business, and AIGs business reflects a very significant volume of losses particularly in recent accident years due to growth of the business. After evaluating the actual historical loss developments since the 1980s for this business, in AIGs judgment, it is reasonably likely that actual loss development factors will fall within the range of approximately 3.6 percent below to 9.4 percent above those actually utilized in the year end 2008 loss reserve review. If the loss development factor assumptions were changed by 3.6 percent and 9.4 percent, respectively, the net loss reserves for workers compensation would decrease or increase by approximately $900 million and $2.4 billion, respectively. For this class of business, there can be no assurance that actual deviations from the expected loss development factors will not exceed the deviations assumed, perhaps materially. Other Casualty Classes of Business: For casualty business other than the classes discussed above, there is generally some potential for deviation in both the loss cost trend and loss development factor assumptions. However, the effect of such deviations is expected to be less material when compared to the effect on the classes cited above. 94 AIG 2008 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries Asbestos and Environmental Reserves The estimation of loss reserves relating to asbestos and environmental claims on insurance policies written many years ago is subject to greater uncertainty than other types of claims due to inconsistent court decisions as well as judicial interpretations and legislative actions that in some cases have tended to broaden coverage beyond the original intent of such policies and in others have expanded theories of liability. The insurance industry as a whole is engaged in extensive litigation over these coverage and liability issues and is thus confronted with a continuing uncertainty in its efforts to quantify these exposures. AIG continues to receive claims asserting injuries and damages from toxic waste, hazardous substances, and other environmental pollutants and alleged claims to cover the cleanup costs of hazardous waste dump sites, referred to collectively as environmental claims, and indemnity claims asserting injuries from asbestos. The vast majority of these asbestos and environmental claims emanate from policies written in 1984 and prior years. Commencing in 1985, standard policies contained an absolute exclusion for pollution related damage and an absolute asbestos exclusion was also implemented. The current environmental policies that AIG underwrites on a claims made basis have been excluded from the analysis herein. The majority of AIGs exposures for asbestos and environmental claims are excess casualty coverages, not primary coverages. Thus, the litigation costs are treated in the same manner as indemnity amounts. That is, litigation expenses are included within the limits of the liability AIG incurs. Individual significant claim liabilities, where future litigation costs are reasonably determinable, are established on a case by case basis. Estimation of asbestos and environmental claims loss reserves is a subjective process and reserves for asbestos and environmental claims cannot be estimated using conventional reserving techniques such as those that rely on historical accident year loss development factors. The methods used to determine asbestos and environmental loss estimates and to establish the resulting reserves are continually reviewed and updated by management. Significant factors which affect the trends that influence the asbestos and environmental claims estimation process are the court resolutions and judicial interpretations which broaden the intent of the policies and scope of coverage. The current case law can be characterized as still evolving, and there is little likelihood that any firm direction will develop in the near future. Additionally, the exposures for cleanup costs of hazardous waste dump sites involve issues such as allocation of responsibility among potentially responsible parties and the governments refusal to release parties from liability. Due to this uncertainty, it is not possible to determine the future development of asbestos and environmental claims with the same degree of reliability as with other types of claims. Such future development will be affected by the extent to which courts continue to expand the intent of the policies and the scope of the coverage, as they have in the past, as well as by the changes in Superfund and waste dump site coverage and liability issues. If the asbestos and environmental reserves develop deficiently, such deficiency would have an adverse effect on AIGs future results of operations. With respect to known asbestos and environmental claims, AIG established over two decades ago specialized toxic tort and environmental claims units, which investigate and adjust all such asbestos and environmental claims. These units evaluate these asbestos and environmental claims utilizing a claim by claim approach that involves a detailed review of individual policy terms and exposures. Because each policyholder presents different liability and coverage issues, AIG generally evaluates exposure on a policy by policy basis, considering a variety of factors such as known facts, current law, jurisdiction, policy language and other factors that are unique to each policy. Quantitative techniques have to be supplemented by subjective considerations, including management judgment. Each claim is reviewed at least semi annually utilizing the aforementioned approach and adjusted as necessary to reflect the current information. In both the specialized and dedicated asbestos and environmental claims units, AIG actively manages and pursues early resolution with respect to these claims in an attempt to mitigate its exposure to the unpredictable development of these claims. AIG attempts to mitigate its known long tail environmental exposures by utilizing a combination of proactive claim resolution techniques, including policy buybacks, complete environmental releases, compromise settlements, and, where indicated, litigation. AIG 2008 Form 10 K 95 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries With respect to asbestos claims handling, AIGs specialized claims staff operates to mitigate losses through proactive handling, supervision and resolution of asbestos cases. Thus, while AIG has resolved all claims with respect to miners and major manufacturers (Tier One), its claims staff continues to operate under the same proactive philosophy to resolve claims involving accounts with products containing asbestos (Tier Two), products containing small amounts of asbestos, companies in the distribution process, and parties with remote, ill defined involvement in asbestos (Tiers Three and Four). Through its commitment to appropriate staffing, training, and management oversight of asbestos cases, AIG seeks to mitigate its exposure to these claims. To determine the appropriate loss reserve as of December 31, 2008 for its asbestos and environmental exposures, AIG performed a series of top down and ground up reserve analyses. In order to ensure it had the most comprehensive analysis possible, AIG engaged a third party actuary to assist in a review of these exposures, including ground up estimates for asbestos reserves consistent with the 2005 through 2007 reviews as well as a top down report year projection for environmental reserves. Prior to 2005, AIGs reserve analyses for asbestos and environmental exposures were focused around a report year projection of aggregate losses for both asbestos and environmental reserves. Additional tests such as market share analyses were also performed. Ground up analyses take into account policyholder specific and claim specific information that has been gathered over many years from a variety of sources. Ground up studies can thus more accurately assess the exposure to AIGs layers of coverage for each policyholder, and hence for all policyholders in the aggregate, provided a sufficient sample of the policyholders can be modeled in this manner. In order to ensure its ground up analysis was comprehensive, AIG staff produced the information required at policy and claim level detail for over 800 asbestos defendants. This represented over 95 percent of all accounts for which AIG had received any claim notice of any amount pertaining to asbestos exposure. AIG did not set any minimum thresholds, such as amount of case reserve outstanding, or paid losses to date, that would have served to reduce the sample size and hence the comprehensiveness of the ground up analysis. The results of the ground up analysis for each significant account were examined by AIGs claims staff for reasonableness, for consistency with policy coverage terms, and any claim settlement terms applicable. Adjustments were incorporated accordingly. The results from the universe of modeled accounts, which as noted above reflects the vast majority of AIGs known exposures, were then utilized to estimate the ultimate losses from accounts or exposures that could not be modeled and to determine an appropriate provision for unreported claims. AIG conducted a comprehensive analysis of reinsurance recoverability to establish the appropriate asbestos and environmental reserve net of reinsurance. AIG determined the amount of reinsurance that would be ceded to insolvent reinsurers or to commuted reinsurance contracts for both reported claims and for IBNR. These amounts were then deducted from the indicated amount of reinsurance recoverable. The year end 2008 analysis reflected an update to the comprehensive analysis of reinsurance recoverability that was first completed in 2005 and updated in 2006 and 2007. All asbestos accounts for which there was a significant change in estimated losses in the 2008 review were analyzed to determine the appropriate reserve net of reinsurance. AIG also completed a top down report year projection of its indicated asbestos and environmental loss reserves. These projections consist of a series of tests performed separately for asbestos and for environmental exposures. For asbestos, these tests project the losses expected to be reported over the next 18 years, i.e., from 2009 through 2026, based on the actual losses reported through 2008 and the expected future loss emergence for these claims. Three scenarios were tested, with a series of assumptions ranging from more optimistic to more conservative. For environmental claims, an analogous series of frequency/severity tests are produced. Environmental claims from future report years, (i.e., IBNR) are projected out eight years, i.e., through the year 2016. At year end 2008, AIG considered a number of factors and recent experience in addition to the results of the respective top down and ground up analyses performed for asbestos and environmental reserves. AIG considered the significant uncertainty that remains as to AIGs ultimate liability relating to asbestos and environmental claims. This uncertainty is due to several factors including: The long latency period between asbestos exposure and disease manifestation and the resulting potential for involvement of multiple policy periods for individual claims; 96 AIG 2008 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries The increase in the volume of claims by currently unimpaired plaintiffs; Claims filed under the non aggregate premises or operations section of general liability policies; The number of insureds seeking bankruptcy protection and the effect of prepackaged bankruptcies; Diverging legal interpretations; and With respect to environmental claims, the difficulty in estimating the allocation of remediation cost among various parties. After carefully considering the results of the ground up analysis, which AIG updates on an annual basis, as well as all of the above factors, including the recent report year experience, AIG increased its gross asbestos reserves by $200 million and increased its net asbestos reserves by $30 million. Additionally, during 2008 an amount of adverse incurred loss development pertaining to asbestos was reflected which was primarily attributed to several large defendants, the effect of which was largely offset by one large favorable settlement. Upon completion of the environmental top down report year analysis performed in the fourth quarter of 2008, no adjustment to gross and net reserves was recognized. Additionally, during 2008 a moderate amount of favorable gross incurred loss development pertaining to environmental was reflected which was primarily attributable to recent favorable experience which was fully insured, resulting in no favorable net development on environmental net reserves. A summary of reserve activity, including estimates for applicable IBNR, relating to asbestos and environmental claims separately and combined appears in the table below. The vast majority of such claims arise from policies written in 1984 and prior years. The current environmental policies that AIG underwrites on a claims made basis have been excluded from the table below. As of or for the Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 Gross Net Gross Net Gross Net (In millions) Asbestos: Liability for unpaid claims and claims adjustment expense at beginning of year $ 3,864 $ 1,454 $ 4,523 $ 1,889 $ 4,501 $ 1,840 Losses and loss expenses incurred* 273 53 96 5 572 267 Losses and loss expenses paid* (694 ) (307 ) (755 ) (440 ) (550 ) (218 ) Liability for unpaid claims and claims adjustment expense at end of year $ 3,443 $ 1,200 $ 3,864 $ 1,454 $ 4,523 $ 1,889 Environmental: Liability for unpaid claims and claims adjustment expense at beginning of year $ 515 $ 237 $ 629 $ 290 $ 969 $ 410 Losses and loss expenses incurred* (44 ) (2 ) 10 13 (231 ) (59 ) Losses and loss expenses paid* (54 ) (41 ) (124 ) (66 ) (109 ) (61 ) Liability for unpaid claims and claims adjustment expense at end of year $ 417 $ 194 $ 515 $ 237 $ 629 $ 290 Combined: Liability for unpaid claims and claims adjustment expense at beginning of year $ 4,379 $ 1,691 $ 5,152 $ 2,179 $ 5,470 $ 2,250 Losses and loss expenses incurred* 229 51 106 18 341 208 Losses and loss expenses paid* (748 ) (348 ) (879 ) (506 ) (659 ) (279 ) Liability for unpaid claims and claims adjustment expense at end of year $ 3,860 $ 1,394 $ 4,379 $ 1,691 $ 5,152 $ 2,179 * All amounts pertain to policies underwritten in prior years, primarily to policies issued in 1984 and prior. AIG 2008 Form 10 K 97 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries The gross and net IBNR included in the liability for unpaid claims and claims adjustment expense, relating to asbestos and environmental claims separately and combined were estimated as follows: At December 31, 2008 2007 2006 Gross Net Gross Net Gross Net (In millions) Asbestos $ 2,301 $ 939 $ 2,701 $ 1,145 $ 3,270 $ 1,469 Environmental 249 99 325 131 378 173 Combined $ 2,550 $ 1,038 $ 3,026 $ 1,276 $ 3,648 $ 1,642 A summary of asbestos and environmental claims count activity was as follows: As of or for the Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 Asbestos Environmental Combined Asbestos Environmental Combined Asbestos Environmental Combined Claims at beginning of year 6,563 7,652 14,215 6,878 9,442 16,320 7,293 9,873 17,166 Claims during year: Opened 639 1,065 1,704 656 937 1,593 643 1,383 2,026 Settled (219 ) (207 ) (426 ) (150 ) (179 ) (329 ) (150 ) (155 ) (305 ) Dismissed or otherwise resolved (1,203 ) (1,836 ) (3,039 ) (821 ) (2,548 ) (3,369 ) (908 ) (1,659 ) (2,567 ) Claims at end of year 5,780 6,674 12,454 6,563 7,652 14,215 6,878 9,442 16,320 Survival Ratios Asbestos and Environmental The following table presents AIGs survival ratios for asbestos and environmental claims at December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006. The survival ratio is derived by dividing the current carried loss reserve by the average payments for the three most recent calendar years for these claims. Therefore, the survival ratio is a simplistic measure estimating the number of years it would be before the current ending loss reserves for these claims would be paid off using recent year average payments. The December 31, 2008 survival ratio is lower than the ratio at December 31, 2007 because the more recent periods included in the rolling average reflect higher claims payments. In addition, AIGs survival ratio for asbestos claims was negatively affected by the favorable settlement described above, as well as several similar settlements during 2007. These settlements reduced gross and net asbestos survival ratios at December 31, 2008 by approximately 1.1 years and 2.4 years, respectively, and reduced gross and net asbestos survival ratios at December 31, 2007 by approximately 1.3 years and 2.6 years, respectively. Many factors, such as aggressive settlement procedures, mix of business and level of coverage provided, have a significant effect on the amount of asbestos and environmental reserves and payments and the resultant survival ratio. Moreover, as discussed above, the primary basis for AIGs determination of its reserves is not survival ratios, but instead the ground up and top down analysis. Thus, caution should be exercised in attempting to determine reserve adequacy for these claims based simply on this survival ratio. AIGs survival ratios for asbestos and environmental claims, separately and combined, were based upon a three year average payment and were as follows: Years Ended December 31, Gross Net 2008 Survival ratios: Asbestos 5.2 3.7 Environmental 4.4 3.5 Combined 5.1 3.7 98 AIG 2008 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries Years Ended December 31, Gross Net 2007 Survival ratios: Asbestos 7.1 5.6 Environmental 4.7 3.7 Combined 6.7 5.2 2006 Survival ratios: Asbestos 11.8 12.9 Environmental 5.6 4.5 Combined 10.4 10.3 Life Insurance Retirement Services Operations AIGs Life Insurance Retirement Services operations offer a wide range of insurance and retirement savings products both domestically and abroad. AIGs Foreign Life Insurance Retirement Services operations include insurance and investment oriented products such as whole and term life, investment linked, universal life and endowments, personal accident and health products, group products including pension, life and health, and fixed and variable annuities. The Foreign Life Insurance Retirement Services products are sold through independent producers, career agents, financial institutions and direct marketing channels. AIGs Domestic Life Insurance operations offer a broad range of protection products, such as individual life insurance and group life and health products, including disability income products and payout annuities, which include single premium immediate annuities, structured settlements and terminal funding annuities. The Domestic Life Insurance products are sold through independent producers, career agents, financial institutions and direct marketing channels. Home service operations include an array of life insurance, accident and health and annuity products sold primarily through career agents. AIGs Domestic Retirement Services operations include group retirement products, individual fixed and variable annuities sold through banks, broker dealers and exclusive sales representatives, and annuity runoff operations, which include previously acquired closed blocks and other fixed and variable annuities largely sold through distribution relationships that have been discontinued. AIGs Life Insurance Retirement Services reports its operations through the following major internal reporting units and legal entities: Foreign Life Insurance Retirement Services Japan and Other American Life Insurance Company (ALICO) AIG Star Life Insurance Co., Ltd. (AIG Star Life) AIG Edison Life Insurance Company (AIG Edison Life) Asia American International Assurance Company, Limited, together with American International Assurance Company (Bermuda) Limited (AIA) Nan Shan Life Insurance Company, Ltd. (Nan Shan) American International Reinsurance Company Limited (AIRCO) The Philippine American Life and General Insurance Company (Philamlife) AIG 2008 Form 10 K 99 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries Domestic Life Insurance American General Life Insurance Company (AIG American General) The United States Life Insurance Company in the City of New York (USLIFE) American General Life and Accident Insurance Company (AGLA) Domestic Retirement Services The Variable Annuity Life Insurance Company (VALIC) AIG Annuity Insurance Company (AIG Annuity) AIG SunAmerica Life Assurance Company (AIG SunAmerica) Life Insurance Retirement Services Results Life Insurance Retirement Services results were as follows: Premiums Net Net Realized and Other Investment Capital Gains Total Operating Years Ended December 31, Considerations Income (Losses) Revenues Income (Loss)* (In millions) 2008 Japan and Other $ 14,513 $ 980 $ (5,693 ) $ 9,800 $ (2,687 ) Asia 15,406 981 (6,092 ) 10,295 (3,650 ) Total Foreign Life Retirement Services 29,919 1,961 (11,785 ) 20,095 (6,337 ) Domestic Life Insurance 6,248 3,799 (11,568 ) (1,521 ) (10,238 ) Domestic Retirement Services 1,128 4,346 (20,994 ) (15,520 ) (20,871 ) Total $ 37,295 $ 10,106 $ (44,347 ) $ 3,054 $ (37,446 ) 2007 Japan and Other $ 12,387 $ 6,083 $ (294 ) $ 18,176 $ 3,044 Asia 14,214 5,766 107 20,087 3,153 Total Foreign Life Retirement Services 26,601 11,849 (187 ) 38,263 6,197 Domestic Life Insurance 5,836 3,995 (803 ) 9,028 642 Domestic Retirement Services 1,190 6,497 (1,408 ) 6,279 1,347 Total $ 33,627 $ 22,341 $ (2,398 ) $ 53,570 $ 8,186 2006 Japan and Other $ 11,106 $ 5,239 $ 406 $ 16,751 $ 3,821 Asia 13,060 4,519 301 17,880 3,060 Total Foreign Life Retirement Services 24,166 9,758 707 34,631 6,881 Domestic Life Insurance 5,543 3,778 (215 ) 9,106 917 Domestic Retirement Services 1,057 6,488 (404 ) 7,141 2,323 Total $ 30,766 $ 20,024 $ 88 $ 50,878 $ 10,121 Percentage Increase/(Decrease) 2008 vs. 2007: Japan and Other 17 % (84 )% % (46 )% % Asia 8 (83 ) (49 ) Total Foreign Life Retirement Services 12 (83 ) (47 ) Domestic Life Insurance 7 (5 ) Domestic Retirement Services (5 ) (33 ) Total 11 % (55 )% % (94 )% % 100 AIG 2008 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries Premiums Net Net Realized and Other Investment Capital Gains Total Operating Years Ended December 31, Considerations Income (Losses) Revenues Income (Loss)* (In millions) Percentage Increase/(Decrease) 2007 vs. 2006: Japan and Other 12 % 16 % % 9 % (20 )% Asia 9 28 (64 ) 12 3 Total Foreign Life Retirement Services 10 21 10 (10 ) Domestic Life Insurance 5 6 (1 ) (30 ) Domestic Retirement Services 13 (12 ) (42 ) Total 9 % 12 % % 5 % (19 )% * 2008 operating income (loss) includes goodwill impairment charges of $402 million and $817 million for Domestic Life Insurance and Domestic Retirement Services, respectively. The following table presents the gross insurance in force for Life Insurance Retirement Services: At December 31, 2008 2007 2006 (In billions) Foreign* $ 1,352 $ 1,327 $ 1,163 Domestic 1,026 985 908 Total $ 2,378 $ 2,312 $ 2,071 * Includes increases of $57.8 billion, $55.1 billion and $41.5 billion related to changes in foreign exchange rates at December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. 2008 and 2007 Comparison Total revenues decreased in 2008 compared to 2007, primarily due to significantly higher levels of net realized capital losses and lower net investment income. See Consolidated Results and Investments Portfolio Review for further discussion. Premiums and other considerations increased in 2008 compared to 2007 primarily due to increased production and favorable foreign exchange rates in the Foreign Life Insurance Retirement Services operations and sales of payout annuities in Domestic Life Insurance. In addition to the higher net realized capital losses and lower net investment income noted above, the operating loss for 2008 increased as a result of DAC and sales inducement asset (SIA) unlocking and related reserve strengthening of $1.5 billion in the Domestic Retirement Services operations resulting from the continued weakness in the equity markets, the significantly higher surrender activity resulting from AIG parents liquidity issues beginning in mid September and goodwill impairment charges of $1.2 billion in the Domestic Life Insurance and Domestic Retirement Services companies. The impairment charges were attributable to declines in the estimated fair values of reporting units in the Property and Casualty Group, Domestic Life Insurance and Domestic Retirement Services, Consumer Finance and Capital Markets businesses attributable to the uncertain economic environment that developed in late 2008 coupled with other indications of fair value developed through the restructuring and asset disposition activities. The operating loss also included higher benefit costs in the Japan variable life product resulting from declines in the Japanese equity market. These decreases were partially offset by the favorable effect of foreign exchange rates and growth in the underlying business in force. The operating loss in 2008 included a DAC and SIA benefit of $3.2 billion related to net realized capital losses compared to a benefit of $333 million in 2007. AIG adopted FAS 157 on January 1, 2008. The adoption of FAS 157 resulted in an increase in pre tax net realized capital losses of $155 million as of January 1, 2008, partially offset by a $47 million DAC benefit related to AIG 2008 Form 10 K 101 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries these losses. These results were primarily due to an increase in the embedded policy derivative liability valuations resulting from the inclusion of explicit risk margins. AIG adopted FAS 159 on January 1, 2008 and elected to apply the fair value option to a closed block of single premium variable life business in Japan and to an investment linked product sold principally in Asia. The adoption of FAS 159 with respect to these fair value elections resulted in a decrease to 2008 opening retained earnings of $559 million, net of tax. The fair value of the liabilities for these policies totaled $2.6 billion at December 31, 2008 and is reported in policyholder contract deposits. 2007 and 2006 Comparison The severe credit market disruption was a key driver of operating results in 2007 principally due to significant net realized capital losses resulting from other than temporary impairment charges and losses on derivative instruments not qualifying for hedge accounting treatment. See Results of Operations Consolidated Results Net Realized Gains (Losses) for further discussion. Life Insurance Retirement Services total revenues increased in 2007 compared to 2006 despite the higher net realized capital losses primarily due to higher premiums and other considerations and higher net investment income. Operating income in 2007 decreased compared to 2006 primarily due to net realized capital losses and the following: mark to market trading losses of $150 million related to investment linked products in the U.K.; DAC amortization charges of $108 million related to the adoption in 2007 of SOP 05 1; remediation activity charges of $118 million; and out of period adjustments related to UCITS and participating policyholder dividends, which increased 2006 operating income by $332 million. These decreases were partially offset as operating income in 2006 was negatively affected by charges of $125 million for the Superior National arbitration ruling, $66 million related to exiting the domestic financial institutions credit life business and $55 million related to other litigation charges. Foreign Life Insurance Retirement Services Results Foreign Life Insurance Retirement Services results on a sub product basis were as follows: Premiums and Net Net Realized Operating Other Investment Capital Gains Total Income / Years Ended December 31, Considerations Income (Losses) Revenues (Loss) (In millions) 2008 Life insurance $ 17,839 $ 1,734 $ (8,837 ) $ 10,736 $ (5,669 ) Personal accident 7,055 371 (385 ) 7,041 1,040 Group products 3,777 510 73 4,360 564 Individual fixed annuities 761 2,320 (2,660 ) 421 (2,125 ) Individual variable annuities 487 (2,974 ) 24 (2,463 ) (147 ) Total $ 29,919 $ 1,961 $ (11,785 ) $ 20,095 $ (6,337 ) 102 AIG 2008 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries Premiums and Net Net Realized Operating Other Investment Capital Gains Total Income / Years Ended December 31, Considerations Income (Losses) Revenues (Loss) (In millions) 2007 Life insurance $ 16,630 $ 7,473 $ 85 $ 24,188 $ 3,898 Personal accident 6,094 354 (3 ) 6,445 1,457 Group products 2,979 753 (76 ) 3,656 263 Individual fixed annuities 438 2,283 (171 ) 2,550 548 Individual variable annuities 460 986 (22 ) 1,424 31 Total $ 26,601 $ 11,849 $ (187 ) $ 38,263 $ 6,197 2006 Life insurance $ 15,732 $ 5,937 $ 574 $ 22,243 $ 4,247 Personal accident 5,518 285 55 5,858 1,459 Group products 2,226 648 47 2,921 450 Individual fixed annuities 400 2,027 31 2,458 580 Individual variable annuities 290 861 1,151 145 Total $ 24,166 $ 9,758 $ 707 $ 34,631 $ 6,881 Percentage Increase/(Decrease) 2008 vs. 2007: Life insurance 7 % (77 )% % (56 )% % Personal accident 16 5 9 (29 ) Group products 27 (32 ) 19 114 Individual fixed annuities 74 2 (83 ) Individual variable annuities 6 Total 12 % (83 )% % (47 )% % Percentage Increase/(Decrease) 2007 vs. 2006: Life insurance 6 % 26 % (85 )% 9 % (8 )% Personal accident 10 24 10 Group products 34 16 25 (42 ) Individual fixed annuities 10 13 4 (6 ) Individual variable annuities 59 15 24 (79 ) Total 10 % 21 % % 10 % (10 )% AIG transacts business in most major foreign currencies and therefore premiums and other considerations reported in U.S. dollars vary by volume and from changes in foreign currency translation rates. The following table summarizes the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on the growth of the Foreign Life Insurance Retirement Services premiums and other considerations: Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 Growth in original currency* 6.7 % 7.6 % Foreign exchange effect 5.8 2.5 Growth as reported in U.S. dollars 12.5 % 10.1 % * Computed using a constant exchange rate each period. AIG 2008 Form 10 K 103 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries 2008 and 2007 Comparison Total revenues for Foreign Life Insurance Retirement Services in 2008 decreased compared to 2007 primarily due to substantial net realized capital losses and significantly lower net investment income. See Consolidated Results Net Investment Income and Net Realized Capital Gains (Losses). Despite the continued growth in the underlying business in force and the positive effect of foreign exchange, operating income in 2008 also decreased compared to 2007 due to: higher losses of $262 million on certain investment linked products in the U.K. due to mark to market trading losses partially offset by a positive change in benefit reserves resulting from changes to the Premier Access Bond product following significant surrender activity as a result of the AIG liquidity issues in mid September. As allowed under the contract terms, surrenders were suspended to allow sufficient time to develop an appropriate course of action with the respective distribution network and to protect the interest of the funds policyholders. Policyholders received a cash distribution equal to approximately half of their account value and were given the option to receive the remainder in cash at a discounted amount based on the value of the underlying investments or transfer their account value into a newly created fund. The newly created fund is valued at the net asset value of the underlying investments but provides for a guarantee of a minimum amount should the policyholder remain in the fund until July 2012. Any surrenders prior to July 2012 will be at the net asset value; higher benefit costs, net of related DAC unlocking, of $106 million principally related to volatility in the Japanese equity market and declines in interest rates and, Foreign Life Insurance Retirement Services continued its ongoing project to increase standardization of AIGs actuarial systems and processes throughout the world which resulted in a favorable effect on operating income of $151 million for 2008 compared to a $183 million positive effect in 2007. Partially offsetting these items were higher DAC and SIA benefits of $132 million related to the net realized capital losses and higher surrender charge income related to the temporary spike in policy surrenders during the fourth quarter. Generally, surrenders have returned to normal levels in the foreign operations. In addition, operating income for 2007 included $118 million of remediation activity charges and $67 million of additional claim expense related to an industry wide regulatory claims review in Japan. 2007 and 2006 Comparison Total revenues for Foreign Life Insurance Retirement Services in 2007 increased compared to 2006, primarily due to higher premiums and other considerations and net investment income partially offset by net realized capital losses. Net investment income increased in 2007 compared to 2006 due to higher levels of assets under management, higher policyholder trading gains and higher partnership and mutual fund income. Operating income decreased in 2007 compared to 2006 principally due to: net realized capital losses; mark to market trading losses of $150 million related to investment linked products in the U.K.; remediation activity charge of $118 million; additional claim expense of $67 million relating to an industry wide regulatory review of claims in Japan; additional policyholder benefits expense of $36 million related to a closed block of Japanese business with guaranteed benefits; and out of period adjustments benefiting 2006 earnings for $332 million related to UCITS and participating policyholder dividend reserves. These decreases were partially offset by higher net investment income, a $183 million positive effect of changes in actuarial estimates and the positive effect of changes in foreign exchange rates. 104 AIG 2008 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries Foreign Life Insurance Retirement Services Sales and Deposits* First year premium, single premium and annuity deposits for Foreign Life Insurance Retirement Services were as follows: Percentage Increase (Decrease) Years Ended December 31, 2008 vs 2007 2007 vs 2006 Original Original 2008 2007 2006 U.S. $ Currency U.S. $ Currency (In millions) First year premium $ 4,815 $ 5,032 $ 4,542 (4 )% (7 )% 11 % 9 % Single premium 10,738 15,905 5,283 (32 ) (33 ) 201 183 Annuity deposits 17,665 19,150 21,916 (8 ) (9 ) (13 ) (18 ) * Excludes operations in Brazil. 2008 and 2007 Comparison First year premium sales in 2008 declined compared to 2007 primarily due to decreases in life insurance and personal accident sales. In Japan, life insurance sales were lower due to reduced levels of increasing term sales and lower sales in the fourth quarter of 2008 related to AIGs liquidity issues. Also in Japan, personal accident sales declined in the direct marketing distribution channel due to lower response rates resulting from market saturation. In Taiwan, regular premium life insurance sales declined due to a shift in sales to investment linked and variable annuity products. These declines were partially offset by increases in group products sales, particularly in Japan, Australia and the Middle East. Single premium sales in 2008 declined compared to 2007 primarily due to lower guaranteed income bond deposits in the U.K. which fell as customers shifted to variable annuity products during the first three quarters of the year and which were significantly negatively affected in the fourth quarter by AIGs liquidity issues. Single premium sales in Asia also dropped as customers became concerned about declining equity markets, particularly in Taiwan, Hong Kong, Singapore and China. A new single premium personal accident and health product launched in Japan during the first quarter of 2008 continues to perform well and sales, which started through banks, are being expanded to the agency channels. Annuity deposits decreased in 2008 compared to 2007 as the decline in individual variable annuity deposits more than offset the increase in individual fixed annuity deposits. Investment linked deposits in the U.K. decreased significantly in the fourth quarter of 2008 due to the AIG liquidity issues. Individual variable annuity deposits in Taiwan increased in 2008 compared to 2007 due to the launch of a new variable annuity product. In Japan, individual fixed annuity deposits increased in 2008 compared to 2007 due primarily to a favorable exchange rate environment for non yen denominated products. However, AIGs liquidity issues and the planned disposition of AIGs Japan life operations negatively affected deposits in the fourth quarter of 2008 as banks suspended the distribution of AIG products. While some banks in Japan have resumed sales of annuity products, most have not. AIG has, therefore, increased sales of annuity deposits through agents. 2007 and 2006 Comparison First year premium sales in 2007 increased compared to 2006 in both U.S. dollar terms and original currency primarily due to strong investment oriented product sales in Southeast Asia. This increase was partially offset by declines in Japan resulting from the suspension of increasing term sales and lower personal accident production resulting from changes in local tax regulations. Single premium sales in 2007 increased dramatically compared to 2006, driven primarily by guaranteed income bond sales in the U.K. and investment oriented product sales in Hong Kong and Singapore. Annuity deposits declined in 2007 compared to 2006. Individual fixed annuity deposits were negatively affected by an unfavorable exchange rate environment and a shift to variable annuity products. Individual variable annuity deposits declined in 2007 compared to 2006 in both Europe and Japan. In Europe, lower deposits reflected the effect of tax law changes that reduced tax benefits to policyholders. In Japan, lower sales resulted from increased AIG 2008 Form 10 K 105 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries competition and the introduction of a new law that increased sales compliance and customer suitability requirements. Domestic Life Insurance Results Domestic Life Insurance results, presented on a sub product basis were as follows: Premiums and Net Net Realized Operating Other Investment Capital Gains Total Income Years Ended December 31, Considerations Income (Losses) Revenues (Loss)(a) (In millions) 2008 Life insurance $ 2,478 $ 1,324 $ (8,182 ) $ (4,380 ) $ (7,360 ) Home service 743 613 (1,422 ) (66 ) (1,314 ) Group life/health 847 192 (336 ) 703 (332 ) Payout annuities(b) 2,131 1,242 (1,209 ) 2,164 (1,026 ) Individual fixed and runoff annuities 49 428 (419 ) 58 (206 ) Total $ 6,248 $ 3,799 $ (11,568 ) $ (1,521 ) $ (10,238 ) 2007 Life insurance $ 2,352 $ 1,528 $ (584 ) $ 3,296 $ 226 Home service 767 640 (100 ) 1,307 216 Group life/health 842 200 (16 ) 1,026 67 Payout annuities(b) 1,820 1,153 (67 ) 2,906 74 Individual fixed and runoff annuities 55 474 (36 ) 493 59 Total $ 5,836 $ 3,995 $ (803 ) $ 9,028 $ 642 2006 Life insurance $ 2,127 $ 1,377 $ (83 ) $ 3,421 $ 654 Home service 790 630 (38 ) 1,382 282 Group life/health 995 213 (8 ) 1,200 (159 ) Payout annuities(b) 1,582 1,004 (51 ) 2,535 76 Individual fixed and runoff annuities 49 554 (35 ) 568 64 Total $ 5,543 $ 3,778 $ (215 ) $ 9,106 $ 917 Percentage Increase/(Decrease) 2008 vs. 2007: Life insurance 5 % (13 )% % % % Home service (3 ) (4 ) Group life/health 1 (4 ) (31 ) Payout annuities 17 8 (26 ) Individual fixed and runoff annuities (11 ) (10 ) Total 7 % (5 )% % % % 106 AIG 2008 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries Premiums and Net Net Realized Operating Other Investment Capital Gains Total Income Years Ended December 31, Considerations Income (Losses) Revenues (Loss)(a) (In millions) Percentage Increase/(Decrease) 2007 vs. 2006: Life insurance 11 % 11 % % (4 )% (65 )% Home service (3 ) 2 (5 ) (23 ) Group life/health (15 ) (6 ) (15 ) Payout annuities 15 15 15 (3 ) Individual fixed and runoff annuities 12 (14 ) (13 ) (8 ) Total 5 % 6 % % (1 )% (30 )% (a) 2008 operating income (loss) includes goodwill impairment charges of $80 million for life insurance, $280 million for home service and $42 million for group life/health. (b) Premiums and other considerations include structured settlements, single premium immediate annuities and terminal funding annuities. 2008 and 2007 Comparison Total revenues for Domestic Life Insurance decreased in 2008 compared to 2007 primarily due to significantly higher net realized capital losses and lower net investment income, partially offset by higher premiums and other considerations. Domestic Life Insurance premiums and other considerations increased due to strong payout annuities sales and growth in life insurance business in force. The growth in payout annuities deposits was driven by structured settlement and terminal funding annuities in both the U.S. and Canada. Net investment income declined due to higher policyholder trading losses offset in policyholder benefits, reduced overall investment yields from increased levels of short term investments and lower partnership and call and tender income. Partially offsetting these items were growth in underlying businesses and reduced losses due to the phaseout of synthetic fuel production investments. The increase in net realized capital losses was primarily driven by other than temporary impairment charges. See Results of Operations Consolidated Results Net Investment Income and Net Realized Capital Losses and Investments Securities Lending Activities. Domestic Life Insurance reported a significant operating loss in 2008 compared to operating income in 2007 due principally to significantly lower revenues (as described above), goodwill impairment charges and restructuring expenses in 2008. Partially offsetting these items was the continued growth in the underlying business in force and favorable mortality experience in life insurance and payout annuities. Life insurance results were also affected by higher DAC amortization of $30 million related to the change in the unearned revenue liability described above, resulting in a net benefit of $22 million. In addition, 2007 payout annuities operating income was adversely affected by a $30 million adjustment to increase group annuity reserves. Policyholder benefit reserves in 2008 included an increase of $12 million related to the workers compensation reinsurance program compared to a reduction in expense of $52 million in 2007. Operating income (loss) includes a DAC benefit related to realized capital losses of $364 million in 2008 compared to a benefit of $13 million in 2007. 2007 and 2006 Comparison Total revenues for Domestic Life Insurance decreased in 2007 compared to 2006 primarily due to net realized capital losses partially offset by higher net investment income and premiums and other considerations. The Domestic Life Insurance premiums and other considerations increased as a result of higher payout annuity deposits and growth in life insurance business in force, partially offset by decreased group life/health premiums from exiting the financial institutions credit life business at the end of 2006. Operating income decreased in 2007 compared with 2006 due principally to net realized capital losses. In addition, operating income in 2007 was negatively affected by a $52 million charge due to changes in actuarial estimates which included DAC unlocking and refinements in estimates resulting from actuarial valuation system enhancements and a $67 million increase in DAC amortization related to SOP 05 1. These items were partially AIG 2008 Form 10 K 107 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries offset by a $52 million decrease in policy benefits due to additional reinsurance recoveries associated with Superior National. Operating income in 2006 included a $125 million charge related to the Superior National workers compensation arbitration, a $66 million loss related to exiting the financial institutions credit life business and a $55 million charge related to litigation reserves. Domestic Life Insurance Sales and Deposits Domestic Life Insurance sales and deposits by product* were as follows: Years Ended December 31, Percentage Increase/(Decrease) 2008 2007 2006 2008 vs. 2007 2007 vs. 2006 (In millions) Life insurance Periodic premium by product: Universal life $ 167 $ 230 $ 334 (27 )% (31 )% Variable universal life 63 55 56 15 (2 ) Term life 210 219 240 (4 ) (9 ) Whole life/other 11 9 13 22 (31 ) Total periodic premiums by product 451 513 643 (12 ) (20 ) Unscheduled and single deposits 267 426 269 (37 ) 58 Total life insurance 718 939 912 (24 ) 3 Home service Life insurance and accident and health 87 96 95 (9 ) 1 Fixed annuities 199 116 107 72 8 Unscheduled and single deposits 21 18 19 17 (5 ) Total home service 307 230 221 33 4 Group life/health 121 118 148 3 (20 ) Payout annuities 2,893 2,612 2,465 11 6 Individual fixed and runoff annuities 930 420 641 121 (34 ) Total sales and deposits $ 4,969 $ 4,319 $ 4,387 15 % (2 )% * Life insurance sales include periodic premium from new business expected to be collected over a one year period and unscheduled and single premiums from new and existing policyholders. Sales of group accident and health insurance represent annualized first year premium from new policies. Annuity sales represent deposits from new and existing policyholders. 2008 and 2007 Comparison Total Domestic Life Insurance sales and deposits increased in 2008 compared to 2007 primarily due to strong payout and individual fixed annuities sales, partially offset by a decline in total life insurance premiums. Payout annuities sales increased due to strong terminal funding and structured settlement sales in both the U.S. and Canada. Individual fixed annuities sales increased as a result of the interest rate environment as credited rates offered were more competitive with the rates offered by banks on certificates of deposit. The ratings downgrades and negative publicity related to AIG resulted in lower sales and deposits for the fourth quarter of 2008. The U.S. life insurance market remains highly competitive and Domestic Lifes emphasis on maintaining new business margins has affected sales of term and universal life products, although recent enhancements to term products resulted in an increase in sales prior to AIGs liquidity issues in September 2008. 108 AIG 2008 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries Domestic Retirement Services Results Domestic Retirement Services results, presented on a sub product basis were as follows: Premiums and Net Net Realized Other Investment Capital Gains Total Operating Years Ended December 31, Considerations Income (Losses) Revenues Income (Loss)(a) (In millions) 2008 Group retirement products $ 401 $ 1,461 $ (6,700 ) $ (4,838 ) $ (6,283 ) Individual fixed annuities 128 2,487 (11,928 ) (9,313 ) (11,646 ) Individual variable annuities 584 85 (1,281 ) (612 ) (1,884 ) Individual annuities runoff(b) 15 313 (1,085 ) (757 ) (1,058 ) Total $ 1,128 $ 4,346 $ (20,994 ) $ (15,520 ) $ (20,871 ) 2007 Group retirement products $ 446 $ 2,280 $ (451 ) $ 2,275 $ 696 Individual fixed annuities 96 3,664 (829 ) 2,931 530 Individual variable annuities 627 166 (45 ) 748 122 Individual annuities runoff(b) 21 387 (83 ) 325 (1 ) Total $ 1,190 $ 6,497 $ (1,408 ) $ 6,279 $ 1,347 2006 Group retirement products $ 386 $ 2,279 $ (144 ) $ 2,521 $ 1,017 Individual fixed annuities 122 3,581 (257 ) 3,446 1,036 Individual variable annuities 531 202 5 738 193 Individual annuities runoff(b) 18 426 (8 ) 436 77 Total $ 1,057 $ 6,488 $ (404 ) $ 7,141 $ 2,323 Percentage Increase/(Decrease) 2008 vs. 2007: Group retirement products (10 )% (34 )% % (315 )% % Individual fixed annuities 33 (30 ) (417 ) Individual variable annuities (7 ) (48 ) (182 ) Individual annuities runoff (29 ) (19 ) (331 ) Total (5 )% (31 )% % (348 )% % Percentage Increase/(Decrease) 2007 vs. 2006: Group retirement products 16 % % % (10 )% (32 )% Individual fixed annuities (21 ) 2 (15 ) (49 ) Individual variable annuities 18 (18 ) 1 (37 ) Individual annuities runoff 17 (9 ) (25 ) Total 13 % % % (12 )% (42 )% (a) 2008 operating income (loss) includes goodwill impairment charges of $817 million for individual fixed annuities. (b) Primarily represents runoff annuity business sold through discontinued distribution relationships. AIG 2008 Form 10 K 109 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries 2008 and 2007 Comparison Domestic Retirement Services incurred an operating loss in 2008 compared to operating income in 2007, primarily due to significantly increased net realized capital losses, losses on partnership investments as well as DAC unlocking and related reserve strengthening resulting from increased surrenders and deteriorating equity markets and goodwill impairment charges. See Results of Operations Consolidated Results Net Investment Income and Net Realized Capital Losses for further information. AIG discontinued its U.S. securities lending program in December 2008. See Investments Securities Lending Activities. Both group retirement products and individual fixed annuities reported operating losses in 2008 compared to operating income in 2007 primarily as a result of increased net realized capital losses due to higher other than temporary impairment charges and goodwill impairment charges, lower net investment income due to partnership losses, lower yield enhancement income and reduced overall investment yield from increased levels of short term investments. In addition, DAC and SIA unlocking for group retirement products and individual fixed annuities totaled $210 million and $171 million, respectively, driven by projected increases in surrenders and deteriorating equity markets. These negative effects were partially offset by DAC and SIA benefits of $1.7 billion related to the net realized capital losses compared to $182 million in 2007. Individual variable annuities reported an operating loss in 2008 compared to operating income in 2007 primarily as a result of significantly increased net realized capital losses, principally due to $822 million of increased embedded policy derivative liability valuations, net of related economic hedges and other than temporary impairment charges. In addition, the operating loss included $1.1 billion of DAC unlocking and related reserve strengthening resulting primarily from the deteriorating equity markets. Operating losses also included DAC and SIA benefits of $454 million related to the net realized capital losses compared to $16 million in 2007. 2007 and 2006 Comparison Total revenues and operating income for Domestic Retirement Services declined in 2007 compared to 2006 primarily due to increased net realized capital losses. Net realized capital losses for Domestic Retirement Services increased due to higher other than temporary impairment charges and sales to reposition assets in certain investment portfolios for both group retirement products and individual fixed annuities, as well as from changes in the value of certain individual variable annuity product guarantees and related hedges associated with living benefit features. Changes in actuarial estimates, including DAC unlockings and refinements to estimates resulting from actuarial valuation system enhancements, resulted in a net decrease to operating income of $112 million in 2007. Domestic Retirement Services Sales and Deposits The following table presents the account value roll forward for Domestic Retirement Services by product: Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 (In millions) Group retirement products Balance at beginning of year $ 68,109 $ 64,357 Deposits annuities 5,661 5,898 Deposits mutual funds 1,520 1,633 Total Deposits 7,181 7,531 Surrenders and other withdrawals (6,693 ) (6,551 ) Death benefits (246 ) (262 ) Net inflows (outflows) 242 718 Change in fair value of underlying investments, interest credited, net of fees (11,490 ) 3,034 Balance at end of year $ 56,861 $ 68,109 110 AIG 2008 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 (In millions) Individual fixed annuities Balance at beginning of year $ 50,508 $ 52,685 Deposits 7,276 5,085 Surrenders and other withdrawals (9,571 ) (7,565 ) Death benefits (1,721 ) (1,667 ) Net inflows (outflows) (4,016 ) (4,147 ) Change in fair value of underlying investments, interest credited, net of fees 1,902 1,970 Balance at end of year $ 48,394 $ 50,508 Individual variable annuities Balance at beginning of year $ 33,108 $ 31,093 Deposits 3,455 4,472 Surrenders and other withdrawals (4,240 ) (4,158 ) Death benefits (480 ) (497 ) Net inflows (outflows) (1,265 ) (183 ) Change in fair value of underlying investments, interest credited, net of fees (8,250 ) 2,198 Balance at end of year $ 23,593 $ 33,108 Total Domestic Retirement Services Balance at beginning of year $ 151,725 $ 148,135 Deposits 17,912 17,088 Surrenders and other withdrawals (20,504 ) (18,274 ) Death benefits (2,447 ) (2,426 ) Net inflows (outflows) (5,039 ) (3,612 ) Change in fair value of underlying investments, interest credited, net of fees (17,838 ) 7,202 Balance at end of year, excluding runoff 128,848 151,725 Individual annuities runoff 5,079 5,690 Balance at end of year $ 133,927 $ 157,415 General and separate account reserves and mutual funds General account reserve $ 89,140 $ 88,801 Separate account reserve 38,499 60,461 Total general and separate account reserves 127,639 149,262 Group retirement mutual funds 6,288 8,153 Total reserves and mutual funds $ 133,927 $ 157,415 2008 and 2007 Comparison Deposits in all three product lines were negatively affected by the AIG ratings downgrades and AIGs liquidity issues commencing in September 2008. The decrease in group retirement products deposits was due to a decline in both group annuity deposits and group mutual fund deposits. The improvement in individual fixed annuity deposits was due to a steepened yield curve, providing the opportunity to offer higher interest crediting rates than certificates of deposits and mutual fund money market rates available at the time. Both group retirement products and AIG 2008 Form 10 K 111 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries individual fixed annuities deposits decreased after the AIG ratings downgrades. Individual variable annuity product sales declined due to the AIG ratings downgrades and continued weakness in the equity markets. Domestic Retirement Services surrenders and other withdrawals increased in all three product lines in 2008 compared to 2007 primarily due to the AIG ratings downgrades and AIGs liquidity issues. 2007 and 2006 Comparison Domestic Retirement Services deposits increased in 2007 compared to 2006 primarily reflecting higher deposits in group retirement products and individual variable annuities, partially offset by a decrease in individual fixed annuities. Group retirement deposits increased 10 percent in 2007 compared to 2006 as a result of an increased focus on sales management and acquiring outside deposits. Mutual funds deposits increased 20 percent while group annuity deposits increased 8 percent. Individual fixed annuity sales continued to face increased competition from bank deposit products and money market funds offering very competitive short term rates in the 2007 yield curve environment, and as a result deposits decreased 5 percent in 2007 compared to 2006. Individual variable annuity deposits increased 5 percent in 2007 compared to 2006 despite the discontinuation of a major bank proprietary product. Domestic Retirement Services surrenders and other withdrawals increased in 2007 compared to 2006 reflecting higher surrenders in both group retirement products and individual fixed annuities. Group retirement surrenders increased as a result of both normal maturing of the business and higher large group surrenders in 2007 compared to 2006. Individual fixed annuity surrenders and withdrawals increased in 2007 due to both an increasing number of policies coming out of their surrender charge period and increased competition from bank deposit products. The following table presents Domestic Retirement Services reserves by surrender charge category and surrender rates: Group Individual Individual Retirement Fixed Variable At December 31, Products* Annuities Annuities (In millions) 2008 No surrender charge $ 43,797 $ 10,287 $ 8,594 0% 2% 1,320 3,043 3,097 Greater than 2% 4% 1,714 6,711 2,187 Greater than 4% 2,710 25,110 7,663 Non Surrenderable 1,032 3,243 2,052 Total Reserves $ 50,573 $ 48,394 $ 23,593 Surrender rates 10.5 % 18.8 % 14.9 % 2007 No surrender charge $ 49,770 $ 11,316 $ 13,014 0% 2% 3,284 3,534 5,381 Greater than 2% 4% 3,757 7,310 5,133 Greater than 4% 2,280 24,956 9,492 Non Surrenderable 865 3,392 88 Total Reserves $ 59,956 $ 50,508 $ 33,108 Surrender rates 9.8 % 14.6 % 12.8 % * Excludes mutual funds of $6.3 billion and $8.2 billion in 2008 and 2007, respectively. Surrender rates increased for group retirement products and individual variable and fixed annuities in 2008 compared to 2007 primarily due to the AIG ratings downgrades and AIGs liquidity issues. 112 AIG 2008 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs and Sales Inducement Assets DAC for Life Insurance Retirement Services products arises from the deferral of costs that vary with, and are directly related to, the acquisition of new or renewal business. Policy acquisition costs for life insurance products are generally deferred and amortized over the premium paying period in accordance with FAS 60, Accounting and Reporting by Insurance Enterprises (FAS 60). Policy acquisition costs that relate to universal life and investment type products are generally deferred and amortized, with interest in relation to the incidence of estimated gross profits to be realized over the estimated lives of the contracts in accordance with FAS 97. Value of Business Acquired (VOBA) is determined at the time of acquisition and is reported on the consolidated balance sheet with DAC and amortized over the life of the business, similar to DAC. AIG offers sales inducements to contract holders (bonus interest) on certain annuity and investment contracts. Sales inducements are recognized as an asset (SIA) with a corresponding increase to the liability for policyholder contract deposits on the consolidated balance sheet and are amortized over the life of the contract similar to DAC. The deferral of acquisition and sales inducement costs decreased $164 million in 2008 compared to 2007 primarily due to declines in new business production resulting from AIGs liquidity issues. Total amortization expense increased by $1.5 billion in 2008 compared to 2007. The current year amortization includes a $3.2 billion increase to operating income related to net realized capital losses in 2008 compared to $333 million in 2007 reflecting significantly higher other than temporary impairment charges. Current year amortization for Domestic Retirement Services also includes adjustments for DAC and SIA unlocking of $961 million related to the continued weakness in the equity markets and DAC and SIA unlocking of $267 million due to higher surrender activity. There was no effect from higher surrender activity in Domestic Life and the Foreign Life operations as the write off of the DAC was offset by related policy charges. In 2007, amortization expense included changes in actuarial estimates of $732 million, mostly offset in policyholder benefits and claims incurred, which decreased the reported expense. Annualized amortization expense levels in 2008 and 2007 were approximately 13 percent and 10 percent, respectively, of the opening DAC balance. AIG adopted FAS 159 on January 1, 2008 and elected to apply fair value accounting for an investment linked product sold principally in Asia. Upon fair value election, all DAC and SIA are written off and there is no further deferral or amortization of DAC and SIA for that product. The amounts of DAC and SIA written off as of January 1, 2008 were $1.1 billion and $299 million, respectively. The following table summarizes the major components of the changes in DAC/VOBA and SIA: Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 DAC/VOBA SIA Total DAC/VOBA SIA Total (In millions) Foreign Life Insurance Retirement Services Balance at beginning of year $ 26,175 $ 681 $ 26,856 $ 21,153 $ 404 $ 21,557 Acquisition costs deferred 5,622 66 5,688 5,640 241 5,881 Amortization (charged) or credited to operating income(a) (4,449 ) (90 ) (4,539 ) (1,879 ) 10 (1,869 ) Change in unrealized gains (losses) on securities 261 (8 ) 253 301 16 317 Increase (decrease) due to foreign exchange (352 ) (33 ) (385 ) 831 10 841 Other(b) (1,091 ) (299 ) (1,390 ) 129 129 Balance at end of year $ 26,166 $ 317 $ 26,483 $ 26,175 $ 681 $ 26,856 AIG 2008 Form 10 K 113 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 DAC/VOBA SIA Total DAC/VOBA SIA Total (In millions) Domestic Life Insurance Balance at beginning of year $ 6,432 $ 53 $ 6,485 $ 6,006 $ 46 $ 6,052 Acquisition costs deferred 865 16 881 895 15 910 Amortization (charged) or credited to operating income (324 ) (4 ) (328 ) (652 ) (8 ) (660 ) Change in unrealized gains (losses) on securities 379 379 162 162 Increase (decrease) due to foreign exchange (116 ) (116 ) 85 85 Other(b) 1 1 (64 ) (64 ) Balance at end of year $ 7,236 $ 66 $ 7,302 $ 6,432 $ 53 $ 6,485 Domestic Retirement Services Balance at beginning of year $ 5,838 $ 991 $ 6,829 $ 5,651 $ 887 $ 6,538 Acquisition costs deferred 790 210 1,000 741 201 942 Amortization (charged) or credited to operating income(a) (198 ) 39 (159 ) (836 ) (151 ) (987 ) Change in unrealized gains (losses) on securities 779 175 954 282 54 336 Increase (decrease) due to foreign exchange 2 2 Balance at end of year $ 7,211 $ 1,415 $ 8,626 $ 5,838 $ 991 $ 6,829 Total Life Insurance Retirement Services Balance at beginning of year $ 38,445 $ 1,725 $ 40,170 $ 32,810 $ 1,337 $ 34,147 Acquisition costs deferred 7,277 292 7,569 7,276 457 7,733 Amortization (charged) or credited to operating income(a) (4,971 ) (55 ) (5,026 ) (3,367 ) (149 ) (3,516 ) Change in unrealized gains (losses) on securities 1,419 167 1,586 745 70 815 Increase due to foreign exchange (466 ) (33 ) (499 ) 916 10 926 Other(b) (1,091 ) (298 ) (1,389 ) 65 65 Balance at end of year $ 40,613 $ 1,798 $ 42,411 $ 38,445 $ 1,725 $ 40,170 (a) In 2007, Foreign Life Insurance Retirement Services includes lower amortization of $836 million related to changes in actuarial estimates, mostly offset in Policyholder benefits and claims incurred. Domestic Retirement Services includes higher amortization of $104 million related to changes in actuarial estimates. (b) In 2008, primarily represents the cumulative effect of adoption of FAS 159. In 2007, includes the cumulative effect of adoption of SOP 05 1. As AIG operates in various global markets, the estimated gross profits used to amortize DAC, VOBA and SIA are subject to differing market returns and interest rate environments in any single period. The combination of market returns and interest rates may lead to acceleration of amortization in some products and regions and simultaneous deceleration of amortization in other products and regions. 114 AIG 2008 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries DAC, VOBA and SIA for insurance oriented, investment oriented and retirement services products are reviewed for recoverability, which involves estimating the future profitability of current business. This review involves significant management judgment. If actual future profitability is substantially lower than estimated, AIGs DAC, VOBA and SIA may be subject to an impairment charge and AIGs results of operations could be significantly affected in future periods. Taiwan Beginning in 2000, the yield available on Taiwanese 10 year government bonds dropped from approximately 6 percent to 1.5 percent at December 31, 2008. Yields on most other invested assets have correspondingly dropped over the same period. Current sales are focused on products such as: variable separate account products which do not contain interest rate guarantees, participating products which contain very low implied interest rate guarantees, and accident and health policies and riders. In developing the reserve adequacy analysis for Nan Shan, several key best estimate assumptions have been made: Observed historical mortality improvement trends have been projected to 2014; Morbidity, expense and termination rates have been updated to reflect recent experience; Taiwan government bond rates are expected to remain at current levels for 10 years and gradually increase to best estimate assumptions of a market consensus view of long term interest rate expectations; Foreign assets are assumed to comprise 35 percent of invested assets, resulting in a composite long term investment assumption of approximately 4.9 percent; and The current practice permitted in Taiwan of offsetting positive mortality experience with negative interest margins, thus eliminating the need for mortality dividends, will continue. Future results of the reserve adequacy tests will involve significant management judgment as to mortality, morbidity, expense and termination rates and investment yields. Adverse changes in these assumptions could accelerate DAC amortization and necessitate reserve strengthening. Future results of the reserve adequacy tests will be affected by the nature, timing and duration of any potential change in investment strategy implemented for Nan Shan. Financial Services Operations AIGs Financial Services subsidiaries engage in diversified activities including aircraft leasing, capital markets, and consumer finance and insurance premium finance. Together, the Aircraft Leasing, Capital Markets and Consumer Finance operations generate the majority of the revenues produced by the Financial Services operations. A.I. Credit also contributes to Financial Services income principally by providing insurance premium financing for both AIGs policyholders and those of other insurers. Capital Markets represents the operations of AIGFP, which engaged as principal in a wide variety of financial transactions, including standard and customized financial products involving commodities, credit, currencies, energy, equities and interest rates. AIGFP also invests in a diversified portfolio of securities and engages in borrowing activities that involve issuing standard and structured notes and other securities and entering into GIAs. Given the extreme market conditions experienced in 2008, downgrades of AIGs credit ratings by the rating agencies, as well as AIGs intent to refocus on its core businesses, AIGFP has begun to unwind its businesses and portfolios including those associated with credit protection written through credit default swaps on super senior risk tranches of diversified pools of loans and debt securities. Historically, AIGs Capital Markets operations derived a significant portion of their revenues from hedged financial positions entered into in connection with counterparty transactions. AIGFP has also participated as a dealer in a wide variety of financial derivatives transactions. Revenues and operating income of the Capital Markets operations and the percentage change in these amounts for any given period are significantly affected by changes in AIG 2008 Form 10 K 115 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries the fair value of AIGFPs assets and liabilities and by the number, size and profitability of transactions entered into during that period relative to those entered into during the comparative period. Financial Services Results Financial Services results were as follows: Years Ended December 31, Percentage Increase/(Decrease) 2008 2007 2006 2008 vs. 2007 2007 vs. 2006 (In millions) Revenues: Aircraft Leasing $ 5,075 $ 4,694 $ 4,082 8 % 15 % Capital Markets (40,333 ) (9,979 ) (186 ) Consumer Finance 3,849 3,655 3,587 5 2 Other, including intercompany adjustments 314 321 294 (2 ) 9 Total $ (31,095 ) $ (1,309 ) $ 7,777 % % Operating income (loss): Aircraft Leasing $ 1,116 $ 873 $ 578 28 % 51 % Capital Markets (40,471 ) (10,557 ) (873 ) Consumer Finance (1,261 ) 171 668 (74 ) Other, including intercompany adjustments (205 ) (2 ) 10 Total $ (40,821 ) $ (9,515 ) $ 383 % % 2008 and 2007 Comparison Financial Services reported operating losses in 2008 and 2007, primarily due to unrealized market valuation losses related to AIGFPs super senior credit default swap portfolios of $28.6 billion and $11.5 billion in 2008 and 2007, respectively. AIGFP also recorded operating losses of $9.3 billion in 2008 representing the effect of changes in credit spreads on the valuation of AIGFPs assets and liabilities, including $185 million of gains reflected in the unrealized market valuation loss on the super senior credit default swaps. AGFs operating income declined in 2008 compared to 2007 primarily due to increases in the provision for finance receivable losses of $674 million resulting from increases to the allowance for finance receivable losses in response to the higher levels of delinquencies on AGFs finance receivable portfolio, higher net charge offs, and a goodwill impairment charge of $341 million. As of December 31, 2008, AGF reclassified $1.0 billion of real estate loans to be held for sale due to managements change in intent to hold these receivables. Based on negotiations with prospective purchasers, AGF determined that a write down of $27 million was necessary to reduce the carrying value of these loans to net realizable value. The sales of these loans were completed in February 2009. As of December 31, 2008, AGFs intent to hold for investment the remainder of the finance receivable portfolio had not changed. AIGCFG also recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $343 million in 2008. The net loss in the Other reporting unit resulted primarily from the change in fair value of interest rate swaps on economically hedged exposures. ILFC generated strong operating income growth in 2008 compared to 2007, driven to a large extent by a larger aircraft fleet, higher lease rates and lower composite borrowing rates. 2007 and 2006 Comparison Financial Services reported an operating loss in 2007 compared to operating income in 2006 primarily due to an unrealized market valuation loss of $11.5 billion on AIGFPs super senior credit default swap portfolio, an other than temporary impairment charge on AIGFPs available for sale investment securities of $643 million recorded in other income, and a decline in operating income for AGF. AGFs operating income declined in 2007 compared to 2006, due to reduced residential mortgage origination volumes, lower revenues from its mortgage banking activities 116 AIG 2008 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries and increases in the provision for finance receivable losses. In 2007, AGFs mortgage banking operations also recorded a pre tax charge of $178 million, representing the estimated cost of implementing the Supervisory Agreement entered into with the OTS. ILFC generated strong operating income growth in 2007 compared to 2006, driven to a large extent by a larger aircraft fleet, higher lease rates and higher utilization. In 2007, AIGFP began applying hedge accounting under FAS 133 to certain of its interest rate swaps and foreign currency forward contracts that hedge its investments and borrowings and AGF and ILFC began applying hedge accounting to most of their derivatives that hedge floating rate and foreign currency denominated borrowings. Prior to 2007, hedge accounting was not applied to any of AIGs derivatives and related assets and liabilities. Accordingly, revenues and operating income were exposed to volatility resulting from differences in the timing of revenue recognition between the derivatives and the hedged assets and liabilities. Capital Markets Results 2008 and 2007 Comparison AIGFPs operating loss increased in 2008 compared to 2007 primarily related to its super senior multi sector CDO credit default swap portfolio and the effect of credit spreads on the valuation of its assets and liabilities. The 2008 net operating loss was driven by the extreme market conditions experienced during the year and the effects of downgrades of AIGs credit ratings by the rating agencies. The net operating results were also affected by internal efforts during the first half of 2008 intended to preserve liquidity. As a result of AIGs intention to refocus on its core business, AIGFP began unwinding its businesses and portfolios. For a further discussion, see Overview Outlook Financial Services. AIG recognized an unrealized market valuation loss of $28.6 billion in 2008 compared to $11.5 billion in 2007, representing the change in fair value of its super senior credit default swap portfolio. The principal components of the loss recognized in 2008 were as follows: Approximately $25.7 billion relates to derivatives written on the super senior tranches of multi sector CDOs. The material decline in the fair value of these derivatives was caused by significant deterioration in the pricing and credit quality of RMBS, CMBS and CDO securities. Included in this amount is a loss of $4.3 billion with respect to the change in fair value of transactions outstanding at December 31, 2008 having a net notional amount of $12.6 billion. Also included in the unrealized market valuation losses on AIGFPs super senior credit default swap portfolio are losses of approximately $995 million that were subsequently realized through payments to counterparties to acquire at par value the underlying CDO securities with fair values that were less than par. Specifically, during the second quarter of 2008, AIGFP issued new maturity shortening puts that allow the holders of the securities issued by certain CDOs to treat the securities as short term eligible 2a 7 investments under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (2a 7 Puts), with a net notional amount of $5.4 billion on the super senior security issued by a CDO of AAA rated commercial mortgage backed securities (CMBS) pursuant to a facility that was entered into in 2005. All of these 2a 7 Puts and other 2a 7 Puts in AIGFPs multi sector CDO super senior credit default swap portfolio with a combined net notional amount of $9.4 billion were exercised by the counterparties during 2008. In addition, AIGFP extinguished its obligations with respect to one other credit default swap by purchasing the protected CDO security at its principal amount outstanding of $162 million. These transactions represent all of the payments that have been made to counterparties through December 31, 2008 on the super senior credit default swap portfolio of AIGFP under the settlement provisions of these contracts. AIGFP has not committed to enter into any new 2a 7 Puts. Further, included in the unrealized market valuation losses on AIGFPs super senior credit default swap portfolio are losses of approximately $21.1 billion that were subsequently realized through the termination of contracts through the ML III transaction. See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Approximately $2.3 billion relates to derivatives written as part of the corporate arbitrage portfolio. The decline in the fair value of these derivatives was caused by the continued significant widening in corporate credit spreads. AIG 2008 Form 10 K 117 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries Approximately $379 million relates to the decline in fair value of a transaction in the regulatory capital portfolio where AIGFP no longer believes the credit default swap is used by the counterparty to obtain regulatory capital relief. See Critical Accounting Estimates Valuation of Level 3 Assets and Liabilities and Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of AIGFPs super senior credit default swap portfolio. During 2008, AIGFP recognized a loss of $888 million on credit derivatives which are not included in the super senior credit default swap portfolio, compared to a net gain of $370 million in 2007. The following table presents AIGFPs credit valuation adjustment gains (losses) for the year ended December 31, 2008 (excluding intercompany transactions): Counterparty Credit Valuation Adjustment on Assets AIGs Own Credit Valuation Adjustment on Liabilities (In millions) Trading securities $ (8,928 ) Term notes $ 248 Loans and other assets (61 ) Hybrid term notes 646 Derivative assets (1,667 ) GIAs (415 ) Other liabilities 55 Derivative liabilities* 860 Decrease in assets $ (10,656 ) Decrease in liabilities $ 1,394 Net pre tax decrease to other income $ (9,262 ) * Includes super senior credit default swap portfolio Capital Markets operating loss for 2008 includes a loss of $9.3 billion representing the effect of changes in credit spreads on the valuation of AIGFPs assets and liabilities, including $185 million of gains reflected in the unrealized market valuation loss on super senior credit default swaps. Historically, AIGs credit spreads and those on AIGFPs assets moved in a similar fashion. This relationship began to diverge during second quarter of 2008 and continued to diverge through the end of the year. While AIGs credit spreads widened significantly during 2008, the credit spreads on the ABS and CDO products, which represent a significant portion of AIGFPs investment portfolio, widened even more. The losses on AIGFPs assets more than offset the net gain on its liabilities that was driven by the significant widening in AIGs credit spreads. The net gain on AIGFPs liabilities was reduced by the effect of posting collateral and the early terminations of GIAs, term notes and hybrid term notes. Included in the 2008 operating loss is the transition amount of $291 million related to the adoption of FAS 157 and FAS 159. The most significant component of Capital Markets operating expenses is compensation. Due to the significant losses recognized by AIGFP during 2008, the entire amount of $563 million accrued under AIGFPs various deferred compensation plans and special incentive plan was reversed in 2008. Total compensation expense in 2008 was $426 million including retention awards. 2007 and 2006 Comparison Capital Markets reported an operating loss in 2007 compared to operating income in 2006, primarily due to fourth quarter 2007 unrealized market valuation losses related to AIGFPs super senior credit default swap portfolio principally written on multi sector CDOs and an other than temporary impairment charge on AIGFPs investment portfolio of CDOs of ABS. These losses were partially offset by the effect of applying hedge accounting to certain hedging activities beginning in 2007, as described below, and net unrealized market gains related to certain credit default swaps purchased against the AAA to BBB rated risk layers on portfolios of reference obligations. AIGFP experienced higher transaction flow in 2007 in its rate and currency products which contributed to its revenues. Included in AIGFPs net operating loss was a net unrealized market valuation gain of $401 million on certain credit default swaps and embedded credit derivatives in credit linked notes in 2007. In these transactions, AIGFP purchased protection at the AAA to BBB rated risk layers on portfolios of reference obligations that include multi sector CDO obligations. 118 AIG 2008 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries During the fourth quarter of 2007, certain of AIGFPs available for sale investments in super senior and AAA rated bonds issued by multi sector CDOs experienced severe declines in their fair value. As a result, AIGFP recorded an other than temporary impairment charge in other income of $643 million. Notwithstanding AIGs intent and ability to hold such securities at such time until they recover in value, and despite structures which indicated that a substantial amount of the securities should continue to perform in accordance with their original terms, AIG concluded that it could not reasonably assert that the recovery period would be temporary. See also Investments Financial Services Invested Assets and Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The change in fair value of AIGFPs credit default swaps that reference CDOs and the decline in fair value of its investments in CDOs were caused by the significant widening in spreads in the fourth quarter on asset backed securities, principally those related to U.S. residential mortgages, the severe liquidity crisis affecting the structured finance markets and the effects of rating agency downgrades on those securities. In addition, in 2007 AIGFP recognized a net gain of $211 million related to hedging activities that did not qualify for hedge accounting treatment under FAS 133, compared to a net loss of $1.82 billion in 2006. The year ended December 31, 2007 included an out of period charge of $380 million to reverse net gains recognized in previous periods on transfers of available for sale securities among legal entities consolidated within AIGFP, and a $166 million reduction in fair value at March 31, 2007 of certain derivatives that were an integral part of, and economically hedge, the structured transactions that were affected by the proposed regulations issued by the United States Department of the Treasury. The net loss on AIGFPs derivatives recognized in 2006 included an out of period charge of $223 million related to the remediation of the material weakness in internal control over accounting for certain derivative transactions under FAS 133. The net loss also reflects the effect of increases in U.S. interest rates and a weakening of the U.S. dollar on derivatives hedging AIGFPs assets and liabilities. Financial market conditions in 2007 were characterized by increases in global interest rates, widening of credit spreads, higher equity valuations and a slightly weaker U.S. dollar. The most significant component of Capital Markets operating expenses is compensation, which was approximately $423 million and $544 million in 2007 and 2006, respectively. The amount of compensation was not affected by gains and losses arising from derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting treatment under FAS 133. Asset Management Operations AIGs Asset Management operations comprise a wide variety of investment related services and investment products. These services and products are offered to individuals, pension funds and institutions (including AIG subsidiaries) globally through AIGs Spread Based Investment business, Institutional Asset Management, and Brokerage Services and Mutual Funds businesses. Also included in Asset Management operations are the results of certain SunAmerica sponsored partnership investments. The revenues and operating income (loss) for this segment are affected by the general conditions in the equity and credit markets. In addition, net realized gains and carried interest are contingent upon various fund closings, maturity levels and market conditions. In the Institutional Asset Management business, carried interest, computed in accordance with each funds governing agreement, is based on the investments performance over the life of each fund. Unrealized carried interest is recognized based on each funds performance as of the balance sheet date. Future fund performance may negatively affect previously recognized carried interest. AIG 2008 Form 10 K 119 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries Asset Management Results Asset Management results were as follows: Years Ended December 31, Percentage Increase/(Decrease) 2008 2007 2006 2008 vs. 2007 2007 vs. 2006 (In millions) Revenues: Spread Based Investment business $ (6,918 ) $ 2,023 $ 2,713 % (25 )% Institutional Asset Management 1,938 2,900 1,240 (33 ) 134 Brokerage Services and Mutual Funds 273 322 293 (15 ) 10 Other Asset Management 181 380 297 (52 ) 28 Total $ (4,526 ) $ 5,625 $ 4,543 % 24 % Operating income (loss): Spread Based Investment business $ (8,543 ) $ (89 ) $ 732 % % Institutional Asset Management (848 ) 784 438 79 Brokerage Services and Mutual Funds 28 100 87 (72 ) 15 Other Asset Management 176 369 281 (52 ) 31 Total $ (9,187 ) $ 1,164 $ 1,538 % (24 )% 2008 and 2007 Comparison Asset Management recognized an operating loss in 2008 compared to operating income in 2007, primarily due to higher other than temporary impairment charges on fixed maturity securities, higher mark to market losses on unhedged derivatives, significantly lower partnership income, higher equity losses and realized losses on real estate investments, and lower net carried interest revenues. Partially offsetting these declines were increases in net foreign exchange gains on foreign currency denominated GIC and MIP liabilities. Included in the Institutional Asset Management operating income during 2007 was a gain on the sale of a portion of AIGs investment in The Blackstone Group L.P. (Blackstone) in connection with its initial public offering. As noted in the Asset Disposition section of Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, certain businesses within the Asset Management segment are being divested. The $9.2 billion operating loss for 2008 includes approximately $4.5 billion in net operating losses related to businesses which are expected to be retained by AIG, including the MIP. AIG will retain the businesses that manage the short duration asset and liability management and traditional fixed income investment services for the insurance companies. 2007 and 2006 Comparison Asset Management revenues increased in 2007 compared to 2006 primarily due to increased partnership income, management fees, and carried interest. Asset Management operating income decreased in 2007 compared to 2006, due to foreign exchange, interest rate and credit related mark to market losses and other than temporary impairment charges on fixed income investments. These other than temporary impairment charges were due primarily to changes in market liquidity and spreads. Partially offsetting these decreases were higher partnership income, increased gains on real estate investments and a gain of $398 million on the sale of a portion of AIGs investment in Blackstone in connection with its initial public offering. Revenues increased in 2007 compared to 2006 periods as a result of consolidating several warehoused investments. AIG consolidates the operating results of warehoused investments until such time as they are sold or otherwise divested. A portion of these amounts is offset in minority interest expense, which is not a component of operating income (loss). 120 AIG 2008 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries Spread Based Investment Business Results 2008 and 2007 Comparison The Spread Based Investment business reported increased operating losses in 2008 compared to 2007 due to significantly higher net realized capital losses and lower partnership income. Net realized capital losses were $8.6 billion in 2008 compared to $1.3 billion in 2007. The increase in net realized capital losses for 2008 primarily consists of an increase of $6.4 billion in other than temporary impairment charges on fixed maturity securities for both the GIC and MIP, higher net mark to market losses of $1.2 billion on interest rate and foreign exchange hedges not qualifying for hedge accounting treatment for both the GIC and MIP and higher net mark to market losses of $374 million on credit default swap investments held by the MIP due to the widening of corporate credit spreads. The MIP credit default swaps are comprised of single name investment grade corporate exposures. AIG enters into derivative arrangements to hedge the effect of changes in currency and interest rates associated with the fixed and floating rate and foreign currency denominated obligations issued under these programs. Some of these hedging relationships qualify for hedge accounting treatment, while others do not, and although being effective economic hedges, creates volatility in operating results. Partially offsetting these declines were increased net foreign exchange gains on foreign denominated GIC reserves and MIP liabilities of $1.3 billion. The increase in other than temporary impairment charges on fixed maturity securities held in the GIC and MIP portfolios were $3.2 billion for the GIC and $3.2 billion for the MIP in 2008, primarily resulting from severity and credit losses and the change in AIGs intent to hold securities to recovery related to both the U.S. securities lending portfolio and its general portfolios. See Investments Portfolio Review Other Than Temporary Impairments. In the GIC program, income from partnership investments decreased $1.4 billion for 2008 compared to 2007 due to significantly higher returns in the 2007 period and weaker market conditions in 2008. GIC income was also affected by higher net mark to market losses of $676 million on interest rate and foreign exchange hedges not qualifying for hedge accounting treatment. Offsetting these declines were net foreign exchange gains on foreign denominated GIC reserves which increased by $1.2 billion in 2008 compared to 2007 as a result of the strengthening of the U.S. dollar. As noted below, a significant portion of these GIC reserves mature in the next twelve months. The derivative losses included net mark to market losses on interest rate and foreign exchange derivatives used to economically hedge the effect of interest rate and foreign exchange rate movements on GIC reserves. Although these economic hedges are partially effective in hedging the interest rate and foreign exchange risk, AIG has not applied hedge accounting treatment. The MIP recognized an operating loss, due to net realized capital losses, of $4.8 billion in 2008, and an operating loss of $794 million in 2007. AIG did not issue any additional debt to fund the MIP in 2008 and does not intend to issue any additional debt for the foreseeable future. Through December 31, 2008, the MIP had cumulative debt issuances of $13.4 billion. During 2007, AIG issued the equivalent of $8.1 billion of securities to fund the MIP in the Euromarkets and the U.S. public and private markets. See Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a schedule of maturities of the MIP debt. The GIC program is in runoff with no new GICs issued subsequent to 2005. The anticipated runoff of the domestic GIC portfolio was as follows: Less Than 1 3 3+ 5 Over Five At December 31, One Year Years Years Years Total (In billions) Domestic GICs $ 6.0 $ 2.0 $ 3.0 $ 3.8 $ 14.8 2007 and 2006 Comparison The Spread Based Investment business reported an operating loss in 2007 compared to operating income in 2006 due to foreign exchange, interest rate and credit related mark to market losses and other than temporary impairment charges on fixed income investments, partially offset by increased partnership income. In 2007, the GIC program incurred foreign exchange losses of $526 million on foreign denominated GIC reserves. Partially offsetting these losses were $269 million of net mark to market gains on derivative positions. These net gains included mark to market gains on foreign exchange derivatives used to economically hedge the effect of foreign AIG 2008 Form 10 K 121 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries exchange rate movements on foreign denominated GIC reserves and mark to market losses on interest rate hedges that did not qualify for hedge accounting treatment. The MIP experienced mark to market losses of $193 million due to interest rate and foreign exchange derivative positions that, while partially effective in hedging interest rate and foreign exchange risk, did not qualify for hedge accounting treatment and an additional $98 million due to credit default swap losses. The mark to market losses for 2007 were driven primarily by a decline in short term interest rates, the decline in the value of the U.S. dollar and widening credit spreads. Also contributing to the operating loss were other than temporary impairment charges on various fixed maturity investments held in the GIC and MIP portfolios of approximately $836 million as a result of movements in credit spreads and decreased market liquidity. See Investments Portfolio Review Other Than Temporary Impairments. These losses were partially offset by an increase in partnership income associated with the GIC. Institutional Asset Management Results 2008 and 2007 Comparison Institutional Asset Management recognized an operating loss in 2008 compared to operating income in 2007, primarily resulting from the difficult market conditions in 2008 in the private equity, hedge fund and real estate environments. The operating loss reflects higher net equity losses and impairment charges of $330 million and lower net realized capital gains of $211 million on real estate investments, and lower carried interest of $209 million. Due to the current global real estate market conditions, several of AIG Global Real Estates investments were deemed to be impaired, and several equity investments were written off during 2008. These impairments and write offs totaled $269 million. The reduction in carried interest revenues was driven by lower net unrealized carry due to higher fund performance in 2007 and significantly lower fund performance in 2008. Increased losses from warehoused investments of $92 million were incurred as such investments were not able to be sold or otherwise divested as originally contemplated. Such assets are now considered proprietary investments of the Institutional Asset Management business. Total operating losses including funding costs from these investments for 2008 and 2007 were $257 million and $165 million, respectively, with 2008 reflecting a full year of such losses compared to a partial year in 2007. Of these operating losses, $142 million and $35 million for 2008 and 2007, respectively, are offset in minority interest expense, which is not a component of operating income (loss). Additional losses resulted from a decrease in securities lending fees of $60 million as the U.S. securities lending program was terminated and restructuring related expenses of $43 million primarily related to employee related costs associated with the intended divestment of various asset management businesses, including AIG Private Bank. Included in the 2007 results was a $398 million gain related to the sale of a portion of AIGs investment in Blackstone. AIGs unaffiliated client assets under management, including retail mutual funds and institutional accounts, were $68.9 billion and $97.6 billion at December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, respectively. The decline from December 31, 2007 reflects lower asset values due to the significant deterioration in the credit and equity markets during 2008 as well as the effect of net client outflows. Although there was a significant decline in end of period unaffiliated client assets under management, average assets under management decreased nominally in 2008 compared to 2007 and resulted in slightly lower base management fees. 2007 and 2006 Comparison Operating income for Institutional Asset Management increased in 2007 compared to 2006 reflecting increased carried interest revenues driven by higher valuations of portfolio investments that are generally associated with improved performance in the equity markets. The increase also reflects the $398 million gain from the sale of a portion of AIGs investment in Blackstone in connection with its initial public offering. Also contributing to this increase were higher base management fees driven by higher levels of third party assets under management. Partially offsetting these increases were the operating losses from warehousing activities. The consolidated warehoused private equity investments are not wholly owned by AIG and thus, a significant portion of the effect of consolidating these operating losses is offset in minority interest, which is not a component of operating income. 122 AIG 2008 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries Brokerage Services and Mutual Funds Revenues and operating income related to Brokerage Services and Mutual Fund activities decreased in 2008 from 2007 due to lower fee income as a result of a lower asset base and a decline in commission income resulting from difficult market conditions. In addition, restructuring expenses of $24 million were recorded in 2008 primarily related to employee costs. Other Asset Management Results Revenues and operating income related to Other Asset Management activities declined in 2008 from 2007 and increased in 2007 from 2006, due to changes in partnership income driven by weaker market conditions in 2008 and 2006 compared to strong market conditions in 2007. Critical Accounting Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP) requires the application of accounting policies that often involve a significant degree of judgment. AIG considers that its accounting policies that are most dependent on the application of estimates and assumptions, and therefore viewed as critical accounting estimates, to be those relating to items considered by management in the determination of AIGs ability to continue as a going concern, liability for general insurance unpaid claims and claims adjustment expenses, future policy benefits for life and accident and health contracts, recoverability of DAC, estimated gross profits for investment oriented products, the allowance for finance receivable losses, flight equipment recoverability, other than temporary impairments, goodwill impairment, estimates with respect to income taxes and fair value measurements of certain financial assets and liabilities, including credit default swaps. These accounting estimates require the use of assumptions about matters, some of which are highly uncertain at the time of estimation. To the extent actual experience differs from the assumptions used, AIGs results of operations would be directly affected. The major categories for which assumptions are developed and used to establish each critical accounting estimate are highlighted below. AIGs Ability to Continue as a Going Concern When assessing AIGs ability to continue as a going concern, management must make judgments and estimates about the following: the marketability of assets to be disposed of and the timing and amount of related cash proceeds to be used to repay indebtedness; plans to raise new funds or restructure debt; projections of future profitability and the timing and amount of cash flows from operating activities; the funding needs of regulated subsidiaries; AIGs ability to comply with debt covenants; plans to reduce expenditures; the effects of ratings agency actions on collateral requirements and other contractual conditions; and the future regulatory, business, credit, and competitive environments in which AIG operates around the world. These factors individually and collectively will have a significant effect on AIGs ability to generate sufficient cash to repay indebtedness as it becomes due and profitably operate its businesses as it executes its restructuring initiatives. AIG 2008 Form 10 K 123 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries Liability for Unpaid Claims and Claims Adjustment Expenses (General Insurance): Loss trend factors: used to establish expected loss ratios for subsequent accident years based on premium rate adequacy and the projected loss ratio with respect to prior accident years. Expected loss ratios for the latest accident year: in this case, accident year 2008 for the year end 2008 loss reserve analysis. For low frequency, high severity classes such as excess casualty, expected loss ratios generally are utilized for at least the three most recent accident years. Loss development factors: used to project the reported losses for each accident year to an ultimate amount. Reinsurance recoverable on unpaid losses: the expected recoveries from reinsurers on losses that have not yet been reported and or settled. For discussion of sensitivity analysis on the reserve for unpaid claims and claims adjustment expenses, see Results of Operations Segment Results General Insurance Operations Liability for Unpaid Claims and Claims Adjustment Expense. Future Policy Benefits for Life and Accident and Health Contracts (Life Insurance Retirement Services): Interest rates: which vary by geographical region, year of issuance and products. Mortality, morbidity and surrender rates: based upon actual experience by geographical region modified to allow for variation in policy form, risk classification and distribution channel. Periodically, the net benefit reserves (policy benefit reserves less DAC) established for Life Insurance Retirement Services companies are tested to ensure that, including consideration of future expected premium payments, they are adequate to provide for future policyholder benefit obligations. The assumptions used to perform the tests are current best estimate assumptions as to policyholder mortality, morbidity, terminations, company maintenance expenses and invested asset returns. For long duration traditional business, a lock in principle applies, whereby the assumptions used to calculate the benefit reserves and DAC are set when a policy is issued and do not change with changes in actual experience. These assumptions include margins for adverse deviation in the event that actual experience might deviate from these assumptions. For business in force outside of North America, 52 percent of total policyholder benefit liabilities at December 31, 2008 resulted from traditional business where the lock in principle applies. In most foreign locations, various guarantees are embedded in policies in force that may remain applicable for many decades into the future. As experience changes over time, the best estimate assumptions are updated to reflect observed changes. Because of the long term nature of many of AIGs liabilities subject to the lock in principle, small changes in certain of the assumptions may cause large changes in the degree of reserve adequacy. In particular, changes in estimates of future invested asset return assumptions have a large effect on the degree of reserve adequacy. Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs (Life Insurance Retirement Services): Recoverability: based on current and future expected profitability, which is affected by interest rates, foreign exchange rates, mortality/morbidity experience, expenses, investment returns and policy persistency. Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs (General Insurance): Recoverability: based upon the current terms and profitability of the underlying insurance contracts. Estimated Gross Profits for Investment Oriented Products (Life Insurance Retirement Services): Estimated gross profits: to be realized over the estimated duration of the contracts (investment oriented products) affect the carrying value of DAC, unearned revenue liability, SIAs and associated amortization patterns. Estimated gross profits include investment income and gains and losses on investments less required interest, actual mortality and other expenses. 124 AIG 2008 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries Allowance for Finance Receivable Losses (Financial Services): Historical defaults and delinquency experience: utilizing factors, such as delinquency ratio, allowance ratio, charge off ratio and charge off coverage. Portfolio characteristics: portfolio composition and consideration of the recent changes to underwriting criteria and portfolio seasoning. External factors: consideration of current economic conditions, including levels of unemployment and personal bankruptcies. Migration analysis: empirical technique measuring historical movement of similar finance receivables through various levels of repayment, delinquency, and loss categories to existing finance receivable pools. Flight Equipment Recoverability (Financial Services): Expected undiscounted future net cash flows: based upon current lease rates, projected future lease rates and estimated terminal values of each aircraft based on expectations of market participants. Other Than Temporary Impairments: AIG evaluates its available for sale, equity method and cost method investments for impairment such that a security is considered a candidate for other than temporary impairment if it meets any of the following criteria: Trading at a significant (25 percent or more) discount to par, amortized cost (if lower) or cost for an extended period of time (nine consecutive months or longer); The occurrence of a discrete credit event resulting in (i) the issuer defaulting on a material outstanding obligation; (ii) the issuer seeking protection from creditors under the bankruptcy laws or any similar laws intended for court supervised reorganization of insolvent enterprises; or (iii) the issuer proposing a voluntary reorganization pursuant to which creditors are asked to exchange their claims for cash or securities having a fair value substantially lower than par value of their claims; or AIG may not realize a full recovery on its investment, regardless of the occurrence of one of the foregoing events. The determination that a security has incurred an other than temporary decline in value requires the judgment of management and consideration of the fundamental condition of the issuer, its near term prospects and all the relevant facts and circumstances. The above criteria also consider circumstances of a rapid and severe market valuation decline, such as that experienced in current credit markets, in which AIG could not reasonably assert that the impairment period would be temporary (severity losses). For further discussion, see Investments Portfolio Review Other Than Temporary Impairments. At each balance sheet date, AIG evaluates its available for sale securities holdings with unrealized losses. When AIG does not intend to hold or lacks the ability to hold such securities until they have recovered their cost basis, AIG records the unrealized loss in income. If a loss is recognized from a sale subsequent to a balance sheet date pursuant to changes in circumstances, the loss is recognized in the period in which the intent to hold the securities to recovery no longer existed. In periods subsequent to the recognition of an other than temporary impairment charge for fixed maturity securities, which is not credit or foreign exchange related, AIG generally accretes into income the discount or amortizes the reduced premium resulting from the reduction in cost basis over the remaining life of the security. Goodwill Impairment Goodwill is the excess of the cost of an acquired business over the fair value of the identifiable net assets of the acquired business. Goodwill is tested for impairment annually, or more frequently if circumstances indicate an impairment may have occurred. During 2008, AIG performed goodwill impairment tests at June 30, September 30, and December 31. AIG 2008 Form 10 K 125 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries The impairment assessment involves a two step process in which an initial assessment for potential impairment is performed and, if potential impairment is present, the amount of impairment is measured and recorded. Impairment is tested at the reporting unit level or, when all reporting units that comprise an operating segment have similar economic characteristics, impairment is tested at the operating segment level. Management initially assesses the potential for impairment by estimating the fair value of each of AIGs reporting units or operating segments and comparing the estimated fair values with the carrying amounts of those reporting units, including allocated goodwill. The estimate of a reporting units fair value may be based on one or a combination of approaches including market based earning multiples of the units peer companies, discounted expected future cash flows, external appraisals or, in the case of reporting units being considered for sale, third party indications of fair value, if available. Management considers one or more of these estimates when determining the fair value of a reporting unit to be used in the impairment test. As part of the impairment test, management compares the sum of the estimated fair values of AIGs reporting units with AIGs fully diluted common stock market capitalization as a basis for concluding on the reasonableness of the estimated reporting unit fair values. If the estimated fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying value, goodwill is not impaired. If the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value, goodwill associated with that reporting unit potentially is impaired. The amount of impairment, if any, is measured as the excess of the carrying value of goodwill over the estimated fair value of the goodwill. The estimated fair value of the goodwill is measured as the excess of the fair value of the reporting unit over the amounts that would be assigned to the reporting units assets and liabilities in a hypothetical business combination. An impairment charge is recognized in income to the extent of the excess. During 2008, AIG recorded an aggregate goodwill impairment charge of $4.1 billion. This impairment charge was primarily attributable to declines in estimated fair values of reporting units in the Property and Casualty Group, Domestic Life Insurance and Domestic Retirement Services, Consumer Finance and Capital Markets businesses attributable to the uncertain economic environment during the 2008 fourth quarter. Management observed a narrowing of the fair values over the carrying values of the Foreign General Insurance and Institutional Asset Management reporting units during the fourth quarter of 2008. Fair value exceeded book value in the Foreign General Insurance, Foreign Life Insurance Retirements Services Japan Other, and Institutional Asset Management reporting units as of December 31, 2008; therefore, the goodwill of these reporting units was considered not impaired. AIGs stock price, along with the stock prices of other companies in the financial services industry, including insurers, has continued to decline in 2009. AIG will continue to monitor overall competitive, business and economic conditions, and other events or circumstances that might result in an impairment of goodwill in the future. Valuation Allowance on Deferred Tax Assets: At December 31, 2008, AIG recorded a net deferred tax asset after valuation allowance of $11 billion compared to a net deferred tax liability of $5.3 billion at December 31, 2007. SFAS 109 permits this asset to be recorded if the asset meets a more likely than not standard (i.e. more than 50 percent likely) that the asset will be realized. Realization of AIGs net deferred tax asset depends on AIGs ability to generate sufficient future taxable income of the appropriate character within carryforward periods of the jurisdictions in which the net operating and capital losses, tax credits and deductible temporary differences were incurred. Because the realization of the deferred tax asset relies on a projection of future income, AIG views this as a critical accounting estimate. In making this estimate, AIG considered its ability to execute its divestiture plan at the values anticipated and within the timeframe expected. The realization of the deferred tax asset is highly dependent on the ability of AIG to generate significant gains from these transactions. AIG is also relying upon producing taxable operating profits from the businesses to be retained, principally Commercial Insurance and Foreign General Insurance. AIG has evaluated its forecasts of future operating income and determined that there would be sufficient operating income, inclusive of gains on the divestiture of businesses. There are many risk factors that could affect the attainment of AIGs budgeted results. See Item 1A. Risk Factors. When making its assessment about the realization of its deferred tax assets at December 31, 2008, AIG considered all available evidence, including (i) the nature, frequency, and severity of current and cumulative financial reporting losses, (ii) actions completed during 2008 and expected to be completed during 2009 that are 126 AIG 2008 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries designed to eliminate or limit a recurrence of the factors that contributed to the recent cumulative losses, giving greater weight to actions completed through December 31, 2008 and to the expectation that strategies will be executed in 2009 to mitigate credit losses in the future on certain classes of invested assets, (iii) the carryforward periods for the net operating and capital loss and foreign tax credit carryforwards, (iv) the sources and timing of future taxable income, giving greater weight to discrete sources and to earlier future years in the forecast period, and (v) tax planning strategies that would be implemented, if necessary, to accelerate taxable amounts. In assessing future GAAP taxable income, AIG considered its strong earnings history exclusive of the recent losses on the AIGFP super senior credit default swap portfolio and from the securities lending program. AIG also considered the completed transactions with the NY Fed and the United States Department of the Treasury, including (i) amendment to the Fed Credit Agreement designed to reduce the interest rate payable on outstanding borrowing and undrawn amounts; (ii) the transfer of RMBS related to AIGs U.S. securities lending program to ML II; and (iii) the termination of multi sector credit default swap transactions and sale of underlying CDOs to ML III. In addition, AIG also considered the proposed transactions with the NY Fed and the United States Department of the Treasury announced on March 2, 2009, including (i) the modification of the terms of the Series D Preferred Stock; (ii) establishment of a equity capital commitment facility for the sales of Series F Preferred Stock to the United States Department of the Treasury, along with warrants to purchase shares of common stock; and (iii) amendment to the Fed Credit Agreement designed to reduce the interest rate payable on outstanding borrowing by revising the LIBOR floor. These transactions are designed to enhance AIGs ability to generate taxable income from the sales of businesses under its asset disposition plan, continue the earnings strength of the insurance businesses it intends to sell, and underscore the United States Governments commitment to the orderly restructuring of AIG over time in the face of continuing market dislocations and economic deterioration. The forecast of taxable income was prepared using budgets submitted by each of AIGs significant operating units for management planning purposes and is consistent with the forecast used in AIGs going concern analysis. AIGs profitability in any given period can be materially affected by conditions in global financial markets, economic conditions, catastrophes and other events around the world and, currently, AIG specific events. Further, the results of operations in the first quarter of 2009 may not be indicative of the results expected for the full year because the transactions being discussed with the United States Department of the Treasury and the NY Fed are not expected to be in place. However, AIG believes its forecasts are achievable. Income Taxes on Earnings of Certain Foreign Subsidiaries: In connection with AIGs asset disposition plan, AIG determined it can no longer assert that earnings of its foreign subsidiaries will be indefinitely reinvested. Due to the complexity of the U.S. federal income tax laws involved in determining the amount of income taxes incurred on these potential dispositions, as well as AIGs reliance on reasonable assumptions and estimates in calculating this liability, AIG considers the U.S. federal income taxes accrued on the earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries to be a critical accounting estimate. Fair Value Measurements of Certain Financial Assets and Liabilities: Overview AIG measures at fair value on a recurring basis financial instruments in its trading and available for sale securities portfolios, certain mortgage and other loans receivable, certain spot commodities, derivative assets and liabilities, securities purchased (sold) under agreements to resell (repurchase), securities lending invested collateral, non marketable equity investments included in other invested assets, certain policyholder contract deposits, securities and spot commodities sold but not yet purchased, certain trust deposits and deposits due to banks and other depositors, certain long term debt, and certain hybrid financial instruments included in other liabilities. The fair value of a financial instrument is the amount that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between willing, able and knowledgeable market participants at the measurement date. The degree of judgment used in measuring the fair value of financial instruments generally correlates with the level of pricing observability. Financial instruments with quoted prices in active markets generally have more pricing observability and less judgment is used in measuring fair value. Conversely, financial instruments traded in AIG 2008 Form 10 K 127 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries other than active markets or that do not have quoted prices have less observability and are measured at fair value using valuation models or other pricing techniques that require more judgment. An active market is one in which transactions for the asset or liability being valued occur with sufficient frequency and volume to provide pricing information on an ongoing basis. An other than active market is one in which there are few transactions, the prices are not current, price quotations vary substantially either over time or among market makers, or in which little information is released publicly for the asset or liability being valued. Pricing observability is affected by a number of factors, including the type of financial instrument, whether the financial instrument is new to the market and not yet established, the characteristics specific to the transaction and general market conditions. AIG management is responsible for the determination of the value of the financial assets and financial liabilities carried at fair value and the supporting methodologies and assumptions. With respect to securities, AIG employs independent third party valuation service providers to gather, analyze, and interpret market information and derive fair values based upon relevant methodologies and assumptions for individual instruments. When AIGs valuation service providers are unable to obtain sufficient market observable information upon which to estimate the fair value for a particular security, fair value is determined either by requesting brokers who are knowledgeable about these securities to provide a quote, which is generally non binding, or by employing widely accepted internal valuation models. Valuation service providers typically obtain data about market transactions and other key valuation model inputs from multiple sources and, through the use of widely accepted internal valuation models, provide a single fair value measurement for individual securities for which a fair value has been requested under the terms of service agreements. The inputs used by the valuation service providers include, but are not limited to, market prices from recently completed transactions and transactions of comparable securities, interest rate yield curves, credit spreads, currency rates, and other market observable information, as applicable. The valuation models take into account, among other things, market observable information as of the measurement date as well as the specific attributes of the security being valued including its term, interest rate, credit rating, industry sector, and when applicable, collateral quality and other issue or issuer specific information. When market transactions or other market observable data is limited, the extent to which judgment is applied in determining fair value is greatly increased. AIG employs specific control processes to determine the reasonableness of the fair values of AIGs financial assets and financial liabilities. AIGs processes are designed to ensure that the values received or internally estimated are accurately recorded and that the data inputs and the valuation techniques utilized are appropriate, consistently applied, and that the assumptions are reasonable and consistent with the objective of determining fair value. AIG assesses the reasonableness of individual security values received from valuation service providers through various analytical techniques. In addition, AIG may validate the reasonableness of fair values by comparing information obtained from AIGs valuation service providers to other third party valuation sources for selected securities. AIG also validates prices for selected securities obtained from brokers through reviews by members of management who have relevant expertise and who are independent of those charged with executing investing transactions. The fair value of fixed income and equity securities by source of value determination was as follows: Fair Percent At December 31, 2008 Value of Total (In billions) Fair value based on external sources(a) $ 387 91 % Fair value based on internal sources 38 9 Total fixed income and equity securities(b) $ 425 100 % (a) Includes $45.8 billion whose primary source is broker quotes. (b) Includes available for sale, trading and securities lending invested collateral securities. 128 AIG 2008 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more detailed information about AIGs accounting policy for the incorporation of credit risk in fair value measurements and the measurement of fair value of the following financial assets and financial liabilities: Fixed maturity securities; Equity securities traded in active markets trading and available for sale; Non traded equity investments other invested assets; Private limited partnership and hedge fund investments other invested assets; Separate account assets; Freestanding derivatives; Embedded policy derivatives; AIGFPs super senior credit default swap portfolio; and Policyholder contract deposits. Level 3 Assets and Liabilities Under FAS 157, assets and liabilities recorded at fair value in the consolidated balance sheet are classified in a hierarchy for disclosure purposes consisting of three levels based on the observability of inputs available in the marketplace used to measure the fair value. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information about fair value measurements. At December 31, 2008, AIG classified $42.1 billion and $21.1 billion of assets and liabilities, respectively, measured at fair value on a recurring basis as Level 3. This represented 4.9 percent and 2.6 percent of the total assets and liabilities, respectively, measured at fair value on a recurring basis. Level 3 fair value measurements are based on valuation techniques that use at least one significant input that is unobservable. These measurements are made under circumstances in which there is little, if any, market activity for the asset or liability. AIGs assessment of the significance of a particular input to the fair value measurement in its entirety requires judgment. In making the assessment, AIG considers factors specific to the asset or liability. In certain cases, the inputs used to measure fair value of an asset or a liability may fall into different levels of the fair value hierarchy. In such cases, the level in the fair value hierarchy within which the fair value measurement in its entirety is classified is determined based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement in its entirety. Valuation of Level 3 Assets and Liabilities AIG values its assets and liabilities classified as Level 3 using judgment and valuation models or other pricing techniques that require a variety of inputs including contractual terms, market prices and rates, yield curves, credit curves, measures of volatility, prepayment rates and correlations of such inputs, some of which may be unobservable. The following paragraphs describe the methods AIG uses to measure on a recurring basis the fair value of the major classes of assets and liabilities classified in Level 3. Private equity and real estate fund investments: These assets initially are valued at the transaction price, i.e., the price paid to acquire the asset. Subsequently, they are measured based on net asset value using information provided by the general partner or manager of these investments, the accounts of which generally are audited on an annual basis. AIG considers observable market data and performs diligence procedures in validating the appropriateness of using the net asset value as a fair value measurement. Corporate bonds and private placement debt: These assets initially are valued at the transaction price. Subsequently, they are valued using market data for similar instruments (e.g., recent transactions, bond spreads or credit default swap spreads), comparisons to benchmark derivative indices or movements in underlying credit spreads. When observable price quotations are not available, fair value is determined based on cash flow models with yield curves, bond or single name credit default swap spreads and estimated recovery rates. AIG 2008 Form 10 K 129 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries Certain Residential Mortgage Backed Securities (RMBS) and Commercial Mortgage Backed Securities (CMBS): These assets initially are valued at the transaction price. Subsequently, they may be valued by comparison to transactions in instruments with similar collateral and risk profiles, remittances received and updated cumulative loss data on underlying obligations, discounted cash flow techniques, and or for RMBS option adjusted spread analyses. Certain Asset Backed Securities non mortgage: These assets initially are valued at the transaction price. Subsequently, they may be valued based on external price/spread data. When position specific external price data are not observable, the valuation is based on prices of comparable securities. CDOs: These assets initially are valued at the transaction price. Subsequently, they are valued based on external price/spread data from independent third parties, dealer quotations, matrix pricing, the BET model or a combination thereof. Interests in ML II and ML III: At their inception, AIGs economic interest in ML II and membership interest in ML III (Maiden Lane Interests) were valued at the transaction prices of $1 billion and $5 billion, respectively. Subsequently, Maiden Lane Interests are valued using a discounted cash flow methodology that uses the estimated future cash flows of the assets to which the Maiden Lane Interests are entitled and the discount rates applicable to such interests as derived from the fair value of the entire asset pool. The implicit discount rates are calibrated to the changes in the estimated asset values for the underlying assets commensurate with AIGs interests in the capital structure of the respective entities. Estimated cash flows and discount rates used in the valuations are validated, to the extent possible, using market observable information for securities with similar asset pools, structure and terms. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. AIGFPs Super Senior Credit Default Swap Portfolio: AIGFP wrote credit protection on the super senior risk layer of collateralized loan obligations (CLOs), multi sector CDOs and diversified portfolios of corporate debt, and prime residential mortgages. In these transactions, AIGFP is at risk of credit performance on the super senior risk layer related to such assets. These transactions placed a significant demand on AIGFPs liquidity during 2008, primarily as a result of their collateral posting provisions (see General Contractual Terms below). To a lesser extent, AIGFP also wrote protection on tranches below the super senior risk layer, primarily in respect of regulatory capital relief transactions. As discussed under Arbitrage Portfolio and ML III Transaction below, during the fourth quarter of 2008, AIG Financial Products Corp. terminated the vast majority of the credit default swaps it had written on multi sector CDOs. See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. The net notional amount, fair value of derivative liability and unrealized market valuation loss of the AIGFP super senior credit default swap portfolio, including credit default swaps written on mezzanine tranches of certain regulatory capital relief transactions, by asset class were as follows: Fair Value Unrealized Market Net Notional Amount Of Derivative Valuation Loss December 31, Liability at December 31, Year Ended December 31(a), 2008(b) 2007(b) 2008(c) 2007(c) 2008(d) 2007(d) (In millions) Regulatory Capital: Corporate loans $ 125,628 $ 229,313 $ $ $ $ Prime residential mortgages 107,246 149,430 Other(e) 1,575 379 379 Total 234,449 378,743 379 379 130 AIG 2008 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries Fair Value Unrealized Market Net Notional Amount Of Derivative Valuation Loss December 31, Liability at December 31, Year Ended December 31(a), 2008(b) 2007(b) 2008(c) 2007(c) 2008(d) 2007(d) (In millions) Arbitrage: Multi sector CDOs(f) 12,556 78,205 5,906 11,246 25,700 11,246 Corporate debt/CLOs(g) 50,495 70,425 2,554 226 2,328 226 Total 63,051 148,630 8,460 11,472 28,028 11,472 Mezzanine tranches(h) 4,701 5,770 195 195 Total $ 302,201 $ 533,143 $ 9,034 $ 11,472 $ 28,602 $ 11,472 (a) There were no unrealized market valuation losses in 2006. (b) Net notional amounts presented are net of all structural subordination below the covered tranches. (c) Fair value amounts are shown before the effects of counterparty netting adjustments and offsetting cash collateral in accordance with FIN 39. (d) Includes credit valuation adjustment gains of $185 million in 2008 representing the positive effect of AIGs widening credit spreads on the valuation of the derivatives liabilities. AIGFP began reflecting this valuation adjustment as a result of the adoption of SFAS 157 on January 1, 2008. Prior to January 1, 2008, a credit valuation adjustment was not reflected in the valuation of AIGFPs liabilities. (e) During 2008, a European RMBS regulatory capital relief transaction was not terminated as expected when it no longer provided regulatory capital relief to the counterparty as a result of arbitrage opportunities arising from its unique attributes and the counterpartys access to a particular funding source. (f) Includes $9.7 billion in net notional amount of credit default swaps written with cash settlement provisions at December 31, 2008. In connection with the terminations of CDS transactions in respect of the ML III transaction, AIG Financial Products Corp. paid $32.5 billion through the surrender of collateral previously posted (net of the $2.5 billion received pursuant to the shortfall agreement), of which $2.5 billion (included in Other income (loss)) is related to certain 2a 7 Put transactions written on multi sector CDOs purchased by ML III. (g) Includes $1.5 billion of credit default swaps written on the super senior tranches of CLOs as of December 31, 2008. (h) Includes offsetting purchased CDS of $2.0 billion and $2.7 billion in net notional amount at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The changes in the net notional amount of the AIGFP super senior credit default swap portfolio, including credit default swaps written on mezzanine tranches of certain regulatory capital relief transactions were as follows: For The Year Ended December 31, 2008 Net Notional Effect of Net Notional Amount Terminations Foreign Amount December 31, and ML III Exchange Amortization/ December 31, 2007 Maturities Transaction(a) Rates(b) Reclassification 2008 (In millions) Regulatory Capital: Corporate loans $ 229,313 $ (75,480 ) $ $ (3,554 ) $ (24,651 ) $ 125,628 Prime residential mortgages 149,430 (24,222 ) (6,539 ) (11,423 ) 107,246 Other(c) (207 ) 1,782 1,575 Total 378,743 (99,702 ) (10,300 ) (34,292 ) 234,449 AIG 2008 Form 10 K 131 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries Net Notional Effect of Net Notional Amount Terminations Foreign Amount December 31, and ML III Exchange Amortization/ December 31, 2007 Maturities Transaction(a) Rates(b) Reclassification 2008 (In millions) Arbitrage: Multi sector CDOs 78,205 (2,146 ) (62,130 ) (227 ) (1,146 ) 12,556 Corporate debt/CLOs 70,425 (17,147 ) (943 ) (1,840 ) 50,495 Total 148,630 (19,293 ) (62,130 ) (1,170 ) (2,986 ) 63,051 Mezzanine tranches 5,770 (358 ) (529 ) (182 ) 4,701 Total $ 533,143 $ (119,353 ) $ (62,130 ) $ (11,999 ) $ (37,460 ) $ 302,201 (a) Includes $8.5 billion of multi sector CDOs underlying 2a 7 Puts written by AIG Financial Products Corp. (b) Relates to the strengthening of the U.S. dollar, primarily against the Euro and the British Pound. (c) During 2008, a European RMBS regulatory capital relief transaction was not terminated as expected when it no longer provided regulatory capital relief to the counterparty as a result of arbitrage opportunities arising from its unique attributes and the counterpartys access to a particular funding source. General Contractual Terms AIGFP entered into CDS transactions in the ordinary course of its business. In the majority of AIGFPs credit derivative transactions, AIGFP sold credit protection on a designated portfolio of loans or debt securities. Generally, AIGFP provides such credit protection on a second loss basis, meaning that AIGFP will incur credit losses only after a shortfall of principal and or interest, or other credit events, in respect of the protected loans and debt securities, exceeds a specified threshold amount or level of first loss. Typically, the credit risk associated with a designated portfolio of loans or debt securities has been tranched into different layers of risk, which are then analyzed and rated by the credit rating agencies. At origination, there is usually an equity layer covering the first credit losses in respect of the portfolio up to a specified percentage of the total portfolio, and then successive layers ranging generally from a BBB rated layer to one or more AAA rated layers. A significant majority of transactions that are rated by rating agencies have risk layers or tranches that were rated AAA at origination and are immediately junior to the threshold level above which AIGFPs payment obligation would generally arise. In transactions that were not rated, AIGFP applied equivalent risk criteria for setting the threshold level for its payment obligations. Therefore, the risk layer assumed by AIGFP with respect to the designated portfolio of loans or debt securities in these transactions is often called the super senior risk layer, defined as a layer of credit risk senior to one or more risk layers that have been rated AAA by the credit rating agencies, or if the transaction is not rated, structured to the equivalent thereto. 132 AIG 2008 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries The following graphic represents a typical structure of a transaction including the super senior risk layer: Regulatory Capital Portfolio A total of $234.4 billion (consisting of corporate loans and prime residential mortgages) in net notional exposure of AIGFPs super senior credit default swap portfolio as of December 31, 2008 represented derivatives written for financial institutions, principally in Europe, for the purpose of providing regulatory capital relief rather than for arbitrage purposes. These transactions were entered into by Banque AIG, AIGFPs French regulated bank subsidiary, and written on diversified pools of residential mortgages and corporate loans (made to both large corporations and small to medium sized enterprises). In exchange for a periodic fee, the counterparties receive credit protection with respect to diversified loan portfolios they own, thus reducing their minimum capital requirements. The regulatory benefit of these transactions for AIGFPs financial institution counterparties is generally derived from the terms of the Capital Accord of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (Basel I) that existed through the end of 2007 and which is in the process of being replaced by the Revised Framework for the International Convergence of Capital Measurement and Capital Standards issued by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (Basel II). Prior to the adoption of Basel II, a financial institution was required to hold capital against its assets, based on the categorization of the issuer or guarantor of the assets. One of the means for a financial institution to reduce its required regulatory capital was to purchase credit protection on a group of its assets from a regulated financial institution, such as Banque AIG, in order to benefit from such regulated financial institutions lower risk weighting (e.g., 20 percent vs. 100 percent) that is assigned to those assets under Basel I. A lower risk weighting reduces the amount of capital a financial institution is required to hold against such assets. Unlike Basel I, Basel II gives credit to the relative risk of loss associated with the assets, meaning that less capital is required for such assets. After a financial institution has implemented a capital model that is compliant with Basel II and has obtained approval from its local regulator, the CDS transactions provide no additional regulatory benefit in most cases, except during a transition period. The Basel II implementation includes a transition period during which the financial institutions must calculate their capital requirements under both Basel I and Basel II (until December 31, 2009). During this period, the capital required is floored at a percentage of the Basel I capital calculation; therefore, until early 2010, these CDS transactions may still provide regulatory capital benefit for AIGFPs counterparties, depending on each counterpartys particular circumstances. In addition, in a limited number of instances, counterparties may decide to hold these CDSs for a longer period of time because they provide a regulatory capital benefit, while smaller, under Basel II. AIG 2008 Form 10 K 133 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries Given the prospect of Basel II, the CDS transactions were structured with early termination rights for counterparties following a regulatory event such as the implementation of Basel II. The pace at which the CDS transactions were and will be terminated early varies among the counterparties based on a number of factors including their progress in having the internal capital models approved by their national regulator, the effect of the transitional floor on overall total capital charges, the counterparties capital needs and their sensitivity to Basel I capital measures. AIG expects that the counterparties in the remaining CDS transactions will terminate the vast majority of transactions with AIGFP during this transition period within the next 15 months. When a counterparty elects to terminate a transaction early pursuant to the terms of the contracts, the early termination is at no cost to AIGFP. The counterparty may be required to pay the remaining balance of an agreed upon minimum fee to AIGFP. Typically, the minimum guaranteed fee on recent transactions is equal to the fees due to AIGFP through the first call date (which is the first date on which a counterparty can terminate the transaction at no cost). During 2008, $99.7 billion in net notional amount was terminated or matured. Through February 18, 2009, AIGFP has also received formal termination notices for an additional $26.5 billion in net notional amount with effective termination dates in 2009. The regulatory capital relief CDS transactions require cash settlement and, other than collateral posting, AIGFP is required to make a payment in connection with a regulatory capital relief transaction only if realized credit losses in respect of the underlying portfolio exceed AIGFPs attachment point (see Triggers and Settlement Alternatives below). The super senior tranches of these CDS transactions continue to be supported by high levels of subordination, which, in most instances, have increased since origination. The weighted average subordination supporting the European residential mortgage and corporate loan referenced portfolios at December 31, 2008 was 12.7 percent and 18.3 percent, respectively. Delinquencies, defaults and realized losses for both types of referenced portfolios have been modest to date. Substantially all of the underlying assets are not rated by one of the principal rating agencies. The highest level of realized losses to date in any single residential mortgage and corporate loan pool was 2.1 percent and 0.42 percent, respectively. The European residential mortgage portfolios are each comprised of thousands of seasoned, prime, full documentation, mostly first lien, owner occupied mortgages originated largely at bank retail branches at modest loan to value (LTV) ratios, except for one $1.6 billion high LTV CDS transaction, which benefits from both subordination and a significant percentage of pool mortgage insurance. The corporate loan transactions are each comprised of several hundred secured and unsecured loans diversified by industry and, in some instances, by country, and have tight per issuer concentration limits. Both types of transactions generally allow some substitution and replenishment of loans, subject to tightly defined constraints, as older loans mature or are prepaid. These replenishment rights usually mature within the first few years of the trade, after which the proceeds of any prepaid or maturing loans are applied first to the super senior tranche (sequentially), thereby increasing the relative level of subordination supporting the balance of AIGFPs super senior CDS exposure. 134 AIG 2008 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries The following graph presents subordination level from highest to lowest and realized losses as a percent of gross notional amount for each regulatory capital relief super senior CDS transaction written on a diversified portfolio of corporate loans as of December 31, 2008: AIG 2008 Form 10 K 135 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries The following graph presents subordination level from highest to lowest and realized losses as a percent of notional amount for each regulatory capital relief super senior CDS transaction written on a diversified portfolio of residential mortgages as of December 31, 2008: Given the current performance of the underlying portfolios, the level of subordination and the expectation that counterparties will terminate these transactions prior to their maturity; AIG Financial Products Corp. does not expect that it will be required to make payments pursuant to the contractual terms of these transactions. Arbitrage Portfolio A total of $63.1 billion in net notional exposure on AIG Financial Products Corp.s super senior credit default swaps as of December 31, 2008 are arbitrage motivated transactions written on multi sector CDOs or designated pools of investment grade senior unsecured corporate debt or CLOs. While certain credit default swaps written on corporate debt and multi sector CDOs provide for cash settlement, $2.8 billion in net notional amount of CDS transactions written on multi sector CDOs and all the CDS transactions written on CLOs ($1.5 billion net notional) require physical settlement (see Triggers and Settlement Alternatives below). The ML III transaction eliminated the vast majority of the super senior multi sector CDO credit default swap exposure. ML III Transaction On November 25, 2008, AIG entered into a Master Investment and Credit Agreement with the NY Fed, ML III, and The Bank of New York Mellon which established arrangements for the purchase by ML III of the multi sector CDOs referenced in certain CDS transactions between AIG Financial Products Corp. and its counterparties. Concurrently, AIG Financial Products Corp.s counterparties to such CDS transactions agreed to terminate the CDS transactions relating to the multi sector CDOs purchased by ML III. During 2008, AIG Financial Products Corp. terminated multi sector CDO transactions with a net notional amount of $62.1 billion with its counterparties, and concurrently, ML III purchased the underlying multi sector CDOs including $8.5 billion of multi sector CDOs underlying 2a 7 Puts written by AIG Financial Products Corp. The CDS transactions terminated in connection with ML III contained physical settlement provisions and were denominated in U.S. dollars. The net payment made by ML III to the counterparties for the purchase of the multi sector CDOs was $26.8 billion, which was funded by AIGs equity interest in ML III in the amount of $5 billion and 136 AIG 2008 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries $24.3 billion of borrowings under a senior loan from the NY Fed to ML III. A portion of the net payment made by ML III to the counterparties for the purchase of the multi sector CDOs facilitated the resolution of $8.0 billion of liquidity arrangements, which had funded certain of the multi sector CDOs in connection with the 2a 7 Puts. In connection with the ML III transaction, AIG Financial Products Corp. entered into a Shortfall Agreement, dated November 25, 2008 and amended on December 18, 2008 (the Shortfall Agreement), with ML III under which ML III made a payment of $2.5 billion to AIG Financial Products Corp. representing the amount by which collateral surrendered as part of the termination of the CDS exceeded the fair value of the CDS as of October 31, 2008. Among the multi sector CDOs purchased by ML III are certain CDO securities with a net notional amount of $1.7 billion for which the related 2a 7 Puts to AIG Financial Products Corp. remained outstanding as of December 31, 2008. For the $252 million notional amount of multi sector CDOs held by ML III with 2a 7 Puts that may be exercised in 2009, ML III has agreed to not sell the multi sector CDOs in 2009 and to either not exercise its put option on such multi sector CDOs or to simultaneously exercise their par put option with a par purchase of the multi sector CDO securities. In exchange, AIG Financial Products Corp. has agreed to pay to ML III the consideration that it receives for providing the put protection. AIG Financial Products Corp. and ML III are currently negotiating an agreement that will outline procedures to be taken by ML III and AIG Financial Products Corp. for multi sector CDOs with put options that may be exercised after December 31, 2009, with the objective of mitigating or eliminating the impact on AIG Financial Products Corp. of such 2a 7 Puts and capturing the associated economics for ML III. In connection with the termination of $62.1 billion net notional amount of CDS transactions in respect of the ML III transaction, AIG Financial Products Corp. paid $32.5 billion, net of $2.5 billion received in connection with the shortfall agreement, through the surrender of collateral previously posted. Included in this amount is $2.5 billion related to multi sector CDOs underlying 2a 7 Puts previously written by AIG Financial Products Corp. and sold to ML III. As a result of the termination of such CDS, AIG Financial Products Corp. is no longer subject to any further collateral calls related to such CDS transactions nor subject to the risk of having to make a payment to a counterparty to physically settle the CDS transactions following the occurrence of a credit event, thereby alleviating the demand on AIGFPs liquidity. Multi Sector CDOs The gross transaction notional amount of the multi sector CDOs on which AIGFP wrote protection on the super senior tranche, subordination below the super senior risk layer, net notional amount and fair value of derivative liability by underlying collateral type were as follows (excluding 2a 7 Puts): Gross Subordination Transaction Below the Net Fair Value Notional Super Senior Notional of Derivative At December 31, 2008 Amount(a) Risk Layer Amount(b) Liability (In millions) High grade with sub prime collateral $ 6,776 $ 2,808 $ 3,968 $ 1,797 High grade with no sub prime collateral 10,156 5,816 4,340 1,428 Total high grade(c) 16,932 8,624 8,308 3,225 Mezzanine with sub prime 6,407 2,955 3,452 2,156 Mezzanine with no sub prime 1,697 901 796 525 Total mezzanine(d) 8,104 3,856 4,248 2,681 Total $ 25,036 $ 12,480 $ 12,556 $ 5,906 (a) Total outstanding principal amount of securities held by a CDO. (b) Net notional size on which AIGFP wrote credit protection. (c) High grade refers to transactions in which the underlying collateral credit ratings on a stand alone basis were predominantly AA or higher at origination. AIG 2008 Form 10 K 137 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries (d) Mezzanine refers to transactions in which the underlying collateral credit ratings on a stand alone basis were predominantly A or lower at origination. The net notional amounts of the multi sector CDOs on which AIGFP wrote protection on the super senior tranche, by settlement alternative, were as follows: December 31, 2008 December 31, 2007 (In millions) CDS transactions with cash settlement provisions US dollar denominated $ 7,947 $ 10,544 Euro denominated 1,780 2,075 Total CDS transactions with cash settlement provisions 9,727 12,619 CDS transactions with physical settlement provisions US dollar denominated 766 63,040 Euro denominated 2,063 2,546 Total CDS transactions with physical settlement provisions 2,829 65,586 Total $ 12,556 $ 78,205 The following table presents, for each multi sector CDO that is a reference obligation in a CDS written by AIGFP, the gross and net notional amounts at December 31, 2008, attachment points at inception and at December 31, 2008 and percentage of gross notional amount rated less than B /B3 at December 31, 2008: Percentage of Gross Gross Notional Net Notional Notional Amount Rated Amount at Amount at Attachment Point Attachment Point Less than B /B3 at CDO December 31, 2008 December 31, 2008 at Inception* at December 31, 2008* December 31, 2008 1 $ 1,680 $ 1,440 12.00 % 14.28 % 15.88 % 2 665 396 27.00 % 40.45 % 20.20 % 3 1,064 814 20.00 % 23.49 % 18.96 % 4 1,328 531 40.00 % 60.02 % 42.68 % 5 463 238 36.00 % 48.55 % 42.37 % 6 698 327 53.00 % 53.19 % 2.86 % 7 1,000 470 53.00 % 53.00 % 0.00 % 8 1,412 360 76.00 % 74.50 % 39.33 % 9 1,130 4 10.83 % 11.29 % 6.89 % 10 403 221 39.33 % 45.30 % 65.11 % 11 1,268 1,103 12.27 % 10.24 % 5.04 % 12 1,348 960 25.24 % 27.86 % 6.54 % 13 1,490 1,350 10.00 % 9.42 % 8.76 % 14 575 302 33.00 % 47.48 % 54.63 % 15 623 265 33.25 % 37.36 % 60.94 % 16 2,570 1,780 16.50 % 17.84 % 0.00 % 17 495 277 32.00 % 44.08 % 43.08 % 18 682 529 24.49 % 22.46 % 68.89 % 19 779 469 32.90 % 39.75 % 81.03 % 20 393 224 34.51 % 43.09 % 78.07 % 21 4,970 496 9.72 % 10.31 % 0.00 % Total $ 25,036 $ 12,556 * Expressed as a percentage of gross notional amount. 138 AIG 2008 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries In a number of instances, the level of subordination with respect to individual CDOs has increased since inception relative to the overall size of the CDO. While the super senior tranches are amortizing, subordinate layers have not been reduced by realized losses to date. Such losses are expected to emerge in the future. At inception, substantially all of the underlying assets were rated B /B3 or higher and in most cases at least BBB. Thus, the percentage of gross notional amount rated less than B /B3 represents deterioration in the credit quality of the underlying assets. The gross transaction notional amount, percentage of the total CDO collateral pools, and ratings and vintage breakdown of collateral securities in the multi sector CDOs at December 31, 2008, by ABS category, were as follows (excluding 2a 7 Puts): Gross Transaction Notional Percent Ratings Vintage Amount of Total AAA AA A BBB BB BB NR 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004+P (Dollars in millions) RMBS PRIME $ 3,013 12.79 % 10.50 % 0.95 % 0.57 % 0.26 % 0.00 % 0.51 % 0.00 % 0.31 % 7.39 % 3.72 % 0.59 % 0.78 % RMBS ALT A 3,526 14.96 % 8.91 % 0.99 % 0.78 % 1.68 % 0.55 % 2.05 % 0.00 % 0.68 % 3.91 % 5.33 % 4.29 % 0.75 % RMBS SUBPRIME 6,865 29.12 % 0.93 % 3.74 % 2.29 % 2.55 % 2.38 % 17.23 % 0.00 % 0.00 % 1.33 % 1.94 % 17.30 % 8.55 % CMBS 4,457 17.47 % 2.93 % 2.33 % 2.74 % 6.72 % 2.24 % 0.42 % 0.09 % 0.07 % 0.96 % 5.26 % 4.85 % 6.33 % CDO 3,151 12.42 % 1.54 % 1.74 % 1.58 % 1.24 % 0.83 % 5.35 % 0.14 % 0.00 % 0.61 % 1.45 % 3.31 % 7.05 % OTHER 4,024 13.24 % 3.70 % 3.01 % 4.18 % 1.75 % 0.04 % 0.36 % 0.20 % 0.32 % 0.58 % 2.85 % 4.43 % 5.06 % Total $ 25,036 100.00 % 28.51 % 12.76 % 12.14 % 14.20 % 6.04 % 25.92 % 0.43 % 1.38 % 14.78 % 20.55 % 34.77 % 28.52 % The corporate arbitrage portfolio consists principally of CDS written on portfolios of senior unsecured corporate obligations that were generally rated investment grade at the inception of the CDS. These CDS transactions require cash settlement (see Triggers and Settlement Alternatives below). This portfolio also includes CDS with a net notional amount of $1.5 billion written on the senior part of the capital structure of CLOs, which require physical settlement. The gross transaction notional amount of CDS transactions written on portfolios of senior unsecured corporate obligations (excluding CLOs), percentage of the total referenced portfolios, and ratings by industry sector, in addition to the subordinations below the super senior risk layer and AIGFPs net notional exposure at December 31, 2008, by industry sector, were as follows: Gross Transaction Percent Ratings Notional Amount of Total AAA Aa A Baa Ba Ba NR (Dollars in millions) United States Industrial $ 23,363 37.5 % 0.0 % 0.4 % 7.5 % 19.2 % 4.7 % 5.4 % 0.3 % Financial 9,776 15.7 % 0.4 % 0.6 % 7.6 % 4.6 % 1.5 % 0.3 % 0.7 % Utilities 2,218 3.6 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.5 % 2.7 % 0.1 % 0.1 % 0.2 % Other 1,364 2.2 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.1 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 2.1 % Total United States 36,721 59.0 % 0.4 % 1.0 % 15.6 % 26.6 % 6.3 % 5.8 % 3.3 % Non United States Industrial 18,616 29.9 % 0.1 % 0.9 % 9.0 % 14.4 % 2.2 % 1.0 % 2.3 % Financial 3,088 5.0 % 0.1 % 0.7 % 3.0 % 0.8 % 0.1 % 0.0 % 0.3 % Government 1,853 3.0 % 0.0 % 0.4 % 1.4 % 1.0 % 0.2 % 0.0 % 0.0 % Utilities 1,680 2.7 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 1.5 % 0.8 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.4 % Other 268 0.4 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.2 % 0.1 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.1 % AIG 2008 Form 10 K 139 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries Gross Transaction Percent Ratings Notional Amount of Total AAA Aa A Baa Ba Ba NR (Dollars in millions) Total Non United States 25,505 41.0 % 0.2 % 2.0 % 15.1 % 17.1 % 2.5 % 1.0 % 3.1 % Total $ 62,226 100.0 % 0.6 % 3.0 % 30.7 % 43.7 % 8.8 % 6.8 % 6.4 % Subordination $ 13,242 Net Notional Amount $ 48,984 Fair Value of Derivative Liability $ 2,147 Triggers and Settlement Alternatives At December 31, 2008, all outstanding CDS transactions for regulatory capital purposes and the majority of the arbitrage portfolio (comprising $56.7 billion or 90 percent of the net notional amount for the arbitrage portfolio at December 31, 2008) have cash settled structures in respect of a basket of reference obligations, where AIGFPs payment obligations may be triggered by payment shortfalls, bankruptcy and certain other events such as write downs of the value of underlying assets (see Cash Settlement below). For the remainder of the CDS transactions in respect of the arbitrage portfolio (comprising $6.4 billion or 10 percent of the net notional amount for the arbitrage portfolio at December 31, 2008), AIGFPs payment obligations are triggered by the occurrence of a credit event under a single reference security, and performance is limited to a single payment by AIGFP in return for physical delivery by the counterparty of the reference security (see Physical Settlement below). By contrast, at December 31, 2007, under the large majority of CDS transactions in respect of multi sector CDOs (comprising $65.6 billion or 44.1 percent of the net notional amount for the arbitrage portfolio at December 31, 2007) AIGFPs payment obligations were triggered by the occurrence of a non payment event under a single reference CDO security, and performance was limited to a single payment by AIGFP in return for physical delivery by the counterparty of the reference security. Cash Settlement. Transactions requiring cash settlement (principally on a pay as you go basis) are generally in respect of baskets of reference credits (which may also include single name CDS in addition to securities and loans) rather than a single reference obligation as in the case of the physically settled transactions described below. Under these credit default swap transactions: Each time a triggering event occurs a loss amount is calculated. A triggering event is generally a failure by the relevant obligor to pay principal of or, in some cases, interest on one of the reference credits in the underlying basket. Triggering events may also include bankruptcy of the obligors of the reference credits, write downs or payment postponements with respect to interest or to the principal amount of a reference credit payable at maturity. The determination of the loss amount is specific to each triggering event. It can represent the amount of a shortfall in ordinary course interest payments on the reference credit, a write down in the interest on or principal of such reference credit or payment postponed. It can also represent the difference between the notional or par amount of such reference credit and its market value, as determined by reference to market quotations. A write down with respect to a referenced credit may arise as a result of a reduction in the outstanding principal amount of such referenced credit (other than as a result of a scheduled or unscheduled payment of principal), whether caused by a principal deficiency, realized loss or forgiveness of principal. An implied write down may also result from the existence of a shortfall between the referenced credits pool principal balance and the aggregate balance of all pari passu obligations and senior securities backed by the same pool. Triggering events can occur multiple times, either as a result of continuing shortfalls in interest or write downs or payment postponements on a single reference credit, or as a result of triggering events in respect of different reference credits included in a protected basket. In connection with each triggering event, AIGFP is required to make a cash payment to the buyer of protection under the related CDS only if the aggregate loss amounts calculated in respect of such triggering event and all prior triggering events exceed a specified threshold amount (reflecting AIGFPs attachment point). 140 AIG 2008 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries If there are reimbursements received (actual or deemed) by the CDS buyer in respect of prior triggering events, AIGFP will be entitled to receive equivalent amounts from the counterparty to the extent AIGFP has previously made a related payment. Physical Settlement. For CDS transactions requiring physical settlement, AIGFP is generally required to pay unpaid principal and accrued interest for the relevant reference obligation in return for physical delivery of such reference obligation by the CDS buyer upon the occurrence of a credit event. After purchasing the reference obligation, AIGFP may sell the security and recover all or a portion of the purchase price paid under the CDS, or hold such security and be entitled to receive subsequent collections of principal and interest. AIGFP generally is required to settle such a transaction only if the following conditions are satisfied: A Credit Event (as defined in the relevant CDS transaction confirmation) must have occurred. In all CDS transactions subject to physical settlement, Failure to Pay is specified as a Credit Event and is generally triggered if there is a failure by the issuer under the related CDO to make a payment under the reference obligation (after the expiration of any applicable grace period and, in certain transactions, subject to a nominal non payment threshold having been met). In addition, certain of the AIGFP CDS (with an aggregate net notional amount totaling $265 million and $8.3 billion at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively) provide credit protection in respect of CDOs that require minimum amounts of collateral to be maintained to support the CDO debt, where the notional amount of such collateral, subject to certain adjustments, is affected by among other things the ratings of the securities and other obligations comprising such collateral. In the event that the issuer of such a CDO fails to maintain the minimum levels of collateral, an event of default would occur, triggering a right by a specified controlling class of CDO note holders to accelerate the payment of principal and interest on the protected reference obligations. Under certain of the CDSs, upon acceleration of the reference obligations underlying a CDS, AIGFP may be required to purchase such reference obligations for a purchase price equal to unpaid principal of and accrued interest on the CDO in settlement of the CDS. As a result of this over collateralization feature of these CDOs, AIGFP potentially may be required to purchase such CDO securities in settlement of the related CDS sooner than would be required if such CDOs did not have an over collateralization feature. One of these CDOs was accelerated in 2008, and AIGFP extinguished its CDS obligations by purchasing the protected CDO security for $162 million, which equaled the principal amount outstanding related to this CDS, of which $103 million was recorded in the trading securities portfolio and $59 million was recorded in the available for sale portfolio. AIGFP had no CDS net notional exposure with respect to CDOs that have experienced over collateralization events of default at February 18, 2009. In addition to subordination, cash flow diversion mechanics may provide further protection from losses for holders of the super senior CDO securities. Following the acceleration of a CDO security, all, or a portion of, available cash flows in a CDO could be diverted from the junior tranches to the most senior tranches. In a CDO with such a feature, the junior tranches may not receive any cash flows until all interest on, and principal of, the super senior tranches are paid in full. Thus, potential losses borne by the holders of the super senior CDO securities may be mitigated as cash flows that would otherwise be payable to junior tranches throughout the entire CDO capital structure are instead diverted directly to the most senior tranches. Cash flow diversion mechanics also may arise in the context of over collateralization tests. Upon a failure by the CDO issuer to comply with certain over collateralization tests (other than those that trigger an indenture event of default), cash flows that would otherwise be payable to certain junior tranches throughout the CDO capital structure may instead be diverted to more senior tranches. Consequently, the super senior risk layer is paid down at a faster rate, effectively increasing the relative level of subordination. The existence of a tranche of securities ranking pari passu with the super senior CDO securities does not provide additional subordination that protects holders of the super senior CDO securities, as holders of such pari passu securities are entitled to receive payments from available cash flows at the same level of priority as holders of the super senior securities. Thus, a pari passu tranche of securities does not affect the amount of losses that have to be absorbed by classes of CDO securities other than the super senior CDO AIG 2008 Form 10 K 141 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries securities before the super senior securities incur a loss, although the pari passu tranche will absorb losses on a pro rata basis after subordinate classes of securities are exhausted. The CDS buyer must deliver the reference obligation within a specified period, generally within 30 days. There is no payment obligation if delivery is not made within this period. Upon completion of the physical delivery and payment by AIGFP, AIGFP would be the holder of the relevant reference obligation and have all rights associated with a holder of such securities. 2a 7 Puts: Included in the multi sector CDO portfolio are maturity shortening puts that allow the holders of the securities issued by certain CDOs to treat the securities as short term eligible 2a 7 investments under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (2a 7 Puts). Holders of securities are required, in certain circumstances, to tender their securities to the issuer at par. If an issuers remarketing agent is unable to resell the securities so tendered, AIGFP must purchase the securities at par as long as the security has not experienced a payment default or certain bankruptcy events with respect to the issuer of such security have not occurred. At December 31, 2007, 2a 7 Puts with a net notional amount of $6.5 billion were outstanding and included as part of the multi sector CDO portfolio. During 2008, AIGFP issued new 2a 7 Puts with a net notional amount of $5.4 billion on the super senior security issued by a CDO of AAA rated CMBS pursuant to a facility that was entered into in 2005. AIGFP is not a party to any commitments to issue any additional 2a 7 Puts. During 2008, AIGFP repurchased multi sector CDO securities with a principal amount of $9.4 billion in connection with these obligations, of which $8.0 billion was funded using existing liquidity arrangements. In connection with the ML III transaction, ML III purchased $8.5 billion of multi sector CDOs underlying 2a 7 Puts written by AIGFP. A portion of the net payment made by ML III to the counterparties for the purchase of the multi sector CDOs facilitated the resolution of liquidity arrangements, which had funded certain of the multi sector CDOs in connection with the 2a 7 Puts. Among the multi sector CDOs purchased by ML III are certain CDO securities with a net notional amount of $1.7 billion for which the related 2a 7 Puts to AIGFP remained outstanding as of December 31, 2008. For the $252 million net notional amount of multi sector CDOs held by ML III with 2a 7 Puts that may be exercised in 2009, ML III has agreed to not sell the multi sector CDOs in 2009 and to either not exercise its put option on such multi sector CDOs or to simultaneously exercise their par put option with a par purchase of the multi sector CDO securities. In exchange, AIG Financial Products Corp. has agreed to pay to ML III the consideration that it received for providing the put protection. AIG Financial Products Corp. and ML III are currently negotiating an agreement that will outline procedures to be taken by ML III and AIG Financial Products Corp. for multi sector CDOs with put options that may be exercised after December 31, 2009, with the objective of mitigating or eliminating the impact on AIG Financial Products Corp. of such 2a 7 Puts and capturing the associated economics for ML III. At December 31, 2008, 2a 7 Puts with a net notional amount of $1.7 billion were outstanding. Termination Events. Certain of the super senior credit default swaps provide the counterparties with an additional termination right if AIGs rating level falls to BBB or Baa2. At that level, counterparties to the CDS transactions with the following net notional amounts at December 31, 2008, by portfolio, have the right to terminate the transactions early: Net Notional Amount At December 31, 2008 (In millions) Multi sector CDO $ 5,501 Corporate arbitrage 27,908 Regulatory capital 5,205 Total $ 38,614 If counterparties exercise this right, the contracts provide for the counterparties to be compensated for the cost to replace the transactions, or an amount reasonably determined in good faith to estimate the losses the counterparties would incur as a result of the termination of the transactions. Given the level of uncertainty in estimating both the number of counterparties who may elect to exercise their right to terminate and the payment that may be triggered in connection with any such exercise, AIG is unable to 142 AIG 2008 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries reasonably estimate the aggregate amount that it would be required to pay under the super senior credit default swaps in the event of any further downgrade. Certain super senior credit default swaps written for regulatory capital relief, with a net notional amount of $161.5 billion at December 31, 2008, include triggers that require certain actions to be taken by AIG once AIGs rating level falls to certain levels, which, if not taken, give rise to a right of the counterparties to terminate the CDS. Such actions include posting collateral, transferring the swap or providing a guarantee from a more highly rated entity. In light of the rating actions taken in respect of AIG on September 15, 2008, AIGFP has implemented collateral arrangements in a large majority of these transactions. In the event of a termination of the contract that is caused by AIGs rating downgrade, AIGFP is obligated to compensate the counterparty based on its loss. As a result of AIGFP posting collateral, AIG eliminated the counterparties right to terminate under this downgrade provision, thereby avoiding the uncertainty of determining the loss from an early termination of a regulatory capital CDS. Collateral Most of AIGFPs credit default swaps are subject to collateral posting provisions. These provisions differ among counterparties and asset classes. Although AIGFP has collateral posting obligations associated with both regulatory capital relief transactions and arbitrage transactions, the large majority of these obligations to date have been associated with arbitrage transactions in respect of multi sector CDOs. The collateral arrangements in respect of the multi sector CDO, regulatory capital and corporate arbitrage transactions are nearly all documented under a Credit Support Annex (CSA) to an ISDA Master Agreement (Master Agreement). The Master Agreement and CSA forms are standardized form agreements published by the ISDA, which market participants have adopted as the primary contractual framework for various kinds of derivatives transactions, including CDS. The Master Agreement and CSA forms are designed to be customized by counterparties to accommodate their particular requirements for the anticipated types of swap transactions to be entered into. Elective provisions and modifications of the standard terms are negotiated in connection with the execution of these documents. The Master Agreement and CSA permit any provision contained in these documents to be further varied or overridden by the individual transaction confirmations, providing flexibility to tailor provisions to accommodate the requirements of any particular transaction. A CSA, if agreed by the parties to a Master Agreement, supplements and forms part of the Master Agreement and contains provisions (among others) for the valuation of the covered transactions, the delivery and release of collateral, the types of acceptable collateral, the grant of a security interest (in the case of a CSA governed by New York law) or the outright transfer of title (in the case of a CSA governed by English law) in the collateral that is posted, the calculation of the amount of collateral required, the valuation of the collateral provided, the timing of any collateral demand or return, dispute mechanisms, and various other rights, remedies and duties of the parties with respect to the collateral provided. In general, each party has the right under a CSA to act as the Valuation Agent and initiate the calculation of the exposure of one party to the other (Exposure) in respect of transactions covered by the CSA. The valuation calculation may be performed daily, weekly or at some other interval, and the frequency is one of the terms negotiated at the time the CSA is signed. The definition of Exposure under a standard CSA is the amount that would be payable to one party by the other party upon a hypothetical termination of that transaction. This amount is determined, in most cases, by the Valuation Agent using its estimate of mid market quotations (i.e., the average of hypothetical bid and ask quotations) of the amounts that would be paid for a replacement transaction. AIGFP determines Exposure typically by reference to the mark to market valuation of the relevant transaction produced by its systems and specialized models. Exposure amounts are typically determined for all transactions under a Master Agreement (unless the parties have specifically agreed to exclude certain transactions, not to apply the CSA or to set a specific transaction Exposure to zero). The aggregate Exposure less the value of collateral already held by the relevant party (and following application of certain thresholds) results in a net exposure amount (Delivery Amount). If this amount is a positive number, then the other party must deliver collateral with a value equal to the Delivery Amount. Under the standard CSA, the party not acting as Valuation Agent for any particular Exposure calculation may dispute the Valuation Agents calculation of the Delivery Amount. If the parties are unable to resolve this dispute, the terms of the standard CSA provide that the Valuation Agent is required to recalculate Exposure using, in substitution for the disputed Exposure amounts, the average of actual quotations at mid market from four leading dealers in the relevant market. AIG 2008 Form 10 K 143 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries After an Exposure amount is determined for a transaction subject to a CSA, it is combined with the Exposure amounts for all other transactions under the relevant Master Agreement, which may be netted against one another where the counterparties to a Master Agreement are each exposed to one another in respect of different transactions. Actual collateral postings with respect to a Master Agreement may be affected by other agreed CSA terms, including threshold and independent amounts, that may increase or decrease the amount of collateral posted. Regulatory Capital Relief Transactions As of December 31, 2008, 68.0 percent of AIGFPs regulatory capital relief transactions (measured by net notional amount) were subject to a CSA. In other transactions, which represent 1.0 percent of the total net notional amount of the outstanding regulatory capital relief transactions, AIGFP is obligated to put a CSA or alternative collateral arrangement in place if AIGs ratings fall below certain levels (typically, A /A3). At December 31, 2008, 31.0 percent of the regulatory capital relief portfolio is not subject to collateral posting provisions. In general, each regulatory capital relief transaction is subject to a stand alone Master Agreement or similar agreement, under which the aggregate Exposure is calculated with reference to only a single transaction. The underlying mechanism that determines the amount of collateral to be posted varies from one counterparty to another, and there is no standard formula. The varied mechanisms resulted from varied negotiations with different counterparties. The following is a brief description of the primary mechanisms that are currently being employed to determine the amount of collateral posting for this portfolio. Reference to Market Indices Under this mechanism, the amount of collateral to be posted is determined based on a formula that references certain tranches of a market index, such as either Itraxx or CDX. This mechanism is used for CDS transactions that reference either corporate loans, or residential mortgages. While the market index is not a direct proxy, it has the advantage of being readily obtainable. Market Value of Reference Obligation Under this mechanism the amount of collateral to be posted is determined based on the difference between the net notional amount of a referenced RMBS security and the securitys market value. Expected Loss Models Under this mechanism, the amount of collateral to be posted is determined based on the amount of expected credit losses, generally determined using a rating agency model. Negotiated Amount Under this mechanism, the amount of collateral to be posted is determined based on bespoke terms negotiated between AIGFP and the counterparty, which could be a fixed percentage of the notional amount or present value of premiums to be earned by AIGFP. The amount of collateral postings by underlying mechanism as described above with respect to the regulatory capital relief portfolio (prior to consideration of transactions other than AIGFPs super senior credit default swap portfolio subject to the same Master Agreements) were as follows (there were no collateral postings on this portfolio prior to March 31, 2008): March 31, 2008 June 30, 2008 September 30, 2008 December 31, 2008 February 18, 2009 (In millions) Reference to market indices $ 212 $ 177 $ 157 $ 667 $ 417 Market value of reference obligation 142 286 380 299 Expected loss models 5 5 Negotiated amount 235 213 Other 18 Total $ 212 $ 319 $ 443 $ 1,287 $ 952 Arbitrage Portfolio Multi Sector CDOs In the large majority of the CDS transactions in respect of multi sector CDOs, the standard CSA provisions for the calculation of Exposure have been modified, with the Exposure amount determined pursuant to an agreed 144 AIG 2008 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries formula that is based on the difference between the net notional amount of such transaction and the market value of the relevant underlying CDO security, rather than the replacement value of the transaction. As of any date, the market value of the relevant CDO security is the price at which a marketplace participant would be willing to purchase such CDO security in a market transaction on such date, while the replacement value of the transaction is the cost on such date of entering into a credit default swap transaction with substantially the same terms on the same referenced obligation (e.g., the CDO security). In cases where a formula is utilized, a transaction specific threshold is generally factored into the calculation of Exposure, which reduces the amount of collateral required to be posted. These thresholds typically vary based on the credit ratings of AIG and or the reference obligations, with greater posting obligations arising in the context of lower ratings. For the large majority of counterparties to these transactions, the Master Agreement and CSA cover non CDS transactions (e.g., interest rate and cross currency swap transactions) as well as CDS transactions. As a result, the amount of collateral to be posted by AIGFP in relation to the CDS transactions will be added to or offset by the amount, if any, of the Exposure AIG has to the counterparty on the non CDS transactions. Arbitrage Portfolio Corporate Debt/CLOs Almost all of AIGFPs corporate arbitrage transactions are subject to CSAs. 97.6 percent (measured by net notional amount) of these transactions contain no special collateral posting provisions, but are subject to a Master Agreement that includes a CSA. These transactions are treated the same as other transactions subject to the same Master Agreement and CSA, with the calculation of collateral in accordance with the standard CSA procedures outlined above. 17.5 percent (measured by net notional amount) of these transactions, although subject to a Master Agreement and CSA, have specific valuation and threshold provisions. These thresholds are typically based on a combination of the credit rating of AIG and a ratings model of the transaction developed by Moodys model rating of the transaction (and not based on the value of any underlying reference obligations). Thus, as long as AIG maintains a rating above a specified threshold and the Moodys model of the underlying transaction exceeds a specified rating, the collateral provisions do not apply. Collateral Calls AIGFP has received collateral calls from counterparties in respect of certain super senior credit default swaps, of which a large majority relate to multi sector CDOs. To a lesser extent, AIGFP has also received collateral calls in respect of certain super senior credit default swaps entered into by counterparties for regulatory capital relief purposes and in respect of corporate arbitrage. Frequently, valuation estimates made by counterparties with respect to certain super senior credit default swaps or the underlying reference CDO securities, for purposes of determining the amount of collateral required to be posted by AIGFP in connection with such instruments, have differed, at times significantly, from AIGFPs estimates. In almost all cases, AIGFP has been able to successfully resolve the differences or otherwise reach an accommodation with respect to collateral posting levels, including in certain cases by entering into compromise collateral arrangements. Due to the ongoing nature of these collateral calls, AIGFP may engage in discussions with one or more counterparties in respect of these differences at any time. Valuation estimates made by counterparties for collateral purposes are, like any other third party valuation, considered in the determination of the fair value estimates of AIGFPs super senior credit default swap portfolio. Through June 30, 2007, AIGFP had not received any collateral calls related to this super senior credit default swap portfolio. Since that date and through February 18, 2009, counterparties have made large collateral calls against AIGFP, in particular related to the multi sector CDO portfolio. This was largely driven by deterioration in the market value of the reference obligations and the effects of the downgrade of AIGs ratings. The amount of collateral postings with respect to AIGFPs super senior credit default swap portfolio (prior to offsets for other transactions) were as follows: AIG 2008 Form 10 K 145 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries December 31, March 31, June 30, September 30, December 31, 2007 2008 2008 2008 2008 (In millions) Regulatory capital $ $ 212 $ 319 $ 443 $ 1,287 Arbitrage multi sector CDO 2,718 7,590 13,241 31,469 5,129 Arbitrage corporate 161 368 259 902 2,349 Total $ 2,879 $ 8,170 $ 13,819 $ 32,814 $ 8,765 The amount of future collateral posting requirements is a function of AIGs credit ratings, the rating of the reference obligations and any further decline in the market value of the relevant reference obligations, with the latter being the most significant factor. While a high level of correlation exists between the amount of collateral posted and the valuation of these contracts in respect of the arbitrage portfolio, a similar relationship does not exist with respect to the regulatory capital portfolio given the nature of how the amount of collateral for these transactions is determined. Given the severe market disruption, lack of observable data and the uncertainty regarding the potential effects on market prices of measures recently undertaken by the federal government to address the credit market disruption, AIGFP is unable to reasonably estimate the amounts of collateral that it would be required to post. Models and Modeling AIGFP values its credit default swaps written on the super senior risk layers of designated pools of debt securities or loans using internal valuation models, third party price estimates and market indices. The principal market was determined to be the market in which super senior credit default swaps of this type and size would be transacted, or have been transacted, with the greatest volume or level of activity. AIG has determined that the principal market participants, therefore, would consist of other large financial institutions who participate in sophisticated over the counter derivatives markets. The specific valuation methodologies vary based on the nature of the referenced obligations and availability of market prices. The valuation of the super senior credit derivatives continues to be challenging given the limitation on the availability of market observable information due to the lack of trading and price transparency in the structured finance market, particularly during and since the second half of 2007. These market conditions have increased the reliance on management estimates and judgments in arriving at an estimate of fair value for financial reporting purposes. Further, disparities in the valuation methodologies employed by market participants and the varying judgments reached by such participants when assessing volatile markets have increased the likelihood that the various parties to these instruments may arrive at significantly different estimates as to their fair values. AIGFPs valuation methodologies for the super senior credit default swap portfolio have evolved in response to the deteriorating market conditions and the lack of sufficient market observable information. AIG has sought to calibrate the model to available market information and to review the assumptions of the model on a regular basis. Arbitrage Portfolio Multi Sector CDOs The underlying assumption of the valuation methodology for AIGFPs credit default swap portfolio wrapping multi sector CDOs is that, to be willing to assume the obligations under a credit default swap, a market participant would require payment of the full difference between the cash price of the underlying tranches of the referenced securities portfolio and the net notional amount specified in the credit default swap. AIGFP uses a modified version of the Binomial Expansion Technique (BET) model to value its credit default swap portfolio written on super senior tranches of CDOs of ABS, including the 2a 7 Puts. The BET model was developed in 1996 by a major rating agency to generate expected loss estimates for CDO tranches and derive a credit rating for those tranches, and has been widely used ever since. AIG selected the BET model for the following reasons: it is known and utilized by other institutions; it has been studied extensively, documented and enhanced over many years; 146 AIG 2008 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries it is transparent and relatively simple to apply; the parameters required to run the BET model are generally observable; and it can easily be modified to use probabilities of default and expected losses derived from the underlying collateral securities market prices instead of using rating based historical probabilities of default. The BET model has certain limitations. A well known limitation of the BET model is that it can understate the expected losses for super senior tranches when default correlations are high. The model uses correlations implied from diversity scores which do not capture the tendency for correlations to increase as defaults increase. Recognizing this concern, AIG tested the sensitivity of the valuations to the diversity scores. The results of the testing demonstrated that the valuations are not very sensitive to the diversity scores because the expected losses generated from the prices of the collateral pool securities are currently high, breaching the attachment point in most transactions. Once the attachment point is breached by a sufficient amount, the diversity scores, and their implied correlations, are no longer a significant driver of the valuation of a super senior tranche. AIGFP has adapted the BET model to estimate the price of the super senior risk layer or tranche of the CDO. AIG modified the BET model to imply default probabilities from market prices for the underlying securities and not from rating agency assumptions. To generate the estimate, the model uses the price estimates for the securities comprising the portfolio of a CDO as an input and converts those price estimates to credit spreads over current LIBOR based interest rates. These credit spreads are used to determine implied probabilities of default and expected losses on the underlying securities. These data are then aggregated and used to estimate the expected cash flows of the super senior tranche of the CDO. The application of the modified BET model involves the following steps for each individual super senior tranche of a CDO in the portfolio: 1) Calculation of the cash flow pattern that matches the weighted average life for each underlying security of the CDO; 2) Calculation of an implied credit spread for each security from the price and cash flow pattern determined in step 1. This is an arithmetic process which converts prices to yields (similar to the conversion of United States Department of the Treasury security prices to yields), and then subtracts LIBOR based interest rates to determine the credit spreads; 3) Conversion of the credit spread into its implied probability of default. This also is an arithmetic process that determines the assumed level of default on the security that would equate the present value of the expected cash flows discounted at a risk free rate with the present value of the contractual cash flows discounted using LIBOR based interest rates plus the credit spreads; 4) Generation of expected losses for each underlying security using the probability of default and recovery rate; 5) Aggregation of the cash flows for all securities to create a cash flow profile of the entire collateral pool within the CDO; 6) Division of the collateral pool into a number of hypothetical independent identical securities based on the CDOs diversity score so that the cash flow effects of the portfolio can be mathematically aggregated properly. The purpose of dividing the collateral pool into hypothetical securities is a simplifying assumption used in all BET models as part of a statistical technique that aggregates large amounts of homogeneous data; 7) Simulation of the default behavior of the hypothetical securities using a Monte Carlo simulation and aggregation of the results to derive the effect of the expected losses on the cash flow pattern of the super senior tranche taking into account the cash flow diversion mechanism of the CDO; 8) Discounting of the expected cash flows determined in step 7 using LIBOR based interest rates to estimate the value of the super senior tranche of the CDO; and AIG 2008 Form 10 K 147 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries 9) Adjustment of the model value for the super senior multi sector CDO credit default swap for the effect of the risk of non performance by AIG using the credit spreads of AIG available in the marketplace and considering the effects of collateral and master netting arrangements. AIGFP employs a Monte Carlo simulation in step 7 above to assist in quantifying the effect on the valuation of the CDO of the unique aspects of the CDOs structure such as triggers that divert cash flows to the most senior part of the capital structure. The Monte Carlo simulation is used to determine whether an underlying security defaults in a given simulation scenario and, if it does, the securitys implied random default time and expected loss. This information is used to project cash flow streams and to determine the expected losses of the portfolio. In addition to calculating an estimate of the fair value of the super senior CDO security referenced in the credit default swaps using its internal model, AIGFP also considers the price estimates for the super senior CDO securities provided by third parties, including counterparties to these transactions, to validate the results of the model and to determine the best available estimate of fair value. In determining the fair value of the super senior CDO security referenced in the credit default swaps, AIGFP uses a consistent process which considers all available pricing data points and eliminates the use of outlying data points. When pricing data points are within a reasonable range an averaging technique is applied. The following table presents the net notional amount and fair value of derivative liability of the multi sector super senior credit default swap portfolio using AIGFPs fair value methodology: At December 31, Net Notional Amount Fair Value Derivative Liability 2008 2007 2008 2007 (In millions) BET model $ 2,545 $ 42,173 $ 1,370 $ 5,432 Third party price 2,951 8,038 1,753 1,947 Average of BET model and third party price 3,218 21,152 1,568 2,975 Other 2,220 761 European RMBS 3,842 4,622 1,215 131 Total $ 12,556 $ 78,205 $ 5,906 $ 11,246 The fair value of derivative liability of $5.9 billion recorded on AIGFPs super senior multi sector CDO credit default swap portfolio represents the cumulative change in fair value of the remaining derivatives, which represents AIGs best estimate of the amount it would need to pay to a willing, able and knowledgeable third party to assume the obligations under AIGFPs super senior multi sector credit default swap portfolio at December 31, 2008. Arbitrage Portfolio Corporate Debt/CLOs The valuation of credit default swaps written on portfolios of investment grade corporate debt and CLOs is less complex than the valuation of super senior multi sector CDO credit default swaps and the valuation inputs are more transparent and readily available. In the case of credit default swaps written on portfolios of investment grade corporate debt, AIGFP estimates the fair value of its obligations by comparing the contractual premium of each contract to the current market levels of the senior tranches of comparable credit indices, the iTraxx index for European corporate issuances and the CDX index for U.S. corporate issuances. These indices are considered reasonable proxies for the referenced portfolios. In addition, AIGFP compares these valuations to third party prices and makes adjustments as necessary to determine the best available estimate of fair value. AIGFP estimates the fair value of its obligations resulting from credit default swaps written on CLOs to be equivalent to the par value less the current market value of the referenced obligation. Accordingly, the value is determined by obtaining third party quotes on the underlying super senior tranches referenced under the credit default swap contract. No assurance can be given that the fair value of AIGFPs arbitrage credit default swap portfolio would not change materially if other market indices or pricing sources were used to estimate the fair value of the portfolio. 148 AIG 2008 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries Regulatory Capital Portfolio In the case of credit default swaps written to facilitate regulatory capital relief, AIGFP estimates the fair value of these derivatives by considering observable market transactions. The transactions with the most observability are the early terminations of these transactions by counterparties. AIG expects that the majority of these transactions will be terminated within the next 15 months by AIGFPs counterparties. During 2008, $99.7 billion in net notional amount of regulatory capital super senior transactions was terminated or matured. AIGFP has also received formal termination notices for an additional $26.5 billion in net notional amount of regulatory capital super senior CDS transactions with effective termination dates in 2009. AIGFP has not been required to make any payments as part of these terminations and in certain cases was paid a fee upon termination. AIGFP also considers other market data, to the extent relevant and available. AIGFP does not expect to make any payment under these contracts based on current portfolio conditions and stress analyses performed. Over the contractual life of the transactions, AIGFP is owed contractual premiums over an extended period. However, the expectation that the counterparties will be willing and able to terminate these transactions in the very near term based on the contract provisions and market conditions significantly reduces the expected future cash flows to be received. Consequently, the future expected cash flows validate the observable market transactions used to price the portfolio. In light of early termination experience to date and after other analyses, AIG determined that there was no unrealized market valuation adjustment for this regulatory capital relief portfolio for the year ended December 31, 2008 other than for one transaction where AIGFP believes the counterparty is no longer using the transaction to obtain regulatory capital relief. During 2008, a regulatory capital relief transaction with a net notional amount of $1.6 billion and a fair value loss of $379 million at December 31, 2008 was not terminated as expected when it no longer provided regulatory capital benefit to the counterparty. This transaction provides protection on European RMBS, unlike the other regulatory transactions, which provide protection on loan portfolios held by the counterparties. The documentation for this transaction contains provisions not included in AIGFPs other regulatory capital relief transactions, which enable the counterparty to arbitrage a specific credit exposure. AIG will continue to assess the valuation of this portfolio and monitor developments in the marketplace. Given the significant deterioration in the credit markets and the risk that AIGFPs expectations with respect to the termination of these transactions by its counterparties may not materialize, there can be no assurance that AIG will not recognize unrealized market valuation losses from this portfolio in future periods, and given its size, recognition of even a small percentage decline in the fair value of this portfolio could be material to AIGs consolidated results of operations for an individual reporting period or to AIGs consolidated financial condition. Key Assumptions Used in the BET model Multi Sector CDOs The most significant assumption used in the BET model is the estimated price of the individual securities within the CDO collateral pools. The following table summarizes the gross transaction notional weighted average price by ABS category. Gross Transaction Notional Weighted Average Price at December 31, ABS Category 2008 2007 RMBS Prime 50.46 % 84.32 % RMBS Alt A* 31.68 N/A RMBS Subprime 29.02 65.34 CMBS 54.50 92.96 CDOs 17.53 47.82 Other 50.92 92.11 Total 36.65 % 73.29 % * RMBS Alt A category was included in RMBS Prime in 2007. AIG 2008 Form 10 K 149 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries The decrease in the weighted average prices reflects continued deterioration in the markets for RMBS and CMBS and further downgrades in RMBS and CMBS credit ratings. Prices for the individual securities held by a CDO are obtained in most cases from the CDO collateral managers, to the extent available. For the year ended December 31, 2008, CDO collateral managers provided market prices for 61.2 percent of the underlying securities. When a price for an individual security is not provided by a CDO collateral manager, AIGFP derives the price through a pricing matrix using prices from CDO collateral managers for similar securities. Matrix pricing is a mathematical technique used principally to value debt securities without relying exclusively on quoted prices for the specific securities, but rather by relying on the relationship of the security to other benchmark quoted securities. Substantially all of the CDO collateral managers who provided prices used dealer prices for all or part of the underlying securities, in some cases supplemented by third party pricing services. The BET model also uses diversity scores, weighted average lives, recovery rates and discount rates. The determination of some of these inputs requires the use of judgment and estimates, particularly in the absence of market observable data. Diversity scores (which reflect default correlations between the underlying securities of a CDO) are obtained from CDO trustees or implied from default correlations. Weighted average lives of the underlying securities are obtained, when available, from external subscription services such as Bloomberg and Intex and, if not available, AIGFP utilizes an estimate reflecting known weighted average lives. Collateral recovery rates are obtained from the multi sector CDO recovery data of a major rating agency. AIGFP utilizes a LIBOR based interest rate curve to derive its discount rates. AIGFP employs similar control processes to validate these model inputs as those used to value AIGs investment portfolio as described in Critical Accounting Estimates Fair Value Measurements of Certain Financial Assets and Liabilities Overview. The effects of the adjustments resulting from the validation process were de minimis for each period presented. Valuation Sensitivity Arbitrage Portfolio Multi Sector CDOs AIG utilizes sensitivity analyses that estimate the effects of using alternative pricing and other key inputs on AIGs calculation of the unrealized market valuation loss related to the AIGFP super senior credit default swap portfolio. While AIG believes that the ranges used in these analyses are reasonable, given the current difficult market conditions, AIG is unable to predict which of the scenarios is most likely to occur. As recent experience demonstrates, actual results in any period are likely to vary, perhaps materially, from the modeled scenarios, and there can be no assurance that the unrealized market valuation loss related to the AIGFP super senior credit default swap portfolio will be consistent with any of the sensitivity analyses. On average for any quarterly period during the past year, prices for CDOs declined between 6.14 percent and 11.93 percent of the notional amount outstanding. Further, it is difficult to extrapolate future experience based on current dislocated market conditions. For the purposes of estimating sensitivities for the super senior multi sector CDO credit default swap portfolio, the change in valuation derived using the BET model is used to estimate the change in the fair value of the derivative liability. Out of the total $12.6 billion net notional amount of CDS written on multi sector CDOs outstanding at December 31, 2008, a BET value is available for $8.8 billion net notional amount. No BET value is determined for $3.8 billion of CDS written on European multi sector CDOs as prices on the underlying securities held by the CDOs are not provided by collateral managers; instead these CDS are valued using counterparty prices. Therefore, sensitivities disclosed below apply only to the net notional amount of $8.8 billion. As mentioned above, the most significant assumption used in the BET model is the estimated price of the securities within the CDO collateral pools. If the actual price of the securities within the collateral pools differs from the price used in estimating the fair value of the super senior credit default swap portfolio, there is potential for material variation in the fair value estimate. Any further declines in the value of the underlying collateral securities held by a CDO will similarly affect the value of the super senior CDO securities given their significantly depressed valuations. Given the current difficult market conditions, AIG cannot predict reasonably likely changes in the prices of the underlying collateral securities held within a CDO at this time. 150 AIG 2008 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries The following table presents key inputs used in the BET model, and the potential increase (decrease) to the fair value of the derivative liability by ABS category at December 31, 2008 corresponding to changes in these key inputs: Increase (Decrease) to Fair Value of Derivative Liability Inputs Used at Entire RMBS RMBS RMBS December 31, 2008 Change Portfolio PRIME ALT A Subprime CMBS CDOs Other (Dollars in millions) Bond prices 33 points Increase of 5 points $ (745 ) $ (38 ) $ (73 ) $ (336 ) $ (178 ) $ (81 ) $ (39 ) Decrease of 5 points 668 38 66 284 178 66 36 Weighted average life 5.01 years Increase of 1 year 131 5 9 113 1 2 1 Decrease of 1 year (284 ) (8 ) (8 ) (268 ) 1 (1 ) Recovery rates 21% Increase of 10% (71 ) (3 ) (1 ) (23 ) (38 ) (5 ) (1 ) Decrease of 10% 92 3 (1 ) 38 45 6 1 Diversity score(a) 16 Increase of 5 (15 ) Decrease of 5 35 Discount curve(b) N/A Increase of 100bps 34 (a) The diversity score is an input at the CDO level. A calculation of sensitivity to this input by type of security is not possible. (b) The discount curve is an input at the CDO level. A calculation of sensitivity to this input by type of security is not possible. Furthermore, for this input it is not possible to disclose a weighted average input as a discount curve consists of a series of data points. These results are calculated by stressing a particular assumption independently of changes in any other assumption. No assurance can be given that the actual levels of the key inputs will not exceed, perhaps significantly, the ranges assumed by AIG for purposes of the above analysis. No assumption should be made that results calculated from the use of other changes in these key inputs can be interpolated or extrapolated from the results set forth above. Corporate Debt The following table represents the relevant market credit indices and CDS maturity used to estimate the sensitivity for the credit default swap portfolio written on investment grade corporate debt and the estimated increase (decrease) to fair value of derivative liability at December 31, 2008 corresponding to changes in these market credit indices and maturity: Increase (Decrease) To Input Used at December 31, 2008 Fair Value Derivative Liability (In millions) CDS maturity (in years) 5 7 10 CDX Index spread (in basis points) 54 59 48 Effect of an increase of 10 basis points $ (20 ) $ (48 ) $ (10 ) Effect of a decrease of 10 basis points $ 20 $ 49 $ 10 iTraxx Index spread (in basis points) 62 58 65 Effect of an increase of 10 basis points $ (9 ) $ (33 ) $ (7 ) Effect of a decrease of 10 basis points $ 9 $ 33 $ 7 These results are calculated by stressing a particular assumption independently of changes in any other assumption. No assurance can be given that the actual levels of the indices and maturity will not exceed, perhaps significantly, the ranges assumed by AIGFP for purposes of the above analysis. No assumption should be made that results calculated from the use of other changes in these indices and maturity can be interpolated or extrapolated from the results set forth above. AIG 2008 Form 10 K 151 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries Other derivatives. Valuation models that incorporate unobservable inputs initially are calibrated to the transaction price. Subsequent valuations are based on observable inputs to the valuation model (e.g., interest rates, credit spreads, volatilities, etc.). Model inputs are changed only when corroborated by market data. Transfers into Level 3 During the year ended December 31, 2008, AIG transferred from Level 2 to Level 3 approximately $1.7 billion of assets, primarily representing fixed maturity securities for which the significant inputs used to measure the fair value of the securities became unobservable primarily as a result of the significant disruption in the credit markets. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information about transfers into Level 3. Capital Resources and Liquidity For a discussion of AIGs liquidity see Overview Liquidity. Shareholders Equity The changes in AIGs consolidated shareholders equity were as follows: Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 (In millions) Beginning of year $ 95,801 $ 101,677 Net income (loss) (99,289 ) 6,200 Unrealized depreciation of investments, net of tax (8,722 ) (5,708 ) Cumulative translation adjustment, net of tax (1,067 ) 1,185 Dividends to shareholders (1,105 ) (1,964 ) Payments advanced to purchase shares, net 912 (912 ) Common share issuance 7,343 Consideration received for preferred stock not yet issued(a) 23,000 Issuance of Series D preferred stock 20 Excess of proceeds over par value of preferred stock issued 39,889 Issuance of warrants 91 Share purchases (1,912 ) (5,104 ) Cumulative effect of change in accounting principles, net of tax (1,108 ) Other(b) (1,143 ) 427 End of year $ 52,710 $ 95,801 (a) AIG expects to issue the Series C Preferred Stock in early March 2009. (b) Reflects the effects of employee stock transactions and the present value of future contract adjustment payments related to the issuance of Equity Units. Share Repurchases In February 2007, AIGs Board of Directors increased AIGs share repurchase program by authorizing the purchase of shares with an aggregate purchase price of $8 billion. In November 2007, AIGs Board of Directors authorized the purchase of an additional $8 billion in common stock. In 2007, AIG entered into structured share repurchase arrangements providing for the purchase of shares over time with an aggregate purchase price of $7 billion. A total of 37,926,059 shares were purchased during the first six months of 2008 to meet commitments that existed at December 31, 2007. There were no repurchases during the third and fourth quarters of 2008. 152 AIG 2008 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries At February 18, 2009, $9 billion was available for purchases under the aggregate authorization. Pursuant to the Fed Credit Agreement, however, AIG is restricted from repurchasing shares of its common stock. Share Issuance In May 2008, AIG sold 196,710,525 shares of its common stock at a price per share of $38 in a public offering. Concurrent with the common stock offering, AIG sold 78.4 million Equity Units at a price per unit of $75. The Equity Units consist of an ownership interest in AIG junior subordinated debentures and a stock purchase contract obligating the holder of an equity unit to purchase, and obligating AIG to sell, on each of February 15, 2011, May 1, 2011 and August 1, 2011, for a price of $25, a variable number of shares of AIG common stock, that is not less than 0.54823 shares and not more than 0.6579 shares, subject to anti dilution adjustments. Accordingly, a maximum number of 154,738,080 shares and a minimum number of 128,944,480 shares of AIG common stock will be issued in the year 2011 under the stock purchase contracts, subject to anti dilution adjustments. On May 7, 2008, AIGs Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend on the common stock of $0.22 per share that was paid on September 19, 2008 to shareholders of record on September 5, 2008. Effective September 23, 2008, AIGs Board of Directors suspended the declaration of dividends on AIGs common stock. Pursuant to the Fed Credit Agreement, AIG is restricted from paying dividends on its common stock. See Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Dividends from Insurance Subsidiaries Payments of dividends to AIG by its insurance subsidiaries are subject to certain restrictions imposed by regulatory authorities. With respect to AIGs domestic insurance subsidiaries, the payment of any dividend requires formal notice to the insurance department in which the particular insurance subsidiary is domiciled. Under the laws of many states, an insurer may pay a dividend without prior approval of the insurance regulator when the amount of the dividend is below certain regulatory thresholds. Other foreign jurisdictions, notably Bermuda, Japan, Hong Kong, Taiwan, the U.K., Thailand and Singapore, may restrict the ability of AIGs foreign insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends. Largely as a result of these restrictions, a significant majority of the aggregate equity of AIGs consolidated subsidiaries was restricted from immediate transfer to AIG parent at December 31, 2008. See Regulation and Supervision herein. AIG cannot predict how recent regulatory investigations may affect the ability of its regulated subsidiaries to pay dividends. To AIGs knowledge, no AIG company is currently on any regulatory or similar watch list with regard to solvency. See also Liquidity herein, Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and Item 1A. Risk Factors Liquidity. Regulation and Supervision AIGs insurance subsidiaries, in common with other insurers, are subject to regulation and supervision by the states and jurisdictions in which they do business. In the United States, the NAIC has developed Risk Based Capital (RBC) requirements. RBC relates an individual insurance companys statutory surplus to the risk inherent in its overall operations. AIGs insurance subsidiaries file financial statements prepared in accordance with statutory accounting practices prescribed or permitted by domestic and foreign insurance regulatory authorities. The principal differences between statutory financial statements and financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP for domestic companies are that statutory financial statements do not reflect DAC, some bond portfolios may be carried at amortized cost, assets and liabilities are presented net of reinsurance, policyholder liabilities are valued using more conservative assumptions and certain assets are non admitted. In connection with the filing of the 2005 statutory financial statements for AIGs domestic General Insurance companies, AIG agreed with the relevant state insurance regulators on the statutory accounting treatment of various items. The regulatory authorities have also permitted certain of the domestic and foreign insurance subsidiaries to support the carrying value of their investments in certain non insurance and foreign insurance subsidiaries by utilizing the AIG audited consolidated financial statements to satisfy the requirement that the U.S. GAAP basis equity of such entities be audited. AIG has received similar permitted practice authorizations from insurance regulatory authorities in connection with the 2008 and 2007 statutory financial statements. The permitted practice AIG 2008 Form 10 K 153 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries resulted in a benefit to the surplus of the domestic and foreign General Insurance companies of $114 million and $859 million, respectively, and did not affect compliance with minimum regulatory capital requirements. As discussed under Item 3. Legal Proceedings, various regulators have commenced investigations into certain insurance business practices. In addition, the OTS and other regulators routinely conduct examinations of AIG and its subsidiaries, including AIGs consumer finance operations. AIG cannot predict the ultimate effect that these investigations and examinations, or any additional regulation arising therefrom, might have on its business. Federal, state or local legislation may affect AIGs ability to operate and expand its various financial services businesses, and changes in the current laws, regulations or interpretations thereof may have a material adverse effect on these businesses. AIGs U.S. operations are negatively affected under guarantee fund assessment laws which exist in most states. As a result of operating in a state which has guarantee fund assessment laws, a solvent insurance company may be assessed for certain obligations arising from the insolvencies of other insurance companies which operated in that state. AIG generally records these assessments upon notice. Additionally, certain states permit at least a portion of the assessed amount to be used as a credit against a companys future premium tax liabilities. Therefore, the ultimate net assessment cannot reasonably be estimated. The guarantee fund assessments net of credits recognized in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, were $8 million, $87 million and $97 million. AIG is also required to participate in various involuntary pools (principally workers compensation business) which provide insurance coverage for those not able to obtain such coverage in the voluntary markets. This participation is also recorded upon notification, as these amounts cannot reasonably be estimated. A substantial portion of AIGs General Insurance business and a majority of its Life Insurance Retirement Services business are conducted in foreign countries. The degree of regulation and supervision in foreign jurisdictions varies. Generally, AIG, as well as the underwriting companies operating in such jurisdictions, must satisfy local regulatory requirements. Licenses issued by foreign authorities to AIG subsidiaries are subject to modification and revocation. Thus, AIGs insurance subsidiaries could be prevented from conducting future business in certain of the jurisdictions where they currently operate. AIGs international operations include operations in various developing nations. Both current and future foreign operations could be adversely affected by unfavorable political developments up to and including nationalization of AIGs operations without compensation. Adverse effects resulting from any one country may affect AIGs results of operations, liquidity and financial condition depending on the magnitude of the event and AIGs net financial exposure at that time in that country. Foreign insurance operations are individually subject to local solvency margin requirements that require maintenance of adequate capitalization, which AIG complies with by country. In addition, certain foreign locations, notably Japan, have established regulations that can result in guarantee fund assessments. These have not had a material effect on AIGs financial condition or results of operations. Investments Investments by Segment The following tables summarize the composition of AIGs investments by segment: Life Insurance General Retirement Financial Asset Insurance Services Services Management Other Total (In millions) At December 31, 2008 Fixed maturity securities: Bonds available for sale, at fair value $ 85,791 $ 262,824 $ 1,971 $ 12,284 $ 172 $ 363,042 Bond trading securities, at fair value 6,296 26,848 5 4,099 37,248 Securities lending invested collateral, at fair value 790 3,054 3,844 154 AIG 2008 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries Life Insurance General Retirement Financial Asset Insurance Services Services Management Other Total (In millions) Equity securities: Common stocks available for sale, at fair value 3,497 4,988 8 299 16 8,808 Common and preferred stocks trading, at fair value 285 11,312 737 1 12,335 Mortgage and other loans receivable, net of allowance 15 27,709 367 6,558 38 34,687 Finance receivables, net of allowance 5 30,944 30,949 Flight equipment primarily under operating leases, net of accumulated depreciation 43,395 43,395 Other invested assets 11,763 17,184 1,247 14,540 7,244 51,978 Securities purchased under agreements to resell, at fair value 3,960 3,960 Short term investments 10,803 26,554 6,238 2,347 724 46,666 Total Investments* $ 112,944 $ 359,926 $ 115,715 $ 36,034 $ 12,293 $ 636,912 At December 31, 2007 Fixed maturity securities: Bonds available for sale, at fair value $ 74,057 $ 294,162 $ 41,703 $ 27,753 $ $ 437,675 Bonds held to maturity, at amortized cost 21,355 1 225 21,581 Bond trading securities, at fair value 9,948 276 34 10,258 Securities lending invested collateral, at fair value 5,031 57,471 148 13,012 75,662 Equity securities: Common stocks available for sale, at fair value 7,484 12,093 10 609 76 20,272 Common and preferred stocks trading, at fair value 321 21,026 3,921 29 25,297 Mortgage and other loans receivable, net of allowance 13 24,851 1,365 7,442 56 33,727 Finance receivables, net of allowance 5 31,229 31,234 Flight equipment primarily under operating leases, net of accumulated depreciation 41,984 41,984 Other invested assets 12,467 19,031 3,663 17,327 6,989 59,477 Short term investments: Securities purchased under agreements to resell, at fair value 20,950 20,950 Other short term investments 7,356 25,236 12,249 4,919 1,591 51,351 Total Investments* $ 128,084 $ 463,824 $ 157,498 $ 71,350 $ 8,712 $ 829,468 * At December 31, 2008, approximately 54 percent and 46 percent of investments were held by domestic and foreign entities, respectively. At December 31, 2007, approximately 63 percent and 37 percent of investments were held by domestic and foreign investments, respectively. Investment Strategy AIGs investment strategies are tailored to the specific business needs of each operating unit. The investment objectives are driven by the business model for each of the businesses: General Insurance, Life Insurance, Retirement Services and Asset Managements Spread Based Investment business. The primary objectives are liquidity, preservation of capital, growth of surplus and generation of investment income to support the insurance AIG 2008 Form 10 K 155 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries products. Difficult market conditions in recent quarters have significantly hindered AIGs ability to achieve these objectives, and these challenges are expected to persist for the foreseeable future. At the local operating unit level, investment strategies are based on considerations that include the local market, liability duration and cash flow characteristics, rating agency and regulatory capital considerations, legal investment limitations, tax optimization and diversification. The majority of assets backing insurance liabilities at AIG consist of intermediate and long duration fixed maturity securities. In the case of Life Insurance Retirement Services companies, as well as in the GIC and MIP portfolios of the Asset Management segment, the fundamental investment strategy is, as nearly as is practicable, to match the duration characteristics of the liabilities with comparable duration assets. Fixed maturity securities held by the insurance companies included in the AIG Property Casualty Group historically have consisted primarily of laddered holdings of tax exempt municipal bonds, which provided attractive after tax returns and limited credit risk. In light of AIGs net operating position, AIG changed its intent to hold to maturity certain tax exempt municipal securities held by its insurance subsidiaries. Fixed maturity securities held by Foreign General Insurance companies consist primarily of intermediate duration high grade securities. The market price of fixed maturity securities reflects numerous components, including interest rate environment, credit spread, embedded optionality (such as call features), liquidity, structural complexity, foreign exchange risk, and other credit and non credit factors. However, in most circumstances, pricing is most sensitive to interest rates, such that the market price declines as interest rates rise, and increases as interest rates fall. This effect is more pronounced for longer duration securities. AIG marks to market the vast majority of the invested assets held by its insurance companies pursuant to FAS 115, Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities, and related accounting pronouncements. However, with limited exceptions (primarily with respect to separate account products consolidated on AIGs balance sheet pursuant to SOP 03 01), AIG does not mark to market its insurance liabilities for changes in interest rates, even though rising interest rates have the effect of reducing the fair value of such liabilities, and falling interest rates have the opposite effect. This results in the recording of changes in unrealized gains (losses) on securities in Accumulated other comprehensive income resulting from changes in interest rates without any correlative, inverse changes in gains (losses) on AIGs liabilities. Because AIGs asset duration in certain low yield currencies, particularly Japan and Taiwan, is shorter than its liability duration, AIG views increasing interest rates in these countries as economically advantageous, notwithstanding the effect that higher rates have on the market value of its fixed maturity portfolio. Discussion of investments by operating segment is as follows: General Insurance In AIGs General Insurance business, the duration of liabilities for long tail casualty lines is greater than other lines. As differentiated from the Life Insurance Retirement Services companies, the focus is not on asset liability matching, but on preservation of capital and growth of surplus. Fixed income holdings of the AIG Property Casualty Group are currently comprised primarily of tax exempt securities, which provide attractive risk adjusted after tax returns. These high quality municipal investments have an average rating of AA. Fixed income assets held in Foreign General Insurance are of high quality and short to intermediate duration, averaging 2.5 years compared to 6.9 years for those in AIG Property Casualty Group. While invested assets backing reserves are invested in conventional fixed income securities in AIG Property Casualty Group, a modest portion of surplus is allocated to large capitalization, high dividend, public equity strategies and to alternative investments, including private equity and hedge funds. Notwithstanding the current environment, these investments have provided a combination of added diversification and attractive long term returns over time. 156 AIG 2008 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries Life Insurance Retirement Services With respect to Life Insurance Retirement Services, AIG uses asset liability management as a tool worldwide in the life insurance business to influence the composition of the invested assets and appropriate marketing strategies. AIGs objective is to maintain a matched asset liability structure. However, in certain markets, the absence of long dated fixed income investment instruments may preclude a matched asset liability position. In addition, AIG may occasionally determine that it is economically advantageous to be temporarily in an unmatched position. To the extent that AIG has maintained a matched asset liability structure, the economic effect of interest rate fluctuations is partially mitigated. AIGs investment strategy for the Life Insurance Retirement Services segment is to produce cash flows greater than maturing insurance liabilities. AIG actively manages the asset liability relationship in its foreign operations, even though certain territories lack qualified long term investments or certain local regulatory authorities may impose investment restrictions. For example, in several Southeast Asian countries, the duration of investments is shorter than the effective maturity of the related policy liabilities. Therefore, there is risk that the reinvestment of the proceeds at the maturity of the initial investments may be at a yield below that of the interest required for the accretion of the policy liabilities. Additionally, there exists a future investment risk associated with certain policies currently in force which will have premium receipts in the future. That is, the investment of these future premium receipts may be at a yield below that required to meet future policy liabilities. AIG actively manages the interest rate assumptions and crediting rates used for its new and in force business. Business strategies continue to evolve to maintain profitability of the overall business. In some countries, new products are being introduced with minimal investment guarantees, resulting in a shift toward investment linked savings products and away from traditional savings products with higher guarantees. The investment of insurance cash flows and reinvestment of the proceeds of matured securities and coupons requires active management of investment yields while maintaining satisfactory investment quality and liquidity. AIG may use alternative investments, including equities, real estate and foreign currency denominated fixed income instruments in certain foreign jurisdictions where interest rates remain low and there are limited long dated bond markets to extend the duration or increase the yield of the investment portfolio to more closely match the requirements of the policyholder liabilities and DAC recoverability. This strategy has been effectively used in Japan and more recently by Nan Shan in Taiwan. In Japan, foreign assets, excluding those matched to foreign liabilities, were approximately 17 percent of statutory assets, which is below the maximum allowable percentage under current local regulation. Foreign assets comprised approximately 27 percent of Nan Shans invested assets at December 31, 2008, slightly below the maximum allowable percentage under current local regulation. The majority of Nan Shans in force policy portfolio is traditional life and endowment insurance products with implicit interest rate guarantees. New business with lower interest rate guarantees are gradually reducing the overall interest requirements, but asset portfolio yields have declined faster due to the prolonged low interest rate environment. As a result, although the investment margins for a large block of in force policies are negative, the block remains profitable overall because the mortality and expense margins presently exceed the negative investment spread. In response to the low interest rate environment and the volatile exchange rate of the Taiwanese dollar, Nan Shan is emphasizing new products with lower implied guarantees, including participating endowments and investment linked products. AIG actively manages the asset liability relationship in its domestic operations. This relationship is more easily managed through the availability of qualified long term investments. A number of guaranteed benefits, such as living benefits or guaranteed minimum death benefits, are offered on certain variable life and variable annuity products. AIG manages its exposure resulting from these long term guarantees through reinsurance or capital market hedging instruments. AIG invests in equities for various reasons, including diversifying its overall exposure to interest rate risk. Available for sale bonds and equity securities are subject to declines in fair value. Such declines in fair value are presented in unrealized appreciation or depreciation of investments, net of taxes, as a component of Accumulated other comprehensive income. Declines that are determined to be other than temporary are reflected in income in the period in which the determination is made. See Critical Accounting Estimates Other Than Temporary Impairments herein. Generally, insurance regulations restrict the types of assets in which an insurance company may invest. When permitted by regulatory authorities and when deemed necessary to protect insurance assets, including AIG 2008 Form 10 K 157 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries invested assets, from adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and equity prices, AIG and its insurance subsidiaries may enter into derivative transactions as end users to hedge their exposures. For a further discussion of AIGs use of derivatives, see Risk Management Credit Risk Management Derivatives Transactions herein. In certain jurisdictions, significant regulatory and or foreign governmental barriers exist which may not permit the immediate free flow of funds between insurance subsidiaries or from the insurance subsidiaries to AIG parent. For a discussion of these restrictions, see Item 1. Business Regulation. Financial Services Capital Markets AIGFPs management objective is to minimize interest rate, currency, commodity and equity risks associated with its investment securities. AIGFP hedges the market risk associated with the investment securities on a portfolio basis effectively converting the returns. While not qualifying for hedge accounting treatment under FAS133, this transaction achieves the economic result of limiting interest rate volatility arising from such securities. The market risk associated with such hedges is managed on a portfolio basis. Securities purchased under agreements to resell are treated as collateralized financing transactions. AIGFP takes possession of or obtains a security interest in securities purchased under agreements to resell. For a discussion of the unwinding of AIGs businesses and portfolios, see Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Outlook Financial Services. AIGFP uses the proceeds from the issuance of notes and bonds and GIAs to invest in a diversified portfolio of securities, including securities available for sale, and derivative transactions. The funds may also be invested in securities purchased under agreements to resell. The proceeds from the disposal of the aforementioned securities available for sale and securities purchased under agreements to resell are used to fund the maturing GIAs or other AIGFP financings, or to invest in new assets. For a further discussion of AIGFPs borrowings, see Capital Resources and Liquidity Borrowings herein. Capital Markets derivative transactions are carried at fair value. AIGFP reduces its market risk exposure through similarly valued offsetting transactions including swaps, trading securities, options, forwards and futures. For a further discussion on the use of derivatives by Capital Markets, see Operating Review Financial Services Operations Capital Markets and Risk Management Derivatives herein and Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. AIGFP owns inventories in certain commodities in which it trades, and may reduce the exposure to market risk through the use of swaps, forwards, futures, and option contracts. Physical commodities are recorded at the lower of cost or fair value. Trading securities, at fair value, and securities and spot commodities sold but not yet purchased, at fair value, are marked to fair value daily with the unrealized gain or loss recognized in income. These trading securities are purchased and sold as necessary to meet the risk management and business objectives of Capital Markets operations. Asset Management Asset Management invested assets include those supporting AIGs Spread Based Investment Business, proprietary investments of AIG Global Real Estate and other proprietary investments including investments originally acquired for warehouse purposes. The Spread Based Investment business strategy is to generate spread income from investments yielding returns greater than AIGs cost of funds. The asset liability relationship is actively managed. The goal of the business is to capture a spread between income earned on investments and the funding costs of the program while mitigating interest rate and foreign currency exchange rate risk. The invested assets are predominantly fixed maturity securities and include U.S. residential mortgage backed securities, asset backed securities and commercial mortgage backed securities. In addition, the GIC program invests in various investment partnerships such as 158 AIG 2008 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries hedge, private equity and affordable housing funds. The MIP sold credit protection by issuing predominantly single name investment grade corporate credit default swaps with the intent to earn spread income on credit exposure in an unfunded and leveraged form. AIG Global Real Estate maintains a proprietary investment portfolio of direct real estate investments and investments in real estate based joint ventures and partnerships. AIG Global Real Estate invests primarily in strategic and opportunistic development projects domiciled in the U.S., Europe and Asia. AIG Investments holds investments in various direct private equity and private equity funds that were originally acquired as warehouse investments targeted for future managed investment products but which are now considered proprietary investments. Available for Sale and Held to Maturity Investments The amortized cost or cost and fair value of AIGs available for sale and held to maturity securities were as follows: December 31, 2008 December 31, 2007 Amortized Gross Gross Amortized Gross Gross Cost or Unrealized Unrealized Fair Cost or Unrealized Unrealized Fair Cost Gains Losses Value Cost Gains Losses Value (In millions) Available for sale(a): U.S. government and government sponsored entities $ 4,433 $ 331 $ (59 ) $ 4,705 $ 7,956 $ 333 $ (37 ) $ 8,252 Obligations of states, municipalities and political subdivisions 62,718 1,150 (2,611 ) 61,257 46,087 927 (160 ) 46,854 Non U.S. governments 62,176 6,560 (1,199 ) 67,537 67,023 3,920 (743 ) 70,200 Corporate debt 194,481 4,661 (13,523 )(b) 185,619 239,822 6,215 (4,518 ) 241,519 Mortgage backed, asset backed and collateralized 53,255 1,004 (6,933 ) 47,326 140,982 1,221 (7,703 ) 134,500 Total bonds $ 377,063 $ 13,706 $ (24,325 ) $ 366,444 $ 501,870 $ 12,616 $ (13,161 ) $ 501,325 Equity securities 8,381 1,146 (719 ) 8,808 15,188 5,547 (463 ) 20,272 Total $ 385,444 $ 14,852 $ (25,044 ) $ 375,252 $ 517,058 $ 18,163 $ (13,624 ) $ 521,597 Held to maturity(c): $ $ $ $ $ 21,581 $ 609 $ (33 ) $ 22,157 (a) At December 31, 2007, included AIGFP available for sale securities with a fair value of $39.3 billion, for which AIGFP elected the fair value option effective January 1, 2008, consisting primarily of corporate debt, mortgage backed, asset backed and CDO securities. At December 31, 2008, the fair value of these securities was $26.1 billion. At December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, fixed maturities held by AIG that were below investment grade or not rated totaled $19.4 billion and $27.0 billion, respectively. During the third quarter of 2008, AIG changed its intent to hold until maturity certain tax exempt municipal securities held by its insurance subsidiaries. As a result, all securities previously classified as held to maturity are now classified in the available for sale category. See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Fixed maturity securities reported on the balance sheet include $442 million of short term investments included in Securities lending invested collateral. (b) Financial institutions represent approximately 57 percent of the total gross unrealized losses at December 31, 2008. (c) Represents obligations of states, municipalities and political subdivisions. In 2008, AIG changed its intent to hold such securities to maturity. At December 31, 2008, approximately 54 percent of the fixed maturity securities were in domestic entities. Approximately 28 percent of such domestic securities were rated AAA by one or more of the principal rating agencies. Approximately eight percent were below investment grade or not rated. AIGs investment decision process relies primarily on internally generated fundamental analysis and internal risk ratings. Third party rating AIG 2008 Form 10 K 159 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries services ratings and opinions provide one source of independent perspectives for consideration in the internal analysis. A significant portion of the foreign fixed maturity portfolio is rated by Moodys, SP or similar foreign rating services. Rating services are not available in all overseas locations. AIGs Credit Risk Committee (CRC) closely reviews the credit quality of the foreign portfolios non rated fixed maturity securities. At December 31, 2008, approximately 14 percent of the foreign fixed income investments were either rated AAA or, on the basis of AIGs internal analysis, were equivalent from a credit standpoint to securities so rated. Approximately five percent were below investment grade or not rated at that date. Approximately one third of the foreign fixed maturity portfolio is sovereign fixed maturity securities supporting policy liabilities in the country of issuance. For additional disclosures on investments, see Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The credit ratings of AIGs fixed maturity investments were as follows: At December 31, 2008 2007 Rating AAA 22 % 40 % AA 30 27 A 26 18 BBB 16 10 Below investment grade 4 4 Non rated 2 1 Total 100 % 100 % The industry categories of AIGs available for sale corporate debt securities, other than those of AIGFP, were as follows: At December 31, 2008 2007 Financial institutions: Money Center /Global Bank Groups 20 % 16 % Regional banks other 5 6 Life insurance 4 5 Securities firms and other finance companies 4 6 Insurance non life 5 2 Regional banks North America 3 4 Other financial institutions 1 3 Utilities 13 11 Communications 8 8 Consumer noncyclical 8 7 Capital goods 6 6 Consumer cyclical 5 5 Energy 5 4 Other 13 17 Total* 100 % 100 % * At both December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, approximately 96 percent of these investments were rated investment grade. 160 AIG 2008 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries Investments in RMBS, CMBS, CDOs and ABS The amortized cost, gross unrealized gains (losses) and fair value of AIGs investments in RMBS, CMBS, CDOs and ABS were as follows: At December 31, 2008 2007 Gross Gross Gross Gross Amortized Unrealized Unrealized Fair Amortized Unrealized Unrealized Fair Cost Gains Losses Value Cost Gains Losses Value (In millions) Bonds available for sale: AIG, excluding AIGFP: RMBS $ 32,092 $ 645 $ (2,985 ) $ 29,752 $ 89,851 $ 433 $ (5,504 ) $ 84,780 CMBS 14,205 126 (3,105 ) 11,226 23,918 237 (1,156 ) 22,999 CDO/ABS 6,741 233 (843 ) 6,131 10,844 196 (593 ) 10,447 Subtotal, excluding AIGFP 53,038 1,004 (6,933 ) 47,109 124,613 866 (7,253 ) 118,226 AIGFP* 217 217 16,369 355 (450 ) 16,274 Total $ 53,255 $ 1,004 $ (6,933 ) $ 47,326 $ 140,982 $ 1,221 $ (7,703 ) $ 134,500 * The December 31, 2007 amounts represent total AIGFP investments in mortgage backed, asset backed and collateralized securities for which AIGFP has elected the fair value option effective January 1, 2008. At December 31, 2008, the fair value of these securities was $12.4 billion. The December 31, 2008 amounts represent securities for which AIGFP has not elected the fair value option. Investments in RMBS The amortized cost, gross unrealized gains (losses) and estimated fair value of AIGs investments in RMBS securities, other than those of AIGFP, were as follows: At December 31, 2008 2007 Gross Gross Gross Gross Amortized Unrealized Unrealized Fair Percent Amortized Unrealized Unrealized Fair Percent Cost Gains Losses Value of Total Cost Gains Losses Value of Total (In millions) RMBS: U.S. agencies $ 12,793 $ 537 $ (22 ) $ 13,308 45 % $ 14,575 $ 320 $ (70 ) $ 14,825 17 % Prime non agency(a) 12,744 41 (1,984 ) 10,801 36 21,552 72 (550 ) 21,074 25 Alt A 4,927 25 (743 ) 4,209 14 25,349 17 (1,620 ) 23,746 28 Other housing related(b) 410 23 (54 ) 379 1 4,301 2 (357 ) 3,946 5 Subprime 1,218 19 (182 ) 1,055 4 24,074 22 (2,907 ) 21,189 25 Total $ 32,092 $ 645 $ (2,985 ) $ 29,752 100 % $ 89,851 $ 433 $ (5,504 ) $ 84,780 100 % (a) Includes foreign and jumbo RMBS related securities. (b) Primarily wrapped second lien. AIGs operations, other than AIGFP, held investments in RMBS with an estimated fair value of $29.8 billion at December 31, 2008, or approximately 5 percent of AIGs total invested assets. On December 12, 2008, RMBS with an estimated fair value of $20.8 billion were sold to ML II in connection with AIGs termination of the U.S. securities lending program. In addition, AIGs insurance operations held investments with a fair value totaling $6.1 billion in CDOs/ABS, of which $14 million included some level of subprime exposure. AIGs RMBS investments are predominantly in highly rated tranches that contain substantial protection features through collateral subordination. At December 31, 2008, approximately 82 percent of these investments were rated AAA, and approximately 9 percent were rated AA by one or more of the principal rating agencies. AIGs investments rated BBB or below totaled $1.8 billion, or less than 0.28 percent of AIGs total invested assets at December 31, 2008. As of February 19, 2009, $5.3 billion of AIGs RMBS portfolio had been downgraded as a result of rating agency actions since January 1, 2007, and $130 million of such investments had been upgraded. Of AIG 2008 Form 10 K 161 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries the downgrades, $4.9 billion were AAA rated securities. In addition to the downgrades, as of February 19, 2009, the rating agencies had $951 million of RMBS on watch for downgrade. In 2008, AIG collected approximately $7.5 billion of principal payments on RMBS. The amortized cost of AIGs RMBS investments, other than those of AIGFP, by year of vintage and credit rating, at December 31, 2008, were as follows: Year of Vintage Prior 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 Total (In billions) Rating: Total RMBS AAA $ 6,924 $ 4,035 $ 3,965 $ 3,884 $ 4,207 $ 3,188 $ 26,203 AA 866 351 427 825 327 2,796 A 240 187 230 296 284 51 1,288 BBB and below 42 170 203 560 785 45 1,805 Total RMBS $ 8,072 $ 4,743 $ 4,825 $ 5,565 $ 5,603 $ 3,284 $ 32,092 Alt A RMBS AAA $ 677 $ 526 $ 662 $ 740 $ 832 $ $ 3,437 AA 230 61 177 177 170 815 A 25 20 36 22 48 151 BBB and below 8 10 20 189 297 524 Total Alt A $ 940 $ 617 $ 895 $ 1,128 $ 1,347 $ $ 4,927 Subprime RMBS AAA $ 228 $ 79 $ 74 $ 189 $ 60 $ $ 630 AA 62 63 59 50 27 261 A 84 49 84 23 1 241 BBB and below 3 50 16 13 4 86 Total Subprime $ 377 $ 241 $ 233 $ 275 $ 92 $ $ 1,218 Prime non agency RMBS AAA $ 2,746 $ 1,678 $ 1,445 $ 1,750 $ 1,675 $ 11 $ 9,305 AA 551 217 183 533 68 1,552 A 117 107 98 230 234 51 837 BBB and below 29 69 148 288 471 45 1,050 Total Subprime $ 3,443 $ 2,071 $ 1,874 $ 2,801 $ 2,448 $ 107 $ 12,744 AIGs underwriting practices for investing in RMBS, other asset backed securities and CDOs take into consideration the quality of the originator, the manager, the servicer, security credit ratings, underlying characteristics of the mortgages, borrower characteristics, and the level of credit enhancement in the transaction. AIGs strategy is typically to invest in securities rated AA or better. 162 AIG 2008 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries Investments in CMBS The amortized cost of AIGs CMBS investments, other than those of AIGFP, at December 31, 2008, was as follows: Amortized Percent Cost of Total (In millions) CMBS (traditional) $ 13,033 92 % ReRemic/CRE CDO 583 4 Agency 159 1 Other 430 3 Total $ 14,205 100 % The percentage of AIGs CMBS investments, other than those of AIGFP, by credit rating, at December 31, 2008, was as follows: Percentage Rating: AAA 84 % AA 8 A 6 BBB and below 2 Total 100 % The percentage of AIGs CMBS investments, other than those of AIGFP, by year of vintage, at December 31, 2008, was as follows: Percentage Year: 2008 1 % 2007 23 2006 11 2005 17 2004 19 2003 and prior 29 Total 100 % The percentage of AIGs CMBS investments, other than those of AIGFP, by geographic region, at December 31, 2008, was as follows: AIG 2008 Form 10 K 163 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries Percentage Geographic region: New York 15 % California 13 Texas 6 Florida 6 Virginia 3 Illinois 3 New Jersey 3 Pennsylvania 3 Maryland 2 Georgia 2 All Other 44 Total 100 % There have been disruptions in the commercial mortgage markets in general, and the CMBS market in particular, with credit default swaps indices and quoted prices of securities at levels consistent with a severe correction in lease rates, occupancy and fair value of properties. In addition, spreads in the primary mortgage market have widened significantly. Investments in CDOs The amortized cost of AIGs CDO investments, other than those of AIGFP, by collateral type, at December 31, 2008, was as follows: Amortized Percent Cost of Total (In millions) Collateral Type: Bank loans (CLO) $ 824 61 % Synthetic investment grade 210 16 Other 291 22 Subprime ABS 12 1 Total $ 1,337 100 % Amortized cost of the AIGs CDO investments, other than those of AIGFP, by credit rating, at December 31, 2008, was as follows: Amortized Percent Cost of Total (In millions) Rating: AAA $ 386 29 % AA 180 13 A 574 43 BBB 168 13 Below investment grade and equity 29 2 Total $ 1,337 100 % 164 AIG 2008 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries Commercial Mortgage Loans At December 31, 2008, AIG had direct commercial mortgage loan exposure of $17.5 billion, with $15.9 billion representing U.S. loan exposure. At that date, substantially all of the U.S. loans were current. Foreign commercial mortgage loans of $1.6 billion are secured predominantly by properties in Japan. In addition, at December 31, 2008, AIG had $2.3 billion in residential mortgage loans in jurisdictions outside the United States, primarily secured by properties in Taiwan and Thailand. The U.S. commercial loan exposure by state and type of loan, at December 31, 2008, were as follows: (dollars in millions) # of % of State Loans Amount Apartments Offices Retails Industrials Hotels Others Total California 235 $ 4,357 $ 135 $ 1,835 $ 249 $ 1,089 $ 506 $ 543 27 % New York 79 1,816 345 1,118 178 40 48 87 11 % New Jersey 71 1,283 598 280 276 50 79 8 % Florida 108 1,048 46 393 245 116 29 219 7 % Texas 84 1,037 87 420 141 269 81 39 7 % Pennsylvania 76 643 105 194 162 149 18 15 4 % Ohio 63 444 212 53 75 50 41 13 3 % Maryland 27 418 35 200 173 2 4 4 3 % Arizona 20 368 121 54 62 14 9 108 2 % Illinois 35 362 67 167 13 61 49 5 2 % Other states 492 4,085 375 1,642 814 379 351 524 26 % Total 1,290 $ 15,861 $ 2,126 $ 6,356 $ 2,388 $ 2,219 $ 1,136 $ 1,636 100 % AIGFP Trading Investments The fair value of AIGFPs fixed maturity trading investments, at December 31, 2008, were as follows: Fair Percent Value of Total (In millions) U.S. government and government sponsored entities $ 9,594 37 % Non U.S. governments 500 2 Corporate debt 3,530 13 Mortgage backed, asset backed and collateralized 12,445 48 Total $ 26,069 100 % The credit ratings of AIGFPs fixed maturity trading investments, at December 31, 2008, were as follows: Percentage Rating: AAA 74 % AA 10 A 11 BBB 3 Below investment grade 2 Total 100 % AIG 2008 Form 10 K 165 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries The fair value of AIGFPs trading investments in RMBS, CDO, ABS and other collateralized securities was as follows: At December 31, 2008 Fair Percent Value of Total (In millions) RMBS $ 3,679 30 % CMBS 2,020 16 CDO/ABS and other collateralized 6,746 54 Total $ 12,445 100 % These securities are used to collateralize AIGFPs secured financing arrangements including the obligations of its asset backed commercial paper conduit. Securities Lending Activities AIGs securities lending program historically operated as centrally managed by AIG Investments for the benefit of certain of AIGs insurance companies. Under this program, securities were loaned to various financial institutions, primarily major banks and brokerage firms. Cash collateral was received and was invested in fixed maturity securities to earn a net spread. The amount of cash advanced by borrowers declined in 2008 due in part to the availability of alternative transactions requiring less collateral. During the fourth quarter of 2008, in connection with certain securities lending transactions, AIG met the requirements of sale accounting as prescribed by FAS 140 because collateral received was insufficient to fund substantially all of the cost of purchasing replacement assets. Accordingly, AIG recognized $2.4 billion of net realized capital losses on deemed sales of the securities it had lent. Also, net realized capital losses in 2008 included a loss of $2.3 billion, incurred in the fourth quarter of 2008, on RMBS prior to their purchase by ML II. Also see Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. A significant portion of the collateral received was invested in RMBS with cash flows having tenors longer than the liabilities to the counterparties. The value of those collateral securities declined during the latter part of 2007 and throughout 2008 and trading in such securities was extremely limited. Given these events, AIG began increasing liquidity in the securities lending pool by increasing the amount of cash and overnight investments that in the third quarter of 2007 comprised the securities lending invested collateral. Due to AIG specific credit concerns and systemic issues in the financial markets in the third quarter of 2008, counterparties began curtailing their participation in the program. As a result, liquidity in the collateral pools became constrained. At September 30, 2008, AIG had borrowed approximately $11.5 billion under the Fed Facility to provide liquidity to the securities lending program. On October 8, 2008, AIG announced that certain of its domestic life insurance subsidiaries had entered into a securities lending agreement with the NY Fed pursuant to which the NY Fed agreed to borrow, on an overnight basis, up to $37.8 billion in investment grade fixed income securities from these AIG subsidiaries in return for cash collateral. The Securities Lending Agreement assisted AIG in meeting its obligations to borrowers requesting the return of their cash collateral. On December 12, 2008, AIG, certain of AIGs wholly owned U.S. life insurance subsidiaries, and AIG Securities Lending Corp. (the AIG Agent), another AIG subsidiary, entered into the ML II Agreement with ML II. Pursuant to the ML II Agreement, the life insurance subsidiaries sold to ML II all of their undivided interests in a pool of $39.3 billion face amount of RMBS held by the AIG Agent as agent of the life insurance subsidiaries in connection with AIGs U.S. securities lending program. In exchange for the RMBS, the life insurance subsidiaries received an initial purchase price of $19.8 billion plus the right to receive deferred contingent portions of the total purchase price of $1 billion plus participation in the residual, each of which is subordinated to the repayment of the NY Fed loan to ML II. These life insurance subsidiaries applied the net cash proceeds of sale of the RMBS toward the amounts due by such life insurance subsidiaries in terminating both the U.S. securities lending program and the 166 AIG 2008 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries Securities Lending Agreement. See Note 5 for further information on the transaction with ML II. At December 31, 2008, total securities lending collateral held by AIG of $3.8 billion represents the foreign securities lending program, which is expected to wind down in 2009. Securities lending payables amounted to $2.9 billion at December 31, 2008. The recognition of other than temporary impairment charges for the securities lending collateral investments placed significant stress on the statutory surplus of the participating insurance companies. During 2008, AIG recognized other than temporary impairment charges of $18.2 billion related to these investments, including $6.9 billion of charges related to AIGs change in intent to hold these securities to maturity as it winds this program down. During 2008, AIG contributed $21.5 billion to certain of its Domestic Life Insurance and Domestic Retirement Services subsidiaries, largely related to these charges. Portfolio Review Other Than Temporary Impairments AIG assesses its ability to hold any fixed maturity security in an unrealized loss position to its recovery, including fixed maturity securities classified as available for sale, at each balance sheet date. The decision to sell any such fixed maturity security classified as available for sale reflects the judgment of AIGs management that the security sold is unlikely to provide, on a relative value basis, as attractive a return in the future as alternative securities entailing comparable risks. With respect to distressed securities, the sale decision reflects managements judgment that the risk discounted anticipated ultimate recovery is less than the value achievable on sale. AIG evaluates its investments for impairments in valuation as well as credit. The determination that a security has incurred an other than temporary decline in value requires the judgment of management and consideration of the fundamental condition of the issuer, its near term prospects and all the relevant facts and circumstances. See Critical Accounting Estimates Other Than Temporary Impairments herein for further information. Once a security has been identified as other than temporarily impaired, the amount of such impairment is determined by reference to that securitys contemporaneous fair value and recorded as a charge to earnings. As a result of AIGs periodic evaluation of its securities for other than temporary impairments in value, AIG recorded other than temporary impairment charges of $50.8 billion, $4.7 billion (including $643 million related to AIGFP recorded on other income) and $944 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. In light of the recent significant disruption in the U.S. residential mortgage and credit markets, AIG has recognized an other than temporary impairment charge (severity loss) of $29.1 billion in 2008, primarily related to mortgage backed, asset backed and collaterized securities and securities of financial institutions. Notwithstanding AIGs intent and ability to hold such securities until they have recovered their cost basis, and despite structures that indicate that a substantial amount of the securities should continue to perform in accordance with original terms, AIG concluded that it could not reasonably assert that the impairment would be temporary. Pricing of CMBS has been adversely affected by market perceptions that underlying mortgage defaults will increase. As a result, AIG recognized $6.2 billion of other than temporary impairment charges in 2008 on CMBS valued at a severe discount to cost, despite the absence of any meaningful deterioration in performance of the underlying credits, because AIG concluded that it could not reasonably assert that the impairment period was temporary. In addition, AIG recognized $527 million in other than temporary impairment charges due to the change in intent to hold these CMBS until they recover in value and $245 million due to issuer specific credit events. Certain high quality, highly rated securities in the CMBS portfolio experienced severe market price declines in late 2008. With respect to this portfolio, AIG has performed extensive internal fundamental credit risk analysis on a security by security basis, including consideration of credit enhancements and expected defaults on underlying collateral. In managements view, this internal analysis, supplemented by relevant industry analyst reports and forecasts and other market available data, provides persuasive evidence sufficient to overcome the premise that such severe declines in fair value below amortized cost should be considered other than temporary. As a result, impairment charges were not taken on certain CMBS having fair values $1.8 billion below amortized cost. AIG 2008 Form 10 K 167 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries In addition to the above severity losses, AIG recorded other than temporary impairment charges in 2008, 2007 and 2006 related to: securities that AIG does not intend to hold until recovery; declines due to foreign exchange rates; issuer specific credit events; certain structured securities impaired under EITF 99 20 and related interpretative guidance; and other impairments, including equity securities and partnership investments. Other than temporary impairment charges by segment were as follows: Life Insurance General Retirement Financial Asset Insurance Services Services Management Other Total (In millions) December 31, 2008 Impairment Type: Severity $ 2,667 $ 21,096 $ 94 $ 5,288 $ 1 $ 29,146 Lack of intent to hold to recovery 388 10,975 12 735 12,110 Foreign currency declines 1,903 1,903 Issuer specific credit events 1,471 3,385 15 977 137 5,985 Adverse projected cash flows on structured securities 7 1,372 6 276 1,661 Total $ 4,533 $ 38,731 $ 127 $ 7,276 $ 138 $ 50,805 December 31, 2007 Impairment Type: Severity $ 71 $ 1,070 $ 643 $ 416 $ $ 2,200 Lack of intent to hold to recovery 91 885 7 71 1,054 Foreign currency declines 500 500 Issuer specific credit events 113 177 69 156 515 Adverse projected cash flows on structured securities 1 166 279 446 Total $ 276 $ 2,798 $ 650 $ 835 $ 156 $ 4,715 December 31, 2006 Impairment Type: Lack of intent to hold to recovery $ 13 $ 473 $ $ 150 $ $ 636 Issuer specific credit events 65 131 66 262 Adverse projected cash flows on structured securities 37 9 46 Total $ 78 $ 641 $ $ 225 $ $ 944 168 AIG 2008 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries Other than temporary severity related impairment charges by type of security and credit rating were as follows: Financial Other Rating: RMBS CDO CMBS Institutions Securities Total (In millions) December 31, 2008* Fixed Maturities: AAA $ 8,832 $ 369 $ 3,684 $ 66 $ 149 $ 13,100 AA 3,139 625 987 346 58 5,155 A 1,162 1,490 1,194 1,074 138 5,058 BBB and below 1,251 590 327 640 497 3,305 Nonrated 41 15 171 227 Equities 521 1,780 2,301 Total $ 14,384 $ 3,115 $ 6,192 $ 2,662 $ 2,793 $ 29,146 December 31, 2007* Fixed Maturities: AAA $ 168 $ 621 $ $ $ $ 789 AA 870 53 6 929 A 66 32 77 175 BBB and below 28 52 80 Nonrated 227 227 Total $ 1,132 $ 706 $ 135 $ $ 227 $ 2,200 * Ratings are as of the date of the impairment charge. Financial institutions industry other than temporary impairment charges by industry classification were, at December 31, 2008, as follows: Lack of Intent to Currency Issuer Specific Severity Hold to Recovery Decline Credit Events Total (In millions) Industry Classification: Banking $ 1,568 $ 1,270 $ 267 $ 526 $ 3,631 Brokerage 186 172 26 1,356 1,740 Insurance 262 177 30 88 557 Other 646 511 21 167 1,345 Total $ 2,662 $ 2,130 $ 344 $ 2,137 $ 7,273 Financial institutions other than temporary impairment charges were immaterial in 2007 and 2006. No other than temporary impairment charge with respect to any one single credit was significant to AIGs consolidated financial condition or results of operations, and no individual other than temporary impairment charge exceeded three percent of consolidated shareholders equity in 2008. In periods subsequent to the recognition of an other than temporary impairment charge for fixed maturity securities, that is not credit or foreign exchange related, AIG generally accretes into income the discount or amortizes the reduced premium resulting from the reduction in cost basis over the remaining life of the security. The amount of accretion recognized in earnings for 2008 was $634 million. AIG 2008 Form 10 K 169 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries An aging of the pre tax unrealized losses of fixed maturity and equity securities, distributed as a percentage of cost relative to unrealized loss (the extent by which the fair value is less than amortized cost or cost), including the number of respective items was as follows: At December 31, 2008 Less than or equal Greater than 20% Greater than 50% to 20% of Cost(b) to 50% of Cost(b) of Cost(b) Total Unrealized Unrealized Unrealized Unrealized Aging(a) Cost(c) Loss Items Cost(c) Loss Items Cost(c) Loss(g) Items Cost(c) Loss(d) Items (Dollars in millions) Investment grade bonds 0 6 months $ 65,631 $ 3,679 9,213 $ 10,800 $ 3,076 1,803 $ 772 $ 198 33 $ 77,203 $ 6,953 11,049 7 12 months 44,863 3,119 6,295 12,152 3,269 1,291 667 368 62 57,682 6,756 7,648 12 months 32,604 2,976 4,707 20,330 5,920 2,534 1,550 889 93 54,484 9,785 7,334 Total $ 143,098 $ 9,774 20,215 $ 43,282 $ 12,265 5,628 $ 2,989 $ 1,455 188 $ 189,369 $ 23,494 26,031 Below investment grade bonds 0 6 months $ 4,785 $ 189 1,925 $ 668 $ 182 131 $ $ $ 5,453 $ 371 2,056 7 12 months 1,556 88 501 602 164 78 2,158 252 579 12 months 1,339 66 272 489 142 130 1,828 208 402 Total $ 7,680 $ 343 2,698 $ 1,759 $ 488 339 $ $ $ 9,439 $ 831 3,037 Total bonds 0 6 months $ 70,416 $ 3,868 11,138 $ 11,468 $ 3,258 1,934 $ 772 $ 198 33 $ 82,656 $ 7,324 13,105 7 12 months 46,419 3,207 6,796 12,754 3,433 1,369 667 368 62 59,840 7,008 8,227 12 months 33,943 3,042 4,979 20,819 6,062 2,664 1,550 889 93 56,312 9,993 7,736 Total(e) $ 150,778 $ 10,117 22,913 $ 45,041 $ 12,753 (f) 5,967 $ 2,989 $ 1,455 188 $ 198,808 $ 24,325 29,068 Equity securities 0 6 months $ 1,835 $ 165 38,389 $ 1,072 $ 349 960 $ 4 $ 2 89 $ 2,911 $ 516 39,438 7 12 months 386 43 244 446 156 300 6 4 47 838 203 591 12 months Total $ 2,221 $ 208 38,633 $ 1,518 $ 505 1,260 $ 10 $ 6 136 $ 3,749 $ 719 40,029 (a) Represents the number of consecutive months that fair value has been less than cost by any amount. (b) Represents the percentage by which fair value is less than cost at the balance sheet date. (c) For bonds, represents amortized cost. (d) The effect on net income of unrealized losses after taxes will be mitigated upon realization because certain realized losses will be charged to participating policyholder accounts, or realization will result in current decreases in the amortization of certain DAC. (e) Includes securities lending invested collateral. (f) Of this $12.8 billion, $4.5 billion relates to RMBS, CMBS, CDOs and ABS with unrealized losses greater than 25 percent; and $791 million relates to RMBS, CMBS, CDOs and ABS with unrealized losses between 20 percent and 25 percent. The balance represents all other classes of fixed maturity securities. (g) Total bonds unrealized loss of $1.5 billion represents CMBS not deemed other than temporarily impaired based on credit analysis. 170 AIG 2008 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries The aging of the unrealized losses of RMBS, CMBS, CDOs and ABS with fair values greater than 20 percent and 50 percent less than their cost at December 31, 2008 (in footnote (f) to the table above) is shown in the table below, which provides the period in which those securities in unrealized loss positions would become candidates for impairment solely because they have been trading at a discount for nine consecutive months (AIGs other than temporary aging guideline) without regard to the level of discount (AIGs other than temporary trading level guideline), assuming prices remained unchanged. First Second Third Quarter Quarter Quarter 2009 2009 2009 Total (In millions) Unrealized loss percent: Greater than 25 percent $ 46 $ 275 $ 4,181 $ 4,502 20 to less than 25 percent $ $ $ 791 $ 791 Given the current difficult market conditions, AIG is not able to predict reasonably likely changes in the prices of these securities. Moreover, AIG is unable to assess the effect, if any, that potential sales of securities pursuant to TARP will have on the pricing of its available for sale securities. Unrealized gains and losses At December 31, 2008, the carrying value of AIGs available for sale fixed maturity and equity securities aggregated $375.3 billion. At December 31, 2008, aggregate pre tax unrealized gains for fixed maturity and equity securities were $14.8 billion ($9.6 billion after tax). At December 31, 2008, the aggregate pre tax gross unrealized losses on fixed maturity and equity securities were $25.0 billion ($16.3 billion after tax). Additional information about these securities is as follows: These securities were valued, in the aggregate, at approximately 88 percent of their current amortized cost. Approximately 24 percent of these securities were valued at less than 20 percent of their current cost, or amortized cost. Approximately five percent of the fixed maturity securities had issuer credit ratings which were below investment grade. AIG did not consider these securities in an unrealized loss position to be other than temporarily impaired at December 31, 2008, because management has the intent and ability to hold these investments until they recover their cost basis within a recovery period deemed to be temporary. In performing this evaluation, management considered the market recovery periods for securities in previous periods of broad market declines. In addition, for certain securities with more significant declines, management performed extended fundamental credit analysis on a security by security basis including consideration of credit enhancements, expected defaults on underlying collateral, review of relevant industry analyst reports and forecasts and other market available data. In managements view this analysis provides persuasive evidence sufficient to conclude that such severe declines in fair value below amortized cost should not be considered other than temporary. In 2008, unrealized losses related to investment grade bonds increased $10.6 billion ($6.9 billion after tax), reflecting the widening of credit spreads, partially offset by the effects of a decline in risk free interest rates. AIG 2008 Form 10 K 171 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries The amortized cost and fair value of fixed maturity securities available for sale in an unrealized loss position by contractual maturity were as follows: At December 31, 2008 Amortized Cost Fair Value (In millions) Due in one year or less $ 6,037 $ 6,023 Due after one year through five years 41,782 37,862 Due after five years through ten years 48,025 42,439 Due after ten years 71,717 63,840 Mortgage backed, asset backed and collateralized 31,247 24,319 Total $ 198,808 $ 174,483 For the year ended December 31, 2008, the pre tax gross realized losses incurred with respect to the sale of fixed maturities and equity securities were $13.4 billion. The aggregate fair value of securities sold was $97 billion, which was approximately 88 percent of amortized cost. The average period of time that securities sold at a loss during 2008 were trading continuously at a price below book value was approximately eight months. See Risk Management Credit Risk Management herein for an additional discussion of investment risks associated with AIGs investment portfolio. Certain of AIGs foreign subsidiaries included in the consolidated financial statements report on a fiscal year ended November 30. The effect on AIGs consolidated financial condition and results of operations of all material events occurring between November 30 and December 31 for all periods presented has been recorded. AIG determined the significant appreciation in world wide fixed income and equity markets in December 2008 to be an intervening event that had a material effect on its consolidated financial condition and results of operations. AIG reflected the December 2008 market appreciation throughout its investment portfolio. Accordingly, AIG recorded $5.6 billion ($3.6 billion after tax) of unrealized appreciation on investments. Risk Management Overview The continued unprecedented market turmoil, which began in the U.S. housing sector but which has expanded to other sectors of the economy, led to severe price declines and reduced liquidity of highly rated asset backed securities, including residential mortgage backed securities and related collateralized debt obligations. Structured finance securities suffered the greatest valuation losses among fixed income asset classes, starting with residential mortgage backed securities with sub prime collateral in late 2007, followed by commercial mortgage backed securities in late 2008. The current environment is such that liquidity is very limited in all fixed income and alternative asset classes. AIGs investment goal in its insurance investment portfolios is to purchase assets with acceptable credit quality that will generate over time an acceptable spread over AIGs insurance related liabilities. The process by which AIG assesses acceptable credit quality is further described below under Credit Risk Management. Because accounting implications have not been a factor in determining AIGs investment decisions, AIG has historically not set limits on its exposure to volatility of reported financial results from fluctuations in market credit spreads. The environment for securities pricing in 2008, resulting from widening of credit spreads of unprecedented proportions in many asset classes, has caused material and adverse effects on AIGs results of operations, financial condition and cash flow. The unanticipated price declines and associated reduction of liquidity exceeded the parameters historically used by AIG for purposes of its asset liability and liquidity management processes. AIG is responding to these developments by enhancing its risk management processes and de risking certain exposures, based upon enhanced scenario related stress testing. AIGs de risking strategies have resulted in the following: reduction of certain foreign exchange exposures at the local entity level by selling or hedging investments denominated in non local currencies; reduction of certain foreign exchange exposures at the AIG level by hedging non U.S. dollar exposures; and 172 AIG 2008 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries reduction of regulatory capital charges and volatility of earnings by selling certain equity and alternative investments, including common stock, mutual funds and real estate investments. However, the continuation of such market turmoil and associated price declines and limited liquidity have severely constrained AIGs ability to utilize techniques for mitigating its exposure to credit, market and liquidity risks. AIG has been reassessing its risk management control environment and its enterprise risk management functions, both in its individual businesses as well as at the corporate level, in light of AIGs current situation. AIG continues to invest in risk management systems and processes where those investments are consistent with AIGs current liquidity, capital and disposition plans. The major risks to which AIG is exposed include the following: Credit risk the potential loss arising from an obligors inability or unwillingness to meet its obligations to AIG. Market risk the potential loss arising from adverse fluctuations in interest rates, foreign currencies, equity and commodity prices, and their levels of volatility. Market risk includes credit spread risk, the potential loss arising from adverse fluctuations in credit spreads of securities or counterparties. Operational risk the potential loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people, and systems, or from external events. Liquidity risk the potential inability to meet all payment obligations when they become due. General insurance risk the potential loss resulting from inadequate premiums, insufficient reserves and catastrophic exposures. Life insurance risk the potential loss resulting from experience deviating from expectations for mortality, morbidity and termination rates in the insurance oriented products and insufficient cash flows to cover contract liabilities in the retirement savings products. AIG is also exposed to reputational risk, which is defined as the risk of direct loss or loss in future business because of damage to AIGs reputation. Damage to the companys reputation can arise from a large number of issues, including potential conflicts of interest; legal and regulatory requirements; ethical issues; and sales and trading practices. In addition, reputational risk can be both the cause of or result from the major risks outlined above. The primary responsibility for risk management lies with the business executives within AIGs segments. The business executives are responsible for establishing and maintaining risk management processes in their areas of activity under the risk management framework established by AIG senior management, and responding to their specific business needs and issues, including risk concentrations within their respective businesses. The primary focus of corporate risk management is to provide oversight of these processes in the businesses and to assess the risk of AIG incurring economic losses from concentrations of risk in the risk categories outlined above. Corporate Risk Governance AIGs major risks are addressed at the corporate level through Enterprise Risk Management (ERM), which is headed by AIGs Chief Risk Officer (CRO). ERM reports to the Chief Executive Officer and is responsible for assisting AIGs business leaders, executive management and Board of Directors to identify, assess, quantify, manage and mitigate the risks incurred by AIG. An important goal of ERM is to ensure that, after appropriate governance, authorities, procedures and policies have been established, aggregated risks do not result in inappropriate concentrations. Senior management defines the policies and has established general operating parameters for its global businesses and various oversight committees to monitor the risks attendant to its businesses. These committees include the Credit Risk Committee (CRC), Liquidity Risk Committee (LRC), Catastrophic Emerging Risks Committee (CERC), Complex Structured Finance Transaction Committee (CSFTC) and Global and Regional Pricing Committees. AIG 2008 Form 10 K 173 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries The CRC is responsible for the following: approving credit risk policies and procedures for use throughout AIG; delegating credit authority to business unit credit officers and select business unit managers; approving transaction requests and limits for corporate, sovereign, structured finance and cross border credit exposures that exceed delegated authorities; establishing and maintaining AIGs risk rating process for corporate, financial and sovereign obligors; conducting regular reviews of credit risk exposures in the portfolios of all credit incurring business units; and reviewing all credit concentration risks. The LRC is responsible for liquidity policy and implementation at AIG Parent and exercises oversight and control of liquidity policies at each AIG entity. See Capital Resources and Liquidity herein. The CERC was formed in June 2008 to enhance and consolidate AIGs existing processes to analyze, discuss, quantify and report to senior management the risks to AIG of potential catastrophic events that have been insured by AIGs various divisions. The committee meets regularly and discusses potential events and emerging risks that may materialize in the future. The committees membership includes senior underwriting, actuarial, and risk management professionals. A CSFT is any AIG transaction or product that may involve a heightened legal, regulatory, accounting or reputational risk that is developed, marketed or proposed by AIG or a third party The CSFTC has the authority and responsibility to review and approve any proposed CSFT. The CSFTC provides guidance to and monitors the activities of transaction review committees (TRCs) which have been established in all major business units. TRCs have the responsibility to identify, review and refer CSFTs to the CSFTC. AIG developed and implemented a Global Pricing Committee in the first quarter of 2008 to address the requirements of FAS 157. The Global Pricing Committee provides oversight of AIGs pricing valuation practices and processes and has delegated operational responsibility to five Regional Pricing Committees to implement and monitor these practices within the underlying businesses of each respective region. Credit Risk Management AIG devotes considerable resources to managing its direct and indirect credit exposures, such as those arising from fixed income investments, deposits, corporate and consumer loans, leases, reinsurance recoverables, counterparty risk in derivatives activities, cessions of insurance risk to reinsurers and customers, credit risk assumed through credit derivatives written, financial guarantees and letters of credit. Credit risk is defined as the risk that AIGs customers or counterparties are unable or unwilling to repay their contractual obligations when they become due. Credit risk may also be manifested: (i) through the downgrading of credit ratings of counterparties whose credit instruments AIG may be holding, or, in some cases, insuring, causing the value of the assets to decline or insured risks to rise; and (ii) as cross border risk where a country (sovereign government risk) or one or more non sovereign obligors within a country are unable to repay an obligation or are unable to provide foreign exchange to service a credit or equity exposure incurred by another AIG business unit located outside that country. AIGs credit risks are managed at the corporate level by the Credit Risk Management department (CRM) whose primary role is to support and supplement the work of the businesses and the CRC. CRM is headed by AIGs Chief Credit Officer (CCO), who reports to AIGs CRO. AIGs CCO is primarily responsible for the development and maintenance of credit risk policies and procedures approved by the CRC. In discharging this function CRM has the following responsibilities: approve delegated credit authorities to CRM credit executives and business unit credit officers; manage the approval process for all requests for credit limits, program limits and transactions above delegated authorities; 174 AIG 2008 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries aggregate globally all credit exposure data by counterparty, country and industry and report risk concentrations regularly to and review with the CRC and the Finance Committee of the Board of Directors; administer regular portfolio credit reviews of all investment, derivative and credit incurring business units and recommend any corrective actions where required; develop methodologies for quantification and assessment of credit risks, including the establishment and maintenance of AIGs internal risk rating process; and approve appropriate credit reserves and methodologies at the business unit and enterprise levels. The CRC also approves concentration limits on U.S. and international business unit consumer loan portfolios, including the mortgage insurance activities of UGC. In addition, the CRC is also responsible for establishing concentration limits on AIG Investments exposures in U.S. and international residential and commercial mortgage backed securities and collateralized debt obligations. AIG monitors and controls its company wide credit risk concentrations and attempts to avoid unwanted or excessive risk accumulations, whether funded or unfunded. To minimize the level of credit risk in certain circumstances, AIG may require third party guarantees, reinsurance or collateral, such as letters of credit and trust account deposits. These guarantees, letters of credit and reinsurance recoverables are also treated as credit exposure and are added to AIGs risk concentration exposure data. AIG defines its aggregate credit exposures to a counterparty as the sum of its fixed maturities, loans, finance leases, reinsurance recoverables, derivatives (mark to market), deposits and letters of credit (both in the case of financial institutions) and the specified credit equivalent exposure to certain insurance products which embody credit risk. The following table presents AIGs largest credit exposures as a percentage of total shareholders equity: At December 31, 2008 Credit Exposure as a Percentage of Total Category Risk Rating(a) Shareholders Equity Investment Grade: 10 largest combined A+ (weighted average )(b) 173.8 % Single largest non sovereign (financial institution) A 19.2 Single largest corporate AA 9.4 Single largest sovereign AAA 35.6 Non Investment Grade: Single largest sovereign BB 3.3 Single largest non sovereign BB 1.4 (a) Risk rating is based on the lower of AIGs internal risk ratings or the external ratings of the major rating agencies. (b) Five of the ten largest credit exposures are to financial institutions and four are to investment grade rated sovereigns; none is rated lower than BBB or its equivalent. AIG monitors its aggregate cross border exposures by country and regional group of countries. AIG defines its cross border exposure to include both cross border credit exposures and its cross border investments in its own international subsidiaries. Ten countries had cross border exposures in excess of 20 percent of total shareholders equity at December 31, 2008. At that date, seven were AAA rated two were AA rated and one was A rated. In addition, AIG reviews and manages its industry concentrations. AIGs single largest industry credit exposure is to the global financial institutions sector, comprised of banks, securities firms, life and non life insurance companies, reinsurance companies, finance companies and government sponsored entities. AIG 2008 Form 10 K 175 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries The following table presents AIGs largest credit exposures to the global financial institution sector as a percentage of total consolidated shareholders equity: Credit Exposure as a Percentage of Consolidated At December 31, 2008 Shareholders Equity Industry Category: Money Center / Global Bank Groups 160.0 % Global Life Insurance Companies 30.8 European Regional Financial Institutions 28.2 Global Reinsurance Companies 21.2 Global Securities Companies 18.8 Asian Regional Financial Institutions 15.8 North American Based Regional Financial Institutions 15.7 Government Sponsored Entities 12.8 Non Life Insurance Companies 12.5 AIGs exposure to its five largest money center/global bank group institutions was 65.6 percent of shareholders equity at December 31, 2008. AIGs exposure to global financial institutions includes $6.6 billion of preferred stock and Tier 1 securities, $1.4 billion of upper Tier 2 securities and $7.5 billion of lower Tier 2 securities. These securities can be subject to a higher risk of dividend or interest deferral and principal non payment or non redemption because they provide various levels of capital support to these institutions, and may be subject to regulatory and contractual restrictions. These securities are held by various AIG subsidiaries and are diversified by obligor and country. In addition, AIGs financial institution exposures include other subordinated securities totaling $20.0 billion. AIGs other industry credit concentrations in excess of 20 percent of total consolidated shareholders equity are in the following industries (in descending order by approximate size): oil and gas companies; electric and water utilities; and global telecommunications companies. Some of AIGs exposures are insured (wrapped) by financial guarantor insurance companies, also known as monoline insurers, which at December 31, 2008, provided AIG over $36 billion (carrying value) in financial support. The monoline insurers, many of which now have non investment grade credit ratings, provide support predominantly in the United States. AIG does not rely on the monoline insurance as its principal source of repayment when evaluating securities for purchase. All investment securities are evaluated primarily based on the underlying cash flow generation capacities of the issuer or cash flow characteristics of the security. The CRC reviews quarterly concentration reports in all categories listed above as well as credit trends by risk ratings. The CRC may adjust limits to provide reasonable assurance that AIG does not incur excessive levels of credit risk and that AIGs credit risk profile is properly calibrated across business units. Market Risk Management AIG is exposed to market risks, primarily within its insurance and capital markets businesses (see Overview Outlook Financial Services on Capital Markets regarding its market risk issues and management as transactions in that business are wound down). For AIGs insurance operations, the asset liability exposures are predominantly structural in nature, and not the result of speculative positioning to take advantage of short term market opportunities. For example, the business model of life insurance and retirement savings is to collect premiums or deposits from policyholders and invest the proceeds in predominantly long term, credit based assets. A spread is earned over time between the asset yield and the funding cost payable to policyholders. The asset and liability profiles are managed so that the cash flows resulting from invested assets are sufficient to meet policyholder obligations when 176 AIG 2008 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries they become due without the need to sell assets prematurely into a potentially distressed market. In periods of severe market volatility, as currently being experienced, depressed and illiquid market values on otherwise performing investments diminish shareholders equity even without the realization of actual credit event related losses. Such diminution of capital strength is causing downward pressure on the markets assessment of the financial strength and the credit ratings of insurers. The Market Risk Management function (MRM), which reports to the CRO, is responsible for control and oversight of market risks in all aspects of AIGs financial services, insurance, and investment activities. AIGs market exposures can be categorized as follows: Benchmark interest rates. Benchmark interest rates are also known as risk free interest rates and are associated with either the government / treasury yield curve or the swap curve. The fair value of AIGs significant fixed maturity securities portfolio changes as benchmark interest rates change. Credit spread or risk premium. Credit spread risk is the potential for loss due to a change in an instruments risk premium or yield relative to that of a comparable duration, default free instrument. Equity and alternative investment prices. AIGs exposure to equity and alternative investment prices arises from direct investments in common stocks and mutual funds, from minimum benefit guarantees embedded in the structure of certain variable annuity and variable life insurance products and from other equity like investments, such as partnerships comprised of hedge funds and private equity funds, private equity investments, commercial real estate and real estate funds. Foreign currency exchange rates. AIG is a globally diversified enterprise with significant income, assets and liabilities denominated in and significant capital deployed in a variety of currencies. AIG uses a number of measures and approaches to measure and quantify its market risk exposure, including: Duration / key rate duration. Duration is the measure of the sensitivities of a fixed income instrument to the parallel shift in the benchmark yield curve. Key rate duration measures sensitivities to the movement at a given term point on the yield curve. Scenario analysis. Scenario analysis uses historical, hypothetical, or forward looking macro economic scenarios to assess and report exposures. Examples of hypothetical scenarios include a 100 basis point parallel shift in the yield curve or a 10 percent immediate and simultaneous decrease in world wide equity markets. Value at Risk (VaR). VaR is a summary statistical measure that uses the estimated volatility and correlation of market factors to calculate the maximum loss that could occur over a defined period of time with a specified level of statistical confidence. VaR measures not only the size of individual exposures but also the interaction between different market exposures, thereby providing a portfolio approach to measuring market risk. A key shortcoming of the VaR approach is its reliance on historical data, making VaR calculations essentially backward looking. This shortcoming was most evident during the current credit crisis. Stress testing. Stress testing is a special form of scenario analysis whereby the scenarios used are designed to lead to a material adverse outcome (for example, the stock market crash of October 1987 or the widening of yields or spread of RMBS or CMBS during 2008). Stress testing is often used to address VaR shortcomings and complement VaR calculations. Particularly in times of significant volatility in financial markets, using stress scenarios provides more pertinent and forward looking information on market risk exposure than VaR results based upon historical data alone. The magnitudes of volatilities of financial markets and degree of correlation among different markets, risks and asset classes in 2008 were unprecedented and rendered the VaR measure that is based on historical data analysis a much less reliable and indicative risk measure. As a result, AIG believes that the historical data based VaR measure does not effectively convey the market risks to which AIG is subject. Therefore, as an alternative, AIG has used sensitivities under specific scenarios to convey the magnitude of its exposures to various key market risk factors, such as yield curve, equity markets and alternative assets, and foreign currency exchange rates. For Insurance, Asset Management, and Financial Services (excluding Capital Markets), these sensitivities and scenarios are shown in the table below. AIG 2008 Form 10 K 177 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries Insurance, Asset Management and Financial Services (excluding Capital Markets) Sensitivities The following table provides estimates of AIGs sensitivity to a yield curve upward shift, equity losses and foreign currency exchange rate losses at December 31, 2008: Exposure Sensitivity Factor Effect (dollars in millions) Yield Curve $ 500,000 100 bps parallel upward shift in all yield curves $ 23,500 Equity and Alternative Investments $ 47,000 15% drop in stock prices and value of alternative investments $ 7,050 Foreign Currency Exchange Rates $ 17,000 10% depreciation of all foreign currency exchange rates against the U.S. dollar $ 1,700 Exposures for yield curves include assets that are directly sensitive to yield curve movements, such as fixed maturity securities, loans, finance receivables and short term investments (excluding consolidated separate account assets per SOP 03 1). Exposures for equity and alternative investment prices include investments in common stocks, preferred stocks, mutual funds, hedge funds, private equity funds, commercial real estate and real estate funds (excluding consolidated separate account assets per SOP 03 1 and consolidated managed partnerships and funds). Exposures to foreign currency exchange rates reflect AIGs consolidated non U.S. dollar net capital investments on a GAAP basis. The above sensitivities of a 100 bps upward shift in yield curves, a 15 percent drop in equities and alternative assets, and a 10 percent depreciation of all foreign currency exchange rates against the U.S. dollar were chosen solely for illustrative purposes. The selection of these specific events should not be construed as a prediction, but only as a demonstration of the potential effects of such events. These scenarios should not be construed as the only risks AIG faces; these events are shown as an indication of several possible losses AIG could experience. In addition, losses from these and other risks could be materially higher than illustrated. The sensitivity factors presented above were selected based on historical data from 1987 to 2007, as follows (see the table below): a 100 basis point parallel shift in the yield curve is consistent with a one standard deviation movement of the benchmark ten year treasury yield; a 15 percent drop for equity and alternative investments is consistent with a one standard deviation movement in the SP 500; and a 10 percent depreciation of foreign currency exchange rates is consistent with a one standard deviation movement in the USD/JPY exchange rate. Standard Suggested Scenario as a 2008 Change/ 2008 as a Period Deviation Scenario Multiple of SD Return Multiple of SD 10 Year Treasury (bps) 1987 2007 98.1 % 100.0 % 1.0 (185.0 )% 1.9 SP 500 1987 2007 16.1 % 15.0 % 0.9 (38.5 )% 2.4 USD/JPY 1987 2007 10.0 % 10.0 % 1.0 23.3 % 2.3 Total non trading market risk based on AIGs previously reported VaR measure resulted in total non trading market risk of $10.4 billion at December 31, 2008 compared to $5.6 billion at December 31, 2007. The increase in VaR primarily results from much higher volatilities in financial markets and by a significant decrease in benchmark interest rates globally. Operational Risk Management AIGs Operational Risk Management department (ORM) oversees AIGs operational risk management practices. The Director of ORM reports to the CRO. ORM is responsible for establishing the framework, principles and guidelines of AIGs operational risk management program. AIG has implemented an operational risk management framework and a risk and control self assessment (RCSA) process. 178 AIG 2008 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries Each business unit is responsible for implementing the components of the operational risk management program to ensure that effective operational risk management practices are utilized throughout AIG. Business units are currently in the process of enhancing their governance frameworks in order to perform more robust risk assessments. In addition, business units involved in the disposition process will be engaged in the assessment of the specific operational risks attendant to a separation from AIG. Insurance Risk Management Reinsurance AIG uses reinsurance programs for its insurance risks as follows: Facultative agreements to cover large individual exposures; Quota share treaties to cover specific books of business; Excess of loss treaties to cover large losses; Excess or surplus automatic treaties to cover individual life risks in excess of stated per life retention limits; and Catastrophe treaties to cover specific catastrophes, including earthquake, windstorm and flood. AIG monitors its exposures to natural catastrophes and takes corrective actions to limit its exposure with respect to particular geographic areas, companies, or perils. During the fourth quarter of 2008, Lexington reduced its exposure to natural catastrophes by approximately $900 million through facultative reinsurance placements. AIGs Reinsurance Security Department (RSD) conducts periodic detailed assessments of the financial status and condition of current and potential reinsurers, both foreign and domestic. The RSD monitors both the nature of the risks ceded to the reinsurers and the aggregation of total reinsurance recoverables ceded to reinsurers. Such assessments may include, but are not limited to, identifying if a reinsurer is appropriately licensed and has sufficient financial capacity and evaluating the local economic environment in which a foreign reinsurer operates. The RSD reviews the nature of the risks ceded to reinsurers and the need for credit risk mitigants. For example, in AIGs treaty reinsurance contracts, AIG frequently includes provisions that require a reinsurer to post collateral when a referenced event occurs. Furthermore, AIG limits its unsecured exposure to reinsurers through the use of credit triggers which include but are not limited to, insurer financial strength rating downgrades, declines in statutory surplus below pre determined levels, decreases in NAIC risk based capital (RBC) below certain levels, or setting maximum limits for reinsurance recoverables. In addition, AIGs CRC reviews all reinsurer exposures and credit limits and approves most large reinsurer credit limits above pre set limits that represent actual or potential credit concentrations. AIG believes that no exposure to a single reinsurer represents an inappropriate concentration of risk to AIG, nor is AIGs business substantially dependent upon any single reinsurance contract. AIG enters into intercompany reinsurance transactions for its General Insurance and Life Insurance Retirement Services operations. AIG enters into these transactions as a sound and prudent business practice in order to maintain underwriting control and spread insurance risk among AIGs various legal entities and to leverage economies of scale with external reinsurers. When required for statutory recognition, AIG obtains letters of credit from third party financial institutions to collateralize these intercompany transactions. At December 31, 2008, approximately $5.4 billion of letters of credit were outstanding to cover intercompany reinsurance transactions among subsidiaries. Although reinsurance arrangements do not relieve AIG subsidiaries from their direct obligations to insureds, an efficient and effective reinsurance program substantially mitigates AIGs exposure to potentially significant losses. AIG continually evaluates the reinsurance markets and the relative attractiveness of various arrangements for coverage, including structures such as catastrophe bonds, insurance risk securitizations, sidecars and similar vehicles. AIG purchased U.S. property catastrophe coverage of approximately $1.35 billion and $1.1 billion in 2009 and 2008, respectively, in excess of a per occurrence deductible of $1.5 billion. In addition, AIG purchased over $640 million in workers compensation catastrophe reinsurance that was not purchased in 2008. For Life Insurance Retirement Services, AIGs 2008 catastrophe program covers losses of $250 million in excess of AIG 2008 Form 10 K 179 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries $200 million for Japan and Taiwan only. No assurance can be given that AIG will be able to obtain this level of coverage in 2009. Reinsurance Recoverable General reinsurance recoverable assets are comprised of: Balances due from reinsurers for indemnity losses and loss expenses billed to, but not yet collected from, reinsurers (Paid Losses Recoverable); Ultimate ceded reserves for indemnity losses and expenses, including reserves for claims reported but not yet paid and estimates for IBNR (collectively, Ceded Loss Reserves); and Ceded Reserves for Unearned Premiums. At December 31, 2008, reinsurance assets of $21.9 billion include Paid Losses Recoverable of $1.3 billion and Ceded Loss Reserves of $16.8 billion, and $4.2 billion of Ceded Reserves for Unearned Premiums. The methods used to estimate IBNR and to establish the resulting ultimate losses involve projecting the frequency and severity of losses over multiple years and are continually reviewed and updated by management. Any adjustments are reflected in income currently. It is AIGs belief that the ceded reserves for losses and loss expenses at December 31, 2008 reflect the ultimate losses recoverable. Actual losses may differ from the reserves currently ceded. AIG manages the credit risk in its reinsurance relationships by transacting with reinsurers that it considers financially sound, and when necessary AIG requires reinsurers to post substantial collateral in the form of funds, securities and or irrevocable letters of credit. This collateral can be drawn on for amounts that remain unpaid beyond specified time periods on an individual reinsurer basis. At December 31, 2008, approximately 55 percent of the reinsurance assets were from unauthorized reinsurers. The terms authorized and unauthorized pertain to regulatory categories, not creditworthiness. More than 52 percent of these balances were collateralized, permitting statutory recognition. Additionally, with the approval of insurance regulators, AIG posted approximately $1.6 billion of letters of credit issued by commercial banks and $2.9 billion of trust in favor of certain General Insurance companies to permit those companies statutory recognition of balances otherwise uncollateralized at December 31, 2008. The remaining 45 percent of the reinsurance assets were from authorized reinsurers. At December 31, 2008, approximately 84 percent of the balances with respect to authorized reinsurers are from reinsurers rated A (excellent) or better, as rated by A.M. Best, or A (strong) or better, as rated by SP. These ratings are measures of financial strength. The following table provides information for each reinsurer representing in excess of five percent of AIGs total reinsurance assets: A.M. Gross Percent of Uncollateralized SP Best Reinsurance Reinsurance Collateral Reinsurance At December 31, 2008 Rating(a) Rating(a) Assets Assets, Net Held(b) Assets (In millions) Reinsurer: Swiss Reinsurance Group of Companies A+ A+ $ 1,665 7.3 % $ 380 $ 1,285 Berkshire Hathaway Group of Companies AAA A++ $ 1,341 5.8 % $ 131 $ 1,210 Munich Reinsurance Group of Companies AA A+ $ 1,274 5.6 % $ 539 $ 735 Lloyds Syndicates Lloyds of London(c) A+ A $ 1,051 4.6 % $ 128 $ 923 (a) The financial strength ratings reflect the ratings of the various reinsurance subsidiaries of the companies listed as of February 18, 2009. (b) Excludes collateral held in excess of applicable treaty balances. (c) Excludes Equitas gross reinsurance assets that are unrated, which are less than five percent of AIGs general reinsurance assets. 180 AIG 2008 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries AIG maintains an allowance for estimated unrecoverable reinsurance of $425 million. At December 31, 2008, AIG had no significant reinsurance recoverables due from any individual reinsurer that was financially troubled (i.e., liquidated, insolvent, in receivership or otherwise subject to formal or informal regulatory restriction). In the current environment of weaker economic conditions and strained financial markets, certain reinsurers are reporting losses and could be subject to rating downgrades. AIGs reinsurance recoverable exposures are primarily to the regulated subsidiaries of such companies which are subject to minimum regulatory capital requirements. The RSD, in conjunction with CRM, is reviewing these developments, is monitoring compliance with credit triggers that may require the reinsurer to post collateral, and, as appropriate, will seek to use other means to mitigate any material risks arising from these developments. Segment Risk Management Other than as described above, AIG manages its business risk oversight activities through its business segments. Insurance Operations AIGs multiple insurance businesses conducted on a global basis expose AIG to a wide variety of risks with different time horizons. These risks are managed throughout the organization, both centrally and locally, through a number of procedures, including: pre launch approval of product design, development and distribution; underwriting approval processes and authorities; exposure limits with ongoing monitoring; modeling and reporting of aggregations and limit concentrations at multiple levels (policy, line of business, product group, country, individual/group, correlation and catastrophic risk events); compliance with financial reporting and capital and solvency targets; extensive use of reinsurance, both internal and third party; and review and establishment of reserves. AIG closely manages insurance risk by overseeing and controlling the nature and geographic location of the risks in each line of business underwritten, the terms and conditions of the underwriting and the premiums charged for taking on the risk. Concentrations of risk are analyzed using various modeling techniques and include, but are not limited to, wind, flood, earthquake, terrorism and accident. AIG has two major categories of insurance risks as follows: General Insurance risks covered include property, casualty, fidelity/surety, management liability and mortgage insurance. Risks in the general insurance segment are managed through aggregations and limitations of concentrations at multiple levels: policy, line of business, correlation and catastrophic risk events. Life Insurance Retirement Services risks include mortality and morbidity in the insurance oriented products and insufficient cash flows to cover contract liabilities in the retirement savings oriented products. Risks are managed through product design, sound medical underwriting, external traditional reinsurance programs and external catastrophe reinsurance programs. AIG is a major purchaser of reinsurance for its insurance operations. The use of reinsurance facilitates insurance risk management (retention, volatility, concentrations) and capital planning locally (branch and subsidiary). AIG may purchase reinsurance on a pooling basis. Pooling of AIGs reinsurance risks enables AIG to purchase reinsurance more efficiently at a consolidated level, manage global counterparty risk and relationships and manage global catastrophe risks, both for the General Insurance and Life Insurance Retirement Services businesses. AIG 2008 Form 10 K 181 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries General Insurance In General Insurance, underwriting risks are managed through the application approval process, exposure limitations as well as through exclusions, coverage limits and reinsurance. The risks covered by AIG are managed through limits on delegated underwriting authority, the use of sound underwriting practices, pricing procedures and the use of actuarial analysis as part of the determination of overall adequacy of provisions for insurance contract liabilities. A primary goal of AIG in managing its General Insurance operations is to achieve an underwriting profit. To achieve this goal, AIG must be disciplined in its risk selection, and premiums must be adequate and terms and conditions appropriate to cover the risk accepted. Catastrophe Exposures The nature of AIGs business exposes it to various catastrophic events in which multiple losses across multiple lines of business can occur in any calendar year. In order to control this exposure, AIG uses a combination of techniques, including setting aggregate limits in key business units, monitoring and modeling accumulated exposures, and purchasing catastrophe reinsurance to supplement its other reinsurance protections. Natural disasters, such as hurricanes, earthquakes and other catastrophes have the potential to adversely affect AIGs operating results. Other risks, such as an outbreak of a pandemic disease, such as the Avian Influenza A Virus (H5N1), could adversely affect AIGs business and operating results to an extent that may be only partially offset by reinsurance programs. AIG evaluates catastrophic events and assesses the probability of occurrence and magnitude of catastrophic events through the use of industry recognized models, among other techniques. AIG updates these models by periodically monitoring the exposure risks of AIGs worldwide General Insurance operations and adjusting such models accordingly. Following is an overview of modeled losses associated with the more significant natural perils, which includes exposures for Commercial Insurance Group, Personal Lines, Foreign General, HSB and 21st Century Insurance (21st Century). Transatlantic utilizes a different model, and its results are presented separately below. Significant Life and accident and health (AH) exposures have been added to these results as well. The modeled results assume that all reinsurers fulfill their obligations to AIG in accordance with their terms. It is important to recognize that there is no standard methodology to project the possible losses from total property and workers compensation exposures. Further, there are no industry standard assumptions to be utilized in projecting these losses. The use of different methodologies and assumptions could materially change the projected losses. Therefore, these modeled losses may not be comparable to estimates made by other companies. These estimates are inherently uncertain and may not reflect AIGs maximum exposures to these events. It is highly likely that AIGs losses will vary, perhaps significantly, from these estimates. The modeled results provided in the table below were based on the aggregate exceedence probability (AEP) losses, which represent total property, workers compensation, life, and AH losses that may occur in any single year from one or more natural events. The Life and AH data include exposures for United States, Japan and Taiwan earthquakes. These represent the largest share of Life and AH exposures to earthquakes. AH losses were modeled using April 2008 data, and Life losses were modeled using May 2008 data for Japan and Taiwan and February 2007 data for the United States. The property exposures for AIGs largest property exposures, Lexington commercial lines and Private Client Group, were modeled with data as of September 2008, and June 2008 data was used for most other divisions. All reinsurance program structures, including both domestic and international structures, reflect the reinsurance programs in place as of January 31, 2009. The values provided were based on 100 year return period losses, which have a one percent likelihood of being exceeded in any single year. Thus, the model projects that there is a one percent probability that AIG could incur in any year losses in excess of the 182 AIG 2008 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries modeled amounts for these perils. Losses include loss adjustment expenses and the net values include reinstatement premiums. Net of 2009 Net After % of Consolidated At December 31, 2008 Gross Reinsurance Income Tax Shareholders Equity (In millions) Natural Peril: Earthquake $ 7,905 $ 4,480 $ 2,912 5.5 % Tropical Cyclone* $ 7,598 $ 4,518 $ 2,937 5.6 % * Includes hurricanes, typhoons and European Windstorms. Gross earthquake and tropical cyclone modeled losses increased $2.3 billion and $1.8 billion, respectively, compared to 2007 while net losses increased $1.1 billion and $1.1 billion, respectively, compared to 2007. These increases are primarily due to exposure growth and the inclusion of Ascot. In addition to the return period loss, AIG evaluates potential single event earthquake and hurricane losses that may be incurred. The single events utilized are a subset of potential events identified and utilized by Lloyds (see Lloyds Realistic Disaster Scenarios, Scenario Specifications, April 2006) and referred to as Realistic Disaster Scenarios (RDSs). The purpose of this analysis is to utilize these RDSs to provide a reference frame and place into context the model results. However, it is important to note that the specific events used for this analysis do not necessarily represent the worst case loss that AIG could incur from this type of an event in these regions. The losses associated with the RDSs are included in the following table. Single event modeled property and workers compensation losses to AIGs worldwide portfolio of risk for key geographic areas are set forth below. Gross values represent AIGs liability after the application of policy limits and deductibles, and net values represent losses after reinsurance is applied; the net losses also include reinsurance reinstatement premiums. Both gross and net losses include loss adjustment expenses. Net of 2009 Gross Reinsurance (In millions) Natural Peril: San Francisco Earthquake $ 8,617 $ 4,966 Miami Hurricane $ 7,912 $ 4,362 Northeast Hurricane $ 6,128 $ 3,857 Los Angeles Earthquake $ 7,646 $ 4,491 Gulf Coast Hurricane $ 5,410 $ 3,065 Japanese Earthquake $ 747 $ 397 European Windstorm $ 418 $ 152 Japanese Typhoon $ 253 $ 119 AIG also monitors key international property risks utilizing modeled statistical return period losses. Based on these simulations, the 100 year return period loss for Japanese Earthquake is $335 million gross and $180 million net; the 100 year return period loss for European Windstorm is $577 million gross and $186 million net; and the 100 year return period loss for Japanese Typhoon is $504 million gross and $172 million net. The losses provided above do not include Transatlantic. The one in 100 year AEP amounts for AIGs share (59 percent) of Transatlantic are as follows: At December 31, 2008 Net of 2009 Net After Gross Reinsurance Income Tax (In millions) Natural Peril: AIGs Share of Transatlantic Earthquake $ 452 $ 406 $ 264 AIGs Share of Transatlantic Tropical Cyclone $ 618 $ 577 $ 375 AIG 2008 Form 10 K 183 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries ACTUAL RESULTS IN ANY PERIOD ARE LIKELY TO VARY, PERHAPS MATERIALLY, FROM THE MODELED SCENARIOS, AND THE OCCURRENCE OF ONE OR MORE SEVERE EVENTS COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON AIGS FINANCIAL CONDITION, RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND LIQUIDITY. Terrorism Exposure to loss from terrorist attack is controlled by limiting the aggregate accumulation of workers compensation and property insurance that is underwritten within defined target locations. Modeling is used to provide projections of probable maximum loss by target location based upon the actual exposures of AIG policyholders. Terrorism risk is monitored to manage AIGs exposure. AIG shares its exposures to terrorism risks under the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act (TRIA). During 2008, AIGs deductible under TRIA was approximately $4.2 billion, with a 15 percent share of certified terrorism losses in excess of the deductible. As of January 1, 2009, the deductible decreased to approximately $3.8 billion, with a 15 percent share of certified terrorism losses in excess of the deductible. Life Insurance Retirement Services In Life Insurance Retirement Services, the primary risks are the following: Pricing risk, which represents the potential exposure to loss resulting from actual policy experience emerging adversely in comparison to the assumptions made in product pricing associated with mortality, morbidity, termination and expenses; and Investment risk, which represents the exposure to loss resulting from the cash flows from the invested assets being less than cash flows required to meet the obligations of the expected policy and contract liabilities and the necessary return on investments. AIG businesses manage these risks through product design, exposure limitations and the active management of the asset liability relationship in their operations. The emergence of significant adverse experience would require an adjustment to DAC and benefit reserves that could have a material adverse effect on AIGs consolidated results of operations for a particular period. For a further discussion of this risk, see Item 1A. Risk Factors Adjustments to Life Insurance Retirement Services Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs. AIGs Foreign Life Insurance Retirement Services companies generally limit their maximum underwriting exposure on life insurance of a single life to approximately $5 million of coverage in certain circumstances. AIGs Domestic Life Insurance and Domestic Retirement Services companies limit their maximum underwriting exposure on life insurance of a single life to $15 million of coverage in certain circumstances by using yearly renewable term reinsurance. In Life Insurance Retirement Services, the reinsurance programs provide risk mitigation per life for individual and group covers and for catastrophic risk events. Pandemic Influenza The potential for a pandemic influenza outbreak has received much attention. While outbreaks of the Avian Flu continue to occur among poultry or wild birds in a number of countries in Asia, Europe, including the U.K., and Africa, transmission to humans has been rare to date. If the virus mutates to a form that can be transmitted from human to human, it has the potential to spread rapidly worldwide. If such an outbreak were to take place, early quarantine and vaccination could be critical to containment. The contagion and mortality rates of any mutated H5N1 virus that can be transmitted from human to human are highly speculative. AIG continues to monitor the developing facts. A significant global outbreak could have a material adverse effect on Life Insurance Retirement Services operating results and liquidity from increased mortality and morbidity rates. Utilizing a scenario based approach, AIG has analyzed its insurance risk associated with this peril. For a severe event, considered to be a recurrence of the 1918 Pandemic Flu, the analysis indicates AIG could incur a pre tax loss of approximately $6.2 billion if this event were to recur. For a mild event, considered to be a recurrence of the 1968 184 AIG 2008 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries Pandemic Flu, the analysis indicates AIG could incur a pre tax loss of approximately $0.6 billion if this event were to recur. The analyses were based on 2007 policy data representing approximately 95 percent of AIGs individual life, group life and credit life books of business, net of reinsurance at that point in time. This estimate does not include claims that could be made under other policies, such as business interruption or general liability policies, and does not reflect estimates for losses resulting from disruption of AIGs own business operations or asset losses that may arise out of such a pandemic. The model used to generate these estimates has been developed only recently. The reasonableness of the model and its underlying assumptions cannot readily be verified by reference to comparable historical events. As a result, AIGs actual losses from a pandemic influenza outbreak are likely to vary significantly from those predicted by the model. Financial Services AIGs Financial Services subsidiaries engage in diversified activities including aircraft leasing, capital markets, consumer finance and insurance premium finance. Together, the Aircraft Leasing, Capital Markets and Consumer Finance operations generate the majority of the revenues produced by the Financial Services operations. A.I. Credit also contributes to Financial Services income principally by providing insurance premium financing for both AIGs policyholders and those of other insurers. Capital Markets Capital Markets represents the operations of AIGFP, which engaged as principal in a wide variety of financial transactions, including standard and customized financial products involving commodities, credit, currencies, energy, equities and interest rates. AIGFP also invested in a diversified portfolio of securities and principal investments and engaged in borrowing activities that involve issuing standard and structured notes and other securities and entering into GIAs. Given the extreme market conditions experienced in 2008, downgrades of AIGs credit ratings by the rating agencies, as well as because of AIGs intent to refocus on its core businesses, AIGFP has begun to unwind its businesses and portfolios. The senior management of AIG defines the policies and establishes general operating parameters for Capital Markets operations. AIGs senior management has established various oversight committees to monitor on an ongoing basis the various financial market, operational and credit risk attendant to the Capital Markets operations. The senior management of AIGFP reports the results of its operations to and reviews future strategies with AIGs senior management. AIGFP actively manages its exposures to limit potential economic losses, and in doing so, AIGFP must continually manage a variety of exposures including credit, market, liquidity, operational and legal risks. Derivative Transactions A counterparty may default on any obligation to AIG, including a derivative contract. Credit risk is a consequence of extending credit and or carrying trading and investment positions. Credit risk exists for a derivative contract when that contract has a positive fair value to AIG. The maximum potential exposure will increase or decrease during the life of the derivative commitments as a function of maturity and market conditions. To help manage this risk, AIGFPs credit department operates within the guidelines set by the CRC. Transactions which fall outside these pre established guidelines require the specific approval of the CRC. It is also AIGs policy to establish reserves for potential credit impairment when necessary. In addition, AIGFP utilizes various credit enhancements, including letters of credit, guarantees, collateral, credit triggers, credit derivatives and margin agreements to reduce the credit risk relating to its outstanding financial derivative transactions. AIGFP requires credit enhancements in connection with specific transactions based on, among other things, the creditworthiness of the counterparties, and the transactions size and maturity. Furthermore, AIGFP generally seeks to enter into agreements that have the benefit of set off and close out netting provisions. These provisions provide that, in the case of an early termination of a transaction, AIGFP can set off its receivables from a counterparty against its payables to the same counterparty arising out of all covered transactions. As a result, where a legally enforceable netting agreement exists, the fair value of the transaction with the counterparty represents the net sum of estimated fair values. The fair value of AIGFPs interest rate, currency, commodity and equity swaps, options, swaptions, and forward commitments, futures, and forward contracts approximated AIG 2008 Form 10 K 185 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries $16.0 billion at December 31, 2008 and $17.1 billion at December 31, 2007. Where applicable, these amounts have been determined in accordance with the respective master netting agreements. AIGFP evaluates the counterparty credit quality by reference to ratings from rating agencies or, where such ratings are not available, by internal analysis consistent with the risk rating policies of the CRC. In addition, AIGFPs credit approval process involves pre set counterparty and country credit exposure limits subject to approval by the CRC and, for particularly credit intensive transactions, requires approval from the CRC. AIG estimates that the average credit rating of Capital Markets derivatives counterparties, measured by reference to the fair value of its derivative portfolio as a whole, is equivalent to the AA rating category. The fair value of Capital Markets derivatives portfolios by counterparty credit rating was as follows: At December 31, 2008 2007 (In millions) Rating: AAA $ 3,278 $ 5,069 AA 4,963 5,166 A 5,815 4,796 BBB 1,694 1,801 Below investment grade 251 302 Total $ 16,001 $ 17,134 See Critical Accounting Estimates and Note 10 for additional discussion related to derivative transactions. Capital Markets Trading VaR AIGFP attempts to minimize risk in benchmark interest rates, equities, commodities and foreign exchange. Market exposures in option implied volatilities, correlations and basis risks are also minimized over time. AIGFPs minimal reliance on market risk driven revenue is reflected in its VaR. AIGFPs VaR calculation is based on the interest rate, equity, commodity and foreign exchange risk arising from its portfolio. Credit related factors, such as credit spreads or credit default, are not included in AIGFPs VaR calculation. Because the market risk with respect to securities available for sale, at market, is substantially hedged, segregation of the financial instruments into trading and other than trading was not considered necessary. AIGFP operates under established market risk limits based upon this VaR calculation. In addition, AIGFP back tests its VaR. In the calculation of VaR for AIGFP, AIG uses the historical simulation methodology based on estimated changes to the value of all transactions under explicit changes in market rates and prices within a specific historical time period. AIGFP attempts to secure reliable and independent current market prices, such as published exchange prices, external subscription services, such as Bloomberg or Reuters, or third party or broker quotes. When such prices are not available, AIGFP uses an internal methodology that includes extrapolation from observable and verifiable prices nearest to the dates of the transactions. Historically, actual results have not deviated from these models in any material respect. AIGFP reports its VaR level using a 95 percent confidence level and a one day holding period, facilitating risk comparison with AIGFPs trading peers and reflecting the fact that market risks can be actively assumed and offset in AIGFPs trading portfolio. 186 AIG 2008 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries The following table presents the year end, average, high, and low VaRs on a diversified basis and of each component of market risk for Capital Markets operations. The diversified VaR is usually smaller than the sum of its components due to correlation effects. For the Year Ended For the Year Ended As of December 31, 2008 As of December 31, 2007 December 31, 2008 Average High Low December 31, 2007 Average High Low (In millions) Total AIG trading market risk: Diversified $ 3 $ 5 $ 9 $ 3 $ 5 $ 5 $ 8 $ 4 Interest rate 2 2 4 1 3 2 3 2 Currency 2 1 4 1 1 2 1 Equity 2 2 4 2 3 3 5 2 Commodity 1 4 7 1 3 3 7 2 See Valuation of Level 3 Assets and Liabilities for a comprehensive discussion of AIGFPs super senior credit default swap portfolio. Aircraft Leasing AIGs Aircraft Leasing operations represent the operations of ILFC, which generates its revenues primarily from leasing new and used commercial jet aircraft to foreign and domestic airlines. Revenues also result from the re marketing of commercial jet aircraft for ILFCs own account and re marketing and fleet management services for airlines and financial institutions. Risks inherent in this business, which are managed at the business unit level, include the following: the risk that there will be no market for the aircraft acquired; the risk that aircraft cannot be placed with lessees; the risk of non performance by lessees; and the risk that aircraft and related assets cannot be disposed of at the time and in a manner desired. The airline industry is sensitive to changes in economic conditions and is cyclical and highly competitive. Airlines and related companies may be affected by political or economic instability, terrorist activities, changes in national policy, competitive pressures on certain air carriers, fuel prices and shortages, labor stoppages, insurance costs, recessions, world health issues and other political or economic events adversely affecting world or regional trading markets. ILFCs revenues and operating income may be adversely affected by the volatile competitive environment in which its customers operate. ILFC is exposed to operating loss and liquidity strain through non performance of aircraft lessees, through owning aircraft which it is unable to sell or re lease at acceptable rates at lease expiration, and, in part, through committing to purchase aircraft which it is unable to lease. To date ILFC manages the risk of nonperformance by its lessees with security deposit requirements, repossession rights, overhaul requirements and close monitoring of industry conditions through its marketing force. More than 90 percent of ILFCs fleet is leased to non U.S. carriers, and the fleet, comprised of the most efficient aircraft in the airline industry, continues to be in high demand from such carriers. Management formally reviews regularly, and no less frequently than quarterly, issues affecting ILFCs fleet, including events and circumstances that may cause impairment of aircraft values. Management evaluates aircraft in the fleet as necessary based on these events and circumstances in accordance with FAS 144. ILFC has not recognized any impairment related to its fleet in 2008, 2007 or 2006. ILFC has been able to re lease the aircraft without diminution in lease rates that would result in an impairment under FAS 144. AIG 2008 Form 10 K 187 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries Consumer Finance AIGs Consumer Finance operations in North America are principally conducted through AGF. AGF derives most of its revenues from finance charges assessed on real estate loans, secured and unsecured non real estate loans and retail sales finance receivables. In the second quarter of 2008, AGF ceased its wholesale origination activities (originations through mortgage brokers). AIGs foreign consumer finance operations are principally conducted through AIGCFG. AIGCFG operates primarily in emerging and developing markets. AIGCFG has operations in Argentina, China, Brazil, Hong Kong, Mexico, the Philippines, Poland, Taiwan, Thailand, India and Colombia. AIGCFG is currently considering the sale of all or a portion of its operations. Many of AGFs borrowers are non prime or subprime. The real estate loans are comprised principally of first lien mortgages on residential real estate generally having a maximum term of 360 months, and are considered non conforming. The real estate loans are principally closed end accounts and fixed rate products. AGF does not offer mortgage products with borrower payment options that allow for negative amortization of the principal balance. The majority of AGFs non real estate loans are secured by consumer goods, automobiles or other personal property. Both secured and unsecured non real estate loans and retail sales finance receivables generally have a maximum term of 60 months. Current economic conditions, such as interest rate and employment levels, can have a direct effect on the borrowers ability to repay these loans. AGF manages the credit risk inherent in its portfolio by using credit scoring models at the time of credit applications, established underwriting criteria and review procedures. AGF systematically monitors the quality of the finance receivables portfolio and determines the appropriate level of the allowance for losses through its Credit Strategy and Policy Committee. This Committee bases its conclusions on quantitative analyses, qualitative factors, current economic conditions and trends, and each Committee members experience in the consumer finance industry. The overall credit quality of AGFs finance receivable portfolio deteriorated during 2008 due to negative economic fundamentals and the aging of the real estate loan portfolio. Based upon anticipated difficult economic conditions for the U.S. consumer, AGF expects credit quality to remain under pressure in the remainder of 2009. At December 31, 2008, the 60 day delinquency rate for the entire portfolio increased by 215 basis points to 4.99 percent compared to December 31, 2007, while the 60 day delinquency rate for real estate loans increased by 247 basis points to 5.11 percent. For 2008, AGFs net charge off rate increased to 2.08 percent compared to 1.16 percent in 2007. AGFs allowance for finance receivable losses as a percentage of outstanding receivables was 4.61 percent at December 31, 2008 compared to 2.36 percent at December 31, 2007. AIGCFG monitors the quality of its finance receivable portfolio and determines the appropriate level of the allowance for losses through several internal committees. These committees base their conclusions on quantitative analysis, qualitative factors, current economic conditions and trends, political and regulatory implications, competition and the judgment of the committees members. AIGs Consumer Finance operations are exposed to credit risk and risk of loss resulting from adverse fluctuations in interest rates and payment defaults. Credit loss exposure is managed through a combination of underwriting controls, mix of finance receivables, collateral and collection efficiency. Large product programs and exposures to certain high risk products are subject to CRC approval. Over half of the finance receivables are real estate loans which are collateralized by the related properties. With respect to credit losses, the allowance for losses is maintained at a level considered adequate to absorb anticipated credit losses existing in that portfolio as of the balance sheet date. Asset Management AIGs Asset Management operations are exposed to various forms of credit, market and operational risks. Asset Management complies with AIGs corporate risk management guidelines and framework and is subject to 188 AIG 2008 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries periodic reviews by the CRC. In addition, transactions are referred to the Asset Management investment committees for approval of investment decisions. The majority of the credit and market risk exposures within Asset Management results from the Spread Based Investment business and the investment activities of AIG Global Real Estate and to a lesser extent, assets originally acquired for warehouse purposes. In the Spread Based Investment business, the primary risk is investment risk, which represents the exposure to loss resulting from the cash flows from the invested assets being less than the cash flows required to meet the obligations of the liabilities and the necessary return on investments. Credit risk is also a significant component of the investment strategy for these businesses. Market risk is taken in the form of duration and convexity risk. While AIG generally maintains a matched asset liability relationship, it may occasionally determine that it is economically advantageous to be in an unmatched duration position. The risks in the Spread Based Investment business are managed through exposure limitations, active management of the investment portfolios and close oversight of the asset liability relationship. AIG Global Real Estate is exposed to the general conditions in global real estate markets and the credit markets. Such exposure can subject Asset Management to delays in real estate property development and sales, additional carrying costs and in turn affect operating results within the segment. Also negatively affecting current market conditions is the lack of available funding for development, repositioning and refinancing. These risks are mitigated through the underwriting process, transaction and contract terms and conditions and portfolio diversification by type of project, sponsor, real estate market and country. AIGs exposure to real estate investments is monitored on an ongoing basis by the Asset Management Real Estate Investment Committee. Asset Management is also exposed to market and liquidity risk with respect to the warehoused investing activities of AIG Investments. During the warehousing period, AIG bears the cost and risks associated with carrying these investments and may consolidate them on its balance sheet and records the operating results until the investments are transferred, sold or otherwise divested. Changes in market conditions may negatively affect the fair value of these warehoused investments. As a result of AIGs restructuring initiatives, AIG Investments intended launch of new products and funds for which these warehouse investments were targeted have been indefinitely postponed. Accordingly, AIG will retain all current warehouse investments with a net asset value of $1.1 billion at December 31, 2008 as permanent balance sheet investments until such time that they can be divested. Further, certain of these warehoused investments include unfunded investment commitments of $720 million at December 31, 2008 which are to be funded over the next three to five years. Recent Accounting Standards Accounting Changes In September 2006, the FASB issued FAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements. In February 2007, the FASB issued FAS No. 159, The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities. In April 2007, the FASB issued FSP FIN 39 1, which modifies FASB Interpretation (FIN) No. 39, Offsetting of Amounts Related to Certain Contracts. In October 2008, the FASB issued FSP FAS 157 3, Determining the Fair Value of a Financial Asset When the Market for That Asset Is Not Active. In December 2008, the FASB issued FSP FAS 140 4 and FIN 46(R) 8, Disclosures by Public Entities (Enterprises) about Transfers of Financial Assets and Interests in Variable Interest Entities. In January 2009, the FASB issued FSP EITF 99 20 1, Amendments to the Impairment Guidance of EITF Issue No. 99 20 (FSP EITF 99 20 1). Future Application of Accounting Standards In December 2007, the FASB issued FAS 141 (revised 2007), Business Combinations. AIG 2008 Form 10 K 189 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries In December 2007, the FASB issued FAS No. 160, Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements, an amendment of ARB No. 51. In February 2008, the FASB issued FSP No. FAS 140 3, Accounting for Transfers of Financial Assets and Repurchase Financing Transactions. In March 2008, the FASB issued FAS 161, Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities an amendment of FASB Statement No. 133. In May 2008, the FASB issued FAS 162, The Hierarchy of Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. In June 2008, the FASB ratified the consensus reached by the EITF on Issue No. 07 5, Determining Whether an Instrument (or Embedded Feature) is Indexed to an Entitys Own Stock. In September 2008, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position No. FAS 133 1 and FIN 45 4, Disclosures about Credit Derivatives and Certain Guarantees: An amendment of FASB Statement No. 133 and FASB Interpretation No. 45. In December 2008, the FASB issued FSP FAS 132(R) 1, Employers Disclosures about Postretirement Benefit Plan Assets. For further discussion of these recent accounting standards and their application to AIG, see Note 1(hh) to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Included in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 
 
