Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Throughout this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, AIG presents its operations in the way it believes will be most meaningful. Underwriting profit (loss) is utilized to report results for AIGs General Insurance operations and pre tax income (loss) before net realized capital gains (losses) is utilized to report result for AIGs life insurance and retirement services operations as these measures enhance the understanding of the underlying profitability of the ongoing operations of these businesses and allow for more meaningful comparisons with AIGs insurance competitors. AIG has also incorporated into this discussion a number of cross references to additional information included throughout this Annual Report on Form 10 K to assist readers seeking additional information related to a particular subject. Index Page Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward Looking Information 35 Executive Overview 36 Consideration of AIGs Ability to Continue as a Going Concern 43 Capital Resources and Liquidity 43 Liquidity 43 Results of Operations 62 Consolidated Results 63 Segment Results 72 General Insurance Operations 72 Liability for Unpaid Claims and Claims Adjustment Expense 79 Domestic Life Insurance & Retirement Services Operations 101 Foreign Life Insurance & Retirement Services Operations 107 Financial Services Operations 111 Other Operations 116 Critical Accounting Estimates 121 Investments 155 Investment Strategy 156 Other Than Temporary Impairments 167 Risk Management 172 Overview 172 Corporate Risk Governance 173 Credit Risk Management 174 Market Risk Management 177 Operational Risk Management 179 Insurance Risk Management 180 Segment Risk Management 182 Insurance Operations 182 Financial Services 186 Noncore Asset Management Operations 190 Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward Looking Information This Annual Report on Form 10 K and other publicly available documents may include, and AIGs officers and representatives may from time to time make, projections and statements which may constitute "forward looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These projections and statements are not historical facts but instead represent only AIGs belief regarding future events, many of which, by their nature, are inherently uncertain and outside AIGs control. These projections and statements may address, among other things: the outcome of the completed transactions with the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (FRBNY) and the United States Department of the Treasury (Department of the Treasury); 35 AIG 2009 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries the number, size, terms, cost, proceeds and timing of dispositions and their potential effect on AIGs businesses, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity (and AIG at any time and from time to time may change its plans with respect to the sale of one or more businesses); AIGs long term business mix which will depend on the outcome of AIGs asset disposition program; AIGs exposures to subprime mortgages, monoline insurers and the residential and commercial real estate markets; the separation of AIGs businesses from AIG parent company; AIGs ability to retain and motivate its employees; and AIGs strategy for customer retention, growth, product development, market position, financial results and reserves. It is possible that AIGs actual results and financial condition will differ, possibly materially, from the anticipated results and financial condition indicated in these projections and statements. Factors that could cause AIGs actual results to differ, possibly materially, from those in the specific projections and statements include: a failure to close transactions contemplated in AIGs restructuring plan; developments in global credit markets; and such other factors as discussed throughout this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and in Item 1A. Risk Factors of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. AIG is not under any obligation (and expressly disclaims any obligation) to update or alter any projection or other statement, whether written or oral, that may be made from time to time, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Executive Overview AIG reports the results of its operations through four reportable segments: General Insurance, Domestic Life Insurance & Retirement Services, Foreign Life Insurance & Retirement Services, and Financial Services. AIG evaluates performance based on pre tax income (loss), excluding results from discontinued operations and net gains (losses) on sales of divested businesses because AIG believes that this provides more meaningful information on how its operations are performing. General Insurance branded as Chartis in July 2009, is comprised of multiple line companies writing substantially all lines of property and casualty insurance and various personal lines both domestically and abroad. Domestic Life Insurance & Retirement Services branded as SunAmerica Financial Group in December 2009, AIGs Domestic Life Insurance businesses offer a broad range of protection products, including individual term and universal life insurance, and group life and health products. In addition, Domestic Life Insurance offers a variety of payout annuities, which include single premium immediate annuities, structured settlements and terminal funding annuities. Domestic Retirement Services businesses offer group retirement products and individual fixed and variable annuities. Certain previously acquired closed blocks and other fixed and variable annuity blocks that have been discontinued are reported as "runoff" annuities. Domestic Retirement Services also maintains a runoff block of Guaranteed Investment Contracts (GICs) that were written in (or issued to) the institutional market place prior to 2006. Foreign Life Insurance & Retirement Services provides insurance and investment oriented products such as whole and term life, investment linked, universal life and endowments, personal accident and health products, group products including pension, life and health, and fixed and variable annuities. Financial Services engages in diversified activities, including commercial aircraft and equipment leasing, capital markets operations, consumer finance and insurance premium financing, both in the United States and abroad. AIG 2009 Form 10 K 36  Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries With the announced sale of AIGs investment advisory and third party Institutional Asset Management business (excluding the Global Real Estate investment management business), AIG will no longer benefit from the management fee and carried interest cash flows from these businesses, but the sale will reduce operating costs related to AIGs asset management activities. Asset Management is no longer considered a reportable segment, and the results for the Institutional Asset Management businesses and the Matched Investment Program (MIP), which is in run off, are presented as a Noncore business in AIGs Other operations category. In addition, results for certain brokerage service, mutual fund, GIC and other asset management activities previously reported in the Asset Management segment are now included in the Domestic Life Insurance & Retirement Services segment. Results for prior periods have been revised accordingly. AIG has entered into several important transactions and relationships with the FRBNY, the AIG Credit Facility Trust (together with its trustees, acting in their capacity as trustees, the Trust) and the Department of the Treasury. As a result of these arrangements, AIG is controlled by the Trust, which was established for the sole benefit of the United States Treasury. Since September 2008, AIG has been working to protect and enhance the value of its key businesses, execute an orderly asset disposition plan, and position itself for the future. The discussion that follows should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying notes included elsewhere herein. Priorities for 2010 AIG is focused on the following priorities for 2010: continued stabilization and strengthening of AIGs businesses; realize additional progress in restructuring and asset disposition initiatives to enable repayment of amounts outstanding under the FRBNY Credit Facility provided by the FRBNY under the Credit Agreement, dated as of September 22, 2008 (as amended, the FRBNY Credit Agreement), between AIG and the FRBNY; execute plans to realize value from dispositions of interests in American International Assurance Company, Ltd. (AIA) and American Life Insurance Company (ALICO); further wind down of AIGs exposure to certain financial products and derivatives trading activities; and address funding needs of International Lease Finance Corporation (ILFC) and American General Finance, Inc. (AGF) and explore alternative restructuring opportunities. 2009 Financial Overview Global financial markets continued their recovery in the second half of 2009, as investors returned to equity and bond markets. This optimism, not yet accompanied by a robust economic recovery, produced a strong rally in bond, equity and commodity markets. Cash accumulated by investors in 2008 and early 2009 continued to flow out of short term money market accounts and into higher yielding assets, creating investment demand in excess of available new supply in many sectors. While securitized mortgage products participated to a degree in the rally, particularly in desirable tranches of well collateralized transactions, the commercial mortgage and equity real estate sectors continue to lag. The improved market environment noted above contributed to the substantial reduction in the loss from continuing operations before income taxes, which declined to $13.6 billion in 2009 compared to $106.5 billion in 2008. The following significant drivers also contributed to this improvement: the 2008 period included non credit impairments (i.e., severity losses) throughout the year that are no longer required for fixed maturity securities due to the adoption of the new other than temporary impairments accounting standard commencing in the second quarter of 2009. Additionally, other than temporary 37 AIG 2009 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries impairments declined from the 2008 period due to improved market conditions. See Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements; and Investments Other Than Temporary Impairments; unrealized market valuation gains of $1.4 billion in 2009 related to AIGFPs super senior credit default swap portfolio compared to unrealized market valuation losses of $28.6 billion in 2008 due to the substantial decline in outstanding net notional amount resulting from the termination of contracts in the fourth quarter of 2008 associated with the Maiden Lane III transaction (ML III) as well as the narrowing of corporate credit spreads. See Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements; and a $3.4 billion decline in goodwill impairment charges. Additionally, the net loss in 2009 decreased due to $25.4 billion of deferred tax expense recorded in 2008 associated with the potential sale of foreign businesses and valuation allowances. Fourth Quarter 2009 Net Loss AIG incurred a net loss attributable to AIG of $8.9 billion during the fourth quarter of 2009. This loss resulted primarily from the following: total FRBNY interest and amortization expense of $6.2 billion ($4.0 billion after tax), including accelerated amortization of $5.2 billion ($3.4 billion after tax) in connection with the $25 billion reduction in outstanding balance and maximum lending commitment under the FRBNY Credit Facility as a result of the issuance of preferred interests; a loss recognized on the pending sale of Nan Shan of $2.8 billion ($1.5 billion after tax), reported in discontinued operations; increases in Commercial Insurance loss reserves on certain long tail casualty classes of business totaling $2.3 billion ($1.5 billion net of tax); and a valuation allowance change of $2.7 billion for tax benefits not presently recognizable, including those shown above. For a complete discussion of financial results, see Consolidated Results and Segment Results. 2010 Business Outlook During 2009, AIG took steps to prepare AIA and ALICO for possible divestiture in initial public offerings or by third party sale, depending on market conditions and subject to customary regulatory approvals. In furtherance of that goal, the Hong Kong Stock Exchange was chosen as the listing venue for any initial public offering of AIA, and AIG has been in discussions with a third party regarding the potential sale of ALICO. The final determination on divestiture strategies for these companies remains subject to AIG Board approval and market conditions. A sale of ALICO, which is a component of the Japan & Other reporting unit, would require AIG to assess whether any of the $4.7 billion of goodwill associated with the reporting unit was impaired. See Critical Accounting Estimates Goodwill Impairment for a discussion of managements approach to testing goodwill for impairment. AIGs strategy going forward is to focus on its leading global general insurance business and its domestic and certain foreign life insurance and retirement services businesses, while at the same time addressing liquidity and risk issues within the Financial Services segment. AIG has completed several transactions with the FRBNY and continues to execute its plans for repaying the FRBNY Credit Facility. AIG has incurred, and may continue to incur, significant additional restructuring related charges, such as additional accelerated amortization expense related to the prepaid commitment asset and additional material write offs of deferred taxes, goodwill and other long lived assets. Continued difficult market conditions have caused a decline in the value of certain private equity and real estate assets held for investment purposes, resulting in impairment charges. The persistence of the troubled global economy driven by tight credit markets and high unemployment will likely continue to adversely affect pre tax income in future AIG 2009 Form 10 K 38 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries periods. Management continues to assess value declines and the permanence of such declines. These market conditions have also adversely affected the ability to pay or refinance maturing debt obligations in the private equity and real estate portfolios. On June 10, 2009, the Department of the Treasury issued regulations implementing the compensation limits of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009. These regulations restrict the amount of bonus and other incentive compensation that a company receiving TARP funds may pay to certain employees. For AIG these limits apply to the five executives named in AIGs proxy statement and the next twenty highest paid employees of AIG (the Top 25). The regulations also created the Office of Special Master for TARP Executive Compensation (Special Master), which is responsible for interpreting and applying the compensation regulations. AIG is required to obtain the Special Masters approval of the compensation of the Top 25, and the compensation structure of AIGs executive officers and AIGs next 26 to 100 most highly compensated employees and executive officers (the Top 100). The Special Master has issued Determination Memoranda covering the Top 25 and Top 100. These Determination Memoranda place significant new conditions on the compensation of these employees, and the conditions in the Determination Memoranda may impair AIGs ability to retain and motivate them. See Item 1A. Risk Factors Employees for a further discussion of this risk. General Insurance Given current insurance capital levels and the relatively benign 2009 catastrophe season, the overall expectation is that both property and casualty market pricing will continue to decline in 2010. While rate change has become more stable in recent quarters, Chartis does not expect this trend to continue in 2010. In addition, overall economic conditions have decreased the volume of ratable exposures (i.e., asset values, payrolls and sales), which has had a corresponding negative impact on overall market premium base. Given these factors, AIG expects organic modest gross and net premium growth in 2010, driven by growth in Foreign General Insurance. In 2010, Chartis expects to continue to execute capital management initiatives begun in 2009 by enhancing its Enterprise Risk Management function; developing broad based risk appetite guidelines for its operating units; and executing underwriting and reinsurance strategies to improve capital ratios, increase return on equity by line of business and reduce exposure to certain businesses where inadequate pricing and increased loss trends may exist. Chartis U.S. expects overall gross written premiums to remain consistent with 2009 levels. However, its business mix is expected to continue to change, reflecting capital management initiatives. Net written premiums may decline as Chartis U.S. modifies its reinsurance program to be consistent with its capital management initiatives. Gross written premiums for Chartis International are expected to grow more substantially in 2010, due in large part to its existing presence in emerging markets and its anticipated increased stake in The Fuji Fire & Marine Insurance Company Limited which would require consolidation of its operations into AIG. Domestic Life Insurance & Retirement Services AIG expects sales and deposits to gradually recover in 2010 2011 as market conditions improve, AIG ratings remain stable, negative AIG publicity subsides, rebranding efforts take hold and distribution is reinstated at additional financial institutions. Domestic Life Insurance & Retirement Services companies maintained higher liquidity in 2008 and 2009 which negatively affected net investment income results. As such cash balances are reinvested into longer term securities in 2010 2011, AIG expects investment yields to gradually improve. Foreign Life Insurance & Retirement Services AIG expects that sales of foreign life investment oriented products will continue to be lower than historic levels due to the lingering negative effects of AIG events on third party financial institution distribution networks, primarily in Japan and the U.K. and that sales of risk based insurance products will continue to improve, particularly in Asia. 39 AIG 2009 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries AIA and ALICO have experienced improved operating conditions and are expected to continue to improve as the rebranding initiatives and revitalization of their agency and direct marketing distribution networks continues. Financial Services Capital Markets AIGFP continued unwinding its businesses and portfolios during 2009, and these activities are expected to continue in 2010. During 2009, AIGFP reduced the notional amount of its derivative portfolio by 41 percent, from $1.6 trillion at December 31, 2008 to $940.7 billion at December 31, 2009. AIGFP reduced the number of its outstanding trade positions by approximately 18,900, from approximately 35,000 at December 31, 2008 to approximately 16,100 at December 31, 2009. In connection with these activities, AIGFP has disaggregated its portfolio of existing transactions into a number of separate "books" and has developed a plan for addressing each book, including assessing each books risks, risk mitigation options, monitoring metrics and certain implications of various potential outcomes. Each plan has been reviewed by a steering committee whose membership includes senior executives of AIG. The plans are subject to change as efforts progress and as conditions in the financial markets evolve, and they contemplate, depending on the book in question, alternative strategies, including sales, assignments or other transfers of positions, terminations of positions, and or run offs of positions in accordance with existing terms. Execution of these plans is overseen by a transaction approval process involving senior members of AIGFPs and AIGs respective management groups as specific actions entail greater liquidity and financial consequences. Successful execution of these plans is subject, to varying degrees depending on the transactions of a given book, to market conditions and, in many circumstances, counterparty negotiation and agreement. As a consequence of its wind down strategy, AIGFP is entering into new derivative transactions only to hedge its current portfolio, reduce risk and hedge the currency, interest rate and other market risks associated with its affiliated businesses. AIGFP has already reduced the size of certain portions of its portfolio, including effecting a substantial reduction in credit derivative transactions in respect of multi sector collateralized debt obligations (CDOs) in connection with ML III, a sale of its commodity index business, termination and sale of its activities as a foreign exchange prime broker, and sale and other disposition of its energy/infrastructure investment portfolio. Due to the long term duration of many of AIGFPs derivative contracts and to the complexity of AIGFPs portfolio, AIG expects that an orderly wind down will take a substantial period of time. The cost of executing the wind down will depend on many factors, many of which are not within AIGFPs control, including market conditions, AIGFPs access to markets via market counterparties, the availability of liquidity and the potential implications of further rating downgrades. In addition, the Determination Memorandum issued by the Special Master places significant new restrictions on the compensation of AIGFP employees included in the Top 25 and Top 100 and may impair AIGFPs ability to retain these employees and negatively impact the wind down of AIGFPs business. ILFC Given the current market conditions and ILFCs current limited access to unsecured debt markets, new aircraft purchases may be limited for the foreseeable future. In addition, these market conditions are creating downward pressures that are slowing the growth of ILFCs operating margins. ILFC is currently seeking secured financing and is exploring sales of aircraft portfolios to investors to meet its financial and operating obligations. These secured financings will increase ILFCs composite interest rate, which will put further downward pressure on its operating margins, and any aircraft sales would likely result in a loss, which, depending on the size and composition of the portfolio, could be significant. In addition, sales of large portfolios of aircraft will likely increase the average age of ILFCs fleet and impact future operating margins. If ILFCs sources of liquidity are not sufficient to meet its contractual obligations as they become due over the next twelve months, ILFC will seek additional funding from AIG, which funding would be subject to AIG receiving the consent of the FRBNY. AIG 2009 Form 10 K 40 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries AGF Since the events of September 2008, AGFs traditional borrowing sources, including its ability to issue unsecured debt in the capital markets, have remained unavailable, and AGF does not expect them to become available in the near future. AGFs liquidity concerns, dependency on AIG, results of its operations and the uncertainty regarding the availability of support from AIG have negatively impacted its credit ratings. In addition to finance receivable collections, AGF is exploring additional initiatives to meet its financial and operating obligations. These initiatives include additional on balance sheet securitizations, portfolio sales, and expense reductions. During 2009, AGF closed 200 branch offices, reduced retail sales financing operations, reduced its number of employees by approximately 1,400 through reductions in force and attrition, and sold $1.9 billion of finance receivables held for sale. In July 2009, AGF securitized $1.9 billion of real estate loans and received $967 million in cash proceeds. If AGFs sources of liquidity are not sufficient to meet its contractual obligations as they become due over the next twelve months, AGF will seek additional funding from AIG, which funding would be subject to AIG receiving the consent of the FRBNY. Significant Events in 2009 Consummation of the AIA and ALICO SPV Transactions On December 1, 2009, AIG and the FRBNY completed two transactions pursuant to which AIG transferred to the FRBNY noncontrolling, nonvoting, callable, preferred equity interests (Preferred Interests) in two newly formed special purpose vehicles (SPVs) in exchange for a $25 billion reduction of the balance outstanding and the maximum credit available under the FRBNY Credit Facility, which resulted in $5.2 billion of accelerated amortization of a portion of the prepaid commitment asset. Each SPV has (directly or indirectly) as its only asset 100 percent of the common stock of an operating subsidiary (AIA in one case and ALICO in the other). AIG owns all of the voting common equity interests of each SPV. AIGs purpose for entering into these agreements was to position AIA and ALICO for initial public offerings or third party sale, depending on market conditions and subject to customary regulatory approvals. An equally important objective of the transactions was to enhance AIGs capitalization consistent with rating agency requirements in order to complete its restructuring plan and repay the support it has received from the FRBNY and the Department of the Treasury. The Preferred Interests are redeemable at the option of AIG and are transferable at the FRBNYs discretion. In the event the board of managers of either SPV initiates a public offering, liquidation or winding up or a voluntary sale, the proceeds must be distributed to the Preferred Interests until the Preferred Interests redemption value has been paid. The redemption value of the Preferred Interests is the liquidation preference, which includes any undistributed preferred returns through the redemption date, and the amount of distributions that the Preferred Interests would receive in the event of a 100 percent distribution to all the common and Preferred Interest holders at the redemption date. The Preferred Interests entitle the FRBNY to veto rights over certain significant actions by the SPVs and provide the FRBNY with certain rights including the right to compel the SPVs to use their best efforts to take certain actions, including an initial public offering or a sale of the SPVs or the businesses held by the SPVs. After December 1, 2010, and prior thereto with the concurrence of the trustees of Trust, the FRBNY can compel the holders of the common interests to sell those interests should the FRBNY decide to sell its preferred interests. Following an initial public offering, the FRBNY will have the right to exchange its Preferred Interests for common shares of the publicly traded entity. The Preferred Interests in the AIA SPV have an initial liquidation preference of $16 billion and have the right to a preferred return of five percent per year compounded quarterly through September 22, 2013 and nine percent thereafter. If the preferred return is not distributed, the amount is added to the Preferred Interests liquidation preference. The AIA Preferred Interests participate in one percent of net income after the preferred return. The AIA Preferred Interests are also entitled to a one percent participation right of any residual value after (i) the AIA preferred return, (ii) the participation right of one percent of AIAs net income, (iii) the liquidation preference on all Preferred Interests has been paid and (iv) the holders of the common interests (currently AIG) have received, 41 AIG 2009 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries including any ordinary course distributions, the sum of (i) $9 billion and (ii) the amount of any additional capital contributions other than the initial capital contribution. AIG is entitled to receive 99 percent of the remaining residual value from the disposition of AIA by the SPV. The Preferred Interests in the ALICO SPV consist of senior and junior preferred interests with liquidation preferences of $1 billion and $8 billion, respectively. The junior and senior preferred interests have a preferred return of five percent per year compounded quarterly through September 22, 2013 and nine percent thereafter. If the preferred return is not distributed, the amount is added to the Preferred Interests liquidation preference. The junior preferred interests participate in five percent of any residual value after the liquidation preference and the preferred return for the then current quarter on the senior and junior preferred interests have been paid and the holders of the common interests (currently AIG) have received, including any ordinary course distributions, the sum of (i) $6 billion and (ii) the amount of any additional capital contributions other than the initial capital contribution. The senior preferred interests do not have a participating return. AIG is entitled to receive 95 percent of the remaining residual value from the disposition of ALICO by the SPV. See Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. Exchange of AIG Series D Preferred Stock for AIG Series E Preferred Stock On April 17, 2009, AIG entered into a Securities Exchange Agreement (the AIG Series E Exchange Agreement) with the Department of the Treasury pursuant to which, among other things, the Department of the Treasury exchanged 4,000,000 shares of AIGs Series D Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, par value $5.00 per share (AIG Series D Preferred Stock), for 400,000 shares of AIGs Series E Fixed Rate Non Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, par value $5.00 per share (AIG Series E Preferred Stock). See Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. Department of the Treasury Commitment On April 17, 2009, AIG entered into a Securities Purchase Agreement with the Department of the Treasury, pursuant to which (i) AIG issued to the Department of the Treasury (a) 300,000 shares of AIG Series F Preferred Stock, and (b) the warrant (AIG Series F Warrant) to purchase 150 shares of AIG common stock, par value $2.50 per share, and (ii) the Department of the Treasury agreed to provide up to $29.835 billion (the Department of the Treasury Commitment) in exchange for increases in the liquidation preference of the AIG Series F Preferred Stock. See Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. Modification of FRBNY Credit Facility On April 17, 2009, AIG and the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System entered into an Amendment No. 3 to the FRBNY Credit Agreement. The FRBNY Credit Agreement was amended, among other things, to remove the minimum 3.5 percent LIBOR borrowing rate floor, and permit the issuance by AIG of the AIG Series E Preferred Stock, the AIG Series F Preferred Stock and the AIG Series F Warrant to the Department of the Treasury. On December 1, 2009, AIG and the FRBNY entered into an Amendment No. 4 to the FRBNY Credit Agreement in order to, among other things: provide for the consummation of the AIA and ALICO transactions with the FRBNY; and reduce the outstanding balance of the FRBNY Credit Agreement and the maximum amount available to be borrowed thereunder by $25 billion. Issuance of AIG Series C Preferred Stock On March 4, 2009, AIG issued to the Trust 100,000 shares of AIGs Series C Perpetual, Convertible, Participating Preferred Stock, par value $5.00 per share (AIG Series C Preferred Stock), pursuant to the Series C Perpetual, Convertible, Participating Preferred Stock Purchase Agreement, dated as of March 1, 2009 (the AIG Series C Purchase Agreement), between the Trust and AIG, for an aggregate purchase price of $500,000, with an AIG 2009 Form 10 K 42 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries understanding that additional and independently sufficient consideration was also furnished to AIG by the FRBNY Credit Facility under the FRBNY Credit Agreement. See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on the transactions in the proceeding paragraphs and Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information on additional transactions completed in 2009. Life Insurance Securitizations The previously contemplated life insurance securitization transaction with the FRBNY is no longer being pursued by AIG. Consideration of AIGs Ability to Continue as a Going Concern In connection with the preparation of this Annual Report on Form 10 K, management has assessed whether AIG has the ability to continue as a going concern (See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). In making this assessment, AIG has considered: The commitment of the U.S. government to continue to work with AIG to maintain its ability to meet its obligations as they come due; AIGs liquidity related actions and plans to stabilize its businesses and repay the debt outstanding under the FRBNY Credit Facility; The level of AIGs realized and unrealized losses and the negative impact of these losses in shareholders equity and on the capital levels of AIGs insurance subsidiaries; The additional capital provided or committed through the Department of the Treasury Commitment; The completion on December 1, 2009 of the transactions contemplated by Purchase Agreement between AIG, AIRCO and the FRBNY dated June 25, 2009 (AIA Purchase Agreement) and the Purchase Agreement between AIG and the FRBNY dated June 25, 2009 (ALICO Purchase Agreement); The planned sales of significant subsidiaries; The continuing liquidity issues in certain of AIGs businesses and AIGs actions to address such issues; and The substantial risks to which AIG is subject. In considering these items, management made significant judgments and estimates with respect to the potentially adverse financial and liquidity effects of AIGs risks and uncertainties. Management also assessed other items and risks arising in AIGs businesses and made reasonable judgments and estimates with respect thereto. After consideration, management believes that it will have adequate liquidity to finance and operate AIGs businesses and continue as a going concern for at least the next twelve months. It is possible that the actual outcome of one or more of managements plans could be materially different or that one or more of managements significant judgments or estimates about the potential effects of the risks and uncertainties could prove to be materially incorrect. If one or more of these possible outcomes is realized, AIG may need additional U.S. government support to meet its obligations as they come due. If additional support is not available in such circumstances, there could be substantial doubt about AIGs ability to operate as a going concern. Capital Resources and Liquidity Liquidity FRBNY Credit Facility At February 17, 2010, AIG had outstanding net borrowings under the FRBNY Credit Facility of $21 billion, with a remaining available amount of $14 billion, and accrued compounding interest and fees of $5.5 billion. As a result of 43 AIG 2009 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries the AIA and ALICO transactions on December 1, 2009, there was a $25 billion reduction in the outstanding balance of the FRBNY Credit Facility and the maximum amount available to be borrowed thereunder. The net borrowings as of December 31, 2009 and February 17, 2010 were reduced by $1.6 billion of loans extended from AGF to AIG. AIG expects that these loans will be repaid to support AGFs liquidity as needed. Net borrowings under the FRBNY Credit Facility increased by approximately $3.1 billion from December 31, 2009 to February 17, 2010, with these proceeds primarily used to repay $3.5 billion of commercial paper outstanding under the FRBNY Commercial Paper Funding Facility (CPFF) for AIG Funding and Curzon Funding LLC. The following table summarizes net borrowings outstanding and remaining available amount that can be borrowed under the FRBNY Credit Facility: Inception Through December 31, 2009 December 31, 2008 Increase (Decrease) Net borrowings: Loans to AIGFP for collateral postings, GIA and other debt maturities $ 50,605 $ 46,997 $ 3,608 AIGFP repayments to AIG (8,903 ) (4,093 ) (4,810 ) Capital contributions and loans to insurance companies(a) 23,329 20,850 2,479 Repayment of obligations to securities lending program 3,160 3,160 Repayment of intercompany loans 1,528 1,528 Contributions to AIGCFG subsidiaries(b) 222 1,672 (1,450 ) Loans to ILFC 3,900 3,900 Debt payments 5,448 2,109 3,339 Issuance of preferred interests in AIA LLC and ALICO LLC (25,000 ) (25,000 ) Funding of equity interest in ML III 5,000 5,000 Repayment from the proceeds of the issuance of AIG Series D Preferred Stock and common stock warrant (40,000 ) (40,000 ) Other(c) (1,389 ) (423 ) (966 ) Net borrowings 17,900 36,800 (18,900 ) Total FRBNY Credit Facility 35,000 60,000 (25,000 ) Remaining available amount 17,100 23,200 (6,100 ) Net borrowings 17,900 36,800 (18,900 ) Accrued compounding interest and fees(d) 5,535 3,631 1,904 Total balance outstanding $ 23,435 $ 40,431 $ (16,996 ) (a)Includes securities lending activities. (b) Includes repayments and sales of subsidiaries. (c) Includes repayments with proceeds from the CPFF, tax refunds, loans from AGF to AIG discussed above and drawdowns under the Department of the Treasury Commitment, which had not yet been utilized. (d)Excludes interest payable of $2 million and $8 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, which was included in Other liabilities. Department of the Treasury Commitment The Department of the Treasury Commitment allows AIG to draw down funds in exchange for increases in the liquidation preference of the AIG Series F Preferred Stock. See Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. AIG 2009 Form 10 K 44 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries The following table summarizes drawdown activity and amount remaining available under the Department of the Treasury Commitment: (in millions) Inception Through December 31, 2009* Drawdowns: Capital contributions to insurance companies $ 1,389 Intercompany purchase of ILFC equity ownership 2,722 UGC related restructuring transactions 1,132 Temporary paydown of FRBNY Credit Facility 101 Total drawdowns 5,344 Original availability under commitment 29,835 Remaining available amount $ 24,491 *From January 1, 2010 through February 17, 2010, AIG had requested a draw down of an additional $2.2 billion under the Department of the Treasury Commitment principally to improve the risk based capital ratios of its General Insurance subsidiaries by redeeming securities of affiliates held by those subsidiaries. Additional details regarding liquidity sources are included in Liquidity of Parent and Subsidiaries below. AIGs Strategy for Stabilization and Repayment of its Obligations as They Come Due Future Cash Requirements AIG expects that the repayment of future debt maturities and the payment of the preferred returns and liquidation preference on the Preferred Interests will be its primary uses of available cash. The net proceeds from any sale, initial public offering or other monetization of AIA and ALICO will first be used to pay the Preferred Interests. The following table summarizes the maturing debt of AIG and its subsidiaries for the next four quarters: (in millions) First Quarter 2010 Second Quarter 2010 Third Quarter 2010 Fourth Quarter 2010 Total ILFC $ 738 $ 1,476 $ 2,052 $ 2,492 $ 6,758 AGF * 729 573 5,142 106 6,550 AIG Matched Investment Program 500 897 834 2,231 AIGFP 924 460 273 246 1,903 AIG 889 500 1,389 Other 36 25 516 24 601 Total $ 3,816 $ 2,534 $ 8,880 $ 4,202 $ 19,432 * American General Finance, Inc. On July 9, 2009, AGF converted the $2.45 billion of loans that it had previously drawn on its 364 Day Syndicated Facility into one year term loans. AIG has provided a capital support agreement for the benefit of the lenders of these termed out loans, which must be repaid by July 9, 2010. AIGs plans for meeting these maturing obligations are as follows: ILFCs sources of liquidity available to meet these needs include future cash flows from operations, aircraft sales, and potentially additional secured financing arrangements (see Liquidity of Parent and Subsidiaries below). If ILFC does not receive sufficient secured financing, AIG expects that ILFCs current borrowings and future cash flows from operations, including aircraft sales, may be inadequate to permit ILFC to meet its existing obligations. AIG is exploring restructuring opportunities for ILFC. AIG intends to provide support to ILFC through February 28, 2011 to the extent that secured financing, aircraft sales and other sources of funds are not sufficient to meet liquidity needs. AGF anticipates that its primary sources of liquidity will be customer receivable collections and additional on balance sheet securitizations and, to a lesser extent, portfolio sales (see Liquidity of Parent and 45 AIG 2009 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries Subsidiaries Financial Services AGF below). In addition, AIG is exploring restructuring opportunities for AGF. AIG intends to provide support to AGF through February 28, 2011, to the extent that asset sales, securitizations and or other transactions are not sufficient to meet AGFs liquidity needs. Debt maturities for the MIP are expected to be funded through cash flows generated from invested assets (principal and interest) as well as the sale or financing of the asset portfolios in the program. In addition, as a result of AIGs restructuring activities, AIG expects to utilize assets from its noncore businesses and subsidiaries to provide future cash flow enhancement and help the MIP meet its maturing debt obligations. Approximately $1.4 billion of AIGFPs debt maturities through December 31, 2010 are fully collateralized, with assets backing the corresponding liabilities, which AIGFP expects will reduce the net amount of cash required to repay the maturing debt. However, in addition to the cash requirements shown above for AIGFP, Curzon Funding LLC, an AIGFP asset backed commercial paper conduit and Nightingale Finance LLC, a structured investment vehicle sponsored, but not consolidated by AIGFP, had $1.2 billion and $1.1 billion, respectively, of commercial paper outstanding under the CPFF at February 17, 2010, all of which matures in April 2010. AIGFP intends to repay this commercial paper at maturity, which is expected to lead to an increase in borrowings under the FRBNY Credit Facility. AIG expects to meet its debt maturities primarily through the cash flows from, and the disposition of, assets supporting these obligations as well as through borrowings under the FRBNY Credit Facility. In addition, AIG also expects to collect dividends, distributions and other payments from certain subsidiaries to fund payments on its obligations. Additional liquidity is also available under the Department of the Treasury Commitment. In the future, AIG may need to provide additional capital support for its subsidiaries. AIG has developed certain plans (described below), some of which have already been implemented, to provide stability to its businesses and to provide for the timely repayment of the FRBNY Credit Facility. Asset Disposition Plan Since September 2008, AIG has been working to protect and enhance the value of its key businesses, execute an orderly asset disposition plan, and position itself for the future. AIG continually reassesses this plan to maximize value while maintaining flexibility in its liquidity and capital, and expects to accomplish these objectives over a longer time frame than originally contemplated. Sales of Businesses and Specific Asset Dispositions Dispositions of certain businesses will be subject to regulatory approval. Proceeds from dispositions, to the extent they do not represent capital of AIGs insurance subsidiaries required for regulatory or ratings purposes, are contractually required to be applied toward the repayment of the FRBNY Credit Facility as mandatory prepayments unless otherwise agreed with the FRBNY. During 2009 and through February 17, 2010, AIG entered into agreements to sell or completed the sale of operations and assets, excluding AIGFP assets, that had aggregate assets and liabilities with carrying values of $88.1 billion and $71.3 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2009 or the date of sale or, in the case of Transatlantic, deconsolidation. These transactions are expected to generate approximately $5.6 billion of aggregate net cash proceeds that will be available to repay outstanding borrowings and reduce the maximum lending commitment under the FRBNY Credit Facility, after taking into account taxes, transaction expenses, settlement of intercompany loan facilities, and capital required to be retained for regulatory or ratings purposes. Gains and losses recorded in connection with the dispositions of businesses include estimates that are subject to subsequent adjustment. Based on the transactions thus far, AIG does not believe that such adjustments will be material to future results of operations or cash flows. AIG 2009 Form 10 K 46  Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries These transactions included the following: On May 28, 2009, AIG completed the sale of its headquarters building in Tokyo for approximately $1.2 billion in cash. Due to AIGs continued involvement as a lessee, primarily in the form of a lease deposit, through 2011, the sale is accounted for as a financing arrangement with any gain deferred until the expiration of AIGs lease in early 2011. On June 10, 2009, AIG closed the previously announced secondary public offering of 29.9 million shares of Transatlantic common stock owned by AIG for aggregate proceeds of $1.1 billion. At the close of the public offering, AIG retained 13.9 percent of Transatlantics outstanding shares of common stock. As a result, AIG deconsolidated Transatlantic, which resulted in a $1.4 billion reduction in Noncontrolling interests, a component of Total equity. On July 1, 2009, AIG closed the sale of its U.S. auto insurance business, 21st Century Insurance Group (21st Century). This operation had total assets and liabilities with carrying values of $5.7 billion and $3.4 billion, respectively, at June 30, 2009. Aggregate proceeds from the sale of this business, including proceeds applied to repay intercompany loan facilities, were $1.9 billion. On July 28, 2009, AIG completed the sale of a majority of the U.S. life insurance premium finance business of AIG Credit Corp. and A.I. Credit Consumer Discount Company (A.I. Credit), with a carrying value of $941.3 million at that date, for $680 million in cash, including $230 million held in escrow, and an additional $61.2 million if certain future conditions are met. On July 28, 2009, AIG entered into an agreement to combine its consumer finance business in Poland, conducted through AIG Bank Polska S.A., into the Polish consumer finance business of Santander Consumer Finance S.A (SCB). In exchange, AIG will receive equity interest in SCB. At closing, all of the AIG intercompany debt facilities related to these entities will be repaid, and AIG will not be responsible for the future funding of the combined consumer finance businesses. The closing is expected to occur in the first quarter of 2010. This transaction met the criteria for held for sale accounting in 2009. On September 5, 2009, AIG entered into an agreement to sell its investment advisory and third party institutional asset management business for total consideration consisting of a cash payment determined at closing based on the net assets of the business being sold plus contingent consideration. This transaction met the criteria for held for sale accounting. On October 12, 2009, AIG entered into an agreement to sell its 97.57 percent share of Nan Shan Life Insurance Company, Ltd. (Nan Shan) for approximately $2.15 billion. As a result, Nan Shan qualified as a discontinued operation and met the criteria for held for sale accounting in 2009. AIG recognized a $1.5 billion after tax loss on the transaction. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. AGF Portfolio Sales and Securitization Transaction During 2009, AGF received proceeds of $1.9 billion from real estate loan portfolio sales. In addition, on July 30, 2009, AGF issued mortgage backed certificates in a private securitization transaction of certain AGF real estate loans and received cash proceeds of $967 million. AIA and ALICO Transactions with the FRBNY On December 1, 2009, AIG and the FRBNY completed two transactions pursuant to which AIG transferred to the FRBNY preferred equity interests in newly formed SPVs in settlement of a portion of the outstanding balance of the FRBNY Credit Facility. Each SPV has (directly or indirectly) as its only asset 100 percent of the common stock of an AIG operating subsidiary (AIA in one case and ALICO in the other). AIG owns the common interests of each SPV. In exchange for the preferred equity interests received by the FRBNY, there was a $25 billion reduction in the outstanding balance and maximum lending commitment under the FRBNY Credit Facility. See Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. 47 AIG 2009 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries AIGFP Wind down AIGFP is engaged in a multi step process of unwinding its businesses and portfolios. In connection with that process, certain assets were sold. The proceeds from these sales have been used to fund AIGFPs wind down and are not included in the amounts described above under Sales of Businesses and Specific Asset Dispositions. The FRBNY waived the requirement under the FRBNY Credit Agreement that the proceeds of these specific sales be applied as a mandatory prepayment under the FRBNY Credit Facility, which would have resulted in a permanent reduction of the FRBNYs commitment to lend to AIG. Instead, the FRBNY has given AIGFP permission to retain the proceeds of these completed sales, and has required that such proceeds received from certain future sales be used to voluntarily prepay the FRBNY Credit Facility, with the amounts prepaid available for future reborrowing subject to the terms of the FRBNY Credit Facility. AIGFP is also opportunistically terminating contracts. AIGFP is entering into new derivative transactions only to hedge its current portfolio, reduce risk and hedge the currency, interest rate and other market risks associated with AIGs affiliated businesses. Due to the long term duration of AIGFPs derivative contracts and the complexity of AIGFPs portfolio, AIG expects that an orderly wind down of AIGFP will take a substantial period of time. The cost of executing the wind down will depend on many factors, many of which are not within AIGs control, including market conditions, AIGFPs access to markets via market counterparties, the availability of liquidity and the potential implications of further rating downgrades. On August 11, 2009, AIGFP completed sales of its energy and infrastructure investment assets, realizing aggregate net proceeds of $619 million and $1.3 billion in 2009 and 2008, respectively. Liquidity of Parent and Subsidiaries AIG (Parent) The following table presents AIG parents sources of liquidity: As of (In millions) December 31, 2009 February 17, 2010 Available borrowing under the FRBNY Credit Facility $ 17,100 $ 14,000 Cash and short term investments 528 287 Available capacity under the Department of the Treasury Commitment 24,491 22,292 * Total $ 42,119 $ 36,579 * Reflects AIGs February 2010 request to draw down $2.2 billion under the Department of the Treasury Commitment principally to improve the risk based capital ratios of its General Insurance subsidiaries by redeeming securities of affiliates held by those subsidiaries. AIG believes that it has sufficient liquidity at the parent level to meet its obligations through at least the next twelve months. However, no assurance can be given that AIGs cash needs will not exceed projected amounts. The inability of AGF or ILFC to raise sufficient liquidity to meet their obligations without support from AIG, additional collateral calls, deterioration in investment portfolios affecting statutory surplus, higher surrenders of annuities and other policies, further downgrades in AIGs credit ratings, catastrophic losses or reserve strengthening, or a further deterioration in the super senior credit default swap portfolio may result in significant additional cash needs, or loss of some sources of liquidity, or both. Regulatory and other legal restrictions could limit AIGs ability to transfer funds freely, either to or from its subsidiaries. (See Item 1A. Risk Factors above.) Since the fourth quarter of 2008, AIG has not accessed its traditional sources of long term or short term financing through the public debt markets. While no assurance can be given that AIG will be able to access these markets again, AIG has continued to periodically evaluate its ability to access the capital markets. Historically AIG depended on dividends, distributions, and other payments from subsidiaries to fund payments on its obligations. In light of AIGs current financial situation, certain of its regulated subsidiaries are restricted from making dividend payments, or advancing funds, to AIG. As a result, AIG has been dependent on the FRBNY and the Department of the Treasury as its primary sources of liquidity. Primary uses of cash flow are for debt service and subsidiary funding. In 2009, AIG parent collected $2.2 billion in dividends and other payments from subsidiaries (primarily from insurance company subsidiaries), and retired $1.4 billion of debt, excluding MIP and Series AIGFP debt. Excluding MIP and Series AIGFP debt, AIG parent made interest payments totaling $1.8 billion, and made AIG 2009 Form 10 K 48 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries $5.7 billion in net capital contributions to subsidiaries in 2009. In addition, during the second quarter of 2009, AIG parent drew down on the Department of the Treasury Commitment in order to make loans totaling $1.2 billion to wholly owned subsidiaries, which in turn were used principally to make capital contributions to insurance companies. AIG parent traditionally funded a portion of its short term working capital needs through commercial paper issued by AIG Funding. Since October 2008, all commercial paper issued for AIG Funding was through the CPFF program. AIG Funding was accepted into the CPFF with a total borrowing limit of $6.9 billion. AIG Funding had approximately $2 billion in commercial paper outstanding at December 31, 2009, which was repaid in January 2010. General Insurance In 2009, AIG made a capital contribution of $641 million to a Chartis U.S. subsidiary, all of which was returned as a dividend to AIG later in the year. AIG collected an additional $500 million in dividends from Chartis U.S. in the fourth quarter of 2009. AIG also made a capital contribution of $91 million in 2009 to a Chartis U.S. subsidiary in connection with the subsidiarys sale of a portion of its Transatlantic common stock. AIG currently expects that its Chartis subsidiaries will be able to continue to meet their obligations as they come due through cash from operations and, to the extent necessary, asset dispositions. One or more large catastrophes, however, may require AIG to provide additional support to the affected General Insurance operations. In addition, further downgrades in AIGs credit ratings could put pressure on the insurer financial strength ratings of these subsidiaries. A downgrade in the insurer financial strength ratings of an insurance company subsidiary could result in non renewals or cancellations by policyholders and adversely affect these companies ability to meet their own obligations and require that AIG provide capital or liquidity support to them. Increases in market interest rates may adversely affect the financial strength ratings of General Insurance subsidiaries as rating agency capital models may reduce the amount of available capital relative to required capital. At December 31, 2009, Chartis had liquidity in the form of cash and short term investments. These are consolidated cash and short term investments for a number of legal entities within Chartis. Generally, these assets are not transferable across various legal entities; however, there are generally sufficient cash and short term investments within those legal entities such that they can meet their individual liquidity needs. In the event additional liquidity is required, management believes it can provide such liquidity through sale of a portion of its substantial holdings in government and corporate bonds as well as equity securities. Government and corporate bonds represented 95.0 percent of General Insurance total fixed income investments at December 31, 2009. Given the size and liquidity profile of AIGs General Insurance investment portfolios, AIG believes that deviations from its projected claim experience do not constitute a significant liquidity risk. AIGs asset/liability management process takes into account the expected maturity of investments and the specific nature and risk profile of liabilities. Historically, there has been no significant variation between the expected maturities of AIGs General Insurance investments and the payment of claims. See Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Investments for further information. Domestic and Foreign Life Insurance & Retirement Services operations At December 31, 2009, Domestic and Foreign Life Insurance & Retirement Services subsidiaries had liquidity in the form of cash and short term investments, which management considers adequate to meet foreseeable liquidity needs. Domestic and Foreign Life Insurance & Retirement Services subsidiaries had been increasing their liquidity given recent market disruptions and AIG specific issues, which reduced investment income in 2009. During the second half of 2009, these subsidiaries began lengthening their maturity profile by purchasing investment grade fixed income securities. Generally, these assets are not transferable across various legal entities; however, there are generally sufficient cash and short term investments within those legal entities such that they can meet their individual liquidity needs. In the event additional liquidity is required, management believes it can provide such liquidity through sale of a portion of its substantial holdings in government and corporate bonds as well as equity securities. Government and corporate bonds represented 85.6 percent of Domestic and Foreign Life Insurance & Retirement Services total fixed income investments at December 31, 2009. Given the size and liquidity profile of AIGs Domestic and Foreign Life Insurance & Retirement Services investment portfolios, AIG believes that deviations from their projected claim experience do not constitute a significant liquidity risk. The Domestic and Foreign Life Insurance & Retirement Services subsidiaries have been able to meet liquidity needs, even during the period of higher surrenders 49 AIG 2009 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries which was experienced from mid September 2008 through the first quarter of 2009, and expect to be able to do so in the foreseeable future. A significant increase in policy surrenders and withdrawals, which could be triggered by a variety of factors, including AIG specific concerns, could result in a substantial liquidity strain. Other potential events causing a liquidity strain could include economic collapse of a nation or region significant to Domestic and Foreign Life Insurance & Retirement Services operations, nationalization, catastrophic terrorist acts, pandemics or other economic or political upheaval. See Investments Investment Strategy herein for further information. Domestic Life Insurance & Retirement Services During 2009, AIG contributed capital totaling $2.4 billion to certain of its Domestic Life Insurance & Retirement Services subsidiaries (of which $165 million was retained in the Domestic Life Insurance holding company and not contributed to the operating companies) to replace a portion of the capital lost as a result of net realized capital losses (primarily resulting from other than temporary impairment charges) and other investment related items. Of this amount, $1.2 billion was funded by drawdowns under the Department of the Treasury Commitment in May 2009. AIG believes that its Domestic Life Insurance & Retirement Services companies currently have adequate capital to support their business plans. Further capital contributions may be required to maintain desired levels of capital to the extent there are future declines in the investment portfolios of the Domestic Life Insurance & Retirement Services companies. The most significant potential liquidity needs of AIGs Domestic Life Insurance & Retirement Services companies are the funding of surrenders and withdrawals. A substantial increase in these needs could place stress on the liquidity of these companies. However, management believes that these companies have sufficient short term liquidity to meet such demands. Beginning in 2009, results for the GIC program are recorded in the Domestic Life Insurance & Retirement Services reportable segment and results for prior periods have been revised accordingly. The GIC program is in run off with no new GICs issued subsequent to 2005. The following table summarizes the anticipated run off of the domestic GIC portfolio: At December 31, 2009 (in billions) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Thereafter Total Domestic GICs $ $ 2.5 $ 2.5 $ 3.5 $ 8.5 These GIC liabilities are expected to be funded by investment income and maturities of assets supporting the Domestic Retirement Services companies liabilities. Foreign Life Insurance & Retirement Services During 2009, AIG provided funding of $624 million to Foreign Life Insurance & Retirement Services subsidiaries. AIG believes that its Foreign Life Insurance & Retirement Services companies currently have adequate capital to support their business plans. However, to the extent there are future declines in the investment portfolios of the Foreign Life Insurance & Retirement Services companies, AIG may need to lend or contribute additional capital to these companies. In connection with the AIA and ALICO SPV transactions, on December 1, 2009, AIG, the FRBNY and each SPV entered into limited liability company agreements, which set forth the terms and conditions of the respective parties ownership and governance rights in each SPV. Under the terms of these agreements, the AIA SPV and the ALICO SPV may only distribute funds to AIG (prior to the payment of the preferred returns and liquidation preferences on the preferred interests in each respective SPV and, in the case of the AIA SPV, a payment of 1 percent of the net income of the AIA SPV to the holders of the preferred interests in the AIA SPV for all fiscal years prior to payment of the preferred return and liquidation preference) in an aggregate amount not to exceed $200 million and $400 million, respectively, per fiscal year. Financial Services AIGs major Financial Services operating subsidiaries consist of ILFC, AIGFP, AGF and AIG Consumer Finance Group, Inc. (AIGCFG). Traditional sources of funds to meet the liquidity needs of these operations are generally no AIG 2009 Form 10 K 50 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries longer available. These sources included issuances of guaranteed investment agreements (GIAs), issuance of long and short term debt, issuance of commercial paper, bank loans and bank credit facilities. However, ILFC has been able to finance Airbus aircraft purchases under its 2004 Export Credit Agency (ECA) Facility, as further described below, and AIGCFG has been able to retain a significant portion of customer deposits, providing a measure of liquidity. ILFC During 2009, ILFC was unable to borrow in the public debt markets and, due to downgrades in its short term credit rating, lost access to the CPFF and therefore borrowed $3.9 billion from AIG Funding to repay its maturing debt and other contractual obligations. In addition, ILFC borrowed approximately $161 million through secured financing arrangements. ILFC is currently pursuing additional secured financings. ILFC had the capacity under its present facilities and indentures to enter into secured financing of approximately $4.7 billion (or more through subsidiaries that qualify as non restricted subsidiaries under ILFCs indentures, subject to the receipt of any required consents under the FRBNY Credit Facility and under its bank facilities and terms loans), which was reduced to approximately $800 million after entry into the Term Loans with AIG Funding as discussed below. ILFC is pursuing potential aircraft sales as one of several options to meet its financial and operating obligations. Proposed portfolios have been presented to potential buyers; some bids have been received and are being evaluated. In evaluating the bids, management is balancing the need for funds with the long term value of holding aircraft and other financing alternatives. Significant uncertainties currently exist about the possibility of a sale, including the aircraft comprising an actual sale portfolio, the sale price, and whether a sale agreement could be agreed upon with acceptable terms to the buyers and AIG and ILFC. Because the current market for aircraft is depressed due to the economic downturn and limited availability of buyer financing, it is likely that if a group of aircraft is sold to meet liquidity needs, a realized loss would be incurred. As the uncertainties related to the potential sale portfolios change, the likelihood of a sale changes, which directly impacts the nature, timing and amount of any impairment loss. Based on the facts and circumstances at December 31, 2009, ILFC performed an impairment analysis of the proposed portfolios and concluded that no impairments on any aircraft in the portfolios had occurred based on managements estimates of the probabilities of retaining or selling the aircraft. If circumstances change and the probability of a sale increases significantly, or a sale transaction is approved or executed, ILFC would most likely incur a loss at a future date. The amount of potential loss would be dependent upon the specific aircraft sold, the sale price, the sale date and any other sale contingencies. Based on the range of potential aircraft portfolio sales currently being explored, the potential for impairment or realized loss could be material to the results of operations for an individual reporting period. ILFC did not recognize an impairment loss related to any potential aircraft sale portfolios as of December 31, 2009, given the significant uncertainties described above as the probability of sale was not sufficiently likely to cause an impairment. If ILFC does not receive sufficient secured financing, AIG expects that ILFCs current borrowings and future cash flows from operations, including aircraft sales, may be inadequate to permit ILFC to meet its existing obligations. AIG intends to provide support to ILFC through February 28, 2011 to the extent that secured financing, aircraft sales and other sources of funds are not sufficient to meet ILFCs liquidity needs. Under its current long term debt ratings, ILFC needs written consent from the security trustee of its 2004 ECA Facility before it can fund Airbus aircraft deliveries under the facility. As of February 17, 2010, ILFC had approximately $600 million available under the 2004 ECA Facility to finance its Airbus aircraft purchases through June 2010. ILFC financed 25 aircraft under the 2004 ECA Facility during 2009, 19 of which required written consent, which was obtained. However, the trustees consent for the financing of 5 Airbus aircraft delivered during the fourth quarter of 2009 was not obtained until the first quarter of 2010. ILFCs current credit ratings also require (i) the segregation of security deposits, maintenance reserves and rental payments received for aircraft funded under both its 1999 and 2004 ECA Facilities into separate accounts, controlled by the trustees of the 1999 and 2004 ECA Facilities; and (ii) the filings of individual mortgages on the aircraft funded under the facility in the respective local jurisdictions in which its lessees operate. At December 31, 2009, ILFC had segregated security deposits, maintenance reserves and rental payments aggregating $315 million related to such aircraft. Segregated rental payments are used to pay principal and interest on the ECA facilities as they become due. 51 AIG 2009 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries On October 13, 2009, ILFC entered into two term loan agreements (the Term Loans) with AIG Funding comprised of a new $2.0 billion credit agreement and a $1.7 billion amended and restated credit agreement. The Term Loans are secured by a portfolio of aircraft and all related equipment and leases. ILFC used the proceeds from the $2.0 billion loan to repay in full its obligations under its $2.0 billion revolving credit facility that matured on October 15, 2009. The second credit agreement amended and restated the two demand note agreements aggregating $1.7 billion that ILFC entered into in March 2009 with AIG Funding, including extending the maturity date of such demand notes. Both Term Loans mature on September 13, 2013 and currently bear interest at 3 month LIBOR plus 6.025%. The Term Loans are due in full at maturity with no scheduled amortization. On December 4, 2009, the new $2.0 billion credit agreement was increased to $2.2 billion. The funds for the Term Loans were provided to AIG Funding through the FRBNY Credit Facility. As a condition of the FRBNY approving the Term Loans, ILFC entered into agreements to guarantee the repayment of AIGs obligations under the FRBNY Credit Agreement up to an amount equal to the aggregate outstanding balance of the Term Loans. As a result of the Term Loans, ILFCs available capacity under its present facilities and indentures to enter into secured financing was approximately $800 million at February 17, 2010. AIGFP Prior to September 2008, AIGFP had historically funded its operations through the issuance of notes and bonds, GIA borrowings, other structured financing transactions and repurchase agreements. In the second half of 2008, AIGFPs access to its traditional sources of liquidity was significantly reduced, and it relied on AIG parent to meet most of its liquidity needs. AIGFPs asset backed commercial paper conduit, Curzon Funding LLC, was accepted into the CPFF with a total borrowing limit of $7.2 billion, and had approximately $1.2 billion outstanding at February 17, 2010. Separately, a structured investment vehicle sponsored, but not consolidated, by AIGFP, Nightingale Finance LLC, was also accepted into the CPFF with a borrowing limit of $1.1 billion and had approximately $1.1 billion outstanding at February 17, 2010. All of the commercial paper matures in April 2010. AIGFP intends to repay this commercial paper at maturity, which will most likely lead to an increase in borrowings under the FRBNY Credit Facility. The following table presents a rollforward of the amount of collateral posted by AIGFP: Year Ended December 31, 2009 (in millions) Collateral Posted as of December 31, 2008 Additional Postings, Netted by Counterparty Collateral Returned by Counterparties Collateral Posted as of December 31, 2009 Collateralized GIAs and other borrowings $ 9,401 $ 429 $ 3,701 $ 6,129 Derivatives (including super senior credit default swaps) 22,791 2,098 15,082 9,807 Total $ 32,192 $ 2,527 $ 18,783 $ 15,936 AGF Prior to September 2008, AGFs traditional source of liquidity had been collections of customer receivables and borrowings in the public markets. With its continued inability to access traditional capital market sources, AGF anticipates that its primary source of funds to support its operations and repay its obligations will be customer receivable collections and additional on balance sheet securitizations and portfolio sales. In order to improve cash flow from operations, AGF has significantly limited its lending activities and aggressively managed its expenses. Since September 2008 and through February 17, 2010, AGFs alternative funding sources have included proceeds of $1.9 billion from real estate loan portfolio sales and cash proceeds of $967 million from a real estate loan securitization. AGF is considering additional sales and or securitizations of its finance receivables. In addition, AIG is exploring other restructuring opportunities for AGF. AIG intends to provide support to AGF through February 28, 2011 to the extent that asset sales, securitizations and or other transactions are not sufficient to meet AGFs liquidity needs. AIG made a $600 million capital contribution to AGF (through AIG Capital Corporation) during 2009, and AGF loaned $1.6 billion to AIG parent under demand notes. In July 2009, AGF converted the $2.45 billion of loans that AGF had previously drawn on AIG 2009 Form 10 K 52 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries its 364 day Syndicated Facility into one year term loans. These termed out loans must be repaid by July 9, 2010. AIG provides a capital support agreement to AGF in connection with these loans. AIGCFG AIG believes that the funding needs of AIGCFG have stabilized but it is possible that renewed customer and counterparty concerns could increase AIGCFGs liquidity needs in 2010. During 2009 and through February 17, 2010, AIG has completed the sale of the AIGCFG operations in China, Thailand, the Philippines, Mexico, Hong Kong, Brazil, Russia and Taiwan. AIG has also entered into contracts to sell the AIGCFG operations in Argentina, Colombia and Poland. Noncore Businesses The principal cash requirements of AIGs noncore asset management operations are to fund general working capital needs, investment commitments related to proprietary investments in private equity and real estate as well as any liquidity mismatches in the MIP. Management continues to work closely with partners and counterparties to manage future funding requirements on proprietary investments through various strategies including through relinquishing rights in certain properties and funds, the restructuring of investment relationships and sales to third parties. Through early 2010, AIG has made significant progress in reducing contractual investment commitments of its proprietary private equity investment portfolio. Cash requirements related to Institutional Asset Management are funded through general operating cash flows from management and performance fees, proceeds from events in underlying funds (capital calls to third parties, sales of portfolio companies, etc.) as well as intercompany funding provided by AIG. Consequently, Institutional Asset Managements ability to fund certain of its needs may depend on advances from AIG under various intercompany borrowing facilities. Restrictions on these facilities would have adverse consequences on the ability of the business to satisfy its obligations. With respect to the Global Real Estate investment management business, investing activities are also funded through third party financing arrangements which are secured by the relevant properties. UGC In 2009, pursuant to an excess of loss reinsurance agreement, AIG made capital contributions into a trust to secure statutory credit for ceded losses from UGCs insurance subsidiaries to a wholly owned AIG subsidiary. UGCs insurance subsidiaries have maintained adequate capital and liquidity levels during the year, primarily due to this reinsurance agreement and expect to cede additional losses to the affiliate in 2010. Matched Investment Program The Matched Investment Program is in run off. AIG expects to fund its obligations under this program through cash flows generated from invested assets (principal and interest) as well as the sale or financing of the asset portfolios in the program. However, market illiquidity and diminished values within the investment portfolios may impair AIGs ability to sell the program assets or sell such assets for a price adequate to settle the corresponding liabilities when they come due. In such a case, AIG parent would need to fund the obligations. In addition, as a result of AIGs restructuring activities AIG expects to utilize assets from its non core businesses and subsidiaries to provide future cash flow enhancement and debt repayment ability for the MIP. AIG did not issue any additional debt to fund the MIP in 2009 or 2008 and does not intend to issue any additional debt for the foreseeable future. The following table presents the contractual maturities of debt issued under the MIP: At December 31, 2009 (in billions) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Thereafter Total MIP liabilities $ 2.2 $ 5.4 $ 1.3 $ 4.5 $ 13.4 The MIP invests in various fixed income asset classes which include corporate debt, both public and private, and structured fixed income products consisting of residential mortgage backed securities (RMBS), commercial mortgage backed securities (CMBS) and CDOs. The majority of these investments were rated investment grade at February 17, 2010. In addition, the MIP invests in bank loans, commercial mortgage loans and single name credit default swaps. 53 AIG 2009 Form 10 K  Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries Debt The following table presents AIGs total debt outstanding: (in millions) December 31, 2009 December 31, 2008 Debt issued by AIG: FRBNY Credit Facility (secured) $ 23,435 $ 40,431 Notes and bonds payable 10,419 11,756 Junior subordinated debt 12,001 11,685 Junior subordinated debt attributable to equity units 5,880 5,880 Loans and mortgages payable 438 416 MIP matched notes and bonds payable 13,371 14,446 Series AIGFP matched notes and bonds payable 3,913 4,660 Total AIG debt 69,457 89,274 Debt guaranteed by AIG: AIGFP, at fair value Commercial paper and other short term debt(a) 2,742 6,802 GIAs 8,257 13,860 Notes and bonds payable 2,029 5,250 Loans and mortgages payable 1,022 2,175 Hybrid financial instrument liabilities 1,887 2,113 Total AIGFP debt 15,937 30,200 AIG Funding commercial paper(a) 1,997 6,856 AIGLH notes and bonds payable 798 798 Liabilities connected to trust preferred stock 1,339 1,415 Total debt issued or guaranteed by AIG 89,528 128,543 Debt not guaranteed by AIG: ILFC Commercial paper and other short term debt(a) 1,748 Junior subordinated debt 999 999 Notes and bonds payable, ECA Facilities, bank financings and other secured financings(b) 25,174 30,047 Total ILFC debt 26,173 32,794 AGF Commercial paper and other short term debt 188 Junior subordinated debt 349 349 Notes and bonds payable 19,770 23,089 Total AGF debt 20,119 23,626 AIGCFG Commercial paper and other short term debt 124 Loans and mortgages payable 216 1,596 Total AIGCFG debt 216 1,720 Other subsidiaries 295 670 Debt of consolidated investments held through: AIG Investments 532 1,300 AIG Global Real Estate Investment 4,412 4,545 ALICO 90 SunAmerica 107 5 Total debt of consolidated investments 5,141 5,850 Total debt not guaranteed by AIG 51,944 64,660 Total debt: Total commercial paper and other short term debt 613 Federal Reserve Bank of New York commercial paper funding facility 4,739 15,105 Total long term debt 136,733 177,485 Total debt $ 141,472 $ 193,203 AIG 2009 Form 10 K 54 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries (a) Includes borrowings of $2.7 billion and $2.0 billion for AIGFP (through Curzon Funding LLC, AIGFPs asset backed commercial paper conduit) and AIG Funding, respectively, under the CPFF at December 31, 2009 and $6.8 billion, $6.6 billion and $1.7 billion, respectively, for AIGFP (through Curzon Funding LLC), AIG Funding and ILFC, respectively, under the CPFF at December 31, 2008. (b)Includes borrowings under the 1999 and 2004 ECA Facility of $3.0 billion and $2.4 billion at December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, respectively, and $130 million of secured financings that are non recourse to ILFC at December 31, 2009. Long Term Debt The following table provides the roll forward of long term debt, excluding debt of consolidated investments: Year Ended December 31, 2009 (in millions) Balance at December 31, 2008 Issuances Maturities and Repayments Effect of Foreign Exchange Other Non Cash Changes(a) Balance at December 31, 2009 AIG FRBNY Credit Facility $ 40,431 $ 32,526 $ (26,426 ) $ $ (23,096 ) $ 23,435 Notes and bonds payable 11,756 (1,381 ) 102 (58 ) 10,419 Junior subordinated debt 11,685 314 2 12,001 Junior subordinated debt attributable to equity units 5,880 5,880 Loans and mortgages payable 416 (37 ) 37 22 438 MIP matched notes and bonds payable 14,446 (1,159 ) 4 80 13,371 Series AIGFP matched notes and bonds payable 4,660 (390 ) (357 ) 3,913 AIGFP, at fair value(b) GIAs 13,860 754 (3,793 ) (2,564 ) 8,257 Notes and bonds payable and hybrid financial instrument liabilities 7,363 49 (3,627 ) 131 3,916 Loans and mortgages payable 2,175 60 (1,199 ) (14 ) 1,022 AIGLH notes and bonds payable 798 798 Liabilities connected to trust preferred stock 1,415 (76 ) 1,339 ILFC notes and bonds payable, ECA Facilities, bank financings and other secured financings 30,047 1,295 (6,288 ) 115 5 25,174 ILFC junior subordinated debt 999 999 AGF notes and bonds payable 23,089 962 (4,421 ) 125 15 19,770 AGF junior subordinated debt 349 349 AIGCFG loans and mortgages payable(b) 1,596 894 (1,894 ) 30 (410 ) 216 Other subsidiaries 670 (41 ) 15 (349 ) 295 Total $ 171,635 $ 36,540 $ (50,656 ) $ 742 $ (26,669 ) $ 131,592 (a) FRBNY Credit facility reflects a $25 billion reduction in outstanding balance as a result of the AIA and ALICO SPV transactions, offset by $1.9 billion of accrued compounding interest and fees. (b)Includes declines of $2.5 billion in the fair value of AIGFP debt and $123 million reclassified to Liabilities of businesses held for sale for AIGCFG reported in other non cash changes. AIG (Parent Company) AIG historically issued debt securities from time to time to meet its financing needs and those of certain of its subsidiaries, as well as to opportunistically fund the MIP. The maturities of the debt securities issued by AIG to fund the MIP are generally expected to be paid using the cash flows of assets held by AIG as part of the MIP portfolio. However, mismatches in the timing of cash inflows and outflows of the MIP, as well as shortfalls due to impairments of MIP assets, would need to be funded by AIG parent. 55 AIG 2009 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries As of December 31, 2009, approximately $7.0 billion principal amount of senior notes were outstanding under AIGs medium term note program, of which $3.2 billion was used for AIGs general corporate purposes, $508 million was used by AIGFP (included within "Series AIGFP matched notes bonds and payable" in the preceding tables) and $3.3 billion was used to fund the MIP. The maturity dates of these notes range from 2010 to 2052. To the extent considered appropriate, AIG may enter into swap transactions to manage its effective borrowing rates with respect to these notes. As of December 31, 2009, the equivalent of $11.6 billion of notes were outstanding under AIGs Euro medium term note program, of which $9.6 billion were used to fund the MIP and the remainder was used for AIGs general corporate purposes. The aggregate amount outstanding includes a $867 million loss resulting from foreign exchange translation into U.S. dollars, of which $52 million loss relates to notes issued by AIG for general corporate purposes and $815 million loss relates to notes issued to fund the MIP. AIG has economically hedged the currency exposure arising from its foreign currency denominated notes. AIG Life Holdings (US), Inc. (AIGLH) In connection with its acquisition of AIGLH in 2001, AIG entered into arrangements with AIGLH with respect to outstanding AIGLH capital securities. In 1996, AIGLH issued capital securities through a trust to institutional investors and funded the trust with AIGLH junior subordinated debentures issued to the trust. AIGLH guaranteed payments to the holders of capital securities only to the extent (i) the trust received payments on the debentures and (ii) these payments were available for the trust to pay to holders of capital securities. In 2001, AIG guaranteed the same payments to the holders of capital securities. Like the AIGLH guarantee, the AIG guarantee only applies to any payments actually made to the trust in respect of the debentures. If no payments are made on the debentures, AIG is not required to make any payments to the trust. AIG also guaranteed the debentures pursuant to a guarantee that is expressly subordinated to certain AIGLH senior debt securities. Under AIGs guarantee, AIG is not required to make any payments in respect of the debentures if such payment would be prohibited by the subordination provisions of the debentures. As a result, AIG will never be required to make a payment under its guarantee of the debentures for so long as AIGLH is prohibited from making a payment on the debentures. AIGFP Approximately $1.4 billion of AIGFPs debt maturing through December 31, 2010 is fully collateralized with assets backing the corresponding liabilities. However, mismatches in the timing of cash inflows on the assets and outflows with respect to the liabilities may require assets to be sold to satisfy maturing liabilities. Depending on market conditions and AIGFPs ability to sell assets at that time, proceeds from sales may not be sufficient to satisfy the full amount due on maturing liabilities. Any shortfalls would need to be funded by AIG parent. ILFC At December 31, 2009, notes aggregating $16.9 billion were outstanding, consisting of $5.4 billion of term notes and $11.5 billion of medium term notes with maturities ranging from 2010 to 2015 and interest rates ranging from 0.48 percent to 7.95 percent and $1.0 billion of junior subordinated debt as discussed below. Notes aggregating $3.9 billion are at floating interest rates and the remainder are at fixed rates. ILFC enters into swap transactions to manage its effective borrowing rates with respect to these notes. On October 13, 2009, ILFC entered into two term loan agreements with AIG Funding comprised of a new $2.0 billion credit agreement and a $1.7 billion amended and restated credit agreement. The Term Loans are secured by a portfolio of aircraft and all related equipment and leases. Both Term Loans mature on September 13, 2013 and currently bear interest at 3 month LIBOR plus 6.025%. The Term Loans are due in full at maturity with no scheduled amortization. On December 4, 2009, the new $2.0 billion credit agreement was increased to $2.2 billion. The funds for the Term Loans were provided to AIG Funding through the FRBNY Credit Facility. As a condition of the FRBNY approving the Term Loans, ILFC entered into agreements to guarantee the repayment of AIGs obligations under the FRBNY Credit Agreement up to an amount equal to the aggregate outstanding balance of the Term Loans. AIG 2009 Form 10 K 56 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries At December 31, 2009, ILFC had outstanding $1.9 billion in notes issued under a Euro medium term note program, which are included in ILFC notes and bonds payable in the preceding table of borrowings. ILFC has substantially eliminated the currency exposure arising from foreign currency denominated notes by hedging the note exposure through swaps. In December 2005, ILFC issued two tranches of junior subordinated debt totaling $1.0 billion to underlie trust preferred securities issued by a trust sponsored by ILFC. The $600 million tranche has a call date of December 21, 2010 and the $400 million tranche has a call date of December 21, 2015. Both tranches mature on December 21, 2065. The $600 million tranche has a fixed interest rate of 5.90 percent for the first five years. The $400 million tranche has a fixed interest rate of 6.25 percent for the first ten years. Both tranches have interest rate adjustments if the call option is not exercised based on a floating quarterly reset rate equal to the initial credit spread plus the highest of (i) 3 month LIBOR, (ii) 10 year constant maturity treasury and (iii) 30 year constant maturity treasury. ILFC has a $4.3 billion 1999 ECA Facility that was used in connection with the purchase of 62 Airbus aircraft delivered through 2001. This facility is guaranteed by various European Export Credit Agencies. The interest rate varies from 5.78 percent to 5.86 percent on these amortizing ten year borrowings depending on the delivery date of the aircraft. At December 31, 2009, ILFC had 32 loans with a remaining principal balance of $146 million outstanding under this facility. At December 31, 2009, the net book value of the related aircraft was $1.8 billion. The debt is collateralized by a pledge of the shares of a subsidiary of ILFC, which holds title to the aircraft financed under the facility. ILFC has a similarly structured 2004 ECA Facility, which was amended in May 2009 to allow ILFC to borrow up to a maximum of $4.6 billion to fund the purchase of Airbus aircraft delivered through June 30, 2010. The facility becomes available as the various European Export Credit Agencies provide their guarantees for aircraft based on a forward looking calendar, and the interest rate is determined through a bid process. The interest rates are either LIBOR based with spreads ranging from (0.04) percent to 2.25 percent or at fixed rates ranging from 4.20 percent to 4.71 percent. At December 31, 2009, ILFC had financed 66 aircraft using approximately $4.0 billion under this facility and approximately $2.9 billion was outstanding. At December 31, 2009, the interest rate of the loans outstanding ranged from 0.45 percent to 4.71 percent. The debt is collateralized by a pledge of shares of a subsidiary of ILFC, which holds title to the aircraft financed under the facility. At December 31, 2009, the net book value of the related aircraft was approximately $4.0 billion. Borrowings with respect to these facilities are included in ILFCs notes and bonds payable in the preceding table of borrowings. At December 31, 2009, the total funded amount of ILFCs bank financings was $5.1 billion, which includes $4.5 billion of revolving credit facilities (see Revolving Credit Facilities below). The fundings mature through February 2012. The interest rates are LIBOR based, with spreads ranging from 0.25 percent to 0.40 percent. At December 31, 2009, the interest rates ranged from 0.55 percent to 0.93 percent. AIG does not guarantee any of the debt obligations of ILFC. AGF As of December 31, 2009, notes and bonds aggregating $19.8 billion were outstanding with maturity dates ranging from 2010 to 2031 at interest rates ranging from 0.31 percent to 9.00 percent. To the extent considered appropriate, AGF may enter into swap transactions to manage its effective borrowing rates with respect to these notes and bonds. AIG does not guarantee any of the debt obligations of AGF but has provided a capital support agreement for the benefit of AGFs lenders under AGFs one year term loans (previously, a 364 day syndicated facility). Under this support agreement, AIG has agreed to cause AIGs wholly owned subsidiary, American General Finance Corporation, to maintain (1) consolidated net worth of $2.2 billion and (2) an adjusted tangible leverage ratio of less than or equal to 8 to 1 at the end of each fiscal quarter. This support agreement benefits only the lenders under the AGF 364 Day Syndicated Facility and does not benefit, and is not enforceable by, any of the other creditors of AGF. This support agreement continued for the benefit of AGFs lenders upon the conversion of the facility borrowings into one year term loans in July 2009. 57 AIG 2009 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries Revolving Credit Facilities ILFC and AGF have maintained committed, unsecured revolving credit facilities listed on the table below. Both ILFC and AGF have drawn the full amount available under their revolving credit facilities. In July 2009, AIGs 364 Day Syndicated Facility expired and, in August 2009, AIG terminated its 5 Year Syndicated Facility. As a result, AIG no longer has access to any revolving credit facilities. The following table presents a summary of revolving credit facilities: At December 31, 2009 (in millions) Facility Size Borrower(s) Available Amount Expiration ILFC: 5 Year Syndicated Facility $ 2,500 ILFC $ October 2011 5 Year Syndicated Facility 2,000 ILFC October 2010 Total ILFC $ 4,500 $ AGF: 1 Year Term Loans $ 2,450 American General Finance Corporation July 2010* American General Finance, Inc. 5 Year Syndicated Facility 2,125 American General Finance Corporation July 2010 Total AGF $ 4,575 $ * On July 9, 2009, AGF converted the $2.45 billion of loans that AGF had previously drawn on its 364 Day Syndicated Facility into one year term loans. These termed out loans must be repaid by July 9, 2010. Credit Ratings The cost and availability of unsecured financing for AIG and its subsidiaries are generally dependent on their short and long term debt ratings. The following table presents the credit ratings of AIG and certain of its subsidiaries as of February 17, 2010. In parentheses, following the initial occurrence in the table of each rating, is an indication of that ratings relative rank within the agencys rating categories. That ranking refers only to the generic or major rating category and not to the modifiers appended to the rating by the rating agencies to denote relative position within such generic or major category. Short Term Debt Senior Long Term Debt Moodys S&P Fitch Moodys(a) S&P(b) Fitch(c) AIG P 1 (1st of 3)(d) A 1 (1st of 8) F1 (1st of 5) A3 (3rd of 9)(d) A (3rd of 8)(d) BBB (4th of 9)(e) AIG Financial Products Corp.(f) P 1(d) A 1 A3(d) A (d) AIG Funding, Inc.(f) P 1(d) A 1 F1 ILFC Not prime(d) F2(h) B1 (6th of 9)(d) BBB (4th of 8)(g) BBB (4th of 9)(h) American General Finance Corporation Not prime(d) B (4th of 8) B2 (6th of 9)(d) BB+(5th of 8)(d) BB (5th of 9)(h) American General Finance, Inc. Not prime B (4th of 8) BB (5th of 9)(h) (a) Moodys appends numerical modifiers 1, 2 and 3 to the generic rating categories to show relative position within the rating categories. (b)S&P ratings may be modified by the addition of a plus or minus sign to show relative standing within the major rating categories. (c)Fitch ratings may be modified by the addition of a plus or minus sign to show relative standing within the major rating categories. (d)Negative Outlook. (e)Evolving Outlook. (f)AIG guarantees all obligations of AIG Financial Products Corp. and AIG Funding. (g)Credit Watch Negative. (h)Rating Watch Negative. AIG 2009 Form 10 K 58 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries These credit ratings are current opinions of the rating agencies. As such, they may be changed, suspended or withdrawn at any time by the rating agencies as a result of changes in, or unavailability of, information or based on other circumstances. Ratings may also be withdrawn at AIG managements request. This discussion of ratings is not a complete list of ratings of AIG and its subsidiaries. "Ratings triggers" have been defined by one independent rating agency to include clauses or agreements the outcome of which depends upon the level of ratings maintained by one or more rating agencies. "Ratings triggers" generally relate to events that (i) could result in the termination or limitation of credit availability, or require accelerated repayment, (ii) could result in the termination of business contracts or (iii) could require a company to post collateral for the benefit of counterparties. A significant portion of AIGFPs GIAs, structured financing arrangements and financial derivative transactions include provisions that require AIGFP, upon a downgrade of AIGs long term debt ratings, to post collateral or, with the consent of the counterparties, assign or repay its positions or arrange a substitute guarantee of its obligations by an obligor with higher debt ratings. Furthermore, certain downgrades of AIGs long term senior debt ratings would permit either AIG or the counterparties to elect early termination of contracts. The actual amount of collateral that AIGFP would be required to post to counterparties in the event of such downgrades, or the aggregate amount of payments that AIG could be required to make, depends on market conditions, the fair value of outstanding affected transactions and other factors prevailing at the time of the downgrade. For a discussion of the effect of a downgrade in AIGs credit ratings on AIGFPs financial derivative transactions, see Item 1A. Risk Factors Credit and Financial Strength Ratings. Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes contractual obligations in total, and by remaining maturity: Year Ended December 31, 2009 Payments due by Period (in millions) Total Payments 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Thereafter Long term debt(a) $ 108,157 $ 19,432 $ 26,599 $ 12,240 $ 49,886 FRBNY Credit Facility 23,435 23,435 Interest payments on borrowings 61,703 4,478 8,376 9,784 39,065 Loss reserves(b) 85,386 18,956 23,566 13,184 29,680 Insurance and investment contract liabilities(c) 628,521 24,535 46,274 45,959 511,753 GIC liabilities(d) 8,813 218 2,530 2,464 3,601 Aircraft purchase commitments 13,699 243 887 3,546 9,023 Operating leases 2,576 600 781 456 739 Purchase obligations(e) 675 286 189 74 126 Total(f)(g) $ 932,965 $ 68,748 $ 109,202 $ 111,142 $ 643,873 (a) Excludes commercial paper and borrowings incurred by consolidated investments and includes hybrid financial instrument liabilities recorded at fair value. (b)Represents future loss and loss adjustment expense payments estimated based on historical loss development payment patterns. Due to the significance of the assumptions used, the periodic amounts presented could be materially different from actual required payments. (c)Insurance and investment contract liabilities include various investment type products with contractually scheduled maturities, including periodic payments of a term certain nature. Insurance and investment contract liabilities also include benefit and claim liabilities, of which a significant portion represents policies and contracts that do not have stated contractual maturity dates and may not result in any future payment obligations. For these policies and contracts (i) AIG is currently not making payments until the occurrence of an insurable event, such as death or disability, (ii) payments are conditional on survivorship, or (iii) payment may occur due to a surrender or other non scheduled event out of AIGs control. AIG has made significant assumptions to determine the estimated undiscounted cash flows of these contractual policy benefits, which assumptions include mortality, morbidity, future lapse rates, expenses, investment returns and interest crediting rates, offset by expected future deposits and premiums on inforce policies. Due to the significance of the assumptions used, the periodic amounts presented could be materially different from actual required payments. The amounts presented in this table are undiscounted and therefore exceed the future policy benefits and policyholder contract deposits included in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. 59 AIG 2009 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries (d)Represents guaranteed maturities under GICs. (e)Primarily includes contracts to purchase future services and other capital expenditures. (f)Does not reflect unrecognized tax benefits of $4.8 billion, the timing of which is uncertain. (g)The majority of AIGFPs credit default swaps require AIGFP to provide credit protection on a designated portfolio of loans or debt securities. At December 31, 2009, the fair value derivative liability was $4.4 billion relating to AIGFPs super senior multi sector CDO credit default swap portfolio, net of amounts realized in extinguishing derivative obligations. Due to the long term maturities of these credit default swaps, AIG is unable to make reasonable estimates of the periods during which any payments would be made. However, AIGFP has posted collateral of $3.7 billion with respect to these swaps (prior to offsets for other transactions). Off Balance Sheet Arrangements and Commercial Commitments The following table summarizes Off Balance Sheet Arrangements and Commercial Commitments in total, and by remaining maturity: At December 31, 2009 Amount of Commitment Expiration (in millions) Total Amounts Committed 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Thereafter Guarantees: Liquidity facilities(a) $ 890 $ 789 101 Standby letters of credit 1,264 1,094 28 19 123 Construction guarantees(b) 104 2 21 81 Guarantees of indebtedness 213 213 All other guarantees(c) 1,911 11 139 128 1,633 Commitments: Investment commitments(d) 7,418 2,382 2,477 1,426 1,133 Commitments to extend credit 194 84 89 19 2 Letters of credit 267 198 69 Other commercial commitments(e) 723 46 20 10 647 Total(f) $ 12,984 $ 3,817 $ 3,632 $ 1,602 $ 3,933 (a) Primarily liquidity facilities provided in connection with certain municipal swap transactions and collateralized bond obligations. (b)Primarily SunAmerica construction guarantees connected to affordable housing investments. (c)Excludes potential amounts attributable to indemnifications included in asset sales agreements. (d)Includes commitments to invest in limited partnerships, private equity, hedge funds and mutual funds and commitments to purchase and develop real estate in the United States and abroad. (e)Includes options to acquire aircraft. Excludes commitments with respect to pension plans. The annual pension contribution for 2010 is expected to be approximately $134 million for U.S. and non U.S. plans. (f)Does not include guarantees or other support arrangements among AIG consolidated entities. Arrangements with Variable Interest Entities AIG enters into various arrangements with variable interest entities (VIEs) in the normal course of business. AIGs insurance companies are involved with VIEs primarily as passive investors in debt securities (rated and unrated) and equity interests issued by VIEs. Through its Financial Services segment and Noncore Asset Management businesses, AIG has participated in arrangements with VIEs that include designing and structuring entities, warehousing and managing the collateral of the entities, and entering into insurance, credit and derivative transactions with the VIEs. AIG has also established trusts for the sole purpose of issuing mandatorily redeemable preferred stock to investors. AIG has determined that the trusts are VIEs, but has not consolidated these VIEs because AIG is not the primary beneficiary and does not hold a variable interest in these VIEs. AIG 2009 Form 10 K 60 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries AIG consolidates a VIE when it is the primary beneficiary of the entity. The primary beneficiary is the party that either (i) absorbs a majority of the VIEs expected losses; (ii) receives a majority of the VIEs expected residual returns; or (iii) both. For a further discussion of AIGs involvement with VIEs, see Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Dividends from Insurance Subsidiaries Payments of dividends to AIG by its insurance subsidiaries are subject to certain restrictions imposed by regulatory authorities. With respect to AIGs domestic insurance subsidiaries, the payment of any dividend requires formal notice to the insurance department in which the particular insurance subsidiary is domiciled. For example, unless permitted by the New York Superintendent of Insurance, general insurance companies domiciled in New York may not pay dividends to shareholders that, in any twelve month period, exceed the lesser of ten percent of such companys statutory policyholders surplus or 100 percent of its "adjusted net investment income," as defined. Generally, less severe restrictions applicable to both general and life insurance companies exist in most of the other states in which AIGs insurance subsidiaries are domiciled. Under the laws of many states, an insurer may pay a dividend without prior approval of the insurance regulator when the amount of the dividend is below certain regulatory thresholds. Other foreign jurisdictions, notably Bermuda, Japan, Hong Kong, Taiwan, the U.K., Thailand and Singapore, may restrict the ability of AIGs foreign insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends. There are also various local restrictions limiting cash loans and advances to AIG by its subsidiaries. Largely as a result of these restrictions, a significant majority of the aggregate equity of AIGs consolidated subsidiaries was restricted from immediate transfer to AIG parent at December 31, 2009. AIG cannot predict how regulatory investigations may affect the ability of its regulated subsidiaries to pay dividends. To AIGs knowledge, no AIG company is currently on any regulatory or similar "watch list" with regard to solvency. See also Liquidity herein and Item 1A. Risk Factors Liquidity. Regulation and Supervision AIGs insurance subsidiaries, in common with other insurers, are subject to regulation and supervision by the states and jurisdictions in which they do business. AIG parent is not generally subject to supervision by state regulators, but certain transactions, such as those involving significant transactions with its insurance company subsidiaries and any transaction involving a change in control of AIG or any of its insurance company subsidiaries, may require the prior approval of state regulators. In the United States, the NAIC has developed Risk Based Capital (RBC) Model Law requirements. RBC relates an individual insurance companys statutory surplus to the risk inherent in its overall operations. AIGs insurance subsidiaries file financial statements prepared in accordance with statutory accounting practices prescribed or permitted by domestic and foreign insurance regulatory authorities. The principal differences between statutory financial statements for domestic companies and financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP are that statutory financial statements do not reflect DAC, some bond portfolios may be carried at amortized cost, assets and liabilities are presented net of reinsurance, policyholder liabilities are valued using more conservative assumptions and certain assets are non admitted. As discussed under Item 3. Legal Proceedings, various regulators have commenced investigations into certain insurance business practices. In addition, the OTS and other regulators routinely conduct examinations of AIG and its subsidiaries, including AIGs consumer finance operations. AIG cannot predict the ultimate effect that these investigations and examinations, or any additional regulation arising therefrom, might have on its business. Federal, state or local legislation may affect AIGs ability to operate and expand its various financial services businesses, and changes in the current laws, regulations or interpretations thereof may have a material adverse effect on these businesses. See Item 1A. Risk Factors for additional information. AIGs U.S. operations are negatively affected under guarantee fund assessment laws which exist in most states. As a result of operating in a state which has guarantee fund assessment laws, a solvent insurance company may be assessed for certain obligations arising from the insolvencies of other insurance companies which operated in that state. AIG generally records these assessments upon notice. Additionally, certain states permit at least a portion of the assessed amount to be used as a credit against a companys future premium tax liabilities. Therefore, the ultimate net 61 AIG 2009 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries assessment cannot reasonably be estimated. The guarantee fund assessments net of credits recognized in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, were $18 million, $12 million and $71 million. AIG is also required to participate in various involuntary pools (principally workers compensation business) which provide insurance coverage for those not able to obtain such coverage in the voluntary markets. This participation is also recorded upon notification, as these amounts cannot reasonably be estimated. A substantial portion of AIGs General Insurance business and all of its Foreign Life Insurance & Retirement Services business are conducted in foreign countries. The degree of regulation and supervision in foreign jurisdictions varies. Generally, AIG, as well as the underwriting companies operating in such jurisdictions, must satisfy local regulatory requirements. Licenses issued by foreign authorities to AIG subsidiaries are subject to modification and revocation. Thus, AIGs insurance subsidiaries could be prevented from conducting future business in certain of the jurisdictions where they currently operate. AIGs international operations include operations in various developing nations. Both current and future foreign operations could be adversely affected by unfavorable political developments up to and including nationalization of AIGs operations without compensation. Adverse effects resulting from any one country may affect AIGs results of operations, liquidity and financial condition depending on the magnitude of the event and AIGs net financial exposure at that time in that country. Foreign insurance operations are individually subject to local solvency margin requirements that require maintenance of adequate capitalization, which AIG complies with by country. In addition, certain foreign locations, notably Japan, have established regulations that can result in guarantee fund assessments. These have not had a material effect on AIGs financial condition or results of operations. See Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Results of Operations AIG reports the results of its operations through four reportable segments: General Insurance, Domestic Life Insurance & Retirement Services, Foreign Life Insurance & Retirement Services, and Financial Services. AIG evaluates performance based on pre tax income (loss), excluding results from discontinued operations and net gains (losses) on sales of divested businesses because AIG believes that this provides more meaningful information on how its operations are performing. Through these reportable segments, AIG provides insurance, financial and investment products and services to both businesses and individuals in more than 130 countries and jurisdictions. AIGs Other operations category consists of business and items not allocated to AIGs reportable segments. AIGs subsidiaries serve commercial, institutional and individual customers through an extensive property casualty and life insurance and retirement services network. AIGs Financial Services businesses include commercial aircraft and equipment leasing, capital markets operations and consumer finance, both in the United States and abroad. AIG also provides asset management services to institutions and individuals. AIG 2009 Form 10 K 62  Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries Consolidated Results The following table presents AIGs consolidated results of operations: Percentage Increase/(Decrease) Years Ended December 31, (in millions) 2009 2008 2007 2009 vs. 2008 2008 vs. 2007 Revenues: Premiums and other considerations $ 64,702 $ 78,564 $ 74,753 (18 )% 5 % Net investment income 25,239 11,433 30,051 121 (62 ) Net realized capital losses (6,854 ) (52,705 ) (3,501 ) Unrealized market valuation gains (losses) on AIGFP super senior credit default swap portfolio 1,418 (28,602 ) (11,472 ) Other income 11,499 (1,794 ) 13,801 Total revenues 96,004 6,896 103,632 (93 ) Benefits, claims and expenses: Policyholder benefits and claims incurred 61,436 58,839 62,452 4 (6 ) Policy acquisition and other insurance expenses 20,674 26,284 19,819 (21 ) 33 Interest expense 15,369 17,007 4,751 (10 ) 258 Restructuring expenses and related asset impairment and other expenses 1,386 804 72 Net loss on sale of divested businesses 1,271 Other expenses 9,516 10,490 8,476 (9 ) 24 Total benefits, claims and expenses 109,652 113,424 95,498 (3 ) 19 Income (loss) from continuing operations before income tax expense (benefit) (13,648 ) (106,528 ) 8,134 Income tax expense (benefit) (1,878 ) (8,894 ) 1,267 Income (loss) from continuing operations (11,770 ) (97,634 ) 6,867 Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of income tax expense (benefit) (543 ) (2,753 ) 621 Net income (loss) (12,313 ) (100,387 ) 7,488 Less: Income (loss) from continuing operations attributable to noncontrolling interests: Noncontrolling nonvoting, callable, junior and senior preferred interests held by Federal Reserve Bank of New York 140 Other (1,527 ) (944 ) 1,259 Total Income (loss) from continuing operations attributable to noncontrolling interests (1,387 ) (944 ) 1,259 Income (loss) from discontinued operations attributable to noncontrolling interests 23 (154 ) 29 Total net income (loss) attributable to non controlling interests (1,364 ) (1,098 ) 1,288 Net income (loss) attributable to AIG $ (10,949 ) $ (99,289 ) $ 6,200 % % 63 AIG 2009 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries Premiums and Other Considerations 2009 and 2008 Comparison Premiums and other considerations decreased in 2009 compared to 2008 primarily due to: a reduction of $6.9 billion in 2009 from dispositions, including the sale of the Brazilian operations in 2008, sales of HSB Group, Inc. (HSB), 21st Century and AIG Life Canada in 2009 and the deconsolidation of Transatlantic in 2009; a decline in Commercial Insurance net premiums written due to reductions in workers compensation, construction, real estate and transportation lines of business; a decrease in Foreign General Insurance due to the negative effect of foreign exchange and the sale of the Brazilian operations in 2008 noted above; a decrease in Domestic Life Insurance premiums, primarily due to lower payout annuities and the sale of AIG Life Canada; and a decrease in Foreign Life Insurance & Retirement Services primarily due to lower sales and deposits, the sale of the Brazilian operations in 2008, the effect of foreign exchange translation, and the effect of equity markets on investment linked and annuity products globally. 2008 and 2007 Comparison Premiums and other considerations increased in 2008 compared to 2007 primarily due to: growth in Foreign Life Insurance & Retirement Services resulting from increased production and favorable foreign exchange rates; an increase in Foreign General Insurance due to growth in commercial and consumer lines driven by new business from both established and new distribution channels, a decrease in the use of reinsurance and favorable foreign exchange rates; and growth in Domestic Life Insurance due to an increase in sales of payout annuities sales and growth in life insurance business in force. These increases were partially offset by a decline in Commercial Insurance premiums primarily from lower U.S. workers compensation premiums attributable to declining rates, lower employment levels and increased competition, as well as a decline in other casualty lines of business. AIG 2009 Form 10 K 64 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries Net Investment Income The following table summarizes the components of consolidated Net investment income: Years Ended December 31, Percentage Increase/(Decrease) (in millions) 2009 2008 2007 2009 vs. 2008 2008 vs. 2007 Fixed maturities, including short term investments $ 18,793 $ 21,472 $ 21,496 (12 )% % Maiden Lane interests 394 (1,116 ) Equity securities 397 408 440 (3 ) (7 ) Interest on mortgage and other loans 574 622 650 (8 ) (4 ) Partnerships (35 ) (2,152 ) 3,415 Mutual funds 440 (962 ) 521 Trading account gains (losses) 33 (725 ) (150 ) Real estate 1,229 1,226 1,126 9 Other investments 457 629 691 (27 ) (9 ) Total investment income before policyholder income and trading gains (losses) 22,282 19,402 28,189 15 (31 ) Policyholder investment income and trading losses 3,950 (6,984 ) 2,903 Total investment income 26,232 12,418 31,092 111 (60 ) Investment expenses 993 985 1,041 1 (5 ) Net investment income $ 25,239 $ 11,433 $ 30,051 121% (62 )% 2009 and 2008 Comparison Net investment income increased in 2009 compared to 2008 primarily due to: increased policyholder investment income and trading gains and losses for Foreign Life Insurance & Retirement Services (together, policyholder trading gains (losses)), compared to 2008. Policyholder trading losses are offset by a change in Policyholder benefits and claims incurred and generally reflect the trends in equity markets, principally in Japan and Asia; gains associated with the change in fair value of AIGs investment in ML III of $419 million in 2009 resulting from improvements in valuation, primarily resulting from the shortening of the weighted average life from 10.9 years to 9.6 years, and the narrowing of credit spreads by approximately 100 basis points. Adversely affecting the fair value is the decrease in cash flows primarily due to an increase in projected credit losses in the underlying collateral securities; and income from mutual fund investments in 2009 compared to losses in 2008 and a decrease in partnership losses in 2009, in each case reflecting stronger market conditions in 2009 than in 2008. These increases were partially offset by: lower levels of invested assets, including the effect of divested businesses, in 2009 compared to 2008; and lower returns as a result of increased levels of short term investments that were held for liquidity purposes. 2008 and 2007 Comparison Net investment income decreased in 2008 compared to 2007 due to: losses from partnership and mutual fund investments reflecting significantly weaker market conditions in 2008 than in 2007; policyholder trading losses for Foreign Life Insurance & Retirement Services in 2008 compared to policyholder trading gains in 2007, reflecting equity market declines; 65 AIG 2009 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries losses related to AIGs economic interest in ML II and investment in ML III of approximately $1.1 billion in 2008; and the effect of increased levels of short term investments, for liquidity purposes. Net Realized Capital Gains (Losses) Years Ended December 31, (in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Sales of fixed maturity securities $ 956 $ (5,159 ) $ (429 ) Sales of equity securities 390 104 917 Sales of real estate and loans (10 ) 238 172 Other than temporary impairments: Severity (1,892 ) (27,798 ) (1,517 ) Change in intent (1,036 ) (11,518 ) (993 ) Foreign currency declines (517 ) (1,903 ) (500 ) Issuer specific credit events (4,185 ) (5,785 ) (497 ) Adverse projected cash flows on structured securities (149 ) (1,645 ) (446 ) Provision for loan losses (708 ) Foreign exchange transactions (1,256 ) 3,166 (672 ) Derivative instruments 1,749 (3,420 ) 16 Other (196 ) 1,015 448 Total $ (6,854 ) $ (52,705 ) $ (3,501 ) 2009 and 2008 Comparison Net realized capital losses decreased in 2009 compared to 2008 primarily due to the following: the 2008 period included non credit impairments (i.e. severity losses) throughout the year that are no longer required for fixed maturity securities due to the adoption of the new other than temporary impairments accounting standard commencing in the second quarter of 2009. Additionally, other than temporary impairments declined from the 2008 period due to improved market conditions. See Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements; and Investments Other Than Temporary Impairments. gains on sales of fixed maturity securities in 2009 compared to losses in 2008 reflecting improvement in the credit markets. gains on derivative instruments not qualifying for hedge accounting treatment in 2009 compared to losses in 2008 resulting from weakening of the U.S. dollar. Partially offsetting the above items were losses on sales of real estate and other assets in 2009. Additionally, Net realized capital losses includes foreign exchange translation losses in 2009 compared to gains in 2008 primarily resulting from the weakening of the U.S. dollar. 2008 and 2007 Comparison Net realized capital losses increased in 2008 compared to 2007 primarily due to an increase in other than temporary impairment charges. The increase in other than temporary impairment charges included the following significant items: an increase in severity losses primarily related to certain RMBS, other structured securities and securities of financial institutions due to rapid and severe market valuation declines where the impairment period was not deemed temporary; AIG 2009 Form 10 K 66 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries losses related to the change in AIGs intent and ability to hold to recovery certain securities, primarily those held as collateral in the securities lending program; issuer specific credit events, including charges associated with investments in financial institutions; and adverse projected cash flows on certain impaired structured securities. These other than temporary impairment charges were partially offset by the favorable effect of foreign exchange translation due to strengthening of the U.S. dollar. See Investments Other Than Temporary Impairments. During the fourth quarter of 2008, certain AIG securities lending transactions met the requirements of sale accounting because collateral received was insufficient to fund substantially all of the cost of purchasing replacement assets for the securities lent to various counterparties. Accordingly, AIG recognized a loss of $2.4 billion on deemed sales of these securities. Also, Net realized capital losses in 2008 included a loss of $2.3 billion, incurred in the fourth quarter of 2008, on RMBS prior to their purchase by ML II. See Investments Other Noncore Businesses and Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Unrealized Market Valuation Gains (Losses) on AIGFP Super Senior Credit Default Swap Portfolio 2009 and 2008 Comparison AIGFP reported unrealized market valuation gains related to its super senior credit default swap portfolio of $1.4 billion in 2009 and unrealized market valuation losses of $28.6 billion in 2008. The change in the unrealized market valuation gains (losses) related to AIGFPs super senior credit default swap portfolio was due to the substantial decline in outstanding net notional amount resulting from the termination of contracts in the fourth quarter of 2008 associated with the ML III transaction and the improvement in market conditions in 2009, as well as the narrowing of corporate credit spreads. 2008 and 2007 Comparison The unrealized market valuation losses on AIGFPs super senior credit default swap portfolio increased in 2008 compared to 2007 due to significant widening in credit spreads and the downgrades of RMBS and CDO securities by rating agencies in 2008 driven by the credit concerns resulting from U.S. residential mortgages and the severe liquidity crisis affecting the markets. In connection with the termination of $62.1 billion net notional amount of CDS transactions related to multi sector CDOs purchased in the ML III transaction, AIG Financial Products Corp. paid $32.5 billion through the surrender of collateral previously posted (net of $2.5 billion received pursuant to the shortfall agreement), of which $2.5 billion (included in Other income (loss)) was related to certain 2a 7 Put transactions written on multi sector CDOs purchased by ML III. These losses did not affect income, as unrealized market valuation losses were already recorded in income. See Segment Results Financial Services Operations Financial Services Results Capital Markets Results and Critical Accounting Estimates Valuation of Level 3 Assets and Liabilities and Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Other Income (Loss) 2009 and 2008 Comparison Other income increased in 2009 compared to 2008 due to: a net credit valuation adjustment gain of $2.8 billion in 2009 compared to a net credit valuation adjustment loss of $9.5 billion in 2008 on AIGFPs assets and liabilities which are measured at fair value, excluding gains reflected in Unrealized market valuation gains (losses) on AIGFP super senior credit default swap portfolio; an improvement of $5.5 billion reflecting the positive effect of hedging activities that did not qualify for hedge accounting, which was driven by the weakening of the U.S. dollar against most major currencies during 2009. 67 AIG 2009 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries These increases were partially offset by: a $2.4 billion decline in noncore Institutional Asset Management revenues due to impairments on proprietary real estate and private equity investments and lower base management fees on lower base assets under management in 2009; a decline of $1.0 billion in income from consolidated managed partnerships and funds, which is partially offset by Net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests; and lower finance charges and other revenues in Consumer Finance reflecting the sales of AGF real estate portfolios as part of AGFs liquidity management efforts as well as the effect of sales of Consumer Finance businesses in 2009. 2008 and 2007 Comparison Other Income (loss) decreased in 2008 compared to 2007 primarily due to increased losses in Capital Markets of $13.7 billion, which includes a credit valuation adjustment of $9.1 billion on AIGFPs assets and liabilities which are measured at fair value. These decreases were partially offset by increased rental revenues for ILFC, driven by a larger aircraft fleet and higher lease rates. Policyholder Benefits and Claims Incurred 2009 and 2008 Comparison Policyholder benefits and claims incurred increased in 2009 compared to 2008 due to: an increase in incurred policy losses and benefits expenses for Foreign Life Insurance & Retirement Services due to policyholder trading gains of $4.0 billion in 2009 compared to policyholder trading losses of $6.8 billion in 2008 as discussed above in Net Investment Income; and adverse development from prior years in Commercial Insurance primarily for excess casualty and excess workers compensation and increased current year losses in Foreign General Insurance from exposure to financial lines claims. These increases were partially offset by: a reduction of $5.2 billion from dispositions, primarily the sale of the Brazilian operations in 2008, sales of HSB, 21st Century and AIG Life Canada in 2009 and the deconsolidation of Transatlantic in 2009; catastrophe related losses of $53 million in 2009 compared to $1.6 billion in 2008 (losses in 2008 were primarily related to hurricanes Ike and Gustav); and the effects of lower production levels for General Insurance and Domestic Life & Retirement Services. 2008 and 2007 Comparison Policyholder benefits and claims incurred decreased in 2008 compared to 2007 due to a reduction in incurred policy losses and benefits expense for Foreign Life Insurance & Retirement Services of $9.4 billion related to policyholder trading gains (losses) as discussed above in Net investment income. These losses more than offset increased claims and claims adjustment expenses of $5.6 billion in AIGs General Insurance operations and Noncore insurance businesses, which reflected increased catastrophe losses of $1.5 billion principally from hurricanes Ike and Gustav. Results for 2008 also included a $1.8 billion increase in Mortgage Guaranty claims incurred, reflecting the deterioration of the U.S. housing market. AIG 2009 Form 10 K 68  Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries Policy Acquisition and Other Insurance Expenses 2009 and 2008 Comparison Policy acquisition and other insurance expenses decreased in 2009 compared to 2008 primarily due to: a reduction of $2.4 billion from dispositions, primarily the sale of the Brazilian operations in 2008, sales of HSB, 21st Century and AIG Life Canada in 2009 and the deconsolidation of Transatlantic in 2009; a reduction of $3.3 billion due to goodwill impairment charges recorded in 2008 as discussed below; and the effects of lower production levels for General Insurance and both Domestic and Foreign Life Insurance & Retirement Services. 2008 and 2007 Comparison Policy acquisition and other insurance expenses increased in 2008 compared to 2007 due to: a $2.4 billion increase in General Insurance expenses primarily due to goodwill impairment charges of $1.2 billion from Commercial Insurance primarily related to goodwill of HSB; a $174 million increase in Domestic Life Insurance & Retirement Services expenses primarily due to $1.2 billion of goodwill impairment charges, partially offset by changes in deferred acquisition costs; an increase of $2.9 billion in Foreign Life Insurance & Retirement Services expenses as a result of the effect of foreign exchange, growth in the business and the effect of the implementation of the new fair value option accounting standard; and Goodwill impairment charges of $878 million in 2008 from Noncore insurance businesses. Interest Expense 2009 and 2008 Comparison Interest expense decreased in 2009 compared to 2008 primarily due to lower interest expense on the FRBNY Credit Facility. Interest expense on the FRBNY Credit Facility was $10.4 billion in 2009 compared to $11.4 billion in 2008. Interest expense in 2009 included $8.4 billion of amortization of the prepaid commitment fee asset, including accelerated amortization of $5.2 billion in connection with the $25 billion reduction in the outstanding balance and maximum lending commitment under the FRBNY Credit Facility. See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Interest expense in 2008 included $9.3 billion of amortization of the prepaid commitment fee asset associated with the FRBNY Credit Facility, including accelerated amortization of $6.6 billion in connection with the November 25, 2008 restructuring of the FRBNY Credit Facility. During 2009, interest expense benefited from a reduced interest rate on the FRBNY Credit Facility (weighted average rate of 4.5 percent in 2009 compared to 10.6 percent in 2008); however, because the facility was outstanding for the full year in 2009 compared to only 107 days in 2008, the favorable impact was largely offset. 2008 and 2007 Comparison Interest expense increased in 2008 compared to 2007 on higher levels of borrowings primarily due to the interest expense on the FRBNY Credit Facility, inclusive of the amortization of the prepaid commitment fee asset. Interest expense in 2008 also included interest on the junior subordinated debt and Equity Units from the dates of issuance in May 2008. Restructuring Expenses and Related Asset Impairment and Other Expenses In the fourth quarter of 2008, following receipt of federal government assistance, AIG commenced an organization wide restructuring plan, which AIG continued to develop and modify throughout 2009. In connection with activities under this plan, AIG recorded restructuring and separation expenses of $1.4 billion in 2009, consisting 69 AIG 2009 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries of severance expenses of $163 million, contract termination expenses of $53 million, asset write downs of $129 million, other exit expenses of $439 million, and separation expenses of $602 million. Other exit expenses primarily include professional fees related to (i) disposition activities, (ii) AIGs capital restructuring program with the FRBNY and the Department of the Treasury and (iii) unwinding of AIGFPs businesses and portfolios. Severance and separation expenses for 2009 described above include retention awards of $503 million to key employees to maintain ongoing business operations and facilitate the successful execution of the restructuring and asset disposition plan. The awards under these retention plans were granted in 2008 and are accrued ratably over the future service periods, which range from 2008 to 2011. The total amount expected to be incurred related to these 2008 retention plans is approximately $1.1 billion. AIG made payments to the employees under these plans in 2008 and 2009 and expects to make further payments through 2011. The ultimate amount paid could be less primarily due to the effect of forfeitures. The following table presents amounts charged to expense, and expected to be charged to expense, and the total amounts expected to be incurred under the 2008 retention plans, by reportable segment: (In millions) General Insurance Domestic Life Insurance & Retirement Services Foreign Life Insurance & Retirement Services Financial Services Other Total Amounts charged to expense: Year Ended December 31, 2009 $ 122 $ 56 $ 95 $ 173 $ 57 $ 503 Year Ended December 31, 2008 83 52 25 288 96 544 Cumulative incurred since inception of restructuring plan(a) 205 108 120 461 153 1,047 Amounts expected to be incurred in future periods: 2010 2 5 2 9 2011 1 1 Total amounts expected to be incurred in future periods 2 6 2 10 Total amounts expected to be incurred(b) $ 207 $ 108 $ 126 $ 461 $ 155 $ 1,057 (a) Includes an adjustment of $51 million in Financial Services to increase the cumulative amount incurred since inception for retention amounts paid in 2008. (b)At December 31, 2009, remaining amounts payable totaled $393 million. Total restructuring and separation expenses could have a material effect on future consolidated results of operations and cash flows for an individual reporting period. See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion regarding restructuring and separation expenses. Net loss on Sale of Divested Businesses Includes the net loss on sales of divested businesses during 2009 that did not qualify as discontinued operations. See Segment Results Other Operations Other Results herein for further information. Other Expenses 2009 and 2008 Comparison Other expenses for 2009 decreased compared to 2008 primarily due to a decrease in compensation related costs for Parent and Other operations and the noncore Asset Management businesses, including the effect of deconsolidation AIG 2009 Form 10 K 70 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries of certain portfolio investments and the sale of Private Bank, a Swiss bank. Additionally, goodwill impairment charges of $612 million in 2009 are reflected in the Other operations category primarily related to the noncore Institutional Asset Management business compared to goodwill impairment charges of $791 million recorded in 2008 discussed below. 2008 and 2007 Comparison Other expenses increased in 2008 compared to 2007 primarily due to goodwill impairment charges of $791 million in 2008 in the Financial Services segment related to the Consumer Finance and Capital Markets businesses, which resulted from the downturn in the housing markets, the credit crisis and the intent to unwind AIGFPs businesses and portfolios. In addition, Other expenses in 2008 increased compared to 2007 due to higher AGF provisions for finance receivable losses of $674 million in response to the higher levels of delinquencies in AGFs finance receivable portfolio. Income Tax (Benefits) 2009 and 2008 Comparison The effective tax rate on pre tax losses from continuing operations for 2009 was 13.8 percent. The effective tax rate differed from the statutory rate of 35 percent primarily due to an increase in the valuation allowance and reserve for uncertain tax positions, partially offset by tax exempt interest and the change in estimated U.S. tax liability with respect to the potential sale of subsidiaries. At December 31, 2009, AIG reported a net deferred tax asset after valuation allowance of $5.9 billion. Included in this net deferred tax asset is a valuation allowance of $23.7 billion and deferred tax liabilities of $18.5 billion. Management determined, from pending dispositions and tax planning strategies that would be implemented, if necessary, to protect against the loss of the deferred tax assets and excluding projected future operating income, that it is more likely than not that the remaining $5.9 billion net deferred tax asset is realizable. See Critical Accounting Estimates Valuation Allowance on Deferred Tax Assets and Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a rollforward of the deferred tax asset and related valuation allowance. 2008 and 2007 Comparison The effective tax rate on the pre tax loss from continuing operations for 2008 was 8.3 percent. The effective tax rate was lower than the statutory rate of 35 percent due primarily to $25.4 billion of deferred tax expense recorded during 2008, comprising $4.8 billion of deferred tax expense attributable to the potential sale of foreign businesses and a $20.6 billion valuation allowance to reduce its deferred tax asset to an amount that AIG believes is more likely than not to be realized. 71 AIG 2009 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries Segment Results The following table summarizes the operations of each reportable segment. (See also Note 4 to Consolidated Financial Statements.) Percentage Increase/(Decrease) Years Ended December 31, (in millions) 2009 2008 2007 2009 vs. 2008 2008 vs. 2007 Total revenues : General Insurance $ 35,039 $ 34,731 $ 41,162 1 % (16 )% Domestic Life Insurance & Retirement Services 11,366 (19,634 ) 18,189 Foreign Life Insurance & Retirement Services 32,937 16,659 31,795 98 (48 ) Financial Services 9,576 (31,095 ) (1,309 ) Other 9,163 8,449 14,170 8 (40 ) Consolidation and eliminations (2,077 ) (2,214 ) (375 ) Total 96,004 6,896 103,632 (93 ) Net realized capital gains (losses) : General Insurance (530 ) (4,374 ) (242 ) Domestic Life Insurance & Retirement Services (3,514 ) (36,412 ) (2,735 ) Foreign Life Insurance & Retirement Services (1,339 ) (8,208 ) (125 ) Financial Services 55 (498 ) (100 ) Other (1,526 ) (3,213 ) (299 ) Total (6,854 ) (52,705 ) (3,501 ) Pre tax income (loss) : General Insurance 169 (2,451 ) 10,175 Domestic Life Insurance & Retirement Services (1,179 ) (34,948 ) 3,070 Foreign Life Insurance & Retirement Services 3,221 (3,332 ) 5,352 Financial Services 517 (40,821 ) (9,515 ) Other (15,769 ) (23,672 ) (1,699 ) Consolidation and eliminations (607 ) (1,304 ) 751 Total $ (13,648 ) $ (106,528 ) $ 8,134 % % General Insurance Operations AIGs General Insurance subsidiaries are multiple line companies writing substantially all lines of property and casualty insurance both domestically and abroad. As previously noted, AIG believes it should present and discuss its financial information in a manner most meaningful to its financial statement users. Accordingly, in its General Insurance business, AIG uses underwriting profit (loss) to assess performance of the General Insurance business rather than statutory underwriting profit (loss). In order to better align financial reporting with the manner in which AIGs chief operating decision makers review the businesses to make decisions about resources to be allocated and to assess performance, beginning in 2009, the results for Transatlantic, 21st Century, and Mortgage Guaranty, previously reported as part of the General Insurance operating segment, are now included in AIGs Other operations category. In addition, the historical results of HSB (which was sold on March 31, 2009), which were previously included in Commercial Insurance, are also now included in AIGs Other operations category. Additionally, beginning in 2009 General Insurance results include the equity income (loss) from certain equity method investments which were previously included as part of AIGs Other operations category. Prior period amounts have been revised to conform to the current presentation. AIG 2009 Form 10 K 72 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries General Insurance Results The following table presents General Insurance results: Percentage Increase/(Decrease) Years Ended December 31, (in millions) 2009 2008 2007 2009 vs. 2008 2008 vs. 2007 Underwriting results: Net premiums written $ 30,664 $ 35,633 $ 37,107 (14 )% (4 )% Decrease (increase) in unearned premiums 1,610 866 (1,051 ) 86 Net premiums earned 32,274 36,499 36,056 (12 ) 1 Claims and claims adjustment expenses incurred 25,367 26,093 22,391 (3 ) 17 Change in deferred acquisition costs 241 35 (339 ) Other underwriting expenses 9,262 11,054 8,935 (16 ) 24 Underwriting profit (loss) (2,596 ) (683 ) 5,069 Net investment income 3,295 2,606 5,348 26 (51 ) Net realized capital losses (530 ) (4,374 ) (242 ) Pre tax income (loss) $ 169 $ (2,451 ) $ 10,175 % % General Insurance Underwriting Results In managing its general insurance businesses, AIG analyzes the operating performance of its businesses using underwriting profit. Underwriting profit is derived by reducing net premiums earned by claims and claims adjustment expenses incurred and underwriting expenses, including the change in deferred acquisition costs. AIG, along with most property and casualty insurance companies, uses the loss ratio, the expense ratio and the combined ratio as measures of underwriting performance. The loss ratio is the sum of claims and claims adjustment expenses divided by net premiums earned. The expense ratio is underwriting expenses divided by net premiums earned. These ratios are relative measurements that describe, for every $100 of net premiums earned, the cost of losses and expenses, respectively. A combined ratio of less than 100 indicates an underwriting profit and over 100 indicates an underwriting loss. Net premiums written are initially deferred and earned based upon the terms of the underlying policies. The net unearned premium reserve constitutes deferred revenues which are generally earned ratably over the policy period. The underwriting environment varies from country to country, as does the degree of litigation activity. Regulation, product type and competition have a direct effect on pricing and consequently on profitability as reflected in underwriting profit and general insurance ratios. General Insurance Net Premiums Written General Insurance net premiums written decreased in 2009 compared to 2008 as Commercial Insurance net premiums written reflected reductions in insurable exposures primarily driven by the effect of the adverse economic conditions on workers compensation, construction, real estate and transportation lines of business. Declines in Foreign General Insurance net premiums written reflected the sale of the Brazilian operations in 2008 and a negative impact from changes in foreign exchange rates. General Insurance net premiums written decreased in 2008 compared to 2007, as Commercial Insurance net premiums written reflected a decline in workers compensation and other casualty lines of business. These declines were largely offset by growth in Foreign General Insurance from both established and new distribution channels and the positive effect of changes in foreign exchange rates. 73 AIG 2009 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries AIG transacts business in most major foreign currencies. The following table summarizes the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on the growth of General Insurance net premiums written: Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 Decrease in original currency* (12.5 )% (6.0 )% Foreign exchange effect (1.4 ) 2.0 Increase (decrease) as reported in U.S. dollars (13.9 )% (4.0 )% * Computed using a constant exchange rate for each period. General Insurance Underwriting Ratios The following table summarizes General Insurance GAAP combined ratios: Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 Loss ratio 78.6 71.5 62.1 Expense ratio 29.4 30.4 23.8 Combined ratio 108.0 101.9 85.9 The increase in the General Insurance combined ratio for 2009 compared to 2008 primarily resulted from the following: prior year development increased incurred losses by $2.8 billion in 2009 and decreased incurred losses by $39 million in 2008. The 2009 prior year development includes a fourth quarter reserve strengthening charge of $2.3 billion in Commercial Insurance primarily related to excess casualty and excess workers compensation, two long tail lines of business, largely from accident years 2002 and prior; lower levels of favorable development related to loss sensitive policies for Commercial Insurance which amounted to $118 million in 2009 compared to $339 million in 2008. This favorable development is reflected in overall development amounts above and relates to loss sensitive policies that have no material effect on underwriting profit as the amounts are substantially offset by a decline in earned premiums; and effects of premium rate decreases and changes in loss trends. These increases were partially offset by the following: a loss ratio for accident year 2009 recorded in 2009 which was 1.5 points lower than the loss ratio for accident year 2008, resulting from a decline in catastrophe losses from $1.6 billion in 2008 to $53 million in 2009, accounting for 4.3 points of the decrease in the accident year loss ratio. This decrease in accident year loss ratio was partially offset by a $412 million increase in current year loss activity from the recent disruption in the financial markets as well as financial frauds claims in Foreign General Insurance. In 2009, the current accident year combined ratio was 99.2; and decline in the expense ratio of 0.9 points in 2009 compared to 2008 due primarily to a $1.2 billion impairment charge for goodwill remaining from the acquisition of HSB. The General Insurance combined ratio for 2008 increased compared to 2007, primarily due to an increase in the loss ratio. The loss ratio for accident year 2008 recorded in 2008 was 7.4 points higher than the loss ratio for accident year 2007 recorded in 2007. Catastrophe related losses were $1.6 billion and $266 million in 2008 and 2007, respectively, accounting for 4.2 points of the increase in the accident year loss ratio. The loss ratio also increased for other property and casualty lines due to premium rate decreases and changes in loss trends. Development from prior years decreased incurred losses by $39 million in 2008 and decreased incurred losses by $657 million in 2007. The expense ratio for 2008 increased 3.3 points due to $1.2 billion of goodwill impairment charges primarily related to HSB. AIG 2009 Form 10 K 74  Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries General Insurance Investing Results Net investment income for General Insurance increased in 2009 compared to 2008 primarily due to improvement in returns from partnership investments of $561 million. Net investment income in 2008 declined substantially from 2007 due primarily to losses incurred on partnership investments, which resulted in a year over year decline in returns from partnerships of $2.0 billion. Net realized capital losses for General Insurance declined in 2009 compared to 2008 due to lower other than temporary impairments on investments as 2008 results reflected significant other than temporary impairment charges related to the deterioration in the fixed income markets. See Consolidated Results for further discussion on Net investment income and Net realized capital gains (losses). Commercial Insurance Results The following table presents Commercial Insurance results: Percentage Increase/(Decrease) Years Ended December 31, (in millions) 2009 2008 2007 2009 vs. 2008 2008 vs. 2007 Underwriting results: Net premiums written $ 18,373 $ 21,243 $ 24,056 (14 )% (12 )% Decrease (increase) in unearned premiums 1,405 1,169 (349 ) 20 Net premiums earned 19,778 22,412 23,707 (12 ) (5 ) Claims and claims adjustment expenses incurred 17,943 18,255 16,148 (2 ) 13 Change in deferred acquisition costs 230 68 (112 ) 238 Other underwriting expenses 4,171 5,819 4,373 (28 ) 33 Underwriting profit (loss) (2,566 ) (1,730 ) 3,298 Net investment income 2,790 1,981 3,883 41 (49 ) Net realized capital losses (679 ) (3,294 ) (76 ) Pre tax income (loss) $ (455 ) $ (3,043 ) $ 7,105 % % Commercial Insurance Underwriting Results Commercial Insurance Net Premiums Written The following table presents Commercial Insurance net premiums written by line of business: Percentage Increase/(Decrease) Years Ended December 31, (in millions) 2009 2008 2007 2009 vs. 2008 2008 vs. 2007 General liability/auto liability $ 3,266 $ 3,687 $ 4,241 (11 )% (13 )% Workers compensation 2,710 3,491 4,670 (22 ) (25 ) Property 2,345 2,269 2,130 3 7 Management/professional liability 1,856 2,166 2,469 (14 ) (12 ) Commercial umbrella/excess 1,738 2,251 2,671 (23 ) (16 ) A&H products 1,261 1,325 1,216 (5 ) 9 Multinational P&C 978 950 951 3 Private client group 926 964 747 (4 ) 29 Programs 741 900 906 (18 ) (1 ) Healthcare 564 646 720 (13 ) (10 ) Environmental 525 768 863 (32 ) (11 ) Aviation 219 276 320 (21 ) (14 ) Other 1,244 1,550 2,152 (20 ) (28 ) Total $ 18,373 $ 21,243 $ 24,056 (14 )% (12 )% 75 AIG 2009 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries Commercial Insurance net premiums written decreased in 2009 compared to 2008 primarily due to: lower U.S. workers compensation premiums due to declining rates, lower employment levels, increased competition and a strategy to remain price disciplined; declines in the construction, real estate and transportation lines of business, which were negatively affected more than other lines by the credit crisis that limited capital for new projects and impacted the general liability and commercial umbrella lines of business; and adverse effect of AIGs negative publicity in 2009. Commercial Insurance net premiums written decreased in 2008 compared to 2007 primarily due to declines in premiums from workers compensation as well as other casualty lines. Declines in other casualty lines resulted from declining rates and reduced activity in the construction and transportation industries. Management and Professional liability lines also declined compared to 2007 due to increased competition, particularly in the fourth quarter of 2008. Commercial Insurance Underwriting Ratios The following table presents Commercial Insurance GAAP combined ratios: Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 Loss ratio 90.7 81.4 68.1 Expense ratio 22.3 26.3 18.0 Combined ratio 113.0 107.7 86.1 The increase in the Commercial Insurance combined ratio for 2009 compared to 2008 primarily resulted from the following: prior year development increased incurred losses by $2.7 billion in 2009 and by $23 million in 2008. The 2009 prior year development includes a fourth quarter reserve strengthening charge in Commercial Insurance of $2.3 billion primarily related to excess casualty and excess workers compensation, two long tail lines of business, largely from accident years 2002 and prior; lower levels of favorable development related to loss sensitive policies which amounted to $118 million in 2009 compared to $339 million in 2008. This favorable development relates to loss sensitive policies that are substantially offset by a decline in earned premiums; and the effects of premium rate decreases and adverse changes in loss trends. These increases were partially offset by the following: loss ratio for accident year 2009 recorded in 2009 which was 4.4 points lower than the loss ratio for accident year 2008 recorded in 2008 resulting from a decline in catastrophe losses from $1.5 billion in 2008 to $53 million in 2009 accounting for 6.3 points of the decrease. In 2009, the current accident year combined ratio was 98.6; and decline in the expense ratio of 4.0 points in 2009 compared to 2008 due primarily to $1.2 billion of goodwill impairment charges primarily related to HSB. Overall expenses, excluding the 2008 write off of goodwill, declined $452 million, or 9.8 percent compared to 2008 due to lower variable expenses, but were partially offset by higher pension and restructuring costs. While Commercial Insurance is aggressively pursuing expense reductions, the impact of expense savings will lag the decline in net written premiums. The Commercial Insurance combined ratio increased in 2008 compared to 2007. The loss ratio for accident year 2008 recorded in 2008 included a 6.6 point effect related to catastrophe losses, and was 10.8 points higher than the loss ratio for accident year 2007 recorded in 2007. Prior year development increased incurred losses by $23 million in 2008 and reduced incurred losses by $371 million in 2007. Commercial Insurance expense ratio increased in 2008 compared to 2007 primarily due to the write off of goodwill noted above. The remaining increase is due to the decline in net premiums earned and mix of business. AIG 2009 Form 10 K 76 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries Commercial Insurance Investing Results Net investment income for Commercial Insurance increased in 2009 compared to 2008 primarily due to improvement in returns from partnership investments of $691 million. Net investment income in 2008 declined substantially from 2007 due primarily to losses incurred on partnership investments, which resulted in a year over year decline in returns from partnerships of $1.8 billion. Net realized capital losses for Commercial Insurance declined in 2009 compared to 2008 due to lower other than temporary impairments on investments as 2008 results reflected significant other than temporary impairment charges related to the deterioration in the fixed income markets. See Consolidated Results for further discussion on Net investment income and Net realized capital gains (losses). Foreign General Insurance Results The following table presents Foreign General Insurance results: Percentage Increase/(Decrease) Years Ended December 31, (in millions) 2009 2008 2007 2009 vs. 2008 2008 vs. 2007 Underwriting results: Net premiums written $ 12,291 $ 14,390 $ 13,051 (15 )% 10 % Decrease (increase) in unearned premiums 205 (303 ) (702 ) Net premiums earned 12,496 14,087 12,349 (11 ) 14 Claims and claims adjustment expenses incurred 7,424 7,838 6,243 (5 ) 26 Change in deferred acquisition costs 11 (33 ) (227 ) Other underwriting expenses 5,091 5,235 4,562 (3 ) 15 Underwriting profit (loss) (30 ) 1,047 1,771 (41 ) Net investment income 505 625 1,465 (19 ) (57 ) Net realized capital gains (losses) 149 (1,080 ) (166 ) Pre tax income $ 624 $ 592 $ 3,070 5% (81 )% Foreign General Insurance Underwriting Results Foreign General Insurance Net Premiums Written The following table presents Foreign General Insurance net premiums written by line of business: Percentage Increase/(Decrease) Years Ended December 31, (in millions) 2009 2008 2007 2009 vs. 2008 2008 vs. 2007 A&H products $ 3,724 $ 3,907 $ 3,495 (5 )% 12 % Specialty lines 2,327 2,463 2,166 (6 ) 14 Personal lines 2,243 3,169 2,924 (29 ) 8 Casualty 1,679 1,968 1,726 (15 ) 14 Marine & Energy 700 771 694 (9 ) 11 Lloyds 635 623 829 2 (25 ) Property 530 569 471 (7 ) 21 Aviation 261 305 296 (14 ) 3 Other 192 615 450 (69 ) 37 Total $ 12,291 $ 14,390 $ 13,051 (15 )% 10 % 77 AIG 2009 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries Foreign General Insurance net premiums written decreased in 2009 compared to 2008 primarily due to: sale of the Brazilian operations in 2008, which contributed 7.3 percent to the decline, primarily impacting A&H products and Personal Lines businesses; negative effect of changes in foreign exchange rates, which contributed 3.5 percent to the decline; general economic conditions which continued to negatively affect new business; and adverse effect of negative publicity regarding AIG in 2009. Net premiums written increased in 2008 compared to 2007 due to growth in commercial and consumer lines driven by new business from established and new distribution channels, including the late 2007 acquisition of W&uuml;rttembergische und Badische Versicherungs AG (W&uuml;Ba) in Germany. New business in the commercial lines in the U.K. and Europe and decreases in the use of reinsurance increased net premiums earned, but were partially offset by declines in premium rates. Growth in personal accident business in Latin America, South East Asia and Europe also contributed to the increase. However, premiums from the Lloyds Syndicate Ascot continued to decline. AIG transacts business in most major foreign currencies. The following table summarizes the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on the growth of Foreign General Insurance net premiums written: Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 Increase (decrease) in original currency* (11.1 )% 4.6 % Foreign exchange effect (3.5 ) 5.7 Increase (decrease) as reported in U.S. dollars (14.6 )% 10.3 % * Computed using a constant exchange rate for each period. Foreign General Insurance Underwriting Ratios The following table presents Foreign General Insurance combined ratios: Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 Loss ratio 59.4 55.6 50.6 Expense ratio 40.8 36.9 35.1 Combined ratio 100.2 92.5 85.7 The increase in the Foreign General Insurance combined ratio for 2009 compared to 2008 primarily resulted from the following: increase in the loss ratio of 3.3 points as a result of an increase in financial lines claims of $412 million arising from the recent disruption in the financial markets as well as financial frauds; increases in current accident year loss ratio and severe losses were offset by a mild hurricane season, while 2008 was affected by natural catastrophes Hurricanes Gustav and Ike. For 2009, the current accident year combined ratio was 100.2 compared to 93.0 in 2008; and an increase in the expense ratio in 2009 compared to 2008 due to increased separation costs, restructuring charges, certain costs associated with bad debt related expenses, pension costs, as well as in increase in unearned premiums. The loss ratio in 2008 increased compared to 2007. The loss ratio for accident year 2008 recorded in 2008 was 3.2 points higher than the loss ratio recorded in 2007 for accident year 2007 primarily due to continued rate erosion and increased lower level claims frequency. Loss development on prior accident years increased the loss ratio by 1.9 points. AIG 2009 Form 10 K 78 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries Foreign General Insurance Investing Results Foreign General Insurance Net investment income decreased in 2009 compared to 2008 primarily due to losses from an equity method investment, and lower yields on the fixed income portfolios, partially offset by improving mutual fund income due to improved market conditions. Net investment income decreased in 2008 compared to 2007 reflecting lower mutual fund and partnership income related to poor performance in the equity markets. Foreign General Insurance recorded Net realized capital gains in 2009 compared to net realized capital losses in 2008 due to the adoption of the new other than temporary impairment accounting standard commencing in the second quarter of 2009. Net realized capital losses in 2008 increased compared to 2007 due to higher other than temporary impairments on investments as 2008 results reflected significant charges related to the deterioration in the fixed income markets (see Consolidated Results Net Realized Capital Gains (Losses) for further discussion). In 2007 realized capital gains and losses included $150 million of other than temporary impairments relating to an equity method investment. Liability for Unpaid Claims and Claims Adjustment Expense The following discussion on the consolidated Liability for unpaid claims and claims adjustment expenses (loss reserves) presents loss reserves for the Commercial Insurance and Foreign General Insurance reporting units in the General Insurance operating segment and loss reserves pertaining to divested and or Noncore businesses, comprising the Transatlantic, 21st Century and Mortgage Guaranty reporting units reported in AIGs Other operations category. The following table presents the components of the loss reserves by major lines of business on a statutory annual statement basis(a): At December 31, (in millions) 2009 2008 Other liability occurrence $ 20,344 $ 19,773 Workers compensation 15,200 15,170 Other liability claims made 12,619 13,189 International 12,582 11,786 Mortgage Guaranty/Credit 5,477 3,137 Auto liability 4,164 5,593 Property 3,872 5,201 Products liability 2,414 2,400 Accident and health 1,677 1,451 Medical malpractice 1,672 2,210 Aircraft 1,388 1,693 Commercial multiple peril 1,081 1,163 Fidelity/surety 875 1,028 Reinsurance 154 3,102 Other 1,867 2,362 Total(b) $ 85,386 $ 89,258 (a) Presented by lines of business pursuant to statutory reporting requirements as prescribed by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners. (b)The decrease from the December 31, 2008 loss reserve amount was primarily due to the deconsolidation of Transatlantic. AIGs gross loss reserves represent the accumulation of estimates of ultimate losses, including estimates for incurred but not yet reported reserves (IBNR) and loss expenses. The methods used to determine loss reserve estimates and to establish the resulting reserves are continually reviewed and updated. Any adjustments resulting from this review are currently reflected in pre tax income. Because loss reserve estimates are subject to the outcome of future events, changes in estimates are unavoidable given that loss trends vary and time is often required for changes in trends to be recognized and confirmed. Reserve changes that increase previous estimates of ultimate cost are 79 AIG 2009 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries referred to as unfavorable or adverse development or reserve strengthening. Reserve changes that decrease previous estimates of ultimate cost are referred to as favorable development. At December 31, 2009, net loss reserves decreased from the prior year end primarily due to the divested businesses noted below. The net loss reserves represent loss reserves reduced by reinsurance recoverable, net of an allowance for unrecoverable reinsurance and applicable discount for future investment income. The following table classifies the components of the net liability for unpaid claims and claims adjustment expense by business unit: Years Ended December 31, (in millions) 2009 2008 General Insurance segment: Commercial Insurance(a) $ 50,498 $ 48,896 Foreign General Insurance 12,688 10,853 Total General Insurance 63,186 59,749 Noncore businesses: Transatlantic(b) 7,349 21st Century(a)(b) 2,065 Mortgage Guaranty 4,713 3,004 HSB(b) 288 Total Noncore businesses 4,713 12,706 Total net loss reserves $ 67,899 $ 72,455 (a) December 31, 2008 balances have been revised to reclassify Private Client Group into Commercial Insurance. (b)Transatlantic was deconsolidated during the second quarter of 2009, 21st Century was sold in the third quarter of 2009 and HSB was sold during the first quarter of 2009. Discounting of Reserves At December 31, 2009, net loss reserves reflect a loss reserve discount of $2.66 billion, including tabular and non tabular calculations. The tabular workers compensation discount is calculated using a 3.5 percent interest rate and the 1979 81 Decennial Mortality Table. The non tabular workers compensation discount is calculated separately for companies domiciled in New York and Pennsylvania, and follows the statutory regulations for each state. For New York companies, the discount is based on a five percent interest rate and the companies own payout patterns. For Pennsylvania companies, the statute has specified discount factors for accident years 2001 and prior, which are based on a six percent interest rate and an industry payout pattern. For accident years 2002 and subsequent, the discount is based on the payout patterns and investment yields of the companies. Certain other liability occurrence and products liability occurrence business in AIRCO that was written by Commercial Insurance is discounted based on the yield of Department of the Treasury securities ranging from one to twenty years and the Commercial Insurance payout pattern for this business. The discount is comprised of the following: $669 million tabular discount for workers compensation in Commercial Insurance; $1.9 billion non tabular discount for workers compensation in Commercial Insurance; $130 million non tabular discount for other liability occurrence and products liability occurrence in AIRCO for Commercial Insurance business. Since 1998, AIRCO has assumed on a quota share basis certain general liability and products liability business written by Commercial Insurance, and the reserves for this business are carried on a discounted basis by AIRCO. AIG 2009 Form 10 K 80  Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries Results of the Reserving Process AIG believes that the net loss reserves are adequate to cover net losses and loss expenses as of December 31, 2009. While AIG regularly reviews the adequacy of established loss reserves, there can be no assurance that AIGs ultimate loss reserves will not develop adversely and materially exceed AIGs loss reserves as of December 31, 2009. In the opinion of management, such adverse development and resulting increase in reserves is not likely to have a material adverse effect on AIGs consolidated financial condition, although it could have a material adverse effect on AIGs consolidated results of operations for an individual reporting period. See Item 1A. Risk Factors Casualty Insurance Underwriting and Reserves. The following table presents the reconciliation of net loss reserves: Years Ended December 31, (in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Net liability for unpaid claims and claims adjustment expense at beginning of year $ 72,455 $ 69,288 $ 62,630 Foreign exchange effect 1,416 (2,113 ) 955 Acquisitions(a) 317 Dispositions(b) (9,657 ) (269 ) Losses and loss expenses incurred:(c) Current year 27,359 35,085 30,261 Prior years, other than accretion of discount 2,771 118 (656 ) Prior years, accretion of discount 313 317 327 Losses and loss expenses incurred 30,443 35,520 29,932 Losses and loss expenses paid:(c) Current year 11,082 13,440 9,684 Prior years 15,676 16,531 14,862 Losses and loss expenses paid 26,758 29,971 24,546 Net liability for unpaid claims and claims adjustment expense at end of year $ 67,899 $ 72,455 $ 69,288 (a) Represents the opening balance with respect to the acquisition of W&uuml;Ba in 2007. (b)Transatlantic was deconsolidated during the second quarter of 2009, 21st Century was sold in the third quarter of 2009, HSB was sold during the first quarter of 2009, and Unibanco was sold in the fourth quarter of 2008. (c)Includes amounts related to dispositions through the date of disposition. 81 AIG 2009 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries The following tables summarize development, (favorable) or unfavorable, of incurred losses and loss expenses for prior years (other than accretion of discount): Years Ended December 31, (in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Prior Accident Year Development by Reporting Unit: General Insurance segment: Commercial Insurance $ 2,749 $ 23 $ (371 ) Foreign General Insurance 9 (62 ) (286 ) Total General Insurance segment 2,758 (39 ) (657 ) Noncore businesses: Transatlantic* (5 ) (1 ) 88 21st Century* (17 ) 87 24 Mortgage Guaranty 38 177 (25 ) HSB* (3 ) (69 ) (36 ) Total Noncore businesses: 13 194 51 Asbestos settlements (37 ) (50 ) Prior years, other than accretion of discount $ 2,771 $ 118 $ (656 ) * Transatlantic was deconsolidated during the second quarter of 2009, 21st Century was sold in the third quarter of 2009 and HSB was sold during the first quarter of 2009. Years Ended December 31, (in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Prior Accident Year Development by Major Class of Business: Excess casualty (Commercial Insurance) $ 1,507 $ 1,105 $ 73 D&O and related management liability (Commercial Insurance) (39 ) (430 ) (305 ) Excess workers compensation (Commercial Insurance) 956 (12 ) (14 ) Healthcare (Commercial Insurance) (92 ) (310 ) (194 ) Reinsurance (Transatlantic) (5 ) (1 ) 88 Asbestos and environmental (primarily Commercial Insurance) 155 51 18 All other, net 289 (285 ) (322 ) Prior years, other than accretion of discount $ 2,771 $ 118 $ (656 ) Calendar Year Years Ended December 31, (in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Prior Accident Year Development by Accident Year: Accident Year 2008 $ 289 2007 (57 ) $ (370 ) 2006 (91 ) (590 ) $ (1,248 ) 2005 18 (455 ) (446 ) 2004 182 (335 ) (428 ) 2003 73 200 37 2002 126 176 234 2001 316 238 263 2000 356 341 321 1999 & Prior 1,559 913 611 Prior years, other than accretion of discount $ 2,771 $ 118 $ (656 ) AIG 2009 Form 10 K 82 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries In determining the loss development from prior accident years, AIG conducts analyses to determine the change in estimated ultimate loss for each accident year for each class of business. For example, if loss emergence for a class of business is different than expected for certain accident years, the actuaries examine the indicated effect such emergence would have on the reserves of that class of business. In some cases, the higher or lower than expected emergence may result in no clear change in the ultimate loss estimate for the accident years in question, and no adjustment would be made to the reserves for the class of business for prior accident years. In other cases, the higher or lower than expected emergence may result in a larger change, either favorable or unfavorable, than the difference between the actual and expected loss emergence. Such additional analyses were conducted for each class of business, as appropriate, in 2009 to determine the loss development from prior accident years for 2009. As part of its reserving process, AIG also considers notices of claims received with respect to emerging issues, such as those related to the U.S. mortgage and housing market. 2009 Net Loss Development In 2009, General Insurance net loss development from prior accident years, excluding $313 million from accretion of loss reserve discount, was adverse by approximately $2.76 billion due to adverse development of: $1.51 billion relating to excess casualty business within Commercial Insurance, related to accident years 2006 and prior. This adverse development was primarily attributable to continued loss emergence in accident years 2002 and prior and increased loss emergence in accident years 2004 to 2006 significantly in excess of the historical loss emergence pattern for this class of business, resulting in AIG increasing its loss development assumptions for excess casualty business (see Net Loss Development by Class of Business below); $956 million pertaining to excess workers compensation within Commercial Insurance. In 2009, Commercial Insurance experienced an emergence of losses on accident years 1999 and prior. In response to this development, AIG conducted an additional actuarial study analyzing the development patterns emanating from the AIG claims staff projections of expected ultimate cost for each open claim. This analysis resulted in AIG increasing its loss development assumptions for this long tail class of business (see Net Loss Development by Class of Business below); and $151 million pertaining to asbestos claims from accident years 2002 and prior, primarily relating to Commercial Insurance. AIGs total net loss development from prior accident years for 2009, including Noncore businesses, was adverse by approximately $2.8 billion. Mortgage Guaranty accounted for approximately $38 million of adverse development, relating primarily to its international business. 2008 Net Loss Development In 2008, General Insurance net loss development from prior accident years was favorable by approximately $39 million, including approximately $339 million of favorable development relating to loss sensitive business in the first three months of 2008 (which was offset by an equal amount of negative earned premium development), and excluding approximately $317 million from accretion of loss reserve discount. Excluding both the favorable development relating to loss sensitive business and accretion of loss reserve discount, General Insurance net loss development from prior accident years in 2008 was adverse by approximately $300 million. The overall favorable development of approximately $39 million consisted of adverse development of: $1.1 billion from excess casualty business within Commercial Insurance which reflected: higher than expected emergence for accident years 2002 and prior, and to a lesser extent accident years 2003 and 2004 (see Net Loss Development by Class of Business below); 83 AIG 2009 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries $200 million from claims involving MTBE, a gasoline additive, primarily on excess casualty business within Commercial Insurance from accident years 2000 and prior; and continued emergence of latent claims such as construction defect, product aggregate, and pharmaceutical related exposures, as well as higher than expected large loss activity (see Net Loss Development by Class of Business below). The adverse development relating to excess casualty was offset by favorable development of: $660 million from business written by Lexington Insurance Company, including healthcare, catastrophic casualty, casualty and program businesses; and $430 million from Financial Services divisions within Commercial Insurance, including D&O and related management liability business. The favorable development of $339 million on loss sensitive business was offset by adverse development from other classes including primary workers compensation as well as reserves relating to reinsurance commutations and to asbestos. AIGs total net loss development from prior accident years for 2008, including Noncore businesses, was adverse by $118 million. Mortgage Guaranty contributed approximately $177 million of overall adverse development in 2008, with $159 million relating to accident year 2007. 2007 Net Loss Development In 2007, General Insurance net loss development from prior accident years was favorable by approximately $657 million, excluding approximately $327 million from accretion of loss reserve discount. The overall favorable development of $657 million consisted of favorable development of: $305 million pertaining to the D&O and related management liability classes of business within Commercial Insurance; $286 million pertaining to Foreign General, primarily relating to financial lines and excess casualty lines; and $194 million pertaining to healthcare business within Commercial Insurance. In 2007, most classes of AIGs business continued to experience favorable development for accident years 2004 through 2006. The favorable development was partially offset by adverse development of: $300 million from primary workers compensation business within Commercial Insurance; and $73 million pertaining to excess casualty business within Commercial Insurance. AIGs total net loss development from prior accident years for 2007, including Noncore businesses, was favorable by $656 million. The noncore business prior year development included adverse development of $88 million from Transatlantic and favorable development of $25 million from Mortgage Guaranty. Net Loss Development by Class of Business The following is a discussion of the primary reasons for the development in 2009, 2008 and 2007 for those classes of business that experienced significant prior accident year developments during the three year period. See Asbestos and Environmental Reserves below for a further discussion of asbestos and environmental reserves and development. Excess Casualty: Excess Casualty reserves experienced significant adverse loss development in 2009 and 2008, following relatively minor adverse development in 2007. However, all three years exhibited significant adverse development from accident years 2002 and prior. The increase in loss costs resulted primarily from medical inflation, which increased the economic loss component of tort claims, advances in medical care, which extended the life span of severely injured claimants, and larger jury verdicts, which increased the value of severe tort claims. An additional factor affecting AIGs excess casualty experience in recent years has been the exhaustion of underlying primary AIG 2009 Form 10 K 84 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries policies for products liability coverage and for homebuilders. This has led to increased loss emergence relating to claims involving exhaustion of underlying product aggregates and increased construction defect related claims activity on AIGs excess and umbrella policies. Many excess casualty policies were written on a multi year basis in the late 1990s, which limited AIGs ability to respond to emerging market trends as rapidly as would otherwise be the case. In subsequent years, AIG responded to these emerging trends by increasing rates and implementing numerous policy form and coverage changes. This led to a significant improvement in experience beginning with accident year 2001. In 2007 and 2008, a significant portion of the adverse development from accident years 2002 and prior also related to latent exposures, including pharmaceutical exposures as well as the construction defect and product aggregate related exposures noted above. AIGs exposure to these latent exposures was sharply reduced after 2002 due to significant changes in policy terms and conditions as well as underwriting guidelines. Another contributor to the adverse development during 2007 through 2009 is that actual loss development for other large losses for accident years 1998 and subsequent have emerged at higher than expected levels as compared to the loss emergence pattern exhibited from earlier accident years. This has caused significant additional development for accident years 1998 to 2002, and to a lesser extent for accident years 2003 to 2006. In 2009 the vast majority of the prior accident year development was attributable to the loss emergence significantly exceeding the historical average for this class of business. For the year end 2009 loss reserve review, in response to significantly higher than expected loss emergence, AIG reviewed the indicated reserves for excess casualty under a variety of loss development assumptions. These assumptions ranged from long term loss development averages, which utilized all or nearly all of the historical data for this class, to short term averages which utilized only the latest three to five calendar years of loss development experience. AIG gave greater recognition to the recent calendar year experience, resulting in significantly higher loss development factor assumptions for the year end 2009 loss reserve review. This change in loss development assumptions increased the excess casualty reserves by approximately $815 million for accident years 2006 and prior. Additionally, in conjunction with the selection of higher loss development factors described above, AIG assigned greater credibility to the emerging loss development factors for product aggregate related claims, which are reviewed separately. This resulted in an increase of approximately $195 million in reserves, primarily for accident years 2000 and prior. In the 2008 review of the product aggregate related loss development, only partial credibility had been given to the emerging loss development experience for product aggregate related claims. Finally, AIG claims staff updated its review of accounts with significant exposure to construction defect related claims. This resulted in an increase of approximately $65 million. For the year end 2008 loss reserve review, AIG claims staff updated its review of accounts with significant exposure to construction defect related claims. In response to the continued upward developments on these claims, and based on an updated analysis of this development, AIG increased the reserves by an additional $75 million beyond the increases identified in the claims review. In response to the continued adverse development of product aggregate related claims during 2007 and 2008, AIGs actuaries conducted a special analysis of product aggregate related claims development, resulting in an increase in the IBNR reserve for this exposure of $175 million. In response to the high level of pharmaceutical related claim emergence during 2007 and 2008, AIG claims staff reviewed the remaining exposure, and based on this review an additional reserve of $10 million was established. In response to the much greater than expected actual loss emergence for other large losses for accident years 1998 and subsequent during 2007 and 2008, AIGs actuaries increased the loss development factor assumptions for this business, resulting in a further increase of approximately $200 million in loss reserves for this class. In total, the specific increases in reserves related to these items increased the excess casualty reserves by approximately $460 million during 2008, of which $370 million was recognized in AIGs fourth quarter 2008 results. In the first three months of 2008, AIG also recognized approximately $200 million of losses relating to MTBE, a gasoline additive, which primarily related to excess casualty business from accident years 2000 and prior. For the year end 2007 loss reserve review, AIG claims staff updated its review of accounts with significant exposure to construction defect related claims. AIGs actuaries determined that no significant changes in the assumptions were required. Prior accident year loss development in 2007 was adverse by approximately $75 million, a minor amount for this class of business. However, AIG continued to experience adverse development in this class for accident years 2002 and prior, amounting to approximately $450 million in 2007. In addition, loss reserves developed adversely for accident year 2003 by approximately $100 million in 2007 for this class. The loss ratio for accident year 2003 remained 85 AIG 2009 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries very favorable for this class and had been relatively stable over the past several years. Favorable development in 2007 for accident years 2004 through 2006 largely offset the adverse development from accident years 2003 and prior. A significant portion of the adverse development from accident years 2002 and prior related to the latent exposures described in the 2008 discussion. Loss reserves pertaining to the excess casualty class of business are generally included in the other liability occurrence line of business, with a small portion of the excess casualty reserves included in the other liability claims made line of business, as presented in the table above. Excess Workers Compensation: AIG experienced significant adverse development for this class during 2009, following two years of immaterial development in 2007 and 2008. Excess workers compensation is an extremely long tail class of business, with loss emergence extending for decades. For the mature accident years, AIG utilizes claims projections provided by AIG claims staff to help determine the loss development factors for this class of business. For the year end 2009 loss reserve review, AIG increased the loss development assumptions for this class of business, resulting in approximately a $925 million increase in reserves. The increased loss development assumptions were based on an additional actuarial study performed by AIG in response to the emergence of losses in accident years 1999 and prior. This study analyzed the development patterns emanating from the AIG claims staff projections of expected ultimate cost for each open claim. No significant changes in assumptions were made in either the year end 2008 or year end 2007 loss reserve reviews. D&O and Related Management Liability Classes of Business: AIG experienced a significant favorable development during 2007 and 2008, but only a relatively minor amount of favorable development in 2009. The favorable development throughout the three year period related primarily to accident years 2004 and 2005, and to a lesser extent accident years 2003 and 2006. Loss cost trends for D&O and related management liability classes of business were adverse in accident years 2002 and prior due to a variety of factors, including an increase in frequency and severity of corporate bankruptcies; the increase in the frequency of financial restatements; the sharp rise in market capitalization of publicly traded companies; and the increase in the number of initial public offerings. The 2003 through 2006 period was marked by a significant reduction in claims related to these factors; thus the expected loss ratios initially established for these accident years have developed favorably, particularly for 2004 and 2005. Beginning in accident year 2007, claims relating to the credit crisis have resulted in increased overall claim activity, and accident year 2007 reserves developed adversely by a relatively insignificant amount during 2008. During 2009, reserves developed adversely for accident year 2008; however this was offset by continued favorable development from earlier accident years particularly 2004 through 2007. AIG utilizes ground up claims projections by AIG claims staff as a benchmark to select the loss reserves for this business; these projections are updated annually. For the year end 2009 loss reserve review, AIGs actuaries took into account the favorable development for accident years 2007 and prior, as well as adverse development from accident year 2008. In response to the emerging favorable development observed in the ground up claims projections by AIG claims staff over the past several years, AIG considered both the higher than expected initial claim projections for accident year 2008 as well as the favorable developments for the claims projections from the earlier accident years in determining the loss ratio for accident year 2009. For the year end 2008 loss reserve review, AIGs actuaries took into account the favorable loss emergence for accident years 2006 and prior. They determined that, in order to respond to the significant favorable loss emergence during 2007 and 2008, greater weight should be applied to the improving loss experience for accident years 2006 and prior. Loss reserve selections therefore gave increased weight to the improved experience and less weight to the ground up claim projections for these accident years, as the experience has continued to improve relative to the claim benchmark that was originally established for these accident years. For accident year 2007, the claim projections include claims relating to the credit crisis. The recognition of these projections resulted in a significant increase in loss reserves for some D&O subclasses. However this was partially offset by favorable loss development for other subclasses that were significantly less affected by the credit crisis. The overall development for accident year 2007 was thus only a modest increase in loss reserves. The reserves established for accident year 2008 reflect AIGs expectation of increased claim activity relating to the credit crisis. Given the uncertainty of the ultimate development from claims AIG 2009 Form 10 K 86 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries relating to the credit crisis in accident years 2007 and 2008, there is a greater than normal potential variation in the loss ratios for these accident years. The increased responsiveness to the improving loss trends for accident years 2006 and prior resulted in approximately $225 million of favorable loss development in the fourth quarter of 2008 for this business, primarily in accident years 2004 and 2005. For the year end 2007 loss reserve review, AIGs actuaries determined that no significant changes in the assumptions were required. Prior accident year reserve development in 2007 was favorable by approximately $305 million, due primarily to favorable development from accident years 2004 and 2005, and to a lesser extent 2003 and 2006. AIGs actuaries continued to benchmark the loss reserve indications to the ground up claim projections provided by AIG claims staff for this class of business. For the year end 2007 loss reserve review, the ground up claim projections included all accident years through 2006, and included stock options backdating related exposures from accident year 2006. Loss reserves pertaining to D&O and related management liability classes of business are included in the other liability claims made line of business, as presented in the table above. Healthcare: Healthcare business written by Commercial Insurance produced moderate favorable development in 2007 and 2009 and significant favorable development in 2008. Healthcare loss reserves have benefited from favorable market conditions and an improved legal environment in accident years 2002 and subsequent, following a period of adverse loss trends and market conditions that began in the mid 1990s. For the year end 2008 loss reserve review, AIGs actuaries responded to the consistently favorable experience observed during the latest three years by utilizing more responsive assumptions relating to loss development factors, loss trend factors, and expected loss ratios for this business. These modified assumptions resulted in approximately $140 million of additional favorable development that was recognized in the fourth quarter of 2008 for this business. No significant changes in assumptions were made for the year end 2009 loss reserve review. Overview of Loss Reserving Process The General Insurance loss reserves can generally be categorized into two distinct groups. One group is short tail classes of business consisting principally of property, personal lines and certain casualty classes. The other group is long tail casualty classes of business which includes excess and umbrella liability, D&O, professional liability, medical malpractice, workers compensation, general liability, products liability and related classes. Short Tail Reserves For operations writing short tail coverages, such as property coverages, the process of recording quarterly loss reserves is generally geared toward maintaining an appropriate reserve for the outstanding exposure, rather than determining an expected loss ratio for current business. For example, the IBNR reserve required for a class of property business might be expected to approximate 20 percent of the latest years earned premiums, and this level of reserve would generally be maintained regardless of the loss ratio emerging in the current quarter. The 20 percent factor would be adjusted to reflect changes in rate levels, loss reporting patterns, known exposure to unreported losses, or other factors affecting the particular class of business. Long Tail Reserves Estimation of ultimate net losses and loss expenses (net losses) for long tail casualty classes of business is a complex process and depends on a number of factors, including the class and volume of business involved. Experience in the more recent accident years of long tail casualty classes of business shows limited statistical credibility in reported net losses because a relatively low proportion of net losses would be reported claims and expenses and an even smaller percentage would be net losses paid. Therefore, IBNR would constitute a relatively high proportion of net losses. AIGs carried net long tail loss reserves are tested using loss trend factors that AIG considers appropriate for each class of business. A variety of actuarial methods and assumptions is normally employed to estimate net losses for long tail casualty classes of business. These methods ordinarily involve the use of loss trend factors intended to reflect the annual growth in loss costs from one accident year to the next. For the majority of long tail casualty classes of 87 AIG 2009 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries business, net loss trend factors approximated five percent. Loss trend factors reflect many items including changes in claims handling, exposure and policy forms, current and future estimates of monetary inflation and social inflation and increases in litigation and awards. These factors are periodically reviewed and adjusted, as appropriate, to reflect emerging trends which are based upon past loss experience. Thus, many factors are implicitly considered in estimating the year to year growth in loss costs. A number of actuarial assumptions are generally made in the review of reserves for each class of business. For longer tail classes of business, actuarial assumptions generally are made with respect to the following: Loss trend factors which are used to establish expected loss ratios for subsequent accident years based on the projected loss ratios for prior accident years. Expected loss ratios for the latest accident year (i.e., accident year 2009 for the year end 2009 loss reserve analysis) and, in some cases for accident years prior to the latest accident year. The expected loss ratio generally reflects the projected loss ratio from prior accident years, adjusted for the loss trend (see above) and the effect of rate changes and other quantifiable factors on the loss ratio. For low frequency, high severity classes such as excess casualty, expected loss ratios generally are used for at least the three most recent accident years. Loss development factors which are used to project the reported losses for each accident year to an ultimate basis. Generally, the actual loss development factors observed from prior accident years would be used as a basis to determine the loss development factors for the subsequent accident years. AIG records quarterly changes in loss reserves for each of its many General Insurance classes of business. The overall change in AIGs loss reserves is based on the sum of these classes of business changes. For most long tail classes of business, the process of recording quarterly loss reserve changes involves determining the estimated current loss ratio for each class of coverage. This loss ratio is multiplied by the current quarters net earned premium for that class of coverage to determine the current accident quarters total estimated net incurred loss and loss expense. The change in loss reserves for the quarter for each class is thus the difference between the net incurred loss and loss expense, estimated as described above, and the net paid losses and loss expenses in the quarter. Also, any change in estimated ultimate losses from prior accident years, either positive or negative, is reflected in the loss reserve for the current quarter. Details of the Loss Reserving Process The process of determining the current loss ratio for each class of business is based on a variety of factors. These include, but are not limited to, the following considerations: prior accident year and policy year loss ratios; rate changes; changes in coverage, reinsurance, or mix of business; and actual and anticipated changes in external factors affecting results, such as trends in loss costs or in the legal and claims environment. The current loss ratio for each class of business reflects input from actuarial, underwriting and claims staff and is intended to represent managements best estimate of the current loss ratio after reflecting all of the factors described above. At the close of each quarter, the assumptions underlying the loss ratios are reviewed to determine if the loss ratios remain appropriate. This process includes a review of the actual claims experience in the quarter, actual rate changes achieved, actual changes in coverage, reinsurance or mix of business, and changes in certain other factors that may affect the loss ratio. When this review suggests that the initially determined loss ratio is no longer appropriate, the loss ratio for current business is changed to reflect the revised assumptions. A comprehensive annual loss reserve review is completed in the fourth quarter of each year for each AIG General Insurance subsidiary. These reviews are conducted in full detail for each class of business for each subsidiary, and thus consist of hundreds of individual analyses. The purpose of these reviews is to confirm the appropriateness of the reserves carried by each of the individual subsidiaries, and therefore of AIGs overall carried reserves. The reserve analysis for each class of business is performed by the actuarial personnel who are most familiar with that class of business. In completing these detailed actuarial reserve analyses, the actuaries are required to make numerous assumptions, including the selection of loss development factors and loss cost trend factors. They are also required to determine and select the most appropriate actuarial methods to employ for each business class. Additionally, they must determine the appropriate segmentation of data from which the adequacy of the reserves can be most accurately AIG 2009 Form 10 K 88 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries tested. In the course of these detailed reserve reviews an actuarial central estimate of the loss reserve is determined. The sum of these central estimates for each class of business for each subsidiary provides an overall actuarial central estimate of the loss reserve for that subsidiary. The ultimate process by which the actual carried reserves are determined considers both the internal actuarial central estimate and numerous other internal and external factors including a qualitative assessment of inflation and other economic conditions in the United States and abroad, changes in the legal, regulatory, judicial and social environment, underlying policy pricing, terms and conditions, and claims handling, as well as third party actuarial reviews that are periodically performed for key classes of business. Loss reserve development can also be affected by commutations of assumed and ceded reinsurance agreements. Actuarial Methods for Major Classes of Business In testing the reserves for each class of business, a determination is made by AIGs actuaries as to the most appropriate actuarial methods. This determination is based on a variety of factors including the nature of the claims associated with the class of business, such as frequency or severity. Other factors considered include the loss development characteristics associated with the claims, the volume of claim data available for the applicable class, and the applicability of various actuarial methods to the class. In addition to determining the actuarial methods, the actuaries determine the appropriate loss reserve groupings of data. For example, AIG writes a great number of unique subclasses of professional liability. For pricing or other purposes, it is appropriate to evaluate the profitability of each subclass individually. However, for purposes of estimating the loss reserves for professional liability, it is appropriate to combine the subclasses into larger groups. The greater degree of credibility in the claims experience of the larger groups may outweigh the greater degree of homogeneity of the individual subclasses. This determination of data segmentation and actuarial methods is carefully considered for each class of business. The segmentation and actuarial methods chosen are those which together are expected to produce the most accurate estimate of the loss reserves. Actuarial methods used by AIG for most long tail casualty classes of business include loss development methods and expected loss ratio methods, including "Bornhuetter Ferguson" methods described below. Other methods considered include frequency/severity methods, although these are generally used by AIG more for pricing analysis than for loss reserve analysis. Loss development methods utilize the actual loss development patterns from prior accident years to project the reported losses to an ultimate basis for subsequent accident years. Loss development methods generally are most appropriate for classes of business which exhibit a stable pattern of loss development from one accident year to the next, and for which the components of the classes have similar development characteristics. For example, property exposures would generally not be combined into the same class as casualty exposures, and primary casualty exposures would generally not be combined into the same class as excess casualty exposures. Expected loss ratio methods are generally utilized by AIG where the reported loss data lacks sufficient credibility to utilize loss development methods, such as for new classes of business or for long tail classes at early stages of loss development. Expected loss ratio methods rely on the application of an expected loss ratio to the earned premium for the class of business to determine the loss reserves. For example, an expected loss ratio of 70 percent applied to an earned premium base of $10 million for a class of business would generate an ultimate loss estimate of $7 million. Subtracting any reported paid losses and loss expense would result in the indicated loss reserve for this class. "Bornhuetter Ferguson" methods are expected loss ratio methods for which the expected loss ratio is applied only to the expected unreported portion of the losses. For example, for a long tail class of business for which only 10 percent of the losses are expected to be reported at the end of the accident year, the expected loss ratio would be applied to the 90 percent of the losses still unreported. The actual reported losses at the end of the accident year would be added to determine the total ultimate loss estimate for the accident year. Subtracting the reported paid losses and loss expenses would result in the indicated loss reserve. In the example above, the expected loss ratio of 70 percent would be multiplied by 90 percent. The result of 63 percent would be applied to the earned premium of $10 million resulting in an estimated unreported loss of $6.3 million. Actual reported losses would be added to arrive at the total ultimate losses. If the reported losses were $1 million, the ultimate loss estimate under the "Bornhuetter Ferguson" method would be $7.3 million versus the $7 million amount under the expected loss ratio method described above. Thus, the "Bornhuetter Ferguson" method gives partial credibility to the actual loss experience to date for the class of business. Loss development methods generally give full credibility to the reported loss experience to date. In the example above, loss development methods would typically indicate an ultimate loss estimate of $10 million, as the reported losses of $1 million would be estimated to reflect only 10 percent of the ultimate losses. 89 AIG 2009 Form 10 K  Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries A key advantage of loss development methods is that they respond quickly to any actual changes in loss costs for the class of business. Therefore, if loss experience is unexpectedly deteriorating or improving, the loss development method gives full credibility to the changing experience. Expected loss ratio methods would be slower to respond to the change, as they would continue to give more weight to the expected loss ratio, until enough evidence emerged for the expected loss ratio to be modified to reflect the changing loss experience. On the other hand, loss development methods have the disadvantage of overreacting to changes in reported losses if in fact the loss experience is not credible. For example, the presence or absence of large losses at the early stages of loss development could cause the loss development method to overreact to the favorable or unfavorable experience by assuming it will continue at later stages of development. In these instances, expected loss ratio methods such as "Bornhuetter Ferguson" have the advantage of properly recognizing large losses without extrapolating unusual large loss activity onto the unreported portion of the losses for the accident year. AIGs loss reserve reviews for long tail classes typically utilize a combination of both loss development and expected loss ratio methods. Loss development methods are generally given more weight for accident years and classes of business where the loss experience is highly credible. Expected loss ratio methods are given more weight where the reported loss experience is less credible, or is driven more by large losses. Expected loss ratio methods require sufficient information to determine the appropriate expected loss ratio. This information generally includes the actual loss ratios for prior accident years, and rate changes as well as underwriting or other changes which would affect the loss ratio. Further, an estimate of the loss cost trend or loss ratio trend is required in order to allow for the effect of inflation and other factors which may increase or otherwise change the loss costs from one accident year to the next. Frequency/severity methods generally rely on the determination of an ultimate number of claims and an average severity for each claim for each accident year. Multiplying the estimated ultimate number of claims for each accident year by the expected average severity of each claim produces the estimated ultimate loss for the accident year. Frequency/severity methods generally require a sufficient volume of claims in order for the average severity to be predictable. Average severity for subsequent accident years is generally determined by applying an estimated annual loss cost trend to the estimated average claim severity from prior accident years. Frequency/severity methods have the advantage that ultimate claim counts can generally be estimated more quickly and accurately than can ultimate losses. Thus, if the average claim severity can be accurately estimated, these methods can more quickly respond to changes in loss experience than other methods. However, for average severity to be predictable, the class of business must consist of homogeneous types of claims for which loss severity trends from one year to the next are reasonably consistent. Generally these methods work best for high frequency, low severity classes of business such as personal auto. AIG also utilizes these methods in pricing subclasses of professional liability. However, AIG does not generally utilize frequency/severity methods to test loss reserves, due to the general nature of AIGs reserves being applicable to lower frequency, higher severity commercial classes of business where average claim severity is volatile. Excess Casualty: AIG generally uses a combination of loss development methods and expected loss ratio methods for excess casualty classes. Expected loss ratio methods are generally utilized for at least the three latest accident years, due to the relatively low credibility of the reported losses. The loss experience is generally reviewed separately for lead umbrella classes and for other excess classes, due to the relatively shorter tail for lead umbrella business. Automobile related claims are generally reviewed separately from non auto claims, due to the shorter tail nature of the automobile related claims. Claims relating to certain latent exposures such as construction defects or exhaustion of underlying product aggregate limits are reviewed separately due to the unique emergence patterns of losses relating to these claims. The expected loss ratios utilized for recent accident years are based on the projected ultimate loss ratios of prior years, adjusted for rate changes, estimated loss cost trends and all other changes that can be quantified. The estimated loss cost trend utilized in the year end 2009 reviews averaged approximately five percent for excess casualty classes. Frequency/severity methods are generally not utilized as the vast majority of reported claims do not result in a claim payment. In addition, the average severity varies significantly from accident year to accident year due to large losses which characterize this class of business, as well as changing proportions of claims which do not result in a claim payment. D&O: AIG generally utilizes a combination of loss development methods and expected loss ratio methods for D&O and related management liability classes of business. Expected loss ratio methods are given more weight in the AIG 2009 Form 10 K 90 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries two most recent accident years, whereas loss development methods are given more weight in more mature accident years. In addition to these traditional actuarial methods, AIGs actuaries utilize ground up claim projections provided by AIG claims staff as a benchmark for determining the indicated ultimate losses for all accident years other than the most recent accident year. For the year end 2009 loss reserve review, claims projections for accident years 2008 and prior were utilized. These classes of business reflect claims made coverage, and losses are characterized by low frequency and high severity. Thus, the claim projections can produce an overall indicator of the ultimate loss exposure for these classes by identifying and estimating all large losses. Frequency/severity methods are generally not utilized for these classes as the overall losses are driven by large losses more than by claim frequency. Severity trends have varied significantly from accident year to accident year. Workers Compensation: AIG generally utilizes loss development methods for all but the most recent accident year. Expected loss ratio methods generally are given significant weight only in the most recent accident year. Workers compensation claims are generally characterized by high frequency, low severity, and relatively consistent loss development from one accident year to the next. AIG is a leading writer of workers compensation, and thus has sufficient volume of claims experience to utilize development methods. AIG does not believe frequency/severity methods are as appropriate, due to volume changes in AIGs workers compensation business over the years. AIG generally segregates California business from other business in evaluating workers compensation reserves. Certain classes of workers compensation, such as construction, are also evaluated separately. Additionally, AIG writes a number of very large accounts which include workers compensation coverage. These accounts are generally priced by AIG actuaries, and to the extent appropriate, the indicated losses based on the pricing analysis may be utilized to record the initial estimated loss reserves for these accounts. Excess Workers Compensation: AIG generally utilizes a combination of loss development methods and expected loss ratio methods. Loss development methods are given the greater weight for mature accident years such as 2002 and prior. Expected loss ratio methods are given the greater weight for the more recent accident years. Excess workers compensation is an extremely long tail class of business, with loss emergence extending for decades. Therefore there is limited credibility in the reported losses for many of the more recent accident years. For the mature accident years, AIGs actuaries utilize claims projections provided by AIG claims staff to help determine the loss development factors for this class of business. General Liability: AIG generally uses a combination of loss development methods and expected loss ratio methods for primary general liability or products liability classes. For certain classes of business with sufficient loss volume, loss development methods may be given significant weight for all but the most recent one or two accident years, whereas for smaller or more volatile classes of business, loss development methods may be given limited weight for the five or more most recent accident years. Expected loss ratio methods would be utilized for the more recent accident years for these classes. The loss experience for primary general liability business is generally reviewed at a level that is believed to provide the most appropriate data for reserve analysis. For example, primary claims made business is generally segregated from business written on an occurrence policy form. Additionally, certain subclasses, such as construction, are generally reviewed separately from business in other subclasses. Due to the fairly long tail nature of general liability business, and the many subclasses that are reviewed individually, there is less credibility in the reported losses and increased reliance on expected loss ratio methods. AIGs actuaries generally do not utilize frequency/severity methods to test reserves for this business, due to significant changes and growth in AIGs general liability and products liability business over the years. Commercial Automobile Liability: AIG generally utilizes loss development methods for all but the most recent accident year for commercial automobile classes of business. Expected loss ratio methods are generally given significant weight only in the most recent accident year. Frequency/severity methods are generally not utilized due to significant changes and growth in this business over the years. Healthcare: AIG generally uses a combination of loss development methods and expected loss ratio methods for healthcare classes of business. The largest component of the healthcare business consists of coverage written for hospitals and other healthcare facilities. Reserves for excess coverage are tested separately from those for primary coverage. For primary coverages, loss development methods are generally given the majority of the weight for all but 91 AIG 2009 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries the latest three accident years, and are given some weight for all years other than the latest accident year. For excess coverages, expected loss methods are generally given all the weight for the latest three accident years, and are also given considerable weight for accident years prior to the latest three years. For other classes of healthcare coverage, an analogous weighting between loss development and expected loss ratio methods is utilized. The weights assigned to each method are those which are believed to result in the best combination of responsiveness and stability. Frequency/severity methods are sometimes utilized for pricing certain healthcare accounts or business. However, in testing loss reserves the business is generally combined into larger groupings to enhance the credibility of the loss experience. The frequency/severity methods that are applicable in pricing may not be appropriate for reserve testing and thus frequency/severity methods are not generally employed in AIGs healthcare reserve analyses. Professional Liability: AIG generally uses a combination of loss development methods and expected loss ratio methods for professional liability classes of business. Loss development methods are used for the more mature accident years. Greater weight is given to expected loss ratio methods in the more recent accident years. Reserves are tested separately for claims made classes and classes written on occurrence policy forms. Further segmentations are made in a manner believed to provide an appropriate balance between credibility and homogeneity of the data. Frequency/severity methods are used in pricing and profitability analyses for some classes of professional liability; however, for loss reserve testing, the need to enhance credibility generally results in classes that are not sufficiently homogenous to utilize frequency/severity methods. Catastrophic Casualty: AIG utilizes expected loss ratio methods for all accident years for catastrophic casualty business. This class of business consists of casualty or financial lines coverage which attaches in excess of very high attachment points; thus the claims experience is marked by very low frequency and high severity. Because of the limited number of claims, loss development methods are not utilized. The expected loss ratios and loss development assumptions utilized are based upon the results of prior accident years for this business as well as for similar classes of business written above lower attachment points. The business is generally written on a claims made basis. AIG utilizes ground up claim projections provided by AIG claims staff to assist in developing the appropriate reserve. Aviation: AIG generally uses a combination of loss development methods and expected loss ratio methods for aviation exposures. Aviation claims are not very long tail in nature; however, they are driven by claim severity. Thus a combination of both development and expected loss ratio methods are used for all but the latest accident year to determine the loss reserves. Expected loss ratio methods are used to determine the loss reserves for the latest accident year. Frequency/severity methods are not employed due to the high severity nature of the claims and different mix of claims from year to year. Personal Auto (Domestic): AIG generally utilizes frequency/severity methods and loss development methods for domestic personal auto classes. For many classes of business, greater reliance is placed on frequency/severity methods as claim counts emerge quickly for personal auto and allow for more immediate analysis of resulting loss trends and comparisons to industry and other diagnostic metrics. Fidelity/Surety: AIG generally uses loss development methods for fidelity exposures for all but the latest accident year. Expected loss ratio methods are also given weight for the more recent accident years, and for the latest accident year they may be given 100 percent weight. For surety exposures, AIG generally uses the same method as for short tail classes. Mortgage Guaranty: AIG tests mortgage guaranty reserves using loss development methods, supplemented by an internal claim analysis by actuaries and staff who specialize in the mortgage guaranty business. The claim analysis projects ultimate losses for claims within each of several categories of delinquency based on actual historical experience and is essentially a frequency/severity analysis for each category of delinquency. Additional reserve tests using "Bornhuetter Ferguson" methods are also employed, as well as tests measuring losses as a percent of risk in force. Reserves are reviewed separately for each class of business to consider the loss development characteristics associated with the claims, the volume of claim data available for the applicable class and the applicability of various actuarial methods to the class. AIG 2009 Form 10 K 92 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries Estimates for mortgage guaranty insurance losses and loss adjustment expense reserves are based on notices of mortgage loan delinquencies and estimates of delinquencies that have been incurred but have not been reported by loan servicers, based upon historical reporting trends. Mortgage Guaranty establishes reserves using a percentage of the contractual liability (for each delinquent loan reported) that is based upon past experience regarding certain loan factors such as age of the delinquency, cure rates, dollar amount of the loan and type of mortgage loan. Mortgage Guaranty losses and loss adjustment expenses have been adversely affected by macroeconomic events, such as declining home prices and increasing unemployment among other events related to the turmoil in the financial markets. As these macroeconomic events change, adversely or favorably, the determination of the ultimate losses and loss adjustment expenses requires a high degree of judgment. Responding to these adverse macroeconomic influences, Mortgage Guaranty added significant resources to its loss mitigation and claims paying operations during the second half of 2009. This group has found increased occurrences of fraudulent claims, underwriting guideline violations and other deviations from contractual terms, mostly related to the 2006 and 2007 blocks of business. These policy violations resulted in increased loan rescissions and increased claims denials (collectively referred to as rescissions) during the fourth quarter of 2009. Mortgage Guaranty rescinded $137 million of claims on first lien business during the fourth quarter of 2009. Second lien rescissions were primarily on claims related to policies that had reached their respective stop loss limits. In 2009, Mortgage Guaranty did not record any significant changes to its expected losses and loss adjustment expense reserves as a result of these increased rescissions. Mortgage Guaranty expects this increased rescission activity to continue in 2010, but cannot reasonably estimate the financial impact from these rescissions. AIG believes it has provided appropriate reserves for currently delinquent loans, consistent with industry practices. Short Tail Classes: AIG generally uses either loss development methods or IBNR factor methods to set reserves for short tail classes such as property coverages. Where a factor is used, it generally represents a percent of earned premium or other exposure measure. The factor is determined based on prior accident year experience. For example, the IBNR for a class of property coverage might be expected to approximate 20 percent of the latest years earned premium. The factor is continually reevaluated in light of emerging claim experience as well as rate changes or other factors that could affect the adequacy of the IBNR factor being employed. International: Business written by AIGs Foreign General Insurance operating segment includes both long tail and short tail classes of business. For long tail classes of business, the actuarial methods utilized would be analogous to those described above. However, the majority of business written by Foreign General Insurance is short tail, high frequency and low severity in nature. For this business, loss development methods are generally employed to test the loss reserves. AIG maintains a database of detailed historical premium and loss transactions in original currency for business written by Foreign General Insurance, thereby allowing AIG actuaries to determine the current reserves without any distortion from changes in exchange rates over time. In testing the Foreign General Insurance reserves, AIGs actuaries segment the data by region, country or class of business as appropriate to determine an optimal balance between homogeneity and credibility. Loss Adjustment Expenses: AIG determines reserves for legal defense and cost containment loss adjustment expenses for each class of business by one or more actuarial methods. The methods generally include development methods analogous to those described for loss development methods. The developments could be based on either the paid loss adjustment expenses or the ratio of paid loss adjustment expenses to paid losses, or both. Other methods include the utilization of expected ultimate ratios of paid loss expense to paid losses, based on actual experience from prior accident years or from similar classes of business. AIG generally determines reserves for adjuster loss adjustment expenses based on calendar year ratios of adjuster expenses paid to losses paid for the particular class of business. AIG generally determines reserves for other unallocated loss adjustment expenses based on the ratio of the calendar year expenses paid to overall losses paid. This determination is generally done for all classes of business combined, and reflects costs of home office claim overhead as a percent of losses paid. Catastrophes: Special analyses are conducted by AIG in response to major catastrophes in order to estimate AIGs gross and net loss and loss expense liability from the events. These analyses may include a combination of 93 AIG 2009 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries approaches, including modeling estimates, ground up claim analysis, loss evaluation reports from on site field adjusters, and market share estimates. AIGs loss reserve analyses do not calculate a range of loss reserve estimates. Because a large portion of the loss reserves from AIGs General Insurance business relates to longer tail casualty classes of business driven by severity rather than frequency of claims, such as excess casualty and D&O, developing a range around loss reserve estimates would not be meaningful. Using the reserving methodologies described above, AIGs actuaries determine their best estimate of the required reserve and advise management of that amount. AIG then adjusts its aggregate carried reserves as necessary so that the actual carried reserves as of December 31 reflect this best estimate. Volatility of Reserve Estimates and Sensitivity Analyses As described above, AIG uses numerous assumptions in determining its best estimate of reserves for each class of business. The importance of any specific assumption can vary by both class of business and accident year. If actual experience differs from key assumptions used in establishing reserves, there is potential for significant variation in the development of loss reserves, particularly for long tail casualty classes of business such as excess casualty, D&O or primary and excess workers compensation. Set forth below is a sensitivity analysis that estimates the effect on the loss reserve position of using alternative loss trend or loss development factor assumptions rather than those actually used in determining AIGs best estimates in the year end loss reserve analyses in 2009. The analysis addresses each major class of business for which a material deviation to AIGs overall reserve position is believed reasonably possible, and uses what AIG believes is a reasonably likely range of potential deviation for each class. There can be no assurance, however, that actual reserve development will be consistent with either the original or the adjusted loss trend or loss development factor assumptions, or that other assumptions made in the reserving process will not materially affect reserve development for a particular class of business. Excess Casualty: For the excess casualty class of business, the assumed loss cost trend was approximately five percent. After evaluating the historical loss cost trends from prior accident years since the early 1990s, in AIGs judgment, it is reasonably likely that actual loss cost trends applicable to the year end 2009 loss reserve review for excess casualty will range from negative five percent to positive 15 percent, or approximately ten percent lower or higher than the assumption actually utilized in the year end 2009 reserve review. A ten percent change in the assumed loss cost trend for excess casualty would cause approximately a $2.2 billion increase or a $1.6 billion decrease in the net loss and loss expense reserve for this class of business. It should be emphasized that the ten percent deviations are not considered the highest possible deviations that might be expected, but rather what is considered by AIG to reflect a reasonably likely range of potential deviation. Actual loss cost trends in the early 1990s were negative for several years, including amounts below the negative five percent cited above, whereas actual loss cost trends in the late 1990s ran well into the double digits for several years, including amounts greater than the 15 percent cited above. Thus, there can be no assurance that loss trends will not deviate by more than ten percent. The loss cost trend assumption is critical for the excess casualty class of business due the long tail nature of the claims and therefore is applied across many accident years. For the excess casualty class of business, the assumed loss development factors are also a key assumption. After evaluating the historical loss development factors from prior accident years since the early 1990s, in AIGs judgment, it is reasonably likely that actual loss development factors will range from approximately 8.2 percent below those actually utilized in the year end 2009 reserve review to approximately 8.0 percent above those factors actually utilized. If the loss development factor assumptions were changed by 8.2 percent and 8.0 percent, respectively, the net loss reserves for the excess casualty class would decrease by approximately $1.3 billion under the lower assumptions or increase by approximately $1.2 billion under the higher assumptions. Generally, actual historical loss development factors are used to project future loss development. However there can be no assurance that future loss development patterns will be the same as in the past, or that they will not deviate by more than the amounts illustrated above. Moreover, as excess casualty is a long tail class of business, any deviation in loss cost trends or in loss development factors might not be discernible for an extended period of time subsequent to the recording of the initial loss reserve estimates for any accident year. Thus, there is the potential for the reserves with respect to a number of accident years to be significantly affected by changes in the loss cost trends or loss development factors that were initially relied upon AIG 2009 Form 10 K 94 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries in setting the reserves. These changes in loss trends or loss development factors could be attributable to changes in inflation or in the judicial environment, or in other social or economic conditions affecting claims. Thus, there is the potential for variations greater than the amounts cited above, either positively or negatively. D&O and Related Management Liability Classes of Business: For D&O and related management liability classes of business, the assumed loss cost trend was approximately four percent. After evaluating the historical loss cost trends from prior accident years since the early 1990s, including the potential effect of recent claims relating to the credit crisis, in AIGs judgment, it is reasonably likely that actual loss cost trends applicable to the year end 2009 loss reserve review for these classes will range from negative 11 percent to positive 24 percent, or approximately 15 percent lower or 20 percent higher than the assumption actually utilized in the year end 2009 reserve review. A 20 or 15 percent change in the assumed loss cost trend for these classes would cause approximately a $950 million increase or a $600 million decrease, respectively, in the net loss and loss expense reserves for these classes of business. It should be emphasized that the 20 and 15 percent deviations are not considered the highest possible deviations that might be expected, but rather what is considered by AIG to reflect a reasonably likely range of potential deviation. Actual loss cost trends for these classes since the early 1990s were negative for several years, including amounts below the negative 11 percent cited above, whereas actual loss cost trends exceeded the 24 percent figure cited above for several other years. Because the D&O class of business has exhibited highly volatile loss trends from one accident year to the next, there is the possibility of an exceptionally high deviation. For D&O and related management liability classes of business, the assumed loss development factors are also an important assumption but less critical than for excess casualty. Because these classes are written on a claims made basis, the loss reporting and development tail is much shorter than for excess casualty. However, the high severity nature of the claims does create the potential for significant deviations in loss development patterns from one year to the next. After evaluating the historical loss development factors for these classes of business for accident years since the early 1990s, in AIGs judgment, it is reasonably likely that actual loss development factors will range from approximately 4 percent lower to 6 percent higher than those factors actually utilized in the year end 2009 loss reserve review for these classes. If the loss development factor assumptions were changed by 4 percent and 6 percent, respectively, the net loss reserves for these classes would be estimated to decrease or increase by approximately $200 million and $300 million, respectively. As noted above for excess casualty, actual historical loss development factors are generally used to project future loss development. However, there can be no assurance that future loss development patterns will be the same as in the past, or that they will not deviate by more than the 4 percent or 6 percent amounts. Excess Workers Compensation: For excess workers compensation business, loss costs were trended at six percent per annum. After reviewing actual industry loss trends for the past ten years, in AIGs judgment, it is reasonably likely that actual loss cost trends applicable to the year end 2009 loss reserve review for excess workers compensation will range five percent lower or higher than this estimated loss trend. A five percent change in the assumed loss cost trend would cause approximately a $300 million increase or a $200 million decrease in the net loss reserves for this business. It should be emphasized that the actual loss cost trend could vary significantly from this assumption, and there can be no assurance that actual loss costs will not deviate, perhaps materially, by greater than five percent. For excess workers compensation business, the assumed loss development factors are a critical assumption. Excess workers compensation is an extremely long tail class of business, with a much greater than normal uncertainty as to the appropriate loss development factors for the tail of the loss development. After evaluating the historical loss development factors for prior accident years since the 1980s as well as the development over the past several years of the ground up claim projections utilized to help select the loss development factors in the tail for this class of business, in AIGs judgment, it is reasonably likely that actual loss development for excess workers compensation could increase or decrease by up to approximately $800 million and $1.3 billion, respectively. Given the exceptionally long tail for this class of business, there is the potential for actual deviations in the loss development tail to exceed the deviations assumed, perhaps materially. Primary Workers Compensation: For primary workers compensation, the loss cost trend assumption is not believed to be material with respect to AIGs loss reserves. This is primarily because AIGs actuaries are generally 95 AIG 2009 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries able to use loss development projections for all but the most recent accident years reserves, so there is limited need to rely on loss cost trend assumptions for primary workers compensation business. However, for primary workers compensation business the loss development factor assumptions are important. Generally, AIGs actual historical workers compensation loss development factors would be expected to provide a reasonably accurate predictor of future loss development. However, workers compensation is a long tail class of business, and AIGs business reflects a very significant volume of losses particularly in recent accident years. After evaluating the actual historical loss developments since the 1980s for this business, in AIGs judgment, it is reasonably likely that actual loss development factors will fall within the range of approximately 3.5 percent below to 9.1 percent above those actually utilized in the year end 2009 loss reserve review. If the loss development factor assumptions were changed by 3.5 percent and 9.1 percent, respectively, the net loss reserves for workers compensation would decrease or increase by approximately $900 million and $2.5 billion, respectively. For this class of business, there can be no assurance that actual deviations from the expected loss development factors will not exceed the deviations assumed, perhaps materially. Other Casualty Classes of Business: For casualty business other than the classes discussed above, there is generally some potential for deviation in both the loss cost trend and loss development factor assumptions. However, the effect of such deviations is expected to be less material when compared to the effect on the classes cited above. Asbestos and Environmental Reserves The estimation of loss reserves relating to asbestos and environmental claims on insurance policies written many years ago is subject to greater uncertainty than other types of claims due to inconsistent court decisions as well as judicial interpretations and legislative actions that in some cases have tended to broaden coverage beyond the original intent of such policies and in others have expanded theories of liability. The insurance industry as a whole is engaged in extensive litigation over these coverage and liability issues and is thus confronted with a continuing uncertainty in its efforts to quantify these exposures. AIG continues to receive claims asserting injuries and damages from toxic waste, hazardous substances, and other environmental pollutants and alleged claims to cover the cleanup costs of hazardous waste dump sites, referred to collectively as environmental claims, and indemnity claims asserting injuries from asbestos. The vast majority of these asbestos and environmental claims emanate from policies written in 1984 and prior years. Commencing in 1985, standard policies contained an absolute exclusion for pollution related damage and an absolute asbestos exclusion was also implemented. The current environmental policies that AIG underwrites on a claims made basis have been excluded from the analysis herein. The majority of AIGs exposures for asbestos and environmental claims are excess casualty coverages, not primary coverages. Thus, the litigation costs are treated in the same manner as indemnity amounts. That is, litigation expenses are included within the limits of the liability AIG incurs. Individual significant claim liabilities, where future litigation costs are reasonably determinable, are established on a case by case basis. Estimation of asbestos and environmental claims loss reserves is a subjective process and reserves for asbestos and environmental claims cannot be estimated using conventional reserving techniques such as those that rely on historical accident year loss development factors. The methods used to determine asbestos and environmental loss estimates and to establish the resulting reserves are continually reviewed and updated by management. Significant factors which affect the trends that influence the asbestos and environmental claims estimation process are the court resolutions and judicial interpretations which broaden the intent of the policies and scope of coverage. The current case law can be characterized as still evolving, and there is little likelihood that any firm direction will develop in the near future. Additionally, the exposures for cleanup costs of hazardous waste dump sites involve issues such as allocation of responsibility among potentially responsible parties and the governments refusal to release parties from liability. AIG 2009 Form 10 K 96 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries Due to this uncertainty, it is not possible to determine the future development of asbestos and environmental claims with the same degree of reliability as with other types of claims. Such future development will be affected by the extent to which courts continue to expand the intent of the policies and the scope of the coverage, as they have in the past, as well as by the changes in Superfund and waste dump site coverage and liability issues. If the asbestos and environmental reserves develop deficiently, such deficiency could have an adverse effect on AIGs future results of operations for an individual reporting period. With respect to known asbestos and environmental claims, AIG established over two decades ago specialized toxic tort and environmental claims units, which investigate and adjust all such asbestos and environmental claims. These units evaluate these asbestos and environmental claims utilizing a claim by claim approach that involves a detailed review of individual policy terms and exposures. Because each policyholder presents different liability and coverage issues, AIG generally evaluates exposure on a policy by policy basis, considering a variety of factors such as known facts, current law, jurisdiction, policy language and other factors that are unique to each policy. Quantitative techniques have to be supplemented by subjective considerations, including management judgment. Each claim is reviewed at least semi annually utilizing the aforementioned approach and adjusted as necessary to reflect the current information. In both the specialized and dedicated asbestos and environmental claims units, AIG actively manages and pursues early resolution with respect to these claims in an attempt to mitigate its exposure to the unpredictable development of these claims. AIG attempts to mitigate its known long tail environmental exposures by utilizing a combination of proactive claim resolution techniques, including policy buybacks, complete environmental releases, compromise settlements, and, when appropriate, litigation. With respect to asbestos claims handling, AIGs specialized claims staff operates to mitigate losses through proactive handling, supervision and resolution of asbestos cases. Thus, while AIG has resolved all claims with respect to miners and major manufacturers (Tier One), its claims staff continues to operate under the same proactive philosophy to resolve claims involving accounts with products containing asbestos (Tier Two), products containing small amounts of asbestos, companies in the distribution process, and parties with remote, ill defined involvement in asbestos (Tiers Three and Four). Through its commitment to appropriate staffing, training, and management oversight of asbestos cases, AIG seeks to mitigate its exposure to these claims. To determine the appropriate loss reserve as of December 31, 2009 for its asbestos and environmental exposures, AIG performed a series of top down and ground up reserve analyses. In order to ensure it had the most comprehensive analysis possible, AIG engaged a third party actuary to assist in a review of these exposures, including ground up estimates for asbestos reserves consistent with the 2005 through 2008 reviews as well as a top down report year projection for environmental reserves. Ground up analyses take into account policyholder specific and claim specific information that has been gathered over many years from a variety of sources. Ground up studies can thus more accurately assess the exposure to AIGs layers of coverage for each policyholder, and hence for all policyholders in the aggregate, provided a sufficient sample of the policyholders can be modeled in this manner. In order to ensure its ground up analysis was comprehensive, AIG staff produced the information required at policy and claim level detail for nearly 800 asbestos defendants. This represented over 95 percent of all accounts for which AIG had received any claim notice of any amount pertaining to asbestos exposure. AIG did not set any minimum thresholds, such as amount of case reserve outstanding, or paid losses to date, that would have served to reduce the sample size and hence the comprehensiveness of the ground up analysis. The results of the ground up analysis for each significant account were examined by AIGs claims staff for reasonableness, for consistency with policy coverage terms, and any claim settlement terms applicable. Adjustments were incorporated accordingly. The results from the universe of modeled accounts, which as noted above reflects the vast majority of AIGs known exposures, were then utilized to estimate the ultimate losses from accounts or exposures that could not be modeled and to determine an appropriate provision for unreported claims. AIG conducted a comprehensive analysis of reinsurance recoverability to establish the appropriate asbestos and environmental reserve net of reinsurance. AIG determined the amount of reinsurance that would be ceded to insolvent reinsurers or to commuted reinsurance contracts for both reported claims and for IBNR. These amounts 97 AIG 2009 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries were then deducted from the indicated amount of reinsurance recoverable. The year end 2009 analysis reflected an update to the comprehensive analysis of reinsurance recoverability that was first completed in 2005 and updated each subsequent year. All asbestos accounts for which there was a significant amount of expected unreported losses based on the 2009 review were analyzed to determine the appropriate reserve net of reinsurance. AIG also completed a top down report year projection as well as a market share projection of its indicated asbestos and environmental loss reserves. These projections consist of a series of tests performed separately for asbestos and for environmental exposures. For asbestos, these tests project the losses expected to be reported over the next 17 years, i.e., from 2010 through 2026, based on the actual losses reported through 2009 and the expected future loss emergence for these claims. Three scenarios were tested, with a series of assumptions ranging from more optimistic to more conservative. For environmental claims, an analogous series of frequency/severity tests are produced. Environmental claims from future report years (i.e., IBNR) are projected out seven years, i.e., through the year 2016. At year end 2009, AIG considered a number of factors and recent experience in addition to the results of the respective top down and ground up analyses performed for asbestos and environmental reserves. AIG considered the significant uncertainty that remains as to AIGs ultimate liability relating to asbestos and environmental claims. This uncertainty is due to several factors including: The long latency period between asbestos exposure and disease manifestation and the resulting potential for involvement of multiple policy periods for individual claims; The increase in the volume of claims by currently unimpaired plaintiffs; Claims filed under the non aggregate premises or operations section of general liability policies; The number of insureds seeking bankruptcy protection and the effect of prepackaged bankruptcies; Diverging legal interpretations; and With respect to environmental claims, the difficulty in estimating the allocation of remediation cost among various parties. After carefully considering the results of the ground up analysis, which AIG updates on an annual basis, as well as all of the above factors, including the recent report year experience, AIG increased its gross asbestos reserves by $300 million and increased its net asbestos reserves by $75 million. Additionally, during 2009 a moderate amount of adverse incurred loss development pertaining to asbestos was reflected, which was primarily attributed to several large accounts. Upon completion of the environmental top down report year analysis performed in the fourth quarter of 2009, a minor adjustment to net reserves was recognized. AIG 2009 Form 10 K 98  Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries The following table provides a summary of reserve activity, including estimates for applicable IBNR, relating to asbestos and environmental claims separately and combined: 2009 2008 2007 As of or for the Years Ended December 31, (in millions) Gross Net Gross Net Gross Net Asbestos: Liability for unpaid claims and claims adjustment expense at beginning of year $ 3,443 $ 1,200 $ 3,864 $ 1,454 $ 4,523 $ 1,889 Dispositions(a) (84 ) (21 ) Losses and loss expenses incurred(b) 482 151 273 53 96 5 Losses and loss expenses paid(b) (605 ) (179 ) (694 ) (307 ) (755 ) (440 ) Liability for unpaid claims and claims adjustment expense at end of year $ 3,236 $ 1,151 $ 3,443 $ 1,200 $ 3,864 $ 1,454 Environmental: Liability for unpaid claims and claims adjustment expense at beginning of year $ 417 $ 194 $ 515 $ 237 $ 629 $ 290 Dispositions(a) (37 ) (7 ) Losses and loss expenses incurred(b) 2 4 (44 ) (2 ) 10 13 Losses and loss expenses paid(b) (44 ) (32 ) (54 ) (41 ) (124 ) (66 ) Liability for unpaid claims and claims adjustment expense at end of year $ 338 $ 159 $ 417 $ 194 $ 515 $ 237 Combined: Liability for unpaid claims and claims adjustment expense at beginning of year $ 3,860 $ 1,394 $ 4,379 $ 1,691 $ 5,152 $ 2,179 Dispositions(a) (121 ) (28 ) Losses and loss expenses incurred(b) 484 155 229 51 106 18 Losses and loss expenses paid(b) (649 ) (211 ) (748 ) (348 ) (879 ) (506 ) Liability for unpaid claims and claims adjustment expense at end of year $ 3,574 $ 1,310 $ 3,860 $ 1,394 $ 4,379 $ 1,691 (a) Includes reserves for Transatlantic, which was deconsolidated during the second quarter of 2009 and 21st Century which was sold in the third quarter of 2009. (b) All amounts pertain to policies underwritten in prior years, primarily to policies issued in 1984 and prior years. The current environmental policies that AIG underwrites on a claims made basis have been excluded from the table above. The following table presents the estimate of the gross and net IBNR included in the Liability for unpaid claims and claims adjustment expense, relating to asbestos and environmental claims separately and combined: 2009 2008 2007 At December 31, (in millions) Gross Net Gross Net Gross Net Asbestos $ 2,072 $ 863 $ 2,301 $ 939 $ 2,701 $ 1,145 Environmental 161 71 249 99 325 131 Combined $ 2,233 $ 934 $ 2,550 $ 1,038 $ 3,026 $ 1,276 99 AIG 2009 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries The following table presents a summary of asbestos and environmental claims count activity: 2009 2008 2007 As of or for the Years Ended December 31, Asbestos Environmental Combined Asbestos Environmental Combined Asbestos Environmental Combined Claims at beginning of year 5,780 6,674 12,454 6,563 7,652 14,215 6,878 9,442 16,320 Claims during year: Opened 615 983 1,598 639 1,065 1,704 656 937 1,593 Settled (243 ) (215 ) (458 ) (219 ) (207 ) (426 ) (150 ) (179 ) (329 ) Dismissed or otherwise resolved (735 ) (1,448 ) (2,183 ) (1,203 ) (1,836 ) (3,039 ) (821 ) (2,548 ) (3,369 ) Claims at end of year 5,417 5,994 11,411 5,780 6,674 12,454 6,563 7,652 14,215 Survival Ratios Asbestos and Environmental The following table presents AIGs survival ratios for asbestos and environmental claims at December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007. The survival ratio is derived by dividing the current carried loss reserve by the average payments for the three most recent calendar years for these claims. Therefore, the survival ratio is a simplistic measure estimating the number of years it would be before the current ending loss reserves for these claims would be paid off using recent year average payments. The December 31, 2009 gross asbestos survival ratio is lower than the ratio at December 31, 2008 because the more recent periods included in the rolling average reflect higher claims payments. In addition, AIGs survival ratio for asbestos claims was negatively affected by certain favorable settlements during 2008 and 2007. These settlements reduced gross and net asbestos survival ratios at December 31, 2009 by approximately 0.9 years and 1.9 years, respectively; reduced gross and net asbestos survival ratios at December 31, 2008 by approximately 1.1 years and 2.4 years, respectively; and reduced gross and net asbestos survival ratios at December 31, 2007 by approximately 1.3 years and 2.6 years, respectively. Many factors, such as aggressive settlement procedures, mix of business and level of coverage provided, have a significant effect on the amount of asbestos and environmental reserves and payments and the resultant survival ratio. Moreover, as discussed above, the primary basis for AIGs determination of its reserves is not survival ratios, but instead the ground up and top down analysis. Thus, caution should be exercised in attempting to determine reserve adequacy for these claims based simply on this survival ratio. The following table presents AIGs survival ratios for asbestos and environmental claims, separately and combined, which were based upon a three year average payment: Years Ended December 31, Gross Net 2009 Survival ratios: Asbestos 4.7 3.7 Environmental 4.5 3.5 Combined 4.7 3.7 2008 Survival ratios: Asbestos 5.2 3.7 Environmental 4.4 3.5 Combined 5.1 3.7 2007 Survival ratios: Asbestos 7.1 5.6 Environmental 4.7 3.7 Combined 6.7 5.2 AIG 2009 Form 10 K 100 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries Domestic Life Insurance & Retirement Services Operations AIGs Domestic Life Insurance & Retirement Services segment, operating as SunAmerica Financial Group, is comprised of several life insurance and retirement services businesses that market their products and services under the brands of American General, AGLA, VALIC, Western National, SunAmerica Retirement Markets, SunAmerica Mutual Funds, SunAmerica Affordable Housing Partners, FSC Securities, Royal Alliance and SagePoint Financial. The businesses offer a comprehensive suite of life insurance, retirement savings products and guaranteed income solutions through an established multi channel distribution network that includes banks, national, regional and independent broker dealers, career financial advisors, wholesale life brokers, insurance agents and a direct to consumer platform. AIGs Domestic Life Insurance businesses offer a broad range of protection products, including individual term and universal life insurance, and group life and health products. In addition, Domestic Life Insurance offers a variety of payout annuities, which include single premium immediate annuities, structured settlements and terminal funding annuities. Domestic Retirement Services businesses offer group retirement products and individual fixed and variable annuities. Certain previously acquired closed blocks and other fixed and variable annuity blocks that have been discontinued are reported as "runoff" annuities. Domestic Retirement Services also maintains a runoff block of Guaranteed Investment Contracts (GICs) that were written in (or issued to) the institutional market place prior to 2006. In managing its Domestic Life Insurance & Retirement Services businesses, AIG analyzes the operating performance of each business using pre tax income (loss) before net realized capital gains (losses). Pre tax income (loss) before net realized capital gains (losses) is not a substitute for pre tax income determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP. However, AIG believes that the presentation of pre tax income (loss) before net realized capital gains (losses) enhances the understanding of the underlying profitability of the ongoing operations of the Domestic Life Insurance & Retirement Services businesses. The reconciliations to pre tax income are provided in the tables that follow. In order to better align financial reporting to be consistent with the manner in which AIGs chief operating decision makers review the businesses to make decisions about resources to be allocated and to assess performance, beginning in 2009, results for certain brokerage service, mutual fund, GIC and other asset management activities previously reported in the Asset Management segment are now included in Domestic Life Insurance & Retirement Services. The remaining Asset Management operations are now included in AIGs Other operations category. See Capital Resources and Liquidity AIGs Strategy for Stabilization and Repayment of its Obligations as They Come Due Asset Disposition Plan for discussion of the sale of AIGs investment advisory and third party institutional asset management business. Prior period amounts have been revised to conform to the current presentation. Domestic Life Insurance & Retirement Services Results The following table presents Domestic Life Insurance & Retirement Services results: Percentage Increase/(Decrease) Years Ended December 31, (in millions) 2009 2008 2007 2009 vs. 2008 2008 vs. 2007 Premiums and other considerations $ 5,327 $ 7,644 $ 7,342 (30 )% 4 % Net investment income 9,553 9,134 13,582 5 (33 ) Policyholder benefits and claims incurred 9,097 11,535 11,572 (21 ) Policy acquisition and other expenses 3,448 3,779 3,547 (9 ) 7 Pre tax income before net realized capital losses 2,335 1,464 5,805 59 (75 ) Net realized capital losses (3,514 ) (36,412 ) (2,735 ) Pre tax income (loss) $ (1,179 ) $ (34,948 ) $ 3,070 % % 101 AIG 2009 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries 2009 and 2008 Comparison Domestic Life Insurance & Retirement Services reported an increase in pre tax income before net realized capital losses in 2009 compared to 2008 primarily due to the following: growth in net investment income as a result of growth in partnership returns ($264 million of income in 2009 compared with losses of $1.2 billion in 2008) as well as lower losses from valuation adjustments from the investment in ML II, which offset the negative effects of higher liquidity in the investment portfolios; goodwill impairment charges that were $1.1 billion lower in 2009 compared to 2008; and DAC and SIA unlocking and related reserve strengthening charges of $601 million in 2009 in the Domestic Retirement Services operations resulting from reductions in the long term growth assumptions for group retirement products and individual variable annuities, and projected increases in surrenders for individual fixed annuities, compared to DAC and SIA charges and related reserve strengthening of $1.5 billion in 2008. These improvements were partially offset by DAC and sale inducement assets (SIA) benefits related to net realized capital losses of $108 million in 2009 compared to $2.5 billion in 2008. The reduction in the pre tax loss for Domestic Life Insurance & Retirement Services in 2009 compared to 2008 reflected a decline in net realized capital losses due principally to significant decline in other than temporary impairments in 2009. See Results of Operations Consolidated Results Premiums and Other Considerations; Net Investment Income; and Net Realized Capital Gains (Losses). 2008 and 2007 Comparison Domestic Life Insurance & Retirement Services reported a significant decrease in pre tax income (loss) before net realized capital losses in 2008 compared to 2007 primarily due to the following: DAC and SIA unlocking and related reserve strengthening of $1.5 billion in the Domestic Retirement Services operations resulting from the weakness in the equity markets, the significantly higher surrender activity resulting from AIGs liquidity issues beginning in mid September of 2008; goodwill impairment charges in 2008 of $1.2 billion in the Domestic Life Insurance and Domestic Retirement Services companies; and lower net investment income resulting from partnership losses in 2008, lower yield enhancement income and reduced overall investment yield from increased levels of short term investments. These declines were partially offset by DAC and SIA benefits related to net realized capital losses of $2.5 billion in 2008 compared to $215 million in 2007. The pre tax loss for Domestic Life Insurance & Retirement Services in 2008 reflected higher net realized capital losses compared to 2007 due principally to significant other than temporary impairments in 2008. Domestic Life Insurance Results The following table presents Domestic Life Insurance results: Percentage Increase/(Decrease) Years Ended December 31, (in millions) 2009 2008 2007 2009 vs. 2008 2008 vs. 2007 Premiums and other considerations $ 4,252 $ 6,248 $ 5,836 (32 )% 7 % Net investment income 3,819 3,823 4,019 (5 ) Policyholder benefits and claims incurred 5,026 6,862 6,599 (27 ) 4 Policy acquisition and other expenses 1,714 1,885 1,816 (9 ) 4 Pre tax income before net realized capital losses 1,331 1,324 1,440 1 (8 ) Net realized capital losses (712 ) (11,554 ) (796 ) Pre tax income (loss) $ 619 $ (10,230 ) $ 644 % % AIG 2009 Form 10 K 102 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries 2009 and 2008 Comparison Domestic Life Insurance premiums and other considerations declined $2.0 billion in 2009 compared to 2008 primarily due to lower sales of payout annuity products and the sale of AIG Life Canada effective April 1, 2009, which similarly resulted in a decline in policyholder benefits and claims incurred of $1.8 billion. Policy acquisition and other insurance expenses declined due to expense reductions, partially offset by higher restructuring costs. Domestic Life Insurance pre tax income before net realized capital losses increased slightly in 2009 compared to 2008 primarily due to the following: increase in net investment income of $48 million related to lower fair value losses in the investment in ML II compared to 2008; goodwill impairment charges in 2008 of $403 million; and favorable mortality experience in life insurance in 2009. Partially offsetting the increase were: lower net investment income due to reduced overall investment yields from increased levels of short term investments and an increase in partnership losses; a DAC benefit related to net realized capital losses of $35 million in 2009 compared to a benefit of $364 million in 2008; a $33 million increase in restructuring expenses in 2009 compared to 2008; and a reduction in unearned revenue liability resulting in a net benefit of $22 million in 2008. Pre tax income for Domestic Life Insurance in 2009 compared to the pre tax loss in 2008 reflected lower levels of net realized capital losses in 2009, due principally to an $8.6 billion decline in other than temporary impairment charges. Other than temporary impairment charges in 2008 included $5.5 billion of charges related to AIGs U.S. securities lending program which was terminated in December 2008. 2008 and 2007 Comparison Domestic Life Insurance premiums and other considerations increased in 2008 primarily due to higher sales of payout annuity products, which had a corresponding effect on policyholder benefits and claims incurred. Policy acquisition and other expenses increased from 2007 as goodwill impairment charges and restructuring costs were only partially offset by the DAC benefit related to realized capital losses. Domestic Life Insurance pre tax income before net realized capital losses decreased slightly in 2008 compared to 2007 primarily due to the following: lower net investment income, reflecting reduced overall investment yields from increased levels of short term investments and lower partnership and call and tender income; goodwill impairment charges of $403 million in 2008; restructuring expenses in 2008; and an increase of $12 million in 2008 policyholder benefit reserves related to a workers compensation reinsurance program compared to a reduction in expense of $52 million in 2007. Partially offsetting these declines were: growth in the underlying business in force and favorable mortality experience in life insurance; a DAC benefit related to realized capital losses of $364 million in 2008 compared to a benefit of $13 million in 2007; a reduction in unearned revenue liability resulting in a net benefit of $22 million in 2008; and a $30 million adjustment to increase payout annuity reserves in 2007. 103 AIG 2009 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries The pre tax loss for Domestic Life Insurance in 2008 reflected higher levels of net realized capital losses compared to 2007, due principally to an $8.7 billion increase in other than temporary impairment charges. Other than temporary impairment charges in 2008 included $5.5 billion of charges related to the termination of AIGs U.S. securities lending program discussed above. Domestic Life Insurance Sales and Deposits The following table summarizes Life Insurance sales and deposits by product*: Percentage Increase/(Decrease) Years Ended December 31, (in millions) 2009 2008 2007 2009 vs. 2008 2008 vs. 2007 Life insurance Periodic premium by product: Universal life $ 53 $ 167 $ 230 (68 )% (27 )% Variable universal life 19 63 55 (70 ) 15 Term life 73 210 219 (65 ) (4 ) Whole life/other 4 11 9 (64 ) 22 Total periodic premiums by product 149 451 513 (67 ) (12 ) Group life/health 89 121 118 (26 ) 3 Unscheduled and single deposits 63 267 426 (76 ) (37 ) Total life insurance 301 839 1,057 (64 ) (21 ) Career distribution By product: Periodic life insurance premiums 75 76 80 (1 ) (5 ) Unscheduled and single deposits 18 21 18 (14 ) 17 Accident and health insurance 8 11 16 (27 ) (31 ) Fixed annuities 143 199 116 (28 ) 72 Total career distribution 244 307 230 (21 ) 33 Payout annuities 963 2,893 2,612 (67 ) 11 Individual fixed and runoff annuities 760 930 420 (18 ) 121 Total sales and deposits $ 2,268 $ 4,969 $ 4,319 (54 )% 15 % * Includes divested operations. Life insurance sales include periodic premium from new business expected to be collected over a one year period and unscheduled and single premiums from new and existing policyholders. Sales of group accident and health insurance represent annualized first year premium from new policies. Annuity sales represent deposits from new and existing customers. 2009 and 2008 Comparison Total Domestic Life Insurance sales and deposits decreased significantly in 2009 compared to 2008 primarily due to lower payout annuities, life insurance premiums and the sale of AIG Life Canada. Payout annuities sales and life insurance premiums decreased primarily due to lower financial strength ratings and the lingering effects of negative AIG publicity. 2008 and 2007 Comparison Total Domestic Life Insurance sales and deposits increased in 2008 compared to 2007 primarily due to strong payout and individual fixed annuities sales, partially offset by a decline in total life insurance premiums. Payout annuities sales increased due to strong terminal funding and structured settlement sales in both the U.S. and Canada. Individual fixed annuities sales increased as a result of the interest rate environment as credited rates offered were more competitive with the rates offered by banks on certificates of deposit. The ratings downgrades and negative publicity related to AIG resulted in lower sales and deposits for the fourth quarter of 2008. AIG 2009 Form 10 K 104  Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries Domestic Retirement Services Results The following table presents Domestic Retirement Services results: Percentage Increase/(Decrease) Years Ended December 31, (in millions) 2009 2008 2007 2009 vs. 2008 2008 vs. 2007 Premiums and other considerations $ 1,075 $ 1,396 $ 1,506 (23 )% (7 )% Net investment income 5,734 5,311 9,563 8 (44 ) Policyholder benefits and claims incurred 4,071 4,673 4,973 (13 ) (6 ) Policy acquisition and other expenses 1,734 1,894 1,731 (8 ) 9 Pre tax income before net realized capital gains (losses) 1,004 140 4,365 (97 ) Net realized capital losses (2,802 ) (24,858 ) (1,939 ) Pre tax income (loss) $ (1,798 ) $ (24,718 ) $ 2,426 % % 2009 and 2008 Comparison Domestic Retirement Services reported an increase in pre tax income before net realized capital gains (losses) in 2009 compared to 2008 primarily due to the following: higher net investment income due to a $1.5 billion increase in partnership income and a $103 million decline in fair value losses on the economic interest in ML II; a reduced amount of negative DAC and SIA unlockings and related reserve strengthening of $895 million compared to 2008. Unlockings in 2009 primarily were the result of reductions in the long term growth assumptions for group retirement products and individual variable annuities, deteriorating equity market conditions early in the year and projected increases in surrenders for individual fixed annuities. Unlockings in 2008 were primarily related to deteriorating equity market conditions for individual variable annuities and projected increases in surrenders for all product lines; and lower goodwill impairment charges of $736 million compared to 2008. Partially offsetting these benefits were: reduced DAC and SIA benefits of $2.1 billion from lower net realized capital losses in 2009 compared to 2008; a decrease in investment income due to lower reserves and assets in the GIC and fixed annuity blocks. As the GIC block is in runoff, AIG anticipates reserve and asset declines in future periods; and a decline in fee income related to lower average policyholder account values. The reduced pre tax loss for Domestic Retirement Services in 2009 reflected lower levels of net realized capital losses compared to 2008 principally from lower other than temporary impairment charges of $18.1 billion, a $2.9 billion decline in trading losses related to AIGs U.S. securities lending program and a $1.2 billion increase in earnings from the change in fair value of embedded policy derivative liabilities, net of related economic hedges, driven by improved bond and equity market conditions. Other than temporary impairment charges in 2008 included $11.2 billion of charges related to AIGs U.S. securities lending program which was terminated in December 2008. 2008 and 2007 Comparison Domestic Retirement Services reported a significant decline in pre tax income before net realized capital gains (losses) in 2008 compared to 2007 primarily due to the following: lower net investment income due to $1.2 billion of partnership losses in 2008 compared to partnership income of $2.0 billion in 2007, lower yield enhancement income and reduced overall investment yield from increased levels of short term investments; DAC unlocking and related reserve strengthening in 2008 of $1.5 billion resulting primarily from projected increases in surrenders and the deteriorating equity markets in 2008; and goodwill impairment charges of $817 million in 2008. These charges were partially offset by DAC and SIA benefits of $2.2 billion in 2008 related to the net realized capital losses as compared to benefits of $202 million in 2007. 105 AIG 2009 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries The pre tax loss for Domestic Retirement Services in 2008 reflected higher levels of net realized capital losses compared to 2007 due to a $19.6 billion increase in other than temporary impairment charges, a $2.8 billion increase in trading losses related to AIGs U.S. securities lending program and an $850 million increase in losses from the change in fair value of embedded policy derivative liabilities, net of related economic hedges, driven by poor equity market conditions. Other than temporary impairment charges in 2008 included $11.2 billion of charges related to AIGs U.S. securities lending program which was terminated in December 2008. Domestic Retirement Services Sales and Deposits The following table presents the account value rollforward for Domestic Retirement Services: Years Ended December 31, (in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Group retirement products Balance, beginning of year $ 56,861 $ 68,109 $ 64,357 Deposits annuities 4,856 5,661 5,898 Deposits mutual funds 1,345 1,520 1,633 Total Deposits 6,201 7,181 7,531 Surrenders and other withdrawals (7,233 ) (6,693 ) (6,551 ) Death benefits (275 ) (246 ) (262 ) Net inflows (outflows) (1,307 ) 242 718 Change in fair value of underlying investments, interest credited, net of fees 7,865 (11,490 ) 3,034 Balance, end of year $ 63,419 $ 56,861 $ 68,109 Individual fixed annuities Balance, beginning of year $ 48,394 $ 50,508 $ 52,685 Deposits 5,348 7,276 5,085 Surrenders and other withdrawals (6,715 ) (9,571 ) (7,565 ) Death benefits (1,700 ) (1,721 ) (1,667 ) Net inflows (outflows) (3,067 ) (4,016 ) (4,147 ) Change in fair value of underlying investments, interest credited, net of fees 1,875 1,902 1,970 Balance, end of year $ 47,202 $ 48,394 $ 50,508 Individual variable annuities Balance, beginning of year $ 23,593 $ 33,108 $ 31,093 Deposits 891 3,455 4,472 Surrenders and other withdrawals (2,667 ) (4,240 ) (4,158 ) Death benefits (404 ) (480 ) (497 ) Net inflows (outflows) (2,180 ) (1,265 ) (183 ) Change in fair value of underlying investments, interest credited, net of fees 3,224 (8,250 ) 2,198 Balance, end of year $ 24,637 $ 23,593 $ 33,108 Total Domestic Retirement Services Balance, beginning of year $ 128,848 $ 151,725 $ 148,135 Deposits 12,440 17,912 17,088 Surrenders and other withdrawals (16,615 ) (20,504 ) (18,274 ) Death benefits (2,379 ) (2,447 ) (2,426 ) Net inflows (outflows) (6,554 ) (5,039 ) (3,612 ) Change in fair value of underlying investments, interest credited, net of fees 12,964 (17,838 ) 7,202 Balance, end of year, excluding runoff 135,258 128,848 151,725 Individual annuities runoff 4,637 5,079 5,690 GICs runoff 8,536 14,608 24,890 Balance at end of year $ 148,431 $ 148,535 $ 182,305 General and separate account reserves and mutual funds General account reserve $ 94,912 $ 103,748 $ 113,691 Separate account reserve 45,444 38,499 60,461 Total general and separate account reserves 140,356 142,247 174,152 Group retirement mutual funds 8,075 6,288 8,153 Total reserves and mutual funds $ 148,431 $ 148,535 $ 182,305 AIG 2009 Form 10 K 106 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries 2009 and 2008 Comparison Deposits have been negatively affected by lower AIG ratings and the lingering effects of negative AIG publicity. For individual variable annuities, the decrease in 2009 compared to 2008 is also attributable to a general decline in industry sales volumes. Individual fixed and variable annuity sales have decreased due to the temporary suspension of product sales at certain selling organizations due to the effect of the AIG events. However, deposits for individual fixed annuities increased in the second half of 2009 primarily due to increased demand for guaranteed products as well as reinstatement of sales at certain financial institutions that had previously suspended sales. Surrenders and other withdrawals increased in 2009 for group retirement products primarily due to higher large group surrenders. However, surrender rates and withdrawals have improved for individual fixed annuities and individual variable annuities. 2008 and 2007 Comparison Deposits were negatively affected by the AIG ratings downgrades and AIGs liquidity issues commencing in September 2008. The decrease in group retirement products deposits was due to a decline in both group annuity deposits and group mutual fund deposits. The improvement in individual fixed annuity deposits was due to a steepened yield curve, providing the opportunity to offer higher interest crediting rates than certificates of deposits and mutual fund money market rates available at the time. Both group retirement products and individual fixed annuities deposits decreased after the AIG ratings downgrades. Individual variable annuity product sales declined due to the AIG ratings downgrades and continued weakness in the equity markets. Group retirement products and individual annuities surrenders and other withdrawals increased in all three product lines in 2008 compared to 2007 primarily due to the AIG ratings downgrades and AIGs liquidity issues. The following table presents reserves by surrender charge category and surrender rates: At December 31, (in millions) Group Retirement Products* Individual Fixed Annuities Individual Variable Annuities 2009 No surrender charge $ 47,854 $ 11,444 $ 11,161 0% 2% 1,509 3,054 4,094 Greater than 2% 4% 1,918 5,635 2,066 Greater than 4% 3,213 23,885 6,758 Non Surrenderable 850 3,184 558 Total Reserves $ 55,344 $ 47,202 $ 24,637 Surrender rates 12.3 % 14.4 % 12.1 % 2008 No surrender charge $ 43,797 $ 10,287 $ 8,594 0% 2% 1,320 3,043 3,097 Greater than 2% 4% 1,714 6,711 2,187 Greater than 4% 2,710 25,110 7,663 Non Surrenderable 1,032 3,243 2,052 Total Reserves $ 50,573 $ 48,394 $ 23,593 Surrender rates 10.5 % 18.8 % 14.9 % * Excludes mutual funds of $8.1 billion and $6.3 billion in 2009 and 2008, respectively. Foreign Life Insurance & Retirement Services Operations AIGs Foreign Life Insurance & Retirement Services operations include insurance and investment oriented products such as whole and term life, investment linked, universal life and endowments, personal accident and health 107 AIG 2009 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries products, group products including pension, life and health, and fixed and variable annuities. The Foreign Life Insurance & Retirement Services products are sold through independent producers, career agents, financial institutions and direct marketing channels. In managing its Foreign Life Insurance & Retirement Services businesses, AIG analyzes the operating performance of each business using pre tax income (loss) before net realized capital gains (losses). Pre tax income (loss) before net realized capital gains (losses) is not a substitute for pre tax income determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP. However, AIG believes that the presentation of pre tax income (loss) before net realized capital gains (losses) enhances the understanding of the Foreign Life Insurance & Retirements Services businesses results of operations by highlighting the results from ongoing operations and the underlying profitability of its businesses. The reconciliations to pre tax income are provided in the table that follows. In order to better align financial reporting with the manner in which AIGs chief operating decision makers review the businesses to make decisions about resources to be allocated and to assess performance, beginning in 2009, the Foreign Life Insurance & Retirement Services results include the equity income (loss) from certain equity method investments, which were previously included as part of AIGs Other operations category. Prior period amounts have been revised to conform to the current presentation. Foreign Life Insurance & Retirement Services Results The following table presents Foreign Life Insurance & Retirement Services results: Percentage Increase/(Decrease) Years Ended December 31, (in millions) 2009 2008 2007 2009 vs. 2008 2008 vs. 2007 Japan & Other: Premiums and other considerations $ 13,473 $ 14,513 $ 12,387 (7 )% 17 % Net investment income 6,230 981 6,084 (84 ) Policyholder benefits and claims incurred 11,464 7,115 11,097 61 (36 ) Policy acquisition and other expenses 5,183 5,372 4,035 (4 ) 33 Pre tax income before net realized capital gains (losses) 3,056 3,007 3,339 2 (10 ) Net realized capital losses (1,756 ) (5,693 ) (294 ) Pre tax income (loss) $ 1,300 $ (2,686 ) $ 3,045 % % Asia: Premiums and other considerations $ 9,301 $ 10,197 $ 9,349 (9 )% 9 % Net investment income 5,272 (824 ) 4,100 Policyholder benefits and claims incurred 10,461 4,484 9,856 133 (55 ) Policy acquisition and other expenses 2,608 3,020 1,455 (14 ) 108 Pre tax income before net realized capital gains (losses) 1,504 1,869 2,138 (20 ) (13 ) Net realized capital gains (losses) 417 (2,515 ) 169 Pre tax income (loss) $ 1,921 $ (646 ) $ 2,307 % % Total Foreign Life Insurance & Retirement Services: Premiums and other considerations $ 22,774 $ 24,710 $ 21,736 (8 )% 14 % Net investment income 11,502 157 10,184 (98 ) Policyholder benefits and claims incurred 21,925 11,599 20,953 89 (45 ) Policy acquisition and other expenses 7,791 8,392 5,490 (7 ) 53 Pre tax income before net realized capital losses 4,560 4,876 5,477 (6 ) (11 ) Net realized capital losses (1,339 ) (8,208 ) (125 ) Pre tax income (loss) $ 3,221 $ (3,332 ) $ 5,352 % % AIG transacts business in most major foreign currencies and therefore Premiums and other considerations reported in U.S. dollars vary by volume and from changes in foreign currency translation rates. AIG 2009 Form 10 K 108 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries The following table summarizes the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on the growth of the Foreign Life Insurance & Retirement Services Premiums and other considerations: Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 Increase (decrease) in original currency* (7.6 )% 7.5 % Foreign exchange effect (0.2 ) 6.2 Growth as reported in U.S. dollars (7.8 )% 13.7 % * Computed using a constant exchange rate each period. 2009 and 2008 Comparison Premiums and other considerations declined due to lower credit life premium revenues in Europe, the sale of the Brazil operations in 2008 and lower fee income related to investment linked products. Net investment income increased significantly in 2009 compared to 2008 due to policyholder trading gains which increased $10.8 billion, higher partnership and mutual fund returns and trading gains in the U.K. Policyholder trading gains (losses) are offset by a change in policyholder benefits and claims incurred. The decrease in policy acquisition and other expenses resulted from lower new business sales. Pre tax income before net realized capital losses for Foreign Life Insurance & Retirement Services declined in 2009 compared to 2008 primarily due to the following: a $134 million loss recognition charge related to the Philippine operations; actuarial charges related to unlocking of assumptions and changes in estimates of $111 million in 2009 primarily due to higher than anticipated surrenders related to a certain product in Korea, compared to a benefit of $51 million in 2008; lower assets under management in investment linked and retirement services portfolios in the U.K., Japan and Asia; lower investment margins due to de risking activities and higher short term liquidity in certain businesses; lower pre tax income of $276 million related to the sale of the Brazil operations on November 30, 2008; actuarial charges in 2009 of $91 million for changes in estimate related to the ongoing project to increase standardization of AIGs actuarial systems and processes compared to a benefit of $154 million in 2008; higher expenses due to restructuring activities, including a $91 million impairment of capitalized costs in Japan related to the decision to terminate the previously planned merger of AIG Star Life and AIG Edison Life; and a charge of $58 million in 2009 related to a security breach with respect to policyholder data in Japan. These declines were partially offset by the following: partnership and mutual fund income, net of policyholder trading gains and policyholder participating share, of $102 million in 2009 compared to losses of $496 million in 2008; losses of $2 million in 2009 related to trading gains (losses) and change in benefit reserves associated with investment oriented products in the U.K. compared to losses of $413 million in 2008; and DAC and SIA benefits related to Net realized capital gains (losses) of $371 million in 2009 compared to benefits of $132 million in 2008. Pre tax income for Foreign Life Insurance & Retirement Services in 2009 reflected a decline in net realized capital losses compared to 2008 due principally to a significant decline in other than temporary impairments. 109 AIG 2009 Form 10 K  Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries 2008 and 2007 Comparison Premiums and other considerations increased primarily due to growth in new business related to life insurance products in Japan and Korea, as well as group credit life sales in Europe. Net investment income declined in 2008 compared to 2007 largely due to policyholder trading losses of $6.8 billion in 2008 compared to gains of $2.9 billion in 2007. The increase in policy acquisition and other expenses was due to higher DAC amortization related to higher surrender benefits as a result of the implementation of the new fair value option accounting standard in 2008, benefits related to actuarial adjustments in 2007 and the effect of foreign exchange. Pre tax income before net realized capital gains (losses) for Foreign Life Insurance & Retirement Services declined in 2008 compared to 2007 primarily due to the following: higher losses of $262 million on certain investment oriented products in the U.K. due to mark to market trading losses partially offset by a positive change in benefit reserves resulting from changes to the Premier Access Bond product following significant surrender activity as a result of the AIG liquidity issues in mid September of 2008; higher benefit costs, net of related DAC unlocking, of $106 million principally related to volatility in the Japanese equity market and declines in interest rates; and the project to increase standardization of AIGs actuarial systems and processes throughout the world which resulted in a favorable effect on pre tax income of $154 million for 2008 compared to a charge of $39 million in 2007. Partially offsetting these items were the following: the effect of growth in the underlying business in force and the positive effect of foreign exchange; remediation related charges of $101 million in 2007; and additional claims expense in 2007 of $67 million related to an industry wide regulatory claims review in Japan. The pre tax loss for Foreign Life Insurance & Retirement Services in 2008 reflected higher net realized capital losses compared to 2007 due principally to significant other than temporary impairments in 2008. Foreign Life Insurance & Retirement Services Sales and Deposits* The following table summarizes first year premium, single premium and annuity deposits for Foreign Life Insurance & Retirement Services: Percentage Increase (Decrease) 2009 vs 2008 2008 vs 2007 Years Ended December 31, (in millions) 2009 2008 2007 U.S. $ Original Currency U.S. $ Original Currency First year premium $ 3,711 $ 4,231 $ 4,182 (12 )% (10 )% 1 % (2 )% Single premium 2,629 10,468 15,001 (75 ) (73 ) (30 ) (31 ) Annuity deposits 2,504 17,238 19,092 (85 ) (85 ) (10 ) (11 ) * Excludes divested operations. 2009 and 2008 Comparison First year premium sales in 2009 decreased compared to 2008 primarily due to decreases in life insurance and personal accident sales which were partially offset by higher group products sales. Life insurance sales of investment linked products in Asia were adversely affected by equity market performance and the negative effect of foreign exchange translation. Life insurance sales in Japan increased as a result of sales incentives and the positive effect of foreign exchange translation while personal accident sales declined. Group product sales increased primarily due to large group cases in Australia. AIG 2009 Form 10 K 110 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries Single premium sales in 2009 decreased significantly compared to 2008 primarily due to lower sales of the guaranteed income bond product in the U.K. resulting from poor market conditions and the effect of the adverse AIG publicity. In Japan, single premium sales declined primarily due to the temporary suspension of sales by banks of AIG products. Single premium sales also decreased in Asia reflecting customers concerns about equity markets performance earlier in the year. Annuity deposits decreased significantly in 2009 compared to 2008 primarily due to the decline in individual variable annuity deposits in the U.K. and individual fixed annuity deposits in Japan. Investment linked deposits in the U.K. decreased significantly in 2009 resulting from declines in the U.K. Premier Access Bond product following significant surrender activity as a result of AIG events. Adverse AIG publicity and the uncertainty of AIGs Japan life operations restructuring continued to negatively affect deposits in Japan during 2009 due to the suspension of sales by banks of AIG products. 2008 and 2007 Comparison First year premium sales in 2008 improved slightly compared to 2007 primarily due to increases in group product sales, particularly in Japan, Australia and the Middle East, partially offset by decreases in life insurance and personal accident sales. In Japan, life insurance sales were lower due to reduced levels of increasing term sales and lower sales in the fourth quarter of 2008 related to negative publicity regarding AIG. Also in Japan, personal accident sales declined in the direct marketing distribution channel due to lower response rates resulting from market saturation. Single premium sales in 2008 declined compared to 2007 primarily due to lower sales of the guaranteed income bond product in the U.K. which fell as customers shifted to variable annuity products during the first three quarters of 2008 and then were significantly negatively affected in the fourth quarter by negative publicity regarding AIG. Single premium sales in Asia also dropped as customers became concerned about declining equity markets, particularly in Hong Kong, Singapore and China. Annuity deposits decreased in 2008 compared to 2007 as the decline in individual variable annuity deposits more than offset the increase in individual fixed annuity deposits. Investment linked deposits in the U.K. decreased significantly in the fourth quarter of 2008 due to negative publicity regarding AIG. In Japan, individual fixed annuity deposits increased in 2008 compared to 2007 due primarily to a favorable exchange rate environment for non yen denominated products. However, negative publicity regarding AIG and the planned disposition of AIGs Japan life operations negatively affected deposits in the fourth quarter of 2008 as banks suspended the distribution of AIG products. Financial Services Operations AIGs Financial Services subsidiaries engage in diversified activities including aircraft leasing, capital markets, and consumer finance and insurance premium finance. Together, the Aircraft Leasing, Capital Markets and Consumer Finance operations generate the majority of the revenues produced by the Financial Services operations. Aircraft Leasing AIGs Aircraft Leasing operations are the operations of ILFC, which generates its revenues primarily from leasing new and used commercial jet aircraft to foreign and domestic airlines. Revenues also result from the remarketing of commercial jet aircraft for ILFCs own account, and remarketing and fleet management services for airlines and other aircraft fleet owners. Capital Markets Capital Markets represents the operations of AIGFP, which engaged as principal in a wide variety of financial transactions, including standard and customized financial products involving commodities, credit, currencies, energy, equities and interest rates. AIGFP also invests in a diversified portfolio of securities and engaged in borrowing activities that involve issuing standard and structured notes and other securities and entering into GIAs. Given the extreme market conditions experienced in 2008, downgrades of AIGs credit ratings by the rating agencies and AIGs 111 AIG 2009 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries intent to refocus on its core businesses, in late 2008 AIGFP began to unwind its businesses and portfolios, including those associated with credit protection written through credit default swaps on super senior risk tranches of diversified pools of loans and debt securities. Historically, AIGs Capital Markets operations derived a significant portion of their revenues from hedged financial positions entered into in connection with counterparty transactions. AIGFP has also participated as a dealer in a wide variety of financial derivatives transactions. Revenues and pre tax income of the Capital Markets operations and the percentage change in these amounts for any given period are significantly affected by changes in the fair value of AIGFPs assets and liabilities and by the number, size and profitability of transactions entered into during that period relative to those entered into during the comparative period. Consumer Finance AIGs Consumer Finance operations in North America are principally conducted through AGF. AGF derives most of its revenues from finance charges assessed on real estate loans, secured and unsecured non real estate loans and retail sales finance receivables. AIGs foreign consumer finance operations are principally conducted through AIGCFG. AIGCFG operates primarily in emerging and developing markets. At December 31, 2009, AIGCFG had operations in Argentina, Poland, Taiwan, India and Colombia. During 2009 and through February 17, 2010, AIG has completed the sale of the AIGCFG operations in China, Thailand, the Philippines, Mexico, Hong Kong, Brazil, Russia and Taiwan. AIG has also entered into contracts to sell the AIGCFG operations in Argentina, Colombia and Poland. Financial Services Results Financial Services results were as follows: Percentage Increase/(Decrease) Years Ended December 31, (in millions) 2009 2008 2007 2009 vs. 2008 2008 vs. 2007 Revenues: Aircraft Leasing $ 5,288 $ 5,075 $ 4,694 4 % 8 % Capital Markets 662 (40,333 ) (9,979 ) Consumer Finance 3,096 3,849 3,655 (20 ) 5 Other, including intercompany adjustments 530 314 321 69 (2 ) Total $ 9,576 $ (31,095 ) $ (1,309 ) % % Pre tax income (loss): Aircraft Leasing $ 1,385 $ 1,116 $ 873 24 % 28 % Capital Markets 180 (40,471 ) (10,557 ) Consumer Finance (985 ) (1,261 ) 171 Other, including intercompany adjustments (63 ) (205 ) (2 ) Total $ 517 $ (40,821 ) $ (9,515 ) % % 2009 and 2008 Comparison Financial Services reported pre tax income in 2009 compared to a very significant pre tax loss in 2008 primarily due to the following: AIGFP reported unrealized market valuation gains related to its super senior credit default swap portfolios of $1.4 billion in 2009 and unrealized market valuation losses of $28.6 billion in 2008. The operating results in 2009 and 2008 include net gains of $2.8 billion and net losses of $9.3 billion, respectively, representing the effect of changes in credit spreads on the valuation of AIGFPs assets and liabilities, including credit valuation adjustment gains of $52 million and $185 million, respectively, reflected in Unrealized market valuation gains (losses) on AIGFP super senior credit default swap portfolio. Interest expense on intercompany borrowings and AIG 2009 Form 10 K 112 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries the effect on operating results related to the continued wind down of AIGFPs portfolios in 2009 partially offset the unrealized market valuation gains related to AIGFPs credit default swap portfolios and the gains related to the effect of changes in credit spreads on the valuation of AIGFPs assets and liabilities. ILFC pre tax income increased 24 percent or $269 million in 2009 compared to 2008. Rental revenues increased $332 million and interest expense decreased $212 million in 2009 compared to 2008. The rental revenues increase was driven to a large extent by a larger aircraft fleet and the interest expense decrease resulted from lower composite borrowing rates. These results were partially offset by higher depreciation expense and provision for overhauls, lower flight equipment marketing revenue, and aircraft impairment charges in 2009 of $51 million. Consumer Finance operations reported a decrease in pre tax losses in 2009 compared to 2008 primarily due to goodwill impairment charges recorded in 2008 for AGF and AIGCFG of $341 million and $343 million, respectively. Partially offsetting this benefit was an increase in AGFs pre tax loss in 2009 compared to 2008, primarily due to lower finance charges and other revenues reflecting losses on the sales of real estate portfolios as part of AGFs liquidity management efforts and higher provision for finance receivable losses resulting from higher levels of delinquencies on AGFs finance receivable portfolio and higher net charge offs. This increase in pre tax loss was partially offset by AGFs lower operating expenses and interest expense. AGFs operating expenses declined in 2009 compared to 2008 primarily due to the write down of AGFs goodwill in 2008, the decision to cease its wholesale originations in 2008 and the closing of 442 AGF branch offices in 2008 and 2009 combined. 2008 and 2007 Comparison Financial Services reported increased pre tax losses in 2008 and 2007 primarily due to the following: AIGFPs unrealized market valuation losses related to its super senior credit default swap portfolios of $28.6 billion and $11.5 billion in 2008 and 2007, respectively. AIGFP also recorded pre tax losses of $9.3 billion in 2008 representing the effect of changes in credit spreads on the valuation of AIGFPs assets and liabilities, including $185 million of gains reflected in the unrealized market valuation loss on the super senior credit default swaps. AGFs pre tax income declined in 2008 compared to 2007 primarily due to increases in the provision for finance receivable losses of $674 million resulting from increases to the allowance for finance receivable losses in response to the higher levels of delinquencies on AGFs finance receivable portfolio, higher net charge offs, and a goodwill impairment charge of $341 million. As of December 31, 2008, AGF reclassified $1.0 billion of real estate loans to be held for sale due to managements change in intent to hold these receivables. Based on negotiations with prospective purchasers, AGF determined that a write down of $27 million was necessary to reduce the carrying value of these loans to net realizable value. The sales of these loans were completed in February 2009. AIGCFG also recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $343 million in 2008. ILFC generated strong pre tax income growth in 2008 compared to 2007, driven to a large extent by a larger aircraft fleet, higher lease rates and lower composite borrowing rates. The net loss in the Other reporting unit resulted primarily from the change in fair value of interest rate swaps on economically hedged exposures. Capital Markets Results 2009 and 2008 Comparison AIGFP reported a pre tax gain in 2009 compared to a very significant pre tax loss in 2008 primarily due to a market valuation gain in 2009 compared to a loss in 2008 on its super senior credit default swap portfolio. AIGFPs results also reflect the effects of its wind down activities. The net pre tax results were also affected by efforts initiated during 113 AIG 2009 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries the first half of 2008 to preserve liquidity. As a result of AIGs intention to refocus on its core business, AIGFP began unwinding its businesses and portfolios. For a further discussion, see Executive Overview 2010 Business Outlook Financial Services Capital Markets. AIGFP recognized an unrealized market valuation gain of $1.4 billion in 2009 compared to an unrealized market valuation loss of $28.6 billion in 2008, representing the change in fair value of its super senior credit default swap portfolio. The principal components of the valuation gains and losses recognized were as follows: AIGFP recognized an unrealized market valuation gain of $1.9 billion in 2009 with respect to CDS transactions in the corporate arbitrage portfolio, compared to an unrealized market valuation loss of $2.3 billion in 2008. During 2009, the valuation of these contracts benefited from the narrowing of corporate credit spreads, while these spreads widened dramatically during 2008. AIGFP recognized an unrealized market valuation loss of $669 million in 2009 with respect to CDS transactions written on multi sector CDOs, compared to unrealized market valuation losses of $25.7 billion in 2008. The decrease in the unrealized market valuation loss on this portfolio was largely due to the substantial decline in outstanding net notional amount resulting from the termination of CDS contracts in the fourth quarter of 2008 in connection with the ML III transaction. During the fourth quarter of 2009, one counterparty notified AIG that it will not terminate early two of its prime residential mortgage transactions. With respect to these two transactions, the counterparty no longer has any rights to terminate the transactions early and is required to pay AIG fees on the original notional amounts reduced only by realized losses through the final maturity. Because these two transactions have weighted average lives that are considerably less than their final legal maturities, there is value to AIG due to the counterparty paying its contractual fees beyond the date at which the net notional amounts have fully amortized through the final legal maturity date. As a result, an unrealized market valuation gain of $137 million was recorded in 2009. This gain was partially offset by losses on the mezzanine tranches of those same transactions. See Critical Accounting Estimates Level 3 Assets and Liabilities Valuation of Level 3 Assets and Liabilities for a discussion of AIGFPs super senior credit default swap portfolio. During 2009, AIGFP: recognized a gain of $240 million on credit default swap contracts referencing single name exposures written on corporate, index and asset backed credits which are not included in the super senior credit default swap portfolio, compared to a net loss of $888 million in 2008; incurred an additional charge of $198 million related to a transaction entered into in 2002 whereby AIGFP guaranteed obligations under leases of office space from a counterparty; and incurred interest charges of $2.7 billion compared to $1.4 billion in 2008 relating to intercompany borrowings with AIG that are eliminated in consolidation. Historically, the most significant component of Capital Markets operating expenses was compensation. For 2009, compensation expense was approximately $98 million, or 19 percent of operating expenses. In addition, AIGFP recognized $153 million in expenses related to pre existing retention plans and related asset impairment and other expenses. Due to the significant losses recognized by AIGFP during 2008, the entire amount of $563 million accrued under AIGFPs various deferred compensation plans and special incentive plan was reversed in 2008. Total compensation expense in 2008 was $426 million including retention awards. 2008 and 2007 Comparison AIGFPs pre tax loss increased significantly in 2008 compared to 2007 primarily related to its super senior multi sector CDO credit default swap portfolio and the effect of credit spreads on the valuation of its assets and liabilities. The 2008 net pre tax loss was driven by the extreme market conditions experienced during 2008 and the effects of downgrades of AIGs credit ratings by the rating agencies. AIG 2009 Form 10 K 114 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries AIG recognized an unrealized market valuation loss of $28.6 billion in 2008 compared to $11.5 billion in 2007, representing the change in fair value of its super senior credit default swap portfolio. The principal components of the loss recognized in 2008 were as follows: Approximately $25.7 billion of the loss relates to derivatives written on the super senior tranches of multi sector CDOs. The material decline in the fair value of these derivatives was caused by significant deterioration in the pricing and credit quality of RMBS, CMBS and CDO securities. Included in this amount is a loss of $4.3 billion with respect to the change in fair value of transactions outstanding at December 31, 2008 having a net notional amount of $12.6 billion. Also included in the unrealized market valuation losses on AIGFPs super senior credit default swap portfolio are losses of approximately $995 million that were subsequently realized through payments to counterparties to acquire at par value the underlying CDO securities with fair values that were less than par. Further, included in the unrealized market valuation losses on AIGFPs super senior credit default swap portfolio are losses of approximately $21.1 billion that were subsequently realized through the termination of contracts through the ML III transaction. See Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Approximately $2.3 billion relates to derivatives written as part of the corporate arbitrage portfolio. The decline in the fair value of these derivatives was caused by the continued significant widening in corporate credit spreads. A total of $379 million relates to the decline in fair value of a transaction in the regulatory capital portfolio where AIGFP no longer believes the credit default swap is used by the counterparty to obtain regulatory capital relief. See Critical Accounting Estimates Level 3 Assets and Liabilities Valuation of Level 3 Assets and Liabilities and Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of AIGFPs super senior credit default swap portfolio. During 2008, AIGFP recognized a loss of $888 million on credit default swap contracts referencing single name exposures written on corporate, index and asset backed credits, which are not included in the super senior credit default swap portfolio, compared to a net gain of $370 million in 2007. The following table presents AIGFPs credit valuation adjustment gains (losses) (excluding intercompany transactions): (in millions) Counterparty Credit Valuation Adjustment on Assets AIGs Own Credit Valuation Adjustment on Liabilities Year Ended December 31, 2009 Bond trading securities $ 2,095 Notes and bonds payable $ (163 ) Loans and other assets (48 ) Hybrid financial instrument liabilities (83 ) Derivative assets 891 GIAs 172 Other liabilities (12 ) Derivative liabilities* (64 ) Increase in assets $ 2,938 Increase in liabilities $ (150 ) Net pre tax increase to Other income $ 2,788 Year Ended December 31, 2008 Bond trading securities $ (8,928 ) Notes and bonds payable $ 248 Loans and other assets (61 ) Hybrid financial instrument liabilities 646 Derivative assets (1,667 ) GIAs (415 ) Other liabilities 55 Derivative liabilities* 860 Decrease in assets $ (10,656 ) Decrease in liabilities $ 1,394 Net pre tax decrease to Other income $ (9,262 ) * Includes super senior credit default swap portfolio 115 AIG 2009 Form 10 K  Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries AIGFPs pre tax gain in 2009 includes a net gain of $2.8 billion representing the effect of changes in credit spreads on the valuation of AIGFPs assets and liabilities, including $52 million of gains reflected in the unrealized market valuation gain on super senior credit default swaps. The gain in 2009 was primarily the result of tightening of spreads on asset backed securities and CDOs, which represent a significant segment of AIGFPs investment portfolio. AIGFPs pre tax loss for 2008 includes a loss of $9.3 billion representing the effect of changes in credit spreads on the valuation of AIGFPs assets and liabilities, including $185 million of gains reflected in the unrealized market valuation loss on super senior credit default swaps. Historically, AIGs credit spreads and those on AIGFPs assets moved in a similar fashion. This relationship began to diverge during second quarter of 2008 and continued to diverge through the end of the year. While AIGs credit spreads widened significantly during 2008, the credit spreads on the Asset backed securities (ABS) and CDO products, which represent a significant portion of AIGFPs investment portfolio, widened even more. The losses on AIGFPs assets more than offset the net gain on its liabilities that was driven by the significant widening in AIGs credit spreads. The net gain on AIGFPs liabilities was reduced by the effect of posting collateral and the early terminations of GIAs, term notes and hybrid term notes. Included in the 2008 pre tax loss is the transition amount of $291 million related to the adoption of new accounting standards on fair value measurements and fair value option for financial assets and financial liabilities. Other Operations AIGs Other operations includes results from Parent & Other operations, after allocations to AIGs business segments and results from noncore businesses. Parent & Other AIGs Parent & Other operations consist primarily of interest expense, restructuring costs, expenses of corporate staff not attributable to specific reportable segments, expenses related to efforts to improve internal controls, corporate initiatives, certain compensation plan expenses, corporate level net realized capital gains and losses, certain litigation related charges and net gains and losses on sale of divested businesses. Noncore Businesses Noncore businesses include results of certain businesses that have been divested or are being wound down or repositioned. In order to better align financial reporting with the manner in which AIGs chief operating decision makers review the businesses to make decisions about resources to be allocated and to assess performance, beginning in 2009, the following changes were made: results for Mortgage Guaranty, Transatlantic, 21st Century and HSB are now included in AIGs Other operations category. These amounts were previously reported as part of General Insurance operations. results for certain brokerage service, mutual fund, GIC and other asset management activities previously reported in the Asset Management segment are now included in Domestic Life Insurance & Retirement Services. The remaining Asset Management operations are now included in AIGs Other operations category. See Capital Resources and Liquidity AIGs Strategy for Stabilization and Repayment of its Obligations Asset Disposition Plan Sales of Businesses and Specific Asset Dispositions for discussion of the sale of AIGs investment advisory and third party institutional asset management business in 2009. the equity income (loss) from certain equity method investments, which were previously included as part of AIGs Other operations category are now included in General Insurance and Foreign Life Insurance & Retirement Services. Prior period amounts have been revised to conform to the current presentation for the above changes. AIG 2009 Form 10 K 116 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries Other Results The pre tax income of AIGs Other operations was as follows: Percentage Increase/(Decrease) Years Ended December 31, (in millions) 2009 2008 2007 2009 vs. 2008 2008 vs. 2007 Parent & Other: Interest income $ 2,923 $ 1,649 $ 50 77 % % Interest expense on FRBNY Credit Facility: Accrued and compounding interest (2,022 ) (2,116 ) Amortization of prepaid commitment asset (8,359 ) (9,279 ) Total interest expense on FRBNY Credit Facility (10,381 ) (11,395 ) Other interest expense (2,198 ) (1,940 ) (1,223 ) Unallocated corporate expenses (1,149 ) (967 ) (649 ) Restructuring expenses (422 ) (195 ) Change in fair value of ML III* (1,401 ) (900 ) Net realized capital gains (losses) 900 (1,218 ) (265 ) Net loss on sale of divested businesses (1,271 ) Other miscellaneous, net 464 (24 ) 25 Total Parent & Other $ (12,535 ) $ (14,990 ) $ (2,062 ) % % Noncore businesses: Mortgage Guaranty $ (1,688 ) $ (2,488 ) $ (641 ) % % Other noncore insurance 220 (846 ) 921 Change in fair value of ML III* 1,820 Noncore Asset Management (3,586 ) (5,348 ) 83 Total Noncore businesses $ (3,234 ) $ (8,682 ) $ 363 % % Total Other operations $ (15,769 ) $ (23,672 ) $ (1,699 ) % % * Parent & Other contributed its equity interest in ML III to an AIG subsidiary, reported above in Noncore businesses, during the second quarter of 2009. Parent & Other Parent & Other pre tax loss decreased in 2009 compared to 2008 primarily due to net realized capital gains in 2009 compared to losses in 2008, a decline in interest expense on the FRBNY Credit Facility and increased interest income in 2009 on intercompany loans, which is eliminated in consolidation. See Consolidated Results Interest Expense herein for further discussion of the decline in interest expense. Additionally Parent & Other pre tax loss in 2009 includes a decline in fair value of AIGs equity interest in ML III, restructuring expenses, and net losses on sales of divested businesses. The increased pre tax loss in 2008 compared to 2007 largely resulted from interest expense on the FRBNY Credit Facility. 117 AIG 2009 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries The following table summarizes the net loss on sale of divested businesses: Years Ended December 31, 2009 (in millions) Gain/(loss) Transatlantic $ (497) 21st Century (416) Consumer Finance businesses (375) A.I. Credit (287) AIG Private Bank 111 AIG Life Canada 111 HSB 177 Other businesses (95) Total $ (1,271) Noncore Businesses Mortgage Guaranty The main business of the subsidiaries of UGC is the issuance of residential mortgage guaranty insurance, both domestically and internationally, that covers the first loss for credit defaults on high loan to value conventional first lien mortgages for the purchase or refinance of one to four family residences. Mortgage Guarantys pre tax loss for 2009 decreased compared to 2008. The decreased pre tax loss reflects a decline in loss and loss expenses incurred of $394 million combined with a $483 million reduction in operating expenses as a result of the recognition of a premium deficiency reserve of $222 million in 2008 and the release of the entire $222 million premium deficiency reserve in 2009. Domestic first lien and second lien businesses reported pre tax losses of $1.06 billion and $283 million respectively, for 2009 which were $72 million and $902 million, respectively, lower than 2008. These reductions in pre tax losses reflect the declines in loss and loss expenses of $154 million for first liens and $443 million for second liens in addition to the release of the second lien premium deficiency reserve in 2009. The improved operating results correspond with the relative slowing of declines in domestic housing values and, primarily in the case of second liens, the recognition of stop loss limits on certain policies. Domestic private student loans and international businesses pre tax losses of $70 million and $261 million, respectively, for 2009 were $71 million and $104 million higher, respectively, than during 2008. Mortgage Guaranty pre tax loss increased in 2008 compared to 2007 due to sharply declining housing values, increased mortgage foreclosures and the recognition of a premium deficiency reserve on the second lien business. The domestic first lien pre tax loss increased by $1.0 billion in 2008 to $1.1 billion compared to 2007 while the second lien pre tax loss of $1.2 billion in 2008, which includes the recognition of a $222 million premium deficiency reserve, increased $656 million compared to 2007. During 2008, UGC tightened underwriting guidelines and increased premium rates for its first lien business, ceased insuring new second lien loans as of September 30, 2008 and during the fourth quarter of 2008 ceased insuring new private student loan business and suspended insuring new business throughout its European operations. All of these actions were in response to the worsening conditions in the global housing markets and resulted in a significant decline in new business written during the second half of 2008 and throughout 2009. This is reflected in 2009 new insurance written of $14 billion which was 61 percent below 2008 levels. Earned premiums during 2009 of $1.0 billion were 1 percent below 2008 earned premiums, reflecting the high level of persistency in the older books of business resulting from relatively consistent mortgage interest rates, tightening of refinancing requirements throughout the mortgage market and a weak domestic residential resale market. UGC, like other participants in the mortgage insurance industry, has made claims against various counterparties in relation to alleged underwriting failures, and received similar claims from counterparties. These claims and counterclaims allege breach of contract, breach of good faith and fraud among other allegations. AIG 2009 Form 10 K 118 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries In December 2009, UGC entered into two stock purchase agreements for the sale of its Canadian and Israel operations. The Israel transaction closed on January 21, 2010 and the Canadian transaction is expected to close during the first half of 2010. UGCs domestic first lien mortgage risk in force totaled $26.4 billion as of December 31, 2009 and the 60+ day delinquency ratio was 17.8 percent (based on number of policies, consistent with mortgage industry practice) compared to domestic first lien mortgage risk in force of $27.1 billion and a delinquency ratio of 10.7 percent at December 31, 2008. The second lien risk in force at December 31, 2009 totaled $2.5 billion compared to $2.9 billion of risk in force at December 31, 2008. Risk in force represents the full amount of second lien loans insured reduced for contractual aggregate loss limits on certain pools of loans, usually 10 percent of the full amount of loans insured in each pool. Certain second lien pools have reinstatement provisions. Other Noncore Insurance Businesses Other noncore insurance businesses include the operating results of the following divested businesses through the date of their sale. Transatlantic Transatlantic offers reinsurance capacity on both a treaty and facultative basis both in the U.S. and abroad. Transatlantic structures programs for a full range of property and casualty products with an emphasis on specialty risk. On June 10, 2009, AIG closed a secondary public offering of 29.9 million shares of Transatlantic common stock owned directly and indirectly by AIG for aggregate gross proceeds of $1.1 billion. At the close of the public offering, AIG indirectly retained 13.9 percent of the Transatlantic common stock issued and outstanding. As a result, AIG deconsolidated Transatlantic, which resulted in a $1.4 billion reduction in Noncontrolling interests, a component of Total equity. 21st Century On July 1, 2009, AIG closed the sale of 21st Century Insurance Group and the Agency Auto Division (excluding AIG Private Client Group). HSB On March 31, 2009, AIG closed the sale of HSB, the parent company of the Hartford Steam Boiler Inspection and Insurance Company. Change in Fair Value of ML III Gains in 2009 resulted from improvements in valuation, primarily resulting from the shortening of weighted average life from 10.9 years to 9.6 years, and the narrowing of credit spreads by approximately 100 basis points. Adversely affecting the fair value was the decrease in cash flows primarily due to an increase in projected credit losses in the underlying collateral securities. Other Noncore Asset Management Operations AIGs Noncore Asset Management operations include the results of the MIP program and Institutional Asset Management businesses. The revenues and pre tax income (loss) for these operations are affected by the general conditions in the equity and credit markets. In addition, net realized gains and carried interest are contingent upon investment maturity levels and market conditions. In the Institutional Asset Management business, carried interest, computed in accordance with each funds governing agreement, is based on the investments performance over the life of each fund. Unrealized 119 AIG 2009 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries carried interest is recognized based on each funds performance as of the balance sheet date. Future fund performance may negatively affect previously recognized carried interest. MIP Results 2009 and 2008 Comparison The MIP reported a lower pre tax loss in 2009 compared to 2008 due to significantly lower other than temporary impairments on fixed maturity investments due primarily to the improved credit environment and the adoption of the new accounting standard on other than temporary impairments. Also contributing to the improvement were fair value gains on single name credit default swap investments offset by increased net fair value losses on foreign exchange and interest rate derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting treatment. AIG enters into derivative arrangements to hedge the effect of changes in currency and interest rates associated with the fixed and floating rate and foreign currency denominated obligations issued under these programs. Some of these hedging relationships do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment and therefore create volatility in operating results despite being effective economic hedges. Further, the MIP invests in short single name credit default swaps in order to obtain unfunded credit exposure. 2008 and 2007 Comparison The MIP reported increased pre tax losses in 2008 compared to 2007 due to significantly higher Net realized capital losses. The increase in Net realized capital losses for 2008 primarily consists of: an increase in other than temporary impairment charges on fixed maturity securities; higher net mark to market losses on interest rate and foreign exchange hedges not qualifying for hedge accounting treatment; and higher net mark to market losses on credit default swap investments held by the MIP due to the widening of corporate credit spreads. Partially offsetting these declines were increased net foreign exchange gains on foreign denominated MIP liabilities. Institutional Asset Management Results 2009 and 2008 Comparison Institutional Asset Management recognized an increased pre tax loss in 2009 compared to 2008, primarily resulting from: goodwill impairments in 2009 as substantially all of the operating units goodwill was impaired in the third quarter of 2009. The third quarter 2009 assessment of the segment was negatively affected by a significant decline in the fair value of certain consolidated warehoused investments as well as the consideration of recent transaction activity. A total of $609 million in goodwill impairments was recorded in 2009, with $287 million offset in noncontrolling interests, which is not part of pre tax income (loss); impairments on proprietary real estate. Real estate impairments of $1.2 billion during 2009 were incurred in the direct investment portfolio as well as through real estate joint ventures as the global credit crisis has continued to put pressure on real estate values, occupancy rates and leasing activity. Approximately $182 million was included in noncontrolling interests, which is not part of pre tax income (loss). This downward pressure has caused impairments across the portfolio. The availability of refinancing and required capital has caused management to reduce the estimated time period before sale for certain investments, resulting in impairments; impairments on investments. Impairments of private equity investments originally acquired for warehouse purposes were driven by asset specific valuation considerations which were deemed to be other than temporary; AIG 2009 Form 10 K 120 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries a decline in unrealized carried interest revenues due to a decline in portfolio asset valuations as well as lower management fees on lower base assets under management. Unrealized carried interest revenues are impacted by asset valuation changes within the managed portfolio and typically move in tandem with the level of assets under management and related base management fees. Base management fees have declined from prior year periods due to lower average assets under management. The lower average asset base is a function of reduced asset values and client loss, which primarily occurred in the second half of 2008 and has since abated. 2008 and 2007 Comparison Institutional Asset Management recognized a pre tax loss in 2008 compared to pre tax income in 2007, primarily resulting from: higher net equity losses and impairment charges of $321 million. Due to the global real estate market conditions, several of AIG Global Real Estates investments were deemed to be impaired, and several equity investments were written off during 2008. These impairments and write offs totaled $269 million, of which $62 million is included in noncontrolling interest; lower Net realized capital gains on real estate investments due to lower real estate asset sales; lower carried interest revenues due to lower fund performance in 2008; increased losses on warehouse investments driven by depressed market conditions; and losses related to the wind down of securities lending activities and expenses associated with restructuring and divestment related activities. Included in the 2007 results was a $398 million gain related to the sale of a portion of AIGs investment in The Blackstone Group, LP. Critical Accounting Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires the application of accounting policies that often involve a significant degree of judgment. AIG considers its accounting policies that are most dependent on the application of estimates and assumptions, and therefore viewed as critical accounting estimates, to be those relating to items considered by management in the determination of: AIGs ability to continue as a going concern; liability for general insurance unpaid claims and claims adjustment expenses; future policy benefits for life and accident and health contracts; recoverability of DAC; estimated gross profits for investment oriented products; the allowance for finance receivable losses; flight equipment recoverability; other than temporary impairments of investments; goodwill impairment; liability for legal contingencies; estimates with respect to income taxes; and fair value measurements of certain financial assets and liabilities, including credit default swaps and AIGs investments in ML II and ML III (Maiden Lane Interests). 121 AIG 2009 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries These accounting estimates require the use of assumptions about matters, some of which are highly uncertain at the time of estimation. To the extent actual experience differs from the assumptions used, AIGs financial condition and results of operations would be directly affected. The major categories for which assumptions are developed and used to establish each critical accounting estimate are highlighted below. AIGs Ability to Continue as a Going Concern When assessing AIGs ability to continue as a going concern, management must make judgments and estimates about the following: the marketability of assets to be disposed of and the timing and amount of related cash proceeds to be used to repay indebtedness; the planned sales of significant subsidiaries; plans to raise new funds or refinance debt; the commitment of the U.S. government to continue to work with AIG to maintain its ability to meet its obligations as they come due; the retention of key employees; projections of future profitability and the timing and amount of cash flows from operating activities; the funding needs of regulated subsidiaries; AIGs ability to comply with debt covenants and its agreements with the Department of the Treasury and the Trust; plans to restructure operations and reduce expenditures; the effects of ratings agency actions on collateral requirements and other contractual conditions; and the future regulatory, business, credit, and competitive environments in which AIG operates around the world. These factors, individually and collectively, will have a significant effect on AIGs ability to generate sufficient cash to repay indebtedness as it becomes due and profitably operate its businesses as it executes its restructuring initiatives. Liability for Unpaid Claims and Claims Adjustment Expenses (General Insurance): Loss trend factors: used to establish expected loss ratios for subsequent accident years based on premium rate adequacy and the projected loss ratio with respect to prior accident years. Expected loss ratios for the latest accident year: in this case, accident year 2009 for the year end 2009 loss reserve analysis. For low frequency, high severity classes such as excess casualty, expected loss ratios generally are utilized for at least the three most recent accident years. Loss development factors: used to project the reported losses for each accident year to an ultimate amount. Reinsurance recoverable on unpaid losses: the expected recoveries from reinsurers on losses that have not yet been reported and or settled. For discussion of sensitivity analysis on the reserve for unpaid claims and claims adjustment expenses, see Results of Operations Segment Results General Insurance Operations Liability for Unpaid Claims and Claims Adjustment Expense. AIG 2009 Form 10 K 122 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries Future Policy Benefits for Life and Accident and Health Contracts (life insurance & retirement services companies): Investment returns: which vary by geographical region, year of issuance and products. Mortality, morbidity and surrender rates: based upon actual experience by geographical region modified to allow for variation in policy form, risk classification and distribution channel. Periodically, the net benefit reserves (policy benefit reserves less DAC) established for life insurance & retirement services companies are tested to ensure that, including consideration of future expected premium payments, they are adequate to provide for future policyholder benefit obligations. The assumptions used to perform the tests are current best estimate assumptions as to policyholder mortality, morbidity, terminations, company maintenance expenses and invested asset returns. For long duration traditional business, a "lock in" principle applies, whereby the assumptions used to calculate the benefit reserves and DAC are set when a policy is issued and do not change with changes in actual experience. These assumptions include margins for adverse deviation in the event that actual experience might deviate from these assumptions. For business in force outside of North America, 45 percent of total policyholder benefit liabilities at December 31, 2009 resulted from traditional business where the lock in principle applies. In most foreign locations, various guarantees are embedded in policies in force that may remain applicable for many decades into the future. As experience changes over time, the best estimate assumptions are updated to reflect observed changes. Because of the long term nature of many of AIGs liabilities subject to the lock in principle, small changes in certain of the assumptions may cause large changes in the degree of reserve adequacy. In particular, changes in estimates of future invested asset return assumptions have a large effect on the degree of reserve adequacy. Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs (life insurance & retirement services companies): Recoverability: based on current and future expected profitability, which is affected by interest rates, foreign exchange rates, mortality/morbidity experience, expenses, investment returns and policy persistency. Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs (General Insurance): Recoverability: based upon the current terms and profitability of the underlying insurance contracts. Estimated Gross Profits for Investment Oriented Products (life insurance & retirement services companies): Estimated gross profits: to be realized over the estimated duration of the contracts (investment oriented products), which affect the carrying value of DAC, unearned revenue liability, SIAs and associated amortization patterns. Estimated gross profits include investment income and gains and losses on investments less required interest, actual mortality and other expenses. Allowance for Finance Receivable Losses (Financial Services): Historical defaults and delinquency experience: utilizing factors, such as delinquency ratio, allowance ratio, charge off ratio and charge off coverage. Portfolio characteristics: portfolio composition and consideration of the recent changes to underwriting criteria and portfolio seasoning. External factors: consideration of current economic conditions, including levels of unemployment and personal bankruptcies. Migration analysis: empirical technique measuring historical movement of similar finance receivables through various levels of repayment, delinquency, and loss categories to existing finance receivable pools. 123 AIG 2009 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries Flight Equipment Recoverability (Financial Services): Expected undiscounted future net cash flows: based upon current lease rates, projected future lease rates and lease periods and estimated residual or sales values of each aircraft based on expectations regarding the use of the aircraft and market participants. Other Than Temporary Impairments: At each balance sheet date, AIG evaluates its available for sale securities holdings with unrealized losses. Prior to April 1, 2009, these reviews were conducted pursuant to accounting standards that were amended on April 1, 2009. See Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of AIGs process for evaluating other than temporary impairments under these prior accounting standards. In April 2009, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued a new accounting standard addressing recognition and presentation of other than temporary impairments, which amended the other than temporary impairment model for fixed maturity securities and requires additional disclosures. The impairment model for equity securities was not affected. See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion on the new other than temporary impairments accounting standard. In connection with AIGs adoption of the new other than temporary impairments accounting standard on April 1, 2009, AIG changed its process for determining other than temporary impairments with respect to available for sale fixed maturity securities. If AIG intends to sell a fixed maturity security or it is more likely than not that AIG will be required to sell a fixed maturity security before recovery of its amortized cost basis and the fair value of the security is below amortized cost, an other than temporary impairment has occurred and the amortized cost is written down to current fair value, with a corresponding charge to earnings. For all other fixed maturity securities for which a credit impairment has occurred, the amortized cost is written down to the estimated recovery value with a corresponding charge to earnings. Additional fair value decline below recovery value, if any, is charged to unrealized appreciation (depreciation) of fixed maturity investments on which other than temporary credit impairments were taken (a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)) because this is considered a non credit impairment. When assessing AIGs intent to sell a fixed maturity security, or if it is more likely than not that AIG will be required to sell a fixed maturity security before recovery of its amortized cost basis, management evaluates relevant facts and circumstances including, but not limited to, decisions to reposition AIGs investment portfolio, sale of securities to meet cash flow needs and sales of securities to capitalize on favorable pricing. See the discussion in Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the methodology and significant inputs, by security type, which AIG uses to determine the amount of a credit loss. AIG continues to evaluate its available for sale equity securities, equity method and cost method investments for impairment such that a security is considered a candidate for other than temporary impairment if it meets any of the following criteria: Trading at a significant (25 percent or more) discount to cost for an extended period of time (nine consecutive months or longer); The occurrence of a discrete credit event resulting in (i) the issuer defaulting on a material outstanding obligation; (ii) the issuer seeking protection from creditors under the bankruptcy laws or any similar laws intended for court supervised reorganization of insolvent enterprises; or (iii) the issuer proposing a voluntary reorganization pursuant to which creditors are asked to exchange their claims for cash or securities having a fair value substantially lower than par value of their claims; or AIG may not realize a full recovery on its investment, regardless of the occurrence of one of the foregoing events. AIG 2009 Form 10 K 124 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries The determination that an equity security is other than temporarily impaired requires the judgment of management and consideration of the fundamental condition of the issuer, its near term prospects and all the relevant facts and circumstances. The above criteria also consider circumstances of a rapid and severe market valuation decline for which AIG could not reasonably assert that the impairment period would be temporary (severity losses). In periods subsequent to the recognition of an other than temporary impairment charge for available for sale fixed maturity securities that is not foreign exchange related, generally AIG prospectively accretes into earnings the difference between the new amortized cost and the expected undiscounted recovery value over the remaining expected holding period of the security. For further discussion, see Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Goodwill Impairment: Goodwill is the excess of the cost of an acquired business over the fair value of the identifiable net assets of the acquired business. Goodwill is tested for impairment annually or more frequently if circumstances indicate impairment may have occurred. AIG performed goodwill impairment testing at December 31, 2009. The impairment assessment involves a two step process in which an initial assessment for potential impairment is performed and, if potential impairment is present, the amount of impairment is measured (if any) and recorded. Impairment is tested at the reporting unit level. Management initially assesses the potential for impairment by estimating the fair value of each of AIGs reporting units and comparing the estimated fair values with the carrying amounts of those reporting units, including allocated goodwill. The estimate of a reporting units fair value may be based on one or a combination of approaches including market based earning multiples of the units peer companies, discounted expected future cash flows, external appraisals or, in the case of reporting units being considered for sale, third party indications of fair value, if available. Management considers one or more of these estimates when determining the fair value of a reporting unit to be used in the impairment test. As part of the impairment test, management compares the sum of the estimated fair values of all of AIGs reporting units with AIGs market capitalization as a basis for concluding on the reasonableness of the estimated reporting unit fair values. If the estimated fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying value, goodwill is not impaired. If the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value, goodwill associated with that reporting unit potentially is impaired. The amount of impairment, if any, is measured as the excess of the carrying value of goodwill over the estimated fair value of the goodwill. The estimated fair value of the goodwill is measured as the excess of the fair value of the reporting unit over the amounts that would be assigned to the reporting units assets and liabilities in a hypothetical business combination. An impairment charge is recognized in earnings to the extent of the excess. Management observed a narrowing of the fair value over the carrying value of the Foreign Life Insurance & Retirement Services Japan & Other reporting unit during the fourth quarter of 2009. Fair value exceeded book value at December 31, 2009, therefore the goodwill of this reporting unit was considered not impaired. The fair value of this reporting unit is sensitive to the discount rate assumption used in estimating fair value. A significant increase in the discount rate could have resulted in a potential impairment. AIG will continue to monitor overall competitive, business and economic conditions, and other events or circumstances that might result in an impairment of goodwill in the future. Liability for Legal Contingencies: AIG estimates and records a liability for potential losses that may arise from litigation and regulatory proceedings to the extent such losses are probable and can be estimated. Determining a reasonable estimate of the amount of such losses requires significant management judgment. In many such proceedings, it is not possible to determine whether a liability has been incurred or to estimate the ultimate or minimum amount of that liability until the matter is close to resolution. In view of the inherent difficulty of predicting the outcome of such matters, particularly in cases in which claimants seek substantial or indeterminate damages, AIG often cannot predict the outcome or estimate the eventual loss or range of loss related to such matters. 125 AIG 2009 Form 10 K  Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries Valuation Allowance on Deferred Tax Assets: At December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, AIG recorded net deferred tax assets after valuation allowances of $5.9 billion and $11 billion, respectively. A valuation allowance is established, if necessary, to reduce the deferred tax asset to an amount that is more likely than not to be realized (a likelihood of more than 50 percent). Realization of AIGs net deferred tax asset depends upon its ability to generate sufficient earnings from transactions expected to be completed in the near future and tax planning strategies that would be implemented, if necessary, to protect against the loss of the deferred tax assets, but does not depend on projected future operating income. When making its assessment about the realization of its deferred tax assets at December 31, 2009, AIG considered all available evidence, including: the nature, frequency, and severity of current and cumulative financial reporting losses; transactions completed including the AIA and ALICO SPV transactions on December 1, 2009 and the sale of Otemachi building in Tokyo, and transactions expected to be completed in the near future; the carryforward periods for the net operating and capital loss and foreign tax credit carryforwards; and tax planning strategies that would be implemented, if necessary, to protect against the loss of the deferred tax assets. Estimates of future taxable income generated from specific transactions and tax planning strategies discussed above could change in the near term, perhaps materially, which may require AIG to adjust its valuation allowance. Such adjustment, either positive or negative, could be material to AIGs consolidated financial condition or its results of operations for an individual reporting period. U.S. Income Taxes on Earnings of Certain Foreign Subsidiaries: Due to the complexity of the U.S. federal income tax laws involved in determining the amount of income taxes incurred on potential dispositions, as well as AIGs reliance on reasonable assumptions and estimates in calculating this liability, AIG considers the U.S. federal income taxes accrued on the earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries to be a critical accounting estimate. Fair Value Measurements of Certain Financial Assets and Liabilities: Overview AIG measures at fair value on a recurring basis financial instruments in its trading and available for sale securities portfolios, certain mortgage and other loans receivable, derivative assets and liabilities, securities purchased/sold under agreements to resell/repurchase, securities lending invested collateral, non traded equity investments and certain private limited partnerships and certain hedge funds included in other invested assets, certain short term investments, separate and variable account assets, certain policyholder contract deposits, securities and spot commodities sold but not yet purchased, certain trust deposits and deposits due to banks and other depositors, certain CPFF borrowings, certain long term debt, and certain hybrid financial instruments included in Other liabilities. The fair value of a financial instrument is the amount that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between willing, able and knowledgeable market participants at the measurement date. The degree of judgment used in measuring the fair value of financial instruments generally correlates with the level of pricing observability. Financial instruments with quoted prices in active markets generally have more pricing observability and less judgment is used in measuring fair value. Conversely, financial instruments traded in other than active markets or that do not have quoted prices have less observability and are measured at fair value using valuation models or other pricing techniques that require more judgment. An active market is one in which transactions for the asset or liability being valued occur with sufficient frequency and volume to provide pricing information on an ongoing basis. An other than active market is one in which there are few transactions, the prices are not current, price quotations vary substantially either over time or among market makers, or in which little information is released publicly for the asset or liability being valued. Pricing observability is affected by a number of AIG 2009 Form 10 K 126 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries factors, including the type of financial instrument, whether the financial instrument is new to the market and not yet established, the characteristics specific to the transaction and general market conditions. AIG management is responsible for the determination of the value of the financial assets and financial liabilities carried at fair value and the supporting methodologies and assumptions. With respect to securities, AIG employs independent third party valuation service providers to gather, analyze, and interpret market information and derive fair values based upon relevant methodologies and assumptions for individual instruments. When AIGs valuation service providers are unable to obtain sufficient market observable information upon which to estimate the fair value for a particular security, fair value is determined either by requesting brokers who are knowledgeable about these securities to provide a quote, which is generally non binding, or by employing widely accepted internal valuation models. Valuation service providers typically obtain data about market transactions and other key valuation model inputs from multiple sources and, through the use of widely accepted internal valuation models, provide a single fair value measurement for individual securities for which a fair value has been requested under the terms of service agreements. The inputs used by the valuation service providers include, but are not limited to, market prices from recently completed transactions and transactions of comparable securities, interest rate yield curves, credit spreads, currency rates, and other market observable information, as applicable. The valuation models take into account, among other things, market observable information as of the measurement date as well as the specific attributes of the security being valued, including its term, interest rate, credit rating, industry sector, and when applicable, collateral quality and other security or issuer specific information. When market transactions or other market observable data is limited, the extent to which judgment is applied in determining fair value is greatly increased. AIG employs specific control processes to determine the reasonableness of the fair values of AIGs financial assets and financial liabilities. AIGs processes are designed to ensure that the values received or internally estimated are accurately recorded and that the data inputs and the valuation techniques utilized are appropriate, consistently applied, and that the assumptions are reasonable and consistent with the objective of determining fair value. AIG assesses the reasonableness of individual security values received from valuation service providers through various analytical techniques. In addition, AIG may validate the reasonableness of fair values by comparing information obtained from AIGs valuation service providers to other third party valuation sources for selected securities. AIG also validates prices for selected securities obtained from brokers through reviews by members of management who have relevant expertise and who are independent of those charged with executing investing transactions. The following table presents the fair value of fixed income and equity securities by source of value determination: At December 31, 2009 (in billions) Fair Value Percent of Total Fair value based on external sources(a) $ 388 93 % Fair value based on internal sources 27 7 Total fixed income and equity securities(b) $ 415 100 % (a) Includes $29.6 billion whose primary source is broker quotes. (b) Includes available for sale, trading and securities lending invested collateral securities. See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more detailed information about AIGs accounting policy for the incorporation of credit risk in fair value measurements and the measurement of fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities. Level 3 Assets and Liabilities Assets and liabilities recorded at fair value in the Consolidated Balance Sheet are classified in a hierarchy for disclosure purposes consisting of three "levels" based on the observability of inputs available in the marketplace used to measure the fair value. See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information about fair value measurements. 127 AIG 2009 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries At December 31, 2009, AIG classified $38.9 billion and $13.9 billion of assets and liabilities, respectively, measured at fair value on a recurring basis as Level 3. This represented 4.6 percent and 1.9 percent of the total assets and liabilities, respectively, at December 31, 2009. At December 31, 2008, AIG classified $42.1 billion and $21.1 billion of assets and liabilities, respectively, measured at fair value on a recurring basis as Level 3. This represented 4.9 percent and 2.6 percent of the total assets and liabilities, respectively, at December 31, 2008. Level 3 fair value measurements are based on valuation techniques that use at least one significant input that is unobservable. These measurements are made under circumstances in which there is little, if any, market activity for the asset or liability. AIGs assessment of the significance of a particular input to the fair value measurement in its entirety requires judgment. In making the assessment, AIG considers factors specific to the asset or liability. In certain cases, the inputs used to measure fair value of an asset or a liability may fall into different levels of the fair value hierarchy. In such cases, the level in the fair value hierarchy within which the fair value measurement in its entirety is classified is determined based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement in its entirety. Valuation of Level 3 Assets and Liabilities AIG values its assets and liabilities classified as Level 3 using judgment and valuation models or other pricing techniques that require a variety of inputs including contractual terms, market prices and rates, yield curves, credit curves, measures of volatility, prepayment rates and correlations of such inputs, some of which may be unobservable. The following paragraphs describe the methods AIG uses to measure on a recurring basis the fair value of the major classes of assets and liabilities classified in Level 3. Private equity and real estate fund investments: These assets initially are valued at the transaction price, i.e., the price paid to acquire the asset. Subsequently, they are measured based on net asset value using information provided by the general partner or manager of these investments, the accounts of which generally are audited on an annual basis. AIG considers observable market data and performs diligence procedures in validating the appropriateness of using the net asset value as a fair value measurement. Corporate bonds and private placement debt: These assets initially are valued at the transaction price. Subsequently, they are valued using market data for similar instruments (e.g., recent transactions, bond spreads or credit default swap spreads). When observable price quotations are not available, fair value is determined based on cash flow models using yield curves observed from indices or credit default swap spreads. Certain RMBS and CMBS: These assets initially are valued at the transaction price. Subsequently, they may be valued by comparison to transactions in instruments with similar collateral and risk profiles considering remittances received and updated cumulative loss data on underlying obligations, or discounted cash flow techniques. Certain ABS non mortgage: These assets initially are valued at the transaction price. Subsequently, they may be valued based on external price/spread data. When position specific external price data are not observable, the valuation is based on prices of comparable securities. CDOs: These assets initially are valued at the transaction price. Subsequently, they are valued based on external price/spread data from independent third parties, dealer quotations, matrix pricing, the Binomial Expansion Technique (BET) model or a combination of these methods. Interests in the Maiden Lane Interests: At their inception, ML II and ML III were valued at the transaction prices of $1 billion and $5 billion, respectively. Subsequently, Maiden Lane Interests are valued using a discounted cash flow methodology that uses the estimated future cash flows of the assets to which the Maiden Lane Interests are entitled and the discount rates applicable to such interests as derived from the fair value of the entire asset pool. The implicit discount rates are calibrated to the changes in the estimated asset values for the underlying assets commensurate with AIGs interests in the capital structure of the respective entities. Estimated cash flows and discount rates used in the valuations are validated, to the extent possible, using market observable information for securities with similar asset pools, structure and terms. The fair value methodology used assumes that the underlying collateral in the Maiden Lane Interests will continue to be held and generate cash flows into the foreseeable future and does not assume a current liquidation of the assets AIG 2009 Form 10 K 128 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries of the Maiden Lane Interests. Other methodologies employed or assumptions made in determining fair value for these investments could result in amounts that differ significantly from the amounts reported. As of December 31, 2009, AIG expected to receive cash flows (undiscounted) in excess of AIGs initial investment, and any accrued interest, in the Maiden Lane interests over the remaining life of the investments after repayment of the first priority obligations owed to the FRBNY. AIGs cash flow methodology considers the capital structure of the collateral securities and their expected credit losses from the underlying asset pools. The fair values of the Maiden Lane Interests are most affected by changes in the discount rates and changes in the underlying estimated future collateral cash flow assumptions used in the valuation model. The benchmark London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) interest rate curve changes are determined based on observable prices, interpolated or extrapolated to derive a LIBOR for a specific maturity term as necessary. The spreads over LIBOR for the Maiden Lane Interests (including collateral specific credit and liquidity spreads) can change as a result of changes in market expectations about the future performance of these investments as well as changes in the risk premium that market participants would demand at the time of the transactions. Changes in estimated future cash flows would primarily be the result of changes in expectations for defaults, recoveries, and prepayments on underlying loans. Changes in the discount rate or the estimated future cash flows used in the valuation would alter AIGs estimate of the fair value of the Maiden Lane Interests as shown in the table below. Fair Value Change December 31, 2009 (in millions) Maiden Lane II Maiden Lane III Discount Rates: 200 basis point increase $ (75 ) $ (593 ) 200 basis point decrease 84 695 400 basis point increase (142 ) (1,101 ) 400 basis point decrease 179 1,514 Estimated Future Cash Flows: 10% increase 284 791 10% decrease (282 ) (779 ) 20% increase 565 1,580 20% decrease (540 ) (1,526 ) AIG believes that the ranges of discount rates used in these analyses are reasonable based on implied spread volatilities of similar collateral securities and implied volatilities of LIBOR interest rates. The ranges of estimated future cash flows were determined based on variability in estimated future cash flows implied by cumulative loss estimates for similar instruments. Because of these factors, the fair values of the Maiden Lane Interests are likely to vary, perhaps materially, from the amount estimated. AIGFPs Super Senior Credit Default Swap Portfolio: AIGFP wrote credit protection on the super senior risk layer of collateralized loan obligations (CLOs), multi sector CDOs and diversified portfolios of corporate debt, and prime residential mortgages. In these transactions, AIGFP is at risk of credit performance on the super senior risk layer related to such assets. To a lesser extent, AIGFP also wrote protection on tranches below the super senior risk layer, primarily in respect of regulatory capital relief transactions. 129 AIG 2009 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries The following table presents the net notional amount, fair value of derivative (asset) liability and unrealized market valuation gain (loss) of the AIGFP super senior credit default swap portfolio, including credit default swaps written on mezzanine tranches of certain regulatory capital relief transactions, by asset class: Net Notional Amount December 31, Fair Value of Derivative (Asset) Liability at December 31, Unrealized Market Valuation Gain (Loss) Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2009(a)(b) 2008(a) 2009(b)(c)(d) 2008(c)(d) 2009(d) 2008(d) Regulatory Capital: Corporate loans(e)(f) $ 55,010 $ 125,628 $ $ $ $ Prime residential mortgages(g) 93,276 107,246 (137 ) 137 Other(e)(f) 1,760 1,575 21 379 35 (379 ) Total 150,046 234,449 (116 ) 379 172 (379 ) Arbitrage: Multi sector CDOs(h)(i) 7,926 12,556 4,418 5,906 (669 ) (25,700 ) Corporate debt/CLOs(j) 22,076 50,495 309 2,554 1,863 (2,328 ) Total 30,002 63,051 4,727 8,460 1,194 (28,028 ) Mezzanine tranches(f)(k) 3,478 4,701 143 195 52 (195 ) Total $ 183,526 $ 302,201 $ 4,754 $ 9,034 $ 1,418 $ (28,602 ) (a) Net notional amounts presented are net of all structural subordination below the covered tranches. (b)During 2009, AIGFP terminated certain super senior CDS transactions with its counterparties with a net notional amount of $14.0 billion, comprised of $1.5 billion in Regulatory Capital Other, $3.0 billion in Multi sector CDO and $9.5 billion in Corporate debt/CLOs. These transactions were terminated at approximately their fair value at the time of the termination. As a result, a $2.7 billion loss, which was previously included in the fair value derivative liability as an unrealized market valuation loss, was realized. During 2009, AIGFP also extinguished its obligation with respect to a Multi sector CDO by purchasing the protected CDO security for $496 million, its principal amount outstanding related to this obligation. Upon purchase, the CDO security was included in the available for sale portfolio at fair value. (c)Fair value amounts are shown before the effects of counterparty netting adjustments and offsetting cash collateral. (d)Includes credit valuation adjustment gains of $52 million and $185 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively, representing the effect of changes in AIGs credit spreads on the valuation of the derivatives liabilities. (e)During 2009, AIGFP reclassified one regulatory capital CDS transaction from Regulatory Capital Corporate loans to Regulatory Capital Other, given the understanding that the counterparty no longer receives regulatory capital benefits. (f)During 2009, AIGFP reclassified two mezzanine trades having net notional amounts of $462 million and $240 million, respectively, into Regulatory Capital Corporate loans and Regulatory Capital Other, respectively, after determining that the trades were not stand alone but rather part of the related regulatory capital trades. The effect on unrealized market valuation gain (loss) was not significant. (g)During the fourth quarter of 2009, one counterparty notified AIG that it would not terminate early two of its prime residential mortgage transactions with a combined net notional amount of $32.8 billion that were expected to be terminated in the first quarter of 2010. With respect to these transactions, the counterparty no longer has any rights to terminate the transactions prior to maturity and is required to pay AIG fees on the original notional amounts reduced only by realized losses through the final contractual maturity. Since the two transactions have weighted average lives that are considerably less than their final contractual maturities, there is a value to AIGFP representing counterparty contractual fees to be received beyond the date at which the net notional amounts have fully amortized through the final contractual maturity date. As a result, the fair value of these two transactions as of December 31, 2009 is a derivative asset of $137 million. (h)Includes $6.3 billion and $9.7 billion in net notional amount of credit default swaps written with cash settlement provisions at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. (i)During the fourth quarter of 2008, AIGFP terminated the majority of the CDS transactions written on multi sector CDOs in connection with the ML III transaction. (j)Includes $1.4 billion and $1.5 billion in net notional amount of credit default swaps written on the super senior tranches of CLOs as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. (k)Net of offsetting purchased CDS of $1.5 billion and $2.0 billion in net notional amount at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. AIG 2009 Form 10 K 130 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries The following table presents changes in the net notional amount of the AIGFP super senior credit default swap portfolio, including credit default swaps written on mezzanine tranches of certain regulatory capital relief transactions: For the Year Ended December 31, 2009 (in millions) Net Notional Amount December 31, 2008(a) Terminations Maturities Effect of Foreign Exchange Rates(b) Amortization/ Reclassification, net of Replenishments(c)(d) Net Notional Amount December 31, 2009(a) Regulatory Capital: Corporate loans $ 125,628 $ (43,826 ) $ (6,024 ) $ 1,594 $ (22,362 ) $ 55,010 Prime residential mortgages 107,246 (13,065 ) 2,579 (3,484 ) 93,276 Other 1,575 (1,464 ) 121 1,528 1,760 Total 234,449 (58,355 ) (6,024 ) 4,294 (24,318 ) 150,046 Arbitrage: Multi sector CDOs(e)(f) 12,556 (3,537 ) 88 (1,181 ) 7,926 Corporate debt/CLOs(g) 50,495 (9,462 ) (18,613 ) 11 (355 ) 22,076 Total 63,051 (12,999 ) (18,613 ) 99 (1,536 ) 30,002 Mezzanine tranches(h) 4,701 (604 ) (50 ) 133 (702 ) 3,478 Total $ 302,201 $ (71,958 ) $ (24,687 ) $ 4,526 $ (26,556 ) $ 183,526 (a) Net notional amounts presented are net of all structural subordination below the covered tranches. (b)Relates to the weakening of the U.S. dollar, primarily against the Euro and the British Pound. (c)During 2009, AIGFP reclassified one regulatory capital CDS transaction from Regulatory Capital Corporate loans to Regulatory Capital Other, given the understanding that the counterparty no longer receives regulatory capital benefits. (d)During 2009, AIGFP reclassified two mezzanine trades having net notional amounts of $462 million and $240 million, respectively, into Regulatory Capital Corporate loans and Regulatory Capital Other, respectively, after determining that the trades were not stand alone but rather part of the related regulatory capital trades. The effect on unrealized market valuation gain (loss) was not significant. (e)Includes $6.3 billion and $9.7 billion in net notional amount of credit default swaps written with cash settlement provisions at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. (f)During the fourth quarter of 2008, AIGFP terminated the majority of the CDS transactions written on multi sector CDOs in connection with the ML III transaction. (g)Includes $1.4 billion and $1.5 billion in net notional amount of credit default swaps written on the super senior tranches of CLOs as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. (h)Net of offsetting purchased CDS of $1.5 billion and $2.0 billion in net notional amount at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The following table presents summary statistics for AIGFPs super senior credit default swaps at December 31, 2009 and totals for December 31, 2009 and 2008: Regulatory Capital Portfolio Arbitrage Portfolio Total Category Corporate Loans Prime Residential Mortgages Other Subtotal Corporate Debt/ CLOs Multi Sector CDOs w/ Subprime Multi Sector CDOs w/ No Subprime Subtotal December 31, 2009 December 31, 2008 Gross Transaction Notional Amount (in millions) $ 78,635 $ 116,316 $ 2,084 $ 197,035 $ 31,271 $ 7,526 $ 10,383 $ 49,180 $ 246,215 $ 390,100 Net Notional Amount (in millions) $ 55,010 $ 93,276 $ 1,760 $ 150,046 $ 22,076 $ 3,787 $ 4,139 $ 30,002 $ 180,048 $ 297,500 Number of Transactions 16 18 1 35 20 10 6 36 71 109 Weighted Average Subordination (%) 22.76 % 13.23 % 15.52 % 17.06 % 23.06 % 38.56 % 21.59 % 25.12 % 18.67 % 16.90% Weighted Average Number of loans/ Transaction 1,609 97,738 2,153 58,363 115 149 119 Weighted Average Expected Maturity (Years) 0.59 1.78 5.78 1.35 4.16 5.49 5.52 131 AIG 2009 Form 10 K  Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries General Contractual Terms AIGFP entered into CDS transactions in the ordinary course of its business. In the majority of AIGFPs credit derivative transactions, AIGFP sold credit protection on a designated portfolio of loans or debt securities. Generally, AIGFP provides such credit protection on a "second loss" basis, meaning that AIGFP will incur credit losses only after a shortfall of principal and or interest, or other credit events, in respect of the protected loans and debt securities, exceeds a specified threshold amount or level of "first loss." Typically, the credit risk associated with a designated portfolio of loans or debt securities has been tranched into different layers of risk, which are then analyzed and rated by the credit rating agencies. At origination, there is usually an equity layer covering the first credit losses in respect of the portfolio up to a specified percentage of the total portfolio, and then successive layers ranging generally from a BBB rated layer to one or more AAA rated layers. A significant majority of transactions that are rated by rating agencies have risk layers or tranches that were rated AAA at origination and are immediately junior to the threshold level at which AIGFPs payment obligation would generally arise. In transactions that were not rated, AIGFP applied equivalent risk criteria for setting the threshold level for its payment obligations. Therefore, the risk layer assumed by AIGFP with respect to the designated portfolio of loans or debt securities in these transactions is often called the "super senior" risk layer, defined as a layer of credit risk senior to one or more risk layers that have been rated AAA by the credit rating agencies, or if the transaction is not rated, structured to the equivalent thereto. The following graphic represents a typical structure of a transaction including the super senior risk layer: Regulatory Capital Portfolio During 2009, $62.9 billion in net notional amount was terminated or matured at no cost to AIGFP. Through February 17, 2010, AIGFP had also received a formal termination notice with respect to an additional $25.6 billion in net notional amount with an effective termination date in 2010. AIGFP continues to reassess the expected maturity of this portfolio. As of December 31, 2009, AIGFP estimated that the weighted average expected maturity of the portfolio was 1.35 years. AIGFP has not been required to make any payments as part of terminations initiated by counterparties. The regulatory benefit of these transactions for AIGFPs financial institution counterparties is generally derived from the terms of Basel I that existed through the end of 2007 and which is in the process of being replaced by Basel II. It was expected that financial institution counterparties would have transitioned from Basel I to Basel II by the end of the two year adoption period on December 31, 2009, after which they would have received little or no additional regulatory benefit from these CDS transactions, except in a small number of specific instances. AIG 2009 Form 10 K 132 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries However, the Basel Committee recently announced that it has agreed to keep in place the Basel I capital floors beyond the end of 2009, although it remains to be seen how this extension will be implemented by the various European Central Banking districts. Should certain counterparties continue to receive favorable regulatory capital benefits from these transactions, those counterparties may not exercise their options to terminate the transactions in the expected time frame. The weighted average expected maturity of the Regulatory Capital Portfolio (for the Corporate Loans and Prime Residential Mortgages portfolios only) increased as of December 31, 2009 by 0.4 years from December 31, 2008 due to certain counterparties not terminating transactions with a combined net notional amount of $73.1 billion. Where these counterparties continue to have a right to terminate the transaction early, AIGFP has extended the expected maturity dates by one year, which is based on how long AIGFP believes the Basel I extension will be effective. Where the counterparties no longer have the right to terminate early, AIGFP has used the weighted average life of those transactions as their expected maturity. These counterparties continue to receive favorable regulatory capital benefits as a result of the extension of the Basel I capital floor recently announced by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision and, thus, AIG continues to categorize them as Regulatory Capital transactions. In addition, as of December 31, 2009, AIG had expected $37.3 billion of Regulatory Capital CDS transactions to terminate early between January 1, 2010 and February 17, 2010. Of that amount, $16.2 billion have not been called. The counterparties to these transactions continue to receive favorable regulatory benefits as a result of the extension of the Basel I capital floor. Since all of these counterparties retain the right to terminate the transactions early, the expected maturity for these transactions has been extended by one year. During 2009, AIGFP reclassified one regulatory capital CDS transaction from Regulatory Capital Corporate loans to Regulatory Capital Other given the understanding that the counterparty no longer receives regulatory capital benefits. AIG does not believe that at this time the CDS provides significant risk transfer benefit to the counterparty; however, AIGFP will continue to monitor this transaction closely. During 2009, AIGFP effected the early termination of a CDS transaction written on a European RMBS security of $1.5 billion in net notional amount that was reported as part of Regulatory Capital Other at a level approximating its fair value at that time. Given its unique structure and concentrated exposure to high loan to value Spanish residential mortgages, this transaction had exposed AIGFP to a relatively higher level of liquidity and credit risk than any other regulatory capital CDS exposure, and AIG felt it prudent to terminate the transaction to avoid further deterioration. Included in the net notional amount of $73.1 billion of Regulatory Capital Portfolio transactions that have not been called are transactions with one counterparty that notified AIG that it would not terminate early two of its Prime Residential Mortgage transactions with a combined net notional amount of $32.8 billion that were expected to be terminated in the first quarter of 2010. With respect to these transactions, the counterparty no longer has any rights to terminate the transactions early and is required to pay AIG fees on the original notional amounts reduced only by realized losses through the final contractual maturity. Since the two transactions have weighted average lives that are considerably less than their final contractual maturities, there is value to AIGFP representing counterparty contractual fees to be received beyond the date at which the net notional amounts have fully amortized through to the final contractual maturity date. The fair value of these two super senior transactions as of December 31, 2009 was a derivative asset of $137 million. With respect to these two transactions, AIGFP has also written CDS transactions on the mezzanine tranches of these portfolios, however, the majority of the transactions on the mezzanine tranches were hedged with other third party CDS transactions. The mezzanine tranches are legally linked to the super senior tranches such that one tranche may not be terminated without terminating the others. AIG, thus, increased the expected maturity of the mezzanine tranches as well. The fair value of the net derivative liability for all mezzanine tranches (including hedge transactions) decreased from $195 million as of December 31, 2008 to $143 million as of December 31, 2009. In light of early termination experience to date and after analyses of other market data, to the extent deemed relevant and available, AIG determined that there was no unrealized market valuation adjustment for any of the transactions in this regulatory capital relief portfolio for 2009 other than (1) for transactions where AIGFP believes 133 AIG 2009 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries the counterparty is no longer using the transaction to obtain regulatory capital relief as discussed above and (2) for transactions where the counterparty has failed to terminate the transaction early as expected and no longer has any rights to terminate early in the future. Although AIGFP believes the value of contractual fees receivable on these transactions through maturity exceeds the economic benefits of any potential payments to the counterparties, the counterparties early termination rights, and AIGFPs expectation that such rights will be exercised, preclude the recognition of a derivative asset for these transactions. The following table presents, for each of the regulatory capital CDS transactions in the corporate loan portfolio, the gross transaction notional amount, net notional amount, attachment points, inception to date realized losses and percent non investment grade: (dollars in millions) CDS Gross Transaction Notional Amount at December 31, 2009 Net Notional Amount at December 31, 2009 Attachment Point at Inception(a) Attachment Point at December 31, 2009(a) Realized Losses through December 31, 2009(b) Percent Non investment Grade at December 31, 2009(c) 1 $ 702 $ 600 10.03% 14.56% 0.52% 20.83% 2 11,390 5,083 44.00% 55.38% 0.00% 9.41% 3 2,159 1,904 10.00% 11.77% 0.16% 21.92% 4 8,500 7,538 11.00% 11.32% 0.00% 10.08% 5 468 210 18.00% 55.13% 0.00% 70.60% 6 10,904 9,665 10.80% 11.36% 0.00% 5.38% 7 6,717 5,236 11.30% 22.04% 0.19% 30.38% 8 5,402 4,776 11.00% 11.58% 0.09% 12.30% 9 4,414 3,782 13.26% 14.31% 0.00% 72.86% 10 9,995 3,060 12.00% 12.05% 0.00% 6.56% 11 2,394 1,998 15.85% 16.55% 0.00% 9.73% 12(d) 3,830 3,059 14.50% 20.15% 0.00% 76.34% 13 1,408 915 14.00% 28.26% 0.16% 36.34% 14 955 611 14.00% 28.26% 0.16% 36.34% 15 1,994 1,600 14.00% 28.26% 0.16% 36.34% 16 7,403 4,973 17.00% 32.82% 0.05% 16.27% Total $ 78,635 $ 55,010 (a)Expressed as a percentage of gross transaction notional amount of the referenced obligations. As a result of participation ratios and replenishment rights, the attachment point may not always be computed by dividing net notional amount by gross transaction notional amount. (b)Represents realized losses incurred by the transaction (defaulted amounts less amounts recovered) from inception through December 31, 2009 expressed as a percentage of the initial gross transaction notional amount. (c)Represents non investment grade obligations in the underlying pools of corporate loans expressed as a percentage of gross transaction notional amount. (d)Terminated effective February 17, 2010. AIG 2009 Form 10 K 134 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries The following table presents, for each of the regulatory capital CDS transactions prime residential mortgage portfolio, the gross transaction notional amount, net notional amount, attachment points, and inception to date realized losses: (dollars in millions) CDS Gross Transaction Notional Amount at December 31, 2009 Net Notional Amount at December 31, 2009 Attachment Point at Inception(a) Attachment Point at December 31, 2009(a) Realized Losses through December 31, 2009(b) 1 $ 523 $ 298 17.01% 42.13% 2.40% 2 337 187 18.48% 44.25% 1.78% 3 302 202 16.81% 33.11% 1.26% 4 1,353 1,209 10.00% 10.60% 0.00% 5(c) 2,067 1,533 10.70% 25.85% 0.05% 6 424 331 13.19% 21.76% 0.36% 7(d) 5,785 5,285 7.95% 8.83% 0.03% 8(d) 1,941 1,562 7.95% 19.43% 0.05% 9(d) 5,510 5,060 8.00% 8.30% 0.03% 10(c) 31,039 18,253 18.25% 18.55% 0.00% 11(d) 6,560 6,055 7.85% 7.86% 0.01% 12 11,554 10,690 7.50% 7.47% 0.03% 13(d) 8,697 8,014 7.95% 7.95% 0.01% 14 2,556 2,039 12.40% 20.20% 0.00% 15 24,360 22,128 9.20% 9.16% 0.04% 16(c) 4,181 2,791 11.50% 17.73% 0.00% 17 7,574 6,563 11.50% 13.34% 0.00% 18 1,553 1,076 14.57% 30.66% 0.00% Total $ 116,316 $ 93,276 (a) Expressed as a percentage of gross transaction notional amount of the referenced obligations. As a result of participation ratios and replenishment rights, the attachment point may not always be computed by dividing net notional amount by gross transaction notional amount. (b)Represents realized losses incurred by the transaction (defaulted amounts less amounts recovered) from inception through December 31, 2009 expressed as a percentage of the initial gross transaction notional amount. (c)Terminated effective February 17, 2010. (d) Delinquency information is not provided to AIGFP for the underlying pools of residential mortgages of these transactions. However, information with respect to principal amount outstanding, defaults, recoveries, remaining term, property use, geography, interest rates, and ratings of the underlying junior tranches are provided to AIGFP for such referenced pools. All of the regulatory capital CDS transactions directly or indirectly reference tranched pools of large numbers of whole loans that were originated by the financial institution (or its affiliates) receiving the credit protection, rather than structured securities containing loans originated by other third parties. In the vast majority of transactions, the loans are intended to be retained by the originating financial institution and in all cases the originating financial institution is the purchaser of the CDS, either directly or through an intermediary. As further discussed below, AIGFP receives information monthly or quarterly regarding the performance and credit quality of the underlying referenced assets. AIGFP also obtains other information, such as ratings of the tranches below the super senior risk layer. The nature of the information provided or otherwise available to AIGFP with respect to the underlying assets in each regulatory capital CDS transaction is not consistent across all transactions. Furthermore, in a majority of corporate loan transactions and all of the residential mortgage transactions, the pools are blind, meaning that the identities of the obligors are not disclosed to AIGFP. In addition, although AIGFP receives periodic reports on the underlying asset pools, virtually all of the regulatory capital CDS transactions contain confidentiality restrictions that preclude AIGFPs public disclosure of information relating to the underlying referenced assets. The originating financial institutions, calculation agents or trustees (each a Report Provider) provide periodic reports on all underlying referenced assets as described below, including for those within the blind pools. While much of this information received by AIGFP cannot be aggregated in a comparable way for 135 AIG 2009 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries disclosure purposes because of the confidentiality restrictions and the inconsistency of the information, it does provide a sufficient basis for AIGFP to evaluate the risks of the portfolio and to determine a reasonable estimate of fair value. For regulatory capital CDS transactions written on underlying pools of corporate loans, AIGFP receives monthly or quarterly updates from one or more Report Providers for each such referenced pool detailing, with respect to the corporate loans comprising such pool, the principal amount outstanding and defaults. In virtually all of these reports, AIGFP also receives information on recoveries and realized losses. AIGFP also receives quarterly stratification tables for each pool incorporating geography, industry and, when not publicly rated, the counterpartys assessment of the credit quality of the underlying corporate loans. Additionally, for a significant majority of these regulatory capital CDS transactions, upon the occurrence of a credit event with respect to any corporate loan included in any such pool, AIG receives a notice detailing the identity or identification number of the borrower, notional amount of such loan and the effective date of such credit event. Ratings from independent ratings agencies for the underlying assets of the corporate loan portfolio are not universally available, but AIGFP estimates the ratings for the assets not rated by independent agencies by mapping the information obtained from the Report Providers to rating agency criteria. The "Percent Non Investment Grade" information in the table above is provided as an indication of the nature of loans underlying the transactions, not necessarily as an indicator of relative risk of the CDS transactions, which is determined by the individual transaction structures. For example, Small and Medium Enterprise (SME) loan balances tend to be rated lower than loans to large, well established enterprises. However, the greater number of loans and the smaller average size of the SME loans mitigate the risk profile of the pools. In addition, the transaction structures reflect AIGFPs assessment of the loan collateral arrangements, expected recovery values, and reserve accounts in determining the level of subordination required to minimize the risk of loss. The percentage of non investment grade obligations in the underlying pools of corporate loans varies considerably. The three pools containing the highest percentages of non investment grade obligations, which include all transactions with pools having non investment grade percentages greater than 40.00 percent, are all granular SME loan pools which benefit from collateral arrangements made by the originating financial institutions and from work out of recoveries by the originating financial institutions. The average number of loans in each pool is over 6,500. This large number of SME loans increases the predictability of the expected loss and lessens the probability that discrete events will have a meaningful impact on the results of the overall pool. These transactions benefit from a tranche junior to it which was still rated AAA by at least two rating agencies at December 31, 2009. Three other pools, with a total net notional amount of $3.1 billion, have non investment grade percentages greater than 35.00 percent, each with a remaining life to maturity of 16.2 years. These pools have realized losses of 0.16 percent from inception through December 31, 2009 and have current weighted average attachment points of 28.26 percent. Approximately 0.41 percent of the assets underlying the corporate loan transactions are in default. The percentage of assets in default by transaction was available for all transactions and ranged from 0.00 percent to 2.67 percent. For regulatory capital CDS transactions written on underlying pools of residential mortgages, AIGFP receives quarterly reports for each such referenced pool detailing, with respect to the residential mortgages comprising such pool, the aggregate principal amount outstanding, defaults and realized losses. These reports include additional information on delinquencies for the large majority of the transactions and recoveries for substantially all transactions. AIGFP also receives quarterly stratification tables for each pool incorporating geography for the underlying residential mortgages. The stratification tables also include information on remaining term, property use and interest rates for a large majority of the transactions. Delinquency information for the mortgages underlying the residential mortgage transactions was available on approximately 76 percent of the total gross transaction notional amount and mortgages delinquent more than 30 days ranged from 0.06 percent to 3.40 percent, averaging 1.35 percent. For all but three transactions, which comprised less than 1.00 percent of the total gross transaction notional amount, the average default rate (expressed as a percentage of gross transaction notional amount) was 0.31 percent and ranged from 0.00 percent to 2.41 percent. The default rate on the remaining three transactions ranged from 4.42 percent to 15.67 percent. The subordination on these three transactions ranged from 33.11 percent to 44.25 percent. AIG 2009 Form 10 K 136 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries For all regulatory capital transactions, where the rating agencies directly rate the junior tranches of the pools, AIG monitors the rating agencies releases for any affirmations or changes in such ratings, as well as any changes in rating methodologies or assumptions used by the rating agencies to the extent available. The tables below show the percentage of regulatory capital CDS transactions where there is an immediately junior tranche that is rated and the average rating of that tranche across all rated transactions. AIGFP analyzes the information regarding the performance and credit quality of the underlying pools of assets to make its own risk assessment and to determine any changes in credit quality with respect to such pools of assets. This analysis includes a review of changes in pool balances, subordination levels, delinquencies, realized losses, and expected performance under more adverse credit conditions. Using data provided by the Report Providers, and information available from rating agencies, governments, and other public sources that relate to macroeconomic trends and loan performance, AIGFP is able to analyze the expected performance of the overall portfolio because of the large number of loans that comprise the collateral pools. Given the current performance of the underlying portfolios, the level of subordination and AIGFPs own assessment of the credit quality, as well as the risk mitigants inherent in the transaction structures, AIGFP does not expect that it will be required to make payments pursuant to the contractual terms of those transactions providing regulatory relief. Further, AIGFP expects that counterparties will terminate these transactions prior to their maturity. The following table presents AIGFPs Regulatory Capital Corporate loans portfolio by geographic location: Weighted Average Maturity (Years) Ratings of Junior Tranches(d) At December 31, 2009 Exposure Portfolio Net Notional Amount (in millions) Current Average Attachment Point(a) Realized Losses through December 31, 2009(b) Percent of Total To First Call(c) To Maturity Number of Transactions Percent Rated Average Rating Primarily Single Country: Germany $ 6,285 11.43 % 13.58 % 0.09 % 2.73 9.13 3 100 % AA Netherlands 3,059 5.56 20.15 0.21 43.96 1 100 AAA Finland 210 0.38 55.13 1.03 5.03 1 100 AAA Subtotal Single Country 9,554 17.37 17.44 1.83 20.49 5 100 AA Regional: Asia 1,997 3.63 16.55 0.99 2.24 1 100 AAA Europe 43,459 79.00 23.94 0.06 0.35 4.93 10 100 AA+ Subtotal Regional 45,456 82.63 23.67 0.37 4.83 11 100 AA+ Total $ 55,010 100.00 22.76 0.59 7.14 16 100 AA+ (a) Expressed as a percentage of gross transaction notional amount of the referenced obligations. (b)Represents realized losses incurred by the transaction (defaulted amounts less amounts recovered) from inception through December 31, 2009 expressed as a percentage of the initial gross transaction notional amount. (c)Where no call right remains, the weighted average expected maturity is used. (d)Represents the weighted average ratings, when available, of the tranches immediately junior to AIGFPs super senior tranche. The percentage rated represents the percentage of net notional amount where there exists a rated tranche immediately junior to AIGFPs super senior tranche. 137 AIG 2009 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries The following table presents AIGFPs Regulatory Capital Prime residential mortgage portfolio summarized by geographic location: Weighted Average Maturity (Years) Ratings of Junior Tranches(d) At December 31, 2009 Net Notional Amount (in millions) Realized Losses through December 31, 2009(b) Percent of Total Current Average Attachment Point(a) To First Call(c) To Maturity Number of Transactions Percent Rated Average Rating Country: Denmark $ 35,609 38.18 % 9.57 % 0.03 % 4.12 29.77 3 100.00 % AAA France 25,976 27.85 8.96 0.02 1.20 30.21 5 100.00 AAA Germany 5,666 6.07 26.91 0.40 0.98 41.63 7 81.01 AAA Netherlands 19,462 20.86 18.22 0.05 4.92 2 93.78 AAA Sweden 6,563 7.04 13.34 0.09 30.09 1 100.00 AAA Total $ 93,276 100.00 % 13.23 % 1.80 23.77 18 97.55 % AAA (a) Expressed as a percentage of gross transaction notional amount of the referenced obligations. (b)Represents realized losses incurred by the transaction (defaulted amounts less amounts recovered) from inception through December 31, 2009 expressed as a percentage of the initial gross transaction notional amount. (c)Where no call right remains, the weighted average expected maturity is used. (d)Represents the weighted average ratings, when available, of the tranches immediately junior to AIGFPs super senior tranche. The percentage rated represents the percentage of net notional amount where there exists a rated tranche immediately junior to AIGFPs super senior tranche. Arbitrage Portfolio A portion of AIGFPs super senior credit default swaps as of December 31, 2009 are arbitrage motivated transactions written on multi sector CDOs or designated pools of investment grade senior unsecured corporate debt or CLOs. Multi Sector CDOs The following table summarizes gross transaction notional amount of the multi sector CDOs on which AIGFP wrote protection on the super senior tranche, subordination below the super senior risk layer, net notional amount and fair value of derivative liability by underlying collateral type: At December 31, 2009 (in millions) Gross Transaction Notional Amount(a) Subordination Below the Super Senior Risk Layer Net Notional Amount Fair Value of Derivative Liability High grade with sub prime collateral $ 3,620 $ 2,056 $ 1,564 $ 657 High grade with no sub prime collateral 8,703 5,360 3,343 1,373 Total high grade(b) 12,323 7,416 4,907 2,030 Mezzanine with sub prime collateral 3,906 1,683 2,223 1,779 Mezzanine with no sub prime collateral 1,680 884 796 609 Total mezzanine(c) 5,586 2,567 3,019 2,388 Total $ 17,909 $ 9,983 $ 7,926 $ 4,418 (a) Total outstanding principal amount of securities held by a CDO. (b) "High grade" refers to transactions in which the underlying collateral credit ratings on a stand alone basis were predominantly AA or higher at origination. (c)"Mezzanine" refers to transactions in which the underlying collateral credit ratings on a stand alone basis were predominantly A or lower at origination. AIG 2009 Form 10 K 138 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries The following table summarizes net notional amounts of the remaining multi sector CDOs on which AIGFP wrote protection on the super senior tranche, by settlement alternative: (in millions) December 31, 2009 December 31, 2008 CDS transactions with cash settlement provisions U.S. dollar denominated $ 4,580 $ 7,947 Euro denominated 1,720 1,780 Total CDS transactions with cash settlement provisions 6,300 9,727 CDS transactions with physical settlement provisions U.S. dollar denominated 265 766 Euro denominated 1,361 2,063 Total CDS transactions with physical settlement provisions 1,626 2,829 Total $ 7,926 $ 12,556 The following table summarizes changes in the fair values of the derivative liability of the AIGFP super senior multi sector CDO credit default swap portfolio: Years Ended (in millions) December 31, 2009 December 31, 2008 Fair value of derivative liability, beginning of year $ 5,906 $ 11,246 Unrealized market valuation (gain) loss 669 25,700 Purchases of underlying CDO securities(a) (234 ) (995 ) Terminated in connection with the ML III transaction(b) (30,045 ) Other terminations (1,923 ) Fair value of derivative liability, end of year $ 4,418 $ 5,906 (a) In connection with the exercise of the maturity shortening puts that allow the holders of the securities issued by certain CDOs to treat the securities as short term 2a 7 eligible investments under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (2a 7 Puts) by counterparties, AIGFP acquired the underlying CDO securities. In certain cases, simultaneously with the exercise of the 2a 7 Puts by AIGFPs counterparties, AIGFP accessed financing arrangements previously entered into with such counterparties, pursuant to which the counterparties remained the legal owners of the underlying CDO securities. However, these securities were reported as part of AIGFPs investment portfolio as required by generally accepted accounting principles. Most of these underlying CDO securities were later acquired by ML III from AIGFPs counterparties. In a separate case, AIGFP extinguished its obligations with respect to one CDS by purchasing the protected CDO security. (b)The CDS in respect of the ML III transaction were terminated in the fourth quarter of 2008 based on the fair value of the underlying multi sector CDOs at October 31, 2008, as mutually agreed between the FRBNY and AIG. AIGFP recognized the change in fair value of the CDS through that date. The following table summarizes the unrealized market valuation gain (loss) of the AIGFP super senior multi sector CDO credit default swap portfolio: Years Ended December 31, (in millions) 2009 2008 2007 CDS: Terminated in connection with ML III $ $ (20,365 ) $ (9,680 ) Underlying CDO purchased by AIGFP (29 ) (1,059 ) (141 ) Cash terminations (408 ) (997 ) (517 ) All other (232 ) (3,279 ) (908 ) Total $ (669 ) $ (25,700 ) $ (11,246 ) 139 AIG 2009 Form 10 K  Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries The following table presents, for each multi sector CDO that is a reference obligation in a CDS written by AIGFP, the gross and net notional amounts, attachment points and percentage of gross notional amount rated less than B /B 3: (dollars in millions) CDO Gross Notional Amount at December 31, 2009 Net Notional Amount at December 31, 2009 Attachment Point at Inception* Attachment Point at December 31, 2009* Percentage of Gross Notional Amount Rated Less than B /B 3 at December 31, 2009 1 $ 1,124 $ 455 40.00 % 59.49 % 55.10% 2 693 326 53.00 % 52.91 % 35.27% 3 988 470 53.00 % 52.41 % 70.47% 4 1,262 242 76.00 % 80.86 % 71.45% 5 933 3 10.83 % 9.88 % 26.08% 6 291 193 39.33 % 33.81 % 92.97% 7 1,087 552 12.27 % 6.04 % 6.46% 8 1,126 809 25.24 % 22.96 % 8.48% 9 1,425 1,319 10.00 % 7.42 % 26.83% 10 536 273 33.00 % 49.02 % 76.67% 11 2,511 1,720 16.50 % 18.75 % 3.21% 12 400 219 32.00 % 45.30 % 77.33% 13 694 481 24.49 % 30.78 % 72.23% 14 575 409 32.90 % 28.89 % 93.67% 15 286 193 34.51 % 32.36 % 93.90% 16 3,978 262 9.72 % 14.15 % 57.53% Total $ 17,909 $ 7,926 * Expressed as a percentage of gross notional amount. In a number of instances, the level of subordination with respect to individual CDOs has increased since inception relative to the overall size of the CDO. While the super senior tranches are amortizing, subordinate layers have not been reduced by realized losses to date. Such losses are expected to emerge in the future. At inception, substantially all of the underlying assets were rated B /B3 or higher and in most cases at least BBB or Baa. Thus, the percentage of gross notional amount rated less than B /B3 represents deterioration in the credit quality of the underlying assets. The following table summarizes the gross transaction notional amount, percentage of the total CDO collateral pools, and ratings and vintage breakdown of collateral securities in the multi sector CDOs, by asset backed securities (ABS) category: At December 31, 2009 (in millions) Gross Transaction Notional Amount Ratings Vintage ABS Category Percent of Total AAA AA A BBB BB &lt;BB NR 2008 2007 2006 2005+P RMBS PRIME $ 2,260 12.62 % 0.46 % 0.56 % 0.71 % 1.47 % 3.23 % 6.19 % 0.00% 0.39 % 7.21 % 3.52 % 1.50 % RMBS ALT A 2,971 16.59 % 0.12 % 0.12 % 0.31 % 1.09 % 1.00 % 13.95 % 0.00% 0.66 % 4.66 % 6.06 % 5.21 % RMBS SUBPRIME 3,955 22.08 % 0.70 % 1.00 % 0.52 % 0.80 % 1.07 % 17.99 % 0.00% 0.00 % 1.10 % 1.92 % 19.06 % CMBS 3,349 18.70 % 1.21 % 1.61 % 2.16 % 3.59 % 2.58 % 7.43 % 0.12% 0.09 % 1.68 % 8.10 % 8.83 % CDO 1,829 10.21 % 0.12 % 0.95 % 0.86 % 1.00 % 0.92 % 6.25 % 0.11% 0.00 % 0.64 % 1.71 % 7.86 % OTHER 3,545 19.80 % 5.44 % 4.85 % 5.09 % 3.09 % 0.58 % 0.63 % 0.12% 0.61 % 1.07 % 5.11 % 13.01 % Total $ 17,909 100.00 % 8.05 % 9.09 % 9.65 % 11.04 % 9.38 % 52.44 % 0.35% 1.75 % 16.36 % 26.42 % 55.47 % AIG 2009 Form 10 K 140 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries Corporate Debt/CLOs The corporate arbitrage portfolio consists principally of CDS written on portfolios of corporate obligations that were generally rated investment grade at the inception of the CDS. These CDS transactions require cash settlement. This portfolio also includes CDS with a net notional amount of $1.4 billion written on the senior part of the capital structure of CLOs, which require physical settlement. The following table summarizes gross transaction notional amount of CDS transactions written on portfolios of corporate obligations, percentage of the total referenced portfolios, and ratings by industry sector, in addition to the subordinations below the super senior risk layer, AIGFPs net notional amounts and fair value of derivative liability: At December 31, 2009 (in millions) Industry Sector Gross Transaction Notional Amount Ratings Percent of Total AAA Aa A Baa Ba &lt;Ba NR United States Industrial $ 10,572 33.8 % 0.0 % 0.1 % 5.6 % 15.4 % 3.3 % 6.9 % 2.5 % Financial 3,263 10.4 % 0.0 % 0.2 % 3.7 % 3.0 % 0.1 % 2.2 % 1.2 % Utilities 845 2.7 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.2 % 1.9 % 0.0 % 0.1 % 0.5 % Other 178 0.6 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.1 % 0.1 % 0.1 % 0.0 % 0.3 % Total United States 14,858 47.5 % 0.0 % 0.3 % 9.6 % 20.4 % 3.5 % 9.2 % 4.5 % Non United States Industrial 12,831 41.0 % 0.0 % 0.9 % 7.1 % 13.9 % 3.5 % 2.4 % 13.2 % Financial 1,548 5.0 % 0.0 % 0.4 % 2.7 % 1.3 % 0.0 % 0.2 % 0.4 % Government 1,109 3.5 % 0.0 % 0.2 % 1.5 % 1.4 % 0.3 % 0.0 % 0.1 % Utilities 736 2.4 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.7 % 0.7 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 1.0 % Other 189 0.6 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.1 % 0.0 % 0.1 % 0.1 % 0.3 % Total Non United States 16,413 52.5 % 0.0 % 1.5 % 12.1 % 17.3 % 3.9 % 2.7 % 15.0 % Total gross transaction notional amount 31,271 100.0 % 0.0 % 1.8 % 21.7 % 37.7 % 7.4 % 11.9 % 19.5 % Subordination 9,195 Net Notional Amount $ 22,076 Fair Value of Derivative Liability $ 309 141 AIG 2009 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries The following table presents, for each of the corporate debt and CLO CDS transactions, the net notional amounts, attachment points and inception to date defaults: (dollars in millions) CDS Type Net Notional Amount at December 30, 2009 Attachment Point at Inception(a) Attachment Point at December 30, 2009(a) Defaults through December 30, 2009(b) 1 Corporate debt $ 4,508 20.62 % 18.54 % 4.15% 2 Corporate debt 2,520 20.68 % 19.52 % 5.16% 3 Corporate debt 989 22.14 % 20.60 % 2.93% 4 Corporate debt 5,662 22.00 % 20.68 % 2.99% 5 Corporate debt 989 22.14 % 20.60 % 2.93% 6 Corporate debt 1,967 22.15 % 20.93 % 3.09% 7 Corporate debt 983 20.80 % 18.91 % 4.17% 8 Corporate debt 215 30.00 % 30.00 % 0.00% 9 Corporate debt 229 28.00 % 27.68 % 1.01% 10 Corporate debt 657 26.00 % 30.19 % 4.25% 11 Corporate debt 643 24.00 % 23.35 % 3.51% 12 Corporate debt 1,293 24.00 % 23.29 % 3.64% 13 CLO 249 35.85 % 30.48 % 3.59% 14 CLO 135 43.76 % 41.29 % 4.65% 15 CLO 181 44.20 % 48.43 % 3.30% 16 CLO 64 44.20 % 48.43 % 3.30% 17 CLO 160 44.20 % 48.43 % 3.30% 18 CLO 175 31.76 % 33.96 % 2.02% 19 CLO 334 30.40 % 28.21 % 4.76% 20 CLO 123 31.23 % 26.85 % 2.21% Total $ 22,076 (a)Expressed as a percentage of gross transaction notional amount of the referenced obligations. (b)Represents defaults (assets that are technically defaulted but for which the losses have not yet been realized) from inception through December 31, 2009 expressed as a percentage of the gross transaction notional amount at December 31, 2009. Triggers and Settlement Alternatives At December 31, 2009, all outstanding CDS transactions for regulatory capital purposes and the majority of the arbitrage portfolio (comprising $25.1 billion or 84 percent of the net notional amount for the arbitrage portfolio at December 31, 2009 compared to $56.7 billion or 90 percent of the net notional amount for the arbitrage portfolio at December 31, 2008) have cash settled structures in respect of a basket of reference obligations, where AIGFPs payment obligations may be triggered by payment shortfalls, bankruptcy and certain other events such as write downs of the value of underlying assets (see Cash Settlement below). For the remainder of the CDS transactions in respect of the arbitrage portfolio (comprising $4.9 billion or 16 percent of the net notional amount for the arbitrage portfolio at December 31, 2009 compared to $6.4 billion or 10 percent of the net notional amount for the arbitrage portfolio at December 31, 2008), AIGFPs payment obligations are triggered by the occurrence of a credit event under a single reference security, and performance is limited to a single payment by AIGFP in return for physical delivery by the counterparty of the reference security (see Physical Settlement below). Cash Settlement. Transactions requiring cash settlement (principally on a "pay as you go" basis) are generally in respect of baskets of reference credits (which may also include single name CDS in addition to securities and loans) rather than a single reference obligation as in the case of the physically settled transactions described below. Under these credit default swap transactions: Each time a "triggering event" occurs a "loss amount" is calculated. A triggering event is generally a failure by the relevant obligor to pay principal of or, in some cases, interest on one of the reference credits in the underlying basket. Triggering events may also include bankruptcy of the obligors of the reference credits, write downs or payment postponements with respect to interest or to the principal amount of a reference credit payable at maturity. The determination of the loss amount is specific to each triggering event. It can represent AIG 2009 Form 10 K 142 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries the amount of a shortfall in ordinary course interest payments on the reference credit, a write down in the interest on or principal of such reference credit or payment postponed. It can also represent the difference between the notional or par amount of such reference credit and its market value, as determined by reference to market quotations. A "write down" with respect to a referenced credit may arise as a result of a reduction in the outstanding principal amount of such referenced credit (other than as a result of a scheduled or unscheduled payment of principal), whether caused by a principal deficiency, realized loss or forgiveness of principal. An implied write down may also result from the existence of a shortfall between the referenced credits pool principal balance and the aggregate balance of all pari passu obligations and senior securities backed by the same pool. Triggering events can occur multiple times, either as a result of continuing shortfalls in interest or write downs or payment postponements on a single reference credit, or as a result of triggering events in respect of different reference credits included in a protected basket. In connection with each triggering event, AIGFP is required to make a cash payment to the buyer of protection under the related CDS only if the aggregate loss amounts calculated in respect of such triggering event and all prior triggering events exceed a specified threshold amount (reflecting AIGFPs attachment point). If there are reimbursements received (actual or deemed) by the CDS buyer in respect of prior triggering events, AIGFP will be entitled to receive equivalent amounts from the counterparty to the extent AIGFP has previously made a related payment. Physical Settlement. For CDS transactions requiring physical settlement, AIGFP is generally required to pay unpaid principal and accrued interest for the relevant reference obligation in return for physical delivery of such reference obligation by the CDS buyer upon the occurrence of a credit event. After purchasing the reference obligation, AIGFP may sell the security and recover all or a portion of the purchase price paid under the CDS, or hold such security and be entitled to receive subsequent collections of principal and interest. AIGFP generally is required to settle such a transaction only if the following conditions are satisfied: A "Credit Event" (as defined in the relevant CDS transaction confirmation) must have occurred. In all CDS transactions subject to physical settlement, "Failure to Pay" is specified as a Credit Event and is generally triggered if there is a failure by the issuer under the related CDO to make a payment under the reference obligation (after the expiration of any applicable grace period and, in certain transactions, subject to a nominal non payment threshold having been met). The CDS buyer must deliver the reference obligation within a specified period, generally within 30 days. There is no payment obligation if delivery is not made within this period. Upon completion of the physical delivery and payment by AIGFP, AIGFP would be the holder of the relevant reference obligation and have all rights associated with a holder of such securities. In addition to subordination, cash flow diversion mechanics may provide further protection from losses for holders of the super senior CDO securities. Following the acceleration of a CDO security, all, or a portion of, available cash flows in a CDO could be diverted from the junior tranches to the most senior tranches. In a CDO with such a feature, the junior tranches may not receive any cash flows until all interest on, and principal of, the super senior tranches are paid in full. Thus, potential losses borne by the holders of the super senior CDO securities may be mitigated as cash flows that would otherwise be payable to junior tranches throughout the entire CDO capital structure are instead diverted directly to the most senior tranches. Cash flow diversion mechanics also may arise in the context of over collateralization tests. Upon a failure by the CDO issuer to comply with certain over collateralization tests (other than those that trigger an indenture event of default), cash flows that would otherwise be payable to certain junior tranches throughout the CDO capital structure may instead be diverted to more senior tranches. Consequently, the super senior risk layer is paid down at a faster rate, effectively increasing the relative level of subordination. The existence of a tranche of securities ranking pari passu with the super senior CDO securities does not provide additional subordination that protects holders of the super senior CDO securities, as holders of such pari passu securities are entitled to receive payments from available cash flows at the same level of priority as holders of the 143 AIG 2009 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries super senior securities. Thus, a pari passu tranche of securities does not affect the amount of losses that have to be absorbed by classes of CDO securities other than the super senior CDO securities before the super senior securities incur a loss, although the pari passu tranche will absorb losses on a pro rata basis after subordinate classes of securities are exhausted. 2a 7 Puts: Included in the multi sector CDO portfolio are maturity shortening puts that allow the holders of the securities issued by certain CDOs to treat the securities as short term 2a 7 eligible investments under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (2a 7 Puts). Holders of securities are required, in certain circumstances, to tender their securities to the issuer at par. If an issuers remarketing agent is unable to resell the securities so tendered, AIGFP must purchase the securities at par so long as the security has not experienced a payment default or certain bankruptcy events with respect to the issuer of such security have not occurred. At January 1, 2008, 2a 7 Puts with a net notional amount of $6.5 billion were outstanding and included as part of the multi sector CDO portfolio. During 2008, AIGFP issued new 2a 7 Puts with a net notional amount of $5.4 billion on the super senior security issued by a CDO of AAA rated CMBS pursuant to a facility that was entered into in 2005. During 2008, AIGFP repurchased multi sector CDO securities with a principal amount of $9.4 billion in connection with these obligations, of which $8.0 billion was funded using existing liquidity arrangements. In connection with the ML III transaction, ML III purchased $8.5 billion of multi sector CDOs underlying 2a 7 Puts written by AIGFP. A portion of the net payment made by ML III to the counterparties for the purchase of the multi sector CDOs facilitated the resolution of liquidity arrangements, which had funded certain of the multi sector CDOs in connection with the 2a 7 Puts. Among the multi sector CDOs purchased by ML III are certain CDO securities with a net notional amount of $1.7 billion for which the related 2a 7 Puts to AIGFP remained outstanding as of December 31, 2008, of which $1.6 billion remained outstanding as of December 31, 2009. In December 2008, ML III and AIGFP entered into an agreement with respect to the $252 million net notional amount of multi sector CDOs held by ML III with 2a 7 Puts that may be exercised in 2009. Under that agreement, ML III agreed not to sell the multi sector CDOs in 2009 and either not to exercise its put option on such multi sector CDOs or simultaneously to exercise its put option with a par purchase of the multi sector CDO securities. In exchange, AIGFP agreed to pay to ML III the consideration that it received for providing the put protection. AIGFP is not a party to any commitments to issue any additional 2a 7 Puts. In January 2010, AIGFP and ML III amended and restated their agreement in respect of the outstanding 2a 7 Puts as of the date of the agreement. Pursuant to this agreement, ML III has agreed not to exercise its put option on multi sector CDOs or simultaneously to exercise its put option with a corresponding par purchase of the multi sector CDOs with respect to the $867 million notional amount of multi sector CDOs held by ML III with 2a 7 Puts that may be exercised on or prior to December 31, 2010 and $543 million notional amount of multi sector CDOs held by ML III with 2a 7 Puts that may be exercised on or prior to April 30, 2011. In addition, there are $186 million notional amount of multi sector CDOs held by MLIII with 2a 7 Puts that may not be exercised on or prior to December 31, 2010, for which MLIII has only agreed not to exercise its put option on multi sector CDOs or simultaneously to exercise its put option with a corresponding par purchase of the multi sector CDOs through December 31, 2010. In exchange, AIGFP has agreed to pay to ML III the consideration that it receives for providing the put protection. Additionally, ML III has agreed that if it sells any such multi sector CDO with a 2a 7 Put to a third party purchaser, that such sale will be conditioned upon, among other things, such third party purchaser agreeing that until the legal final maturity date of such multi sector CDO it will not exercise its put option on such multi sector CDO or it will make a corresponding par purchase of such multi sector CDO simultaneously with the exercise of its put option. In exchange for such commitment from the third party purchaser, AIGFP will agree to pay to such third party purchaser the consideration that it receives for providing the put protection. ML III has agreed to assist AIGFP in efforts to mitigate or eliminate AIGFPs obligations under such 2a 7 Puts relating to multi sector CDOs held by ML III prior to the expiration of ML IIIs obligations discussed above. There can be no assurances that such efforts will be successful. To the extent that such efforts are not successful with respect to a multi sector CDO held by ML III with a 2a 7 Put and ML III has not sold such multi sector CDO to a third party who has committed not to exercise its put option on such multi sector CDO or to make a corresponding par purchase AIG 2009 Form 10 K 144 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries of such multi sector CDO simultaneously with the exercise of its put option then, upon the expiration of ML IIIs aforementioned obligations with respect to such multi sector CDO, AIGFP will be obligated under the related 2a 7 Put to purchase such multi sector CDO at par in the circumstances and subject to the limited conditions provided for in the relevant agreement. Termination Events. Certain of the super senior credit default swaps provide the counterparties with an additional termination right if AIGs rating level falls to BBB or Baa2. At that level, counterparties to the CDS transactions with the following net notional amounts, by portfolio, have the right to terminate the transactions early: (in millions) Net Notional Amount At December 31, 2009 Multi sector CDO $ 1,517 Corporate arbitrage 8,537 Regulatory capital 298 Total $10,352 If counterparties exercise this right, the contracts provide for the counterparties to be compensated for the cost to replace the transactions, or an amount reasonably determined in good faith to estimate the losses the counterparties would incur as a result of the termination of the transactions. Certain super senior credit default swaps written for regulatory capital relief, with a net notional amount of $79.2 billion at December 31, 2009, include triggers that require certain actions to be taken by AIG once AIGs rating level falls to certain levels, which, if not taken, give rise to a right of the counterparties to terminate the CDS. Such actions include posting collateral, transferring the swap or providing a guarantee from a more highly rated entity. AIGFP has implemented collateral arrangements in a large majority of these transactions. In the event of a termination of the contract that is caused by AIGs rating downgrade, AIGFP is obligated to compensate the counterparty based on its loss. As a result of AIGFP posting collateral, AIG eliminated the counterparties right to terminate under this downgrade provision, thereby avoiding the uncertainty of determining the loss from an early termination of a regulatory capital CDS. Collateral Most of AIGFPs credit default swaps are subject to collateral posting provisions. These provisions differ among counterparties and asset classes. Although AIGFP has collateral posting obligations associated with both regulatory capital relief transactions and arbitrage transactions, the large majority of these obligations to date have been associated with arbitrage transactions in respect of multi sector CDOs. The collateral arrangements in respect of the multi sector CDO, regulatory capital and corporate arbitrage transactions are nearly all documented under a Credit Support Annex (CSA) to an ISDA Master Agreement (Master Agreement). The Master Agreement and CSA forms are standardized form agreements published by the ISDA, which market participants have adopted as the primary contractual framework for various kinds of derivatives transactions, including CDS. The Master Agreement and CSA forms are designed to be customized by counterparties to accommodate their particular requirements for the anticipated types of swap transactions to be entered into. Elective provisions and modifications of the standard terms are negotiated in connection with the execution of these documents. The Master Agreement and CSA permit any provision contained in these documents to be further varied or overridden by the individual transaction confirmations, providing flexibility to tailor provisions to accommodate the requirements of any particular transaction. A CSA, if agreed by the parties to a Master Agreement, supplements and forms part of the Master Agreement and contains provisions (among others) for the valuation of the covered transactions, the delivery and release of collateral, the types of acceptable collateral, the grant of a security interest (in the case of a CSA governed by New York law) or the outright transfer of title (in the case of a CSA governed by English law) in the collateral that is posted, the calculation of the amount of collateral required, the valuation of the collateral provided, the timing of any collateral demand or return, dispute mechanisms, and various other rights, remedies and duties of the parties with respect to the collateral provided. 145 AIG 2009 Form 10 K  Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries In general, each party has the right under a CSA to act as the "Valuation Agent" and initiate the calculation of the exposure of one party to the other (Exposure) in respect of transactions covered by the CSA. The valuation calculation may be performed daily, weekly or at some other interval, and the frequency is one of the terms negotiated at the time the CSA is signed. The definition of Exposure under a standard CSA is the amount that would be payable to one party by the other party upon a hypothetical termination of that transaction. This amount is determined, in most cases, by the Valuation Agent using its estimate of mid market quotations (i.e., the average of hypothetical bid and ask quotations) of the amounts that would be paid for a replacement transaction. AIGFP determines Exposure typically by reference to the mark to market valuation of the relevant transaction produced by its systems and specialized models. Exposure amounts are typically determined for all transactions under a Master Agreement (unless the parties have specifically agreed to exclude certain transactions, not to apply the CSA or to set a specific transaction Exposure to zero). The aggregate Exposure less the value of collateral already held by the relevant party (and following application of certain thresholds) results in a net exposure amount (Delivery Amount). If this amount is a positive number, then the other party must deliver collateral with a value equal to the Delivery Amount. Under the standard CSA, the party not acting as Valuation Agent for any particular Exposure calculation may dispute the Valuation Agents calculation of the Delivery Amount. If the parties are unable to resolve this dispute, the terms of the standard CSA provide that the Valuation Agent is required to recalculate Exposure using, in substitution for the disputed Exposure amounts, the average of actual quotations at mid market from four leading dealers in the relevant market. After an Exposure amount is determined for a transaction subject to a CSA, it is combined with the Exposure amounts for all other transactions under the relevant Master Agreement, which may be netted against one another where the counterparties to a Master Agreement are each exposed to one another in respect of different transactions. Actual collateral postings with respect to a Master Agreement may be affected by other agreed CSA terms, including threshold and independent amounts, that may increase or decrease the amount of collateral posted. Regulatory Capital Relief Transactions As of December 31, 2009, 52.8 percent of AIGFPs regulatory capital relief transactions (measured by net notional amount) were subject to a CSA linked to AIGs credit rating and 47.2 percent of the regulatory capital relief transactions were not subject to collateral posting provisions. In general, each regulatory capital relief transaction is subject to a stand alone Master Agreement or similar agreement, under which the aggregate Exposure is calculated with reference to only a single transaction. The underlying mechanism that determines the amount of collateral to be posted varies by counterparty, and there is no standard formula. The varied mechanisms resulted from individual negotiations with different counterparties. The following is a brief description of the primary mechanisms that are currently being employed to determine the amount of collateral posting for this portfolio. Reference to Market Indices Under this mechanism, the amount of collateral to be posted is determined based on a formula that references certain tranches of a market index, such as either iTraxx or CDX. This mechanism is used for CDS transactions that reference either corporate loans, or residential mortgages. While the market index is not a direct proxy, it has the advantage of being readily obtainable. Market Value of Reference Obligation Under this mechanism the amount of collateral to be posted is determined based on the difference between the net notional amount of a referenced RMBS security and the securitys market value. Expected Loss Models Under this mechanism, the amount of collateral to be posted is determined based on the amount of expected credit losses, generally determined using a rating agency model. Negotiated Amount Under this mechanism, the amount of collateral to be posted is determined based on terms negotiated between AIGFP and the counterparty, which could be a fixed percentage of the notional amount or present value of premiums to be earned by AIGFP. AIG 2009 Form 10 K 146 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries The following table presents the amount of collateral postings by underlying mechanism as described above with respect to the regulatory capital relief portfolio (prior to consideration of transactions other than AIGFPs super senior credit default swaps subject to the same Master Agreements) as of the periods ended: (in millions) December 31, 2008 December 31, 2009 February 17, 2010 Reference to market indices $ 667 $ 60 $ 48 Market value of referenced obligation 380 Expected loss models 5 20 19 Negotiated amount 235 230 219 Total $ 1,287 $ 310 $ 286 Arbitrage Portfolio Multi Sector CDOs In the CDS transactions, with physical settlement provisions, in respect of multi sector CDOs, the standard CSA provisions for the calculation of Exposure have been modified, with the Exposure amount determined pursuant to an agreed formula that is based on the difference between the net notional amount of such transaction and the market value of the relevant underlying CDO security, rather than the replacement value of the transaction. As of any date, the "market value" of the relevant CDO security is the price at which a marketplace participant would be willing to purchase such CDO security in a market transaction on such date, while the "replacement value of the transaction" is the cost on such date of entering into a credit default swap transaction with substantially the same terms on the same referenced obligation (e.g., the CDO security). In cases where a formula is utilized, a transaction specific threshold is generally factored into the calculation of Exposure, which reduces the amount of collateral required to be posted. These thresholds typically vary based on the credit ratings of AIG and or the reference obligations, with greater posting obligations arising in the context of lower ratings. For the large majority of counterparties to these transactions, the Master Agreement and CSA cover non CDS transactions (e.g., interest rate and cross currency swap transactions) as well as CDS transactions. As a result, the amount of collateral to be posted by AIGFP in relation to the CDS transactions will be added to or offset by the amount, if any, of the Exposure AIG has to the counterparty on the non CDS transactions. Arbitrage Portfolio Corporate Debt/CLOs All of AIGFPs corporate arbitrage transactions are subject to CSAs. None of these transactions (measured by net notional amount) contains a special collateral posting provision, but each is subject to a Master Agreement that includes a CSA. These transactions are treated the same as other transactions subject to the same Master Agreement and CSA, with the calculation of collateral in accordance with the standard CSA procedures outlined above. 2.98 percent (measured by net notional amount) of these transactions, although subject to a Master Agreement and CSA, have specific valuation and threshold provisions. These thresholds are typically based on a combination of the credit rating of AIG and a ratings model of the transaction developed by Moodys model rating of the transaction (and not based on the value of any underlying reference obligations). Thus, as long as AIG maintains a rating above a specified threshold and the Moodys model of the underlying transaction exceeds a specified rating, the collateral provisions do not apply. Collateral Calls AIGFP has received collateral calls from counterparties in respect of certain super senior credit default swaps, of which a large majority relate to multi sector CDOs. To a lesser extent, AIGFP has also received collateral calls in respect of certain super senior credit default swaps entered into by counterparties for regulatory capital relief purposes and in respect of corporate arbitrage. Frequently, valuation estimates made by counterparties with respect to certain super senior credit default swaps or the underlying reference CDO securities, for purposes of determining the amount of collateral required to be posted by AIGFP in connection with such instruments, have differed, at times significantly, from AIGFPs estimates. In 147 AIG 2009 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries almost all cases, AIGFP has been able to successfully resolve the differences or otherwise reach an accommodation with respect to collateral posting levels, including in certain cases by entering into compromise collateral arrangements. Due to the ongoing nature of these collateral calls, AIGFP may engage in discussions with one or more counterparties in respect of these differences at any time. Valuation estimates made by counterparties for collateral purposes are, like any other third party valuation, considered in the determination of the fair value estimates of AIGFPs super senior credit default swap portfolio. The following table presents the amount of collateral postings with respect to AIGFPs super senior credit default swap portfolio (prior to offsets for other transactions) as of the periods ended: (in millions) December 31, 2008 December 31, 2009 February 17, 2010 Regulatory capital $ 1,287 $ 310 $ 286 Arbitrage multi sector CDO 5,129 3,715 3,714 Arbitrage corporate 2,349 565 582 Total $ 8,765 $ 4,590 $ 4,582 The amount of future collateral posting requirements is a function of AIGs credit ratings, the rating of the reference obligations and any further decline in the market value of the relevant reference obligations, with the latter being the most significant factor. While a high level of correlation exists between the amount of collateral posted and the valuation of these contracts in respect of the arbitrage portfolio, a similar relationship does not exist with respect to the regulatory capital portfolio given the nature of how the amount of collateral for these transactions is determined. Given the severe market disruption, lack of observable data and the uncertainty regarding the potential effects on market prices of measures recently undertaken by the federal government to address the credit market disruption, AIGFP is unable to reasonably estimate the amounts of collateral that it may be required to post in the future. Models and Modeling AIGFP values its credit default swaps written on the super senior risk layers of designated pools of debt securities or loans using internal valuation models, third party price estimates and market indices. The principal market was determined to be the market in which super senior credit default swaps of this type and size would be transacted, or have been transacted, with the greatest volume or level of activity. AIG has determined that the principal market participants, therefore, would consist of other large financial institutions who participate in sophisticated over the counter derivatives markets. The specific valuation methodologies vary based on the nature of the referenced obligations and availability of market prices. The valuation of the super senior credit derivatives continues to be challenging given the limitation on the availability of market observable information due to the lack of trading and price transparency in the structured finance market, particularly during and since the second half of 2007. These market conditions have increased the reliance on management estimates and judgments in arriving at an estimate of fair value for financial reporting purposes. Further, disparities in the valuation methodologies employed by market participants and the varying judgments reached by such participants when assessing volatile markets have increased the likelihood that the various parties to these instruments may arrive at significantly different estimates as to their fair values. AIGFPs valuation methodologies for the super senior credit default swap portfolio have evolved in response to the deteriorating market conditions and the lack of sufficient market observable information. AIG regularly calibrates the model to available market information and reviews model assumptions on a regular basis. Arbitrage Portfolio Multi Sector CDOs The underlying assumption of the valuation methodology for AIGFPs credit default swap portfolio wrapping multi sector CDOs is that, to be willing to assume the obligations under a credit default swap, a market participant would AIG 2009 Form 10 K 148 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries require payment of the full difference between the cash price of the underlying tranches of the referenced securities portfolio and the net notional amount specified in the credit default swap. AIGFP uses a modified version of the Binomial Expansion Technique (BET) model to value its credit default swap portfolio written on super senior tranches of CDOs of ABS, including the 2a 7 Puts. The BET model was developed in 1996 by a major rating agency to generate expected loss estimates for CDO tranches and derive a credit rating for those tranches, and has been widely used ever since. AIG selected the BET model for the following reasons: it is known and utilized by other institutions; it has been studied extensively, documented and enhanced over many years; it is transparent and relatively simple to apply; the parameters required to run the BET model are generally observable; and it can easily be modified to use probabilities of default and expected losses derived from the underlying collateral securities market prices instead of using rating based historical probabilities of default. The BET model has certain limitations. A well known limitation of the BET model is that it can understate the expected losses for super senior tranches when default correlations are high. The model uses correlations implied from diversity scores which do not capture the tendency for correlations to increase as defaults increase. Recognizing this concern, AIG tested the sensitivity of the valuations to the diversity scores. The results of the testing demonstrated that the valuations are not very sensitive to the diversity scores because the expected losses generated from the prices of the collateral pool securities are currently high, breaching the attachment point in most transactions. Once the attachment point is breached by a sufficient amount, the diversity scores, and their implied correlations, are no longer a significant driver of the valuation of a super senior tranche. AIGFP has adapted the BET model to estimate the price of the super senior risk layer or tranche of the CDO. AIG modified the BET model to imply default probabilities from market prices for the underlying securities and not from rating agency assumptions. To generate the estimate, the model uses the price estimates for the securities comprising the portfolio of a CDO as an input and converts those price estimates to credit spreads over current LIBOR based interest rates. These credit spreads are used to determine implied probabilities of default and expected losses on the underlying securities. These data are then aggregated and used to estimate the expected cash flows of the super senior tranche of the CDO. The application of the modified BET model involves the following steps for each individual super senior tranche of a CDO in the portfolio: 1)Calculation of the cash flow pattern that matches the weighted average life for each underlying security of the CDO; 2)Calculation of an implied credit spread for each security from the price and cash flow pattern determined in step 1. This is an arithmetic process which converts prices to yields (similar to the conversion of Department of the Treasury security prices to yields), and then subtracts LIBOR based interest rates to determine the credit spreads; 3)Conversion of the credit spread into its implied probability of default. This also is an arithmetic process that determines the assumed level of default on the security that would equate the present value of the expected cash flows discounted at a risk free rate with the present value of the contractual cash flows discounted using LIBOR based interest rates plus the credit spreads; 4)Generation of expected losses for each underlying security using the probability of default and recovery rate; 5)Aggregation of the cash flows for all securities to create a cash flow profile of the entire collateral pool within the CDO; 149 AIG 2009 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries 6)Division of the collateral pool into a number of hypothetical independent identical securities based on the CDOs diversity score so that the cash flow effects of the portfolio can be mathematically aggregated properly. The purpose of dividing the collateral pool into hypothetical securities is a simplifying assumption used in all BET models as part of a statistical technique that aggregates large amounts of homogeneous data; 7)Simulation of the default behavior of the hypothetical securities using a Monte Carlo simulation and aggregation of the results to derive the effect of the expected losses on the cash flow pattern of the super senior tranche taking into account the cash flow diversion mechanism of the CDO; 8)Discounting of the expected cash flows determined in step 7 using LIBOR based interest rates to estimate the value of the super senior tranche of the CDO; and 9)Adjustment of the model value for the super senior multi sector CDO credit default swap for the effect of the risk of non performance by AIG using the credit spreads of AIG available in the marketplace and considering the effects of collateral and master netting arrangements. AIGFP employs a Monte Carlo simulation in step 7 above to assist in quantifying the effect on the valuation of the CDO of the unique aspects of the CDOs structure such as triggers that divert cash flows to the most senior part of the capital structure. The Monte Carlo simulation is used to determine whether an underlying security defaults in a given simulation scenario and, if it does, the securitys implied random default time and expected loss. This information is used to project cash flow streams and to determine the expected losses of the portfolio. In addition to calculating an estimate of the fair value of the super senior CDO security referenced in the credit default swaps using its internal model, AIGFP also considers the price estimates for the super senior CDO securities provided by third parties, including counterparties to these transactions, to validate the results of the model and to determine the best available estimate of fair value. In determining the fair value of the super senior CDO security referenced in the credit default swaps, AIGFP uses a consistent process which considers all available pricing data points and eliminates the use of outlying data points. When pricing data points are within a reasonable range, an averaging technique is applied. The following table presents the net notional amount and fair value of derivative liability of the multi sector super senior credit default swap portfolio using AIGFPs fair value methodology: Net Notional Amount Fair Value Derivative Liability At December 31, (in millions) 2009 2008 2009 2008 BET model $ 2,186 $ 2,545 $ 1,092 $ 1,370 Third party price 2,466 2,951 1,883 1,753 Average of BET model and third party price 193 3,218 145 1,568 European RMBS 3,081 3,842 1,298 1,215 Total $ 7,926 $ 12,556 $ 4,418 $ 5,906 The fair value of derivative liability of $4.4 billion recorded on AIGFPs super senior multi sector CDO credit default swap portfolio, represents the cumulative change in fair value of the outstanding derivatives, which represents AIGs best estimate of the amount it would need to pay to a willing, able and knowledgeable third party to assume the obligations under AIGFPs super senior multi sector credit default swap portfolio at December 31, 2009. Arbitrage Portfolio Corporate Debt/CLOs The valuation of credit default swaps written on portfolios of investment grade corporate debt and CLOs is less complex than the valuation of super senior multi sector CDO credit default swaps and the valuation inputs are more transparent and readily available. During the third quarter of 2009, AIGFP enhanced its valuation methodology for credit default swaps written on portfolios of investment grade corporate debt. This new methodology uses a mathematical model that produces results that are more closely aligned with prices received from third parties, rather than relying on market indices. AIG 2009 Form 10 K 150 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries This methodology is widely used by other market participants and uses the current market credit spreads of the names in the portfolios along with the base correlations implied by the current market prices of comparable tranches of the relevant market traded credit indices as inputs. Two transactions, representing two percent of the total notional amount of the corporate arbitrage transactions, are valued using third party quotes given their unique attributes. AIGFP estimates the fair value of its obligations resulting from credit default swaps written on CLOs to be equivalent to the par value less the current market value of the referenced obligation. Accordingly, the value is determined by obtaining third party quotes on the underlying super senior tranches referenced under the credit default swap contract. No assurance can be given that the fair value of AIGFPs arbitrage credit default swap portfolio would not change materially if other market indices or pricing sources were used to estimate the fair value of the portfolio. Regulatory Capital Portfolio In the case of credit default swaps written to facilitate regulatory capital relief, AIGFP estimates the fair value of these derivatives by considering observable market transactions. The transactions with the most observability are the early terminations of these transactions by counterparties. AIGFP continues to reassess the expected maturity of this portfolio. As of December 31, 2009, AIGFP estimated that the weighted average expected maturity of the portfolio was 1.35 years. AIGFP has not been required to make any payments as part of terminations initiated by counterparties. The regulatory benefit of these transactions for AIGFPs financial institution counterparties is generally derived from the terms of the Capital Accord of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (Basel I) that existed through the end of 2007 and which is in the process of being replaced by Basel II. It was expected that financial institution counterparties would have transitioned from Basel I to Basel II by the end of the two year adoption period on December 31, 2009, after which they would have received little or no additional regulatory benefit from these CDS transactions, except in a small number of specific instances. However, the Basel Committee recently announced that it has agreed to keep in place the Basel I capital floors beyond the end of 2009, although it remains to be seen how this extension will be implemented by the various European Central Banking districts. Should certain counterparties continue to receive favorable regulatory capital benefits from these transactions, those counterparties may not exercise their options to terminate the transactions in the expected time frame. AIGFP also considers other market data, to the extent relevant and available. AIGFP does not expect to make any payment under these contracts based on current portfolio conditions and stress analyses performed. Over the contractual life of the transactions, AIGFP is owed contractual premiums over an extended period. However, the expectation that the counterparties will be willing and able to terminate these transactions in the very near term based on the contract provisions and market conditions significantly reduces the expected future cash flows to be received. Consequently, the future expected cash flows validate the observable market transactions used to price the portfolio. In light of early termination experience to date and after other analyses, AIG determined that there was no unrealized market valuation adjustment for this regulatory capital relief portfolio for the year ended December 31, 2009 other than (1) for transaction where AIGFP believes the counterparty is no longer using the transaction to obtain regulatory capital relief and (2) for transactions where the counterparty has failed to terminate the transaction early as expected and no longer has any rights to terminate early in the future. During 2009, AIGFP effected the early termination of a CDS transaction written on a European RMBS security of $1.5 billion in net notional amount that was reported as part of Regulatory Capital Other at a level approximating its fair value at that time. Given its unique structure and concentrated exposure to high loan to value Spanish residential mortgages, this transaction had exposed AIGFP to a relatively higher level of liquidity and credit risk than any other regulatory capital CDS exposure, and AIG felt it prudent to terminate the transaction to avoid further deterioration. AIG will continue to assess the valuation of this portfolio and monitor developments in the marketplace. Given the potential for further significant deterioration in the credit markets and the risk that AIGFPs expectations with respect to the termination of these transactions by its counterparties may not materialize, there can be no assurance that AIG will not recognize unrealized market valuation losses from this portfolio in future periods. Moreover, given 151 AIG 2009 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries the size of the credit exposure, a decline in the fair value of this portfolio could have a material adverse effect on AIGs consolidated results of operations for an individual reporting period or to AIGs consolidated financial condition. Key Assumptions Used in the BET model Multi Sector CDOs The most significant assumption used in the BET model is the estimated price of the individual securities within the CDO collateral pools. The following table summarizes the gross transaction notional weighted average price by ABS category. Gross Transaction Notional Weighted Average Price at December 31, 2009 2008 ABS Category RMBS Prime 64.35 % 50.46 % RMBS Alt A 37.47 31.68 RMBS Subprime 29.32 29.02 CMBS 67.14 54.50 CDOs 19.01 17.53 Other 70.62 50.92 Total 42.75 % 36.65 % Prices for the individual securities held by a CDO are obtained in most cases from the CDO collateral managers, to the extent available. For the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, CDO collateral managers provided market prices for 62.8 percent and 61.2 percent of the underlying securities, respectively. When a price for an individual security is not provided by a CDO collateral manager, AIGFP derives the price through a pricing matrix using prices from CDO collateral managers for similar securities. Matrix pricing is a mathematical technique used principally to value debt securities without relying exclusively on quoted prices for the specific securities, but rather by relying on the relationship of the security to other benchmark quoted securities. Substantially all of the CDO collateral managers who provided prices used dealer prices for all or part of the underlying securities, in some cases supplemented by third party pricing services. The BET model also uses diversity scores, weighted average lives, recovery rates and discount rates. The determination of some of these inputs requires the use of judgment and estimates, particularly in the absence of market observable data. Diversity scores (which reflect default correlations between the underlying securities of a CDO) are obtained from CDO trustees or implied from default correlations. Weighted average lives of the underlying securities are obtained, when available, from external subscription services such as Bloomberg and Intex and, if not available, AIGFP utilizes an estimate reflecting known weighted average lives. Collateral recovery rates are obtained from the multi sector CDO recovery data of a major rating agency. AIGFP utilizes a LIBOR based interest rate curve to derive its discount rates. AIGFP employs similar control processes to validate these model inputs as those used to value AIGs investment portfolio as described in Fair Value Measurements of Certain Financial Assets and Liabilities Overview. The effects of the adjustments resulting from the validation process were de minimis for each period presented. Valuation Sensitivity Arbitrage Portfolio Multi Sector CDOs AIG utilizes sensitivity analyses that estimate the effects of using alternative pricing and other key inputs on AIGs calculation of the unrealized market valuation loss related to the AIGFP super senior credit default swap portfolio. While AIG believes that the ranges used in these analyses are reasonable, given the current difficult market conditions, AIG is unable to predict which of the scenarios is most likely to occur. As recent experience demonstrates, AIG 2009 Form 10 K 152 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries actual results in any period are likely to vary, perhaps materially, from the modeled scenarios, and there can be no assurance that the unrealized market valuation loss related to the AIGFP super senior credit default swap portfolio will be consistent with any of the sensitivity analyses. On average, prices for CDOs declined 9.96 percent, 5.57 percent and 0.20 percent of the notional amount outstanding for the first, second and fourth quarters of 2009, respectively. However, for the three month period ended September 30, 2009, prices for CDOs increased by an average of 5.13 percent of the notional amount outstanding. Further, it is difficult to extrapolate future experience based on current market conditions. For the purposes of estimating sensitivities for the super senior multi sector CDO credit default swap portfolio, the change in valuation derived using the BET model is used to estimate the change in the fair value of the derivative liability. Out of the total $7.9 billion net notional amount of CDS written on multi sector CDOs outstanding at December 31, 2009, a BET value is available for $4.8 billion net notional amount. No BET value is determined for $3.1 billion of CDS written on European multi sector CDOs as prices on the underlying securities held by the CDOs are not provided by collateral managers; instead these CDS are valued using counterparty prices. Therefore, sensitivities disclosed below apply only to the net notional amount of $4.8 billion. As mentioned above, the most significant assumption used in the BET model is the estimated price of the securities within the CDO collateral pools. If the actual price of the securities within the collateral pools differs from the price used in estimating the fair value of the super senior credit default swap portfolio, there is potential for material variation in the fair value estimate. Any further declines in the value of the underlying collateral securities held by a CDO will similarly affect the value of the super senior CDO securities given their significantly depressed valuations. While the models attempt to predict changes in the prices of underlying collateral securities held within a CDO, the changes are subject to actual market conditions which have proved to be highly volatile, especially given current market conditions. AIG cannot predict reasonably likely changes in the prices of the underlying collateral securities held within a CDO at this time. The following table presents key inputs used in the BET model, and the potential increase (decrease) to the fair value of the derivative liability by ABS category at December 31, 2009 corresponding to changes in these key inputs: Increase (Decrease) to Fair Value of Derivative Liability Average Inputs Used at December 31, 2009 (dollars in millions) Change Entire Portfolio RMBS PRIME RMBS ALT A RMBS Subprime CMBS CDOs Other Bond prices 41 points Increase of 5 points $ (314 ) $ (13 ) $ (29 ) $ (146 ) $ (81 ) $ (28 ) $ (17 ) Decrease of 5 points 270 14 28 108 81 17 22 Weighted Increase of 1 year 61 2 7 52 (2 ) 1 1 average life 5.51 years Decrease of 1 year (121 ) (3 ) (5 ) (114 ) 4 (1 ) (2 ) Recovery rates 23% Increase of 10% (40 ) (1 ) (1 ) (10 ) (20 ) (3 ) (5 ) Decrease of 10% 50 2 19 26 1 2 Diversity score(a) 13 Increase of 5 (9 ) Decrease of 5 34 Discount curve(b) N/A Increase of 100 bps 16 (a) The diversity score is an input at the CDO level. A calculation of sensitivity to this input by type of security is not possible. (b)The discount curve is an input at the CDO level. A calculation of sensitivity to this input by type of security is not possible. Furthermore, for this input it is not possible to disclose a weighted average input as a discount curve consists of a series of data points. These results are calculated by stressing a particular assumption independently of changes in any other assumption. No assurance can be given that the actual levels of the key inputs will not exceed, perhaps significantly, the ranges assumed by AIG for purposes of the above analysis. No assumption should be made that results calculated from the use of other changes in these key inputs can be interpolated or extrapolated from the results set forth above. 153 AIG 2009 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries Corporate Debt The following table represents the relevant market credit inputs used to estimate the sensitivity for the credit default swap portfolio written on investment grade corporate debt and the estimated increase (decrease) to fair value of derivative liability at December 31, 2009 corresponding to changes in these market credit inputs: Input Used at December 31, 2009 (in millions) Increase (Decrease) To Fair Value of Derivative Liability Credit spreads for all names Effect of an increase by 10 basis points $31 Effect of a decrease by 10 basis points $(32) All base correlations Effect of an increase by 1% $7 Effect of a decrease by 1% $(7) Assumed recovery rate Effect of an increase by 1% $(5) Effect of a decrease by 1% $5 These results are calculated by stressing a particular assumption independently of changes in any other assumption. No assurance can be given that the actual levels of the indices and maturity will not exceed, perhaps significantly, the ranges assumed by AIGFP for purposes of the above analysis. No assumption should be made that results calculated from the use of other changes in these indices and maturity can be interpolated or extrapolated from the results set forth above. Other derivatives. Valuation models that incorporate unobservable inputs initially are calibrated to the transaction price. Subsequent valuations are based on observable inputs to the valuation model (e.g., interest rates, credit spreads, volatilities, etc.). Model inputs are changed only when corroborated by observable market data. Transfers into and out of Level 3 During the year ended December 31, 2009, AIG transferred into Level 3 approximately $9.6 billion of assets, primarily representing investments in certain ABS, RMBS and CMBS, which coincided with a decrease in market transparency and downward credit migration of these securities, and investments in private placement corporate debt securities, for which pricing adjustments were made to reflect an additional risk premium not captured in the matrix pricing. During the year ended December 31, 2009, AIG transferred approximately $5.8 billion of assets out of Level 3. These transfers out of Level 3 primarily related to investments in certain ABS and RMBS and investments in private placement corporate debt. See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information about transfers into and out of Level 3. AIG 2009 Form 10 K 154  Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries Investments Investments by Segment The following tables summarize the composition of AIGs investments by segment: (in millions) General Insurance Domestic Life Insurance & Retirement Services Foreign Life Insurance & Retirement Services Financial Services Other Total At December 31, 2009 Fixed maturity securities: Bonds available for sale, at fair value $ 79,507 $ 116,629 $ 158,190 $ 2,057 $ 9,079 $ 365,462 Bond trading securities, at fair value 846 6,227 19,651 4,519 31,243 Securities lending invested collateral, at fair value 277 277 Equity securities: Common and preferred stock available for sale, at fair value 2,770 320 5,781 22 629 9,522 Common and preferred stock trading, at fair value 48 1 7,881 388 8,318 Mortgage and other loans receivable, net of allowance 9 17,728 6,810 428 2,486 27,461 Finance receivables, net of allowance 20,327 20,327 Flight equipment primarily under operating leases, net of accumulated depreciation 44,091 44,091 Other invested assets 11,668 13,141 13,749 213 6,464 45,235 Securities purchased under agreements to resell, at fair value 2,154 2,154 Short term investments 12,094 17,456 10,652 3,767 3,106 47,075 Total investments 106,096 166,121 209,567 93,098 26,283 601,165 Cash 780 63 1,151 1,847 559 4,400 Total cash and investments $ 106,876 $ 166,184 $ 210,718 $ 94,945 $ 26,842 $ 605,565 At December 31, 2008 Fixed maturity securities: Bonds available for sale, at fair value $ 69,106 $ 111,097 $ 158,660 $ 1,971 $ 22,208 $ 363,042 Bond trading securities, at fair value 899 5,397 26,848 4,104 37,248 Securities lending invested collateral, at fair value 790 3,054 3,844 Equity securities: Common and preferred stock available for sale, at fair value 2,812 280 4,764 8 944 8,808 Common and preferred stock trading, at fair value 283 351 5,300 737 3 6,674 Mortgage and other loans receivable, net of allowance 5 19,475 11,089 367 3,751 34,687 Finance receivables, net of allowance 5 30,944 30,949 Flight equipment primarily under operating leases, net of accumulated depreciation 43,395 43,395 Other invested assets 11,474 15,637 14,173 1,247 15,108 57,639 Securities purchased under agreements to resell, at fair value 3,960 3,960 Short term investments 9,253 10,733 17,088 6,238 3,354 46,666 Total investments* 93,723 158,472 219,530 115,715 49,472 636,912 Cash 549 77 5,688 1,719 609 8,642 Total cash and investments $ 94,272 $ 158,549 $ 225,218 $ 117,434 $ 50,081 $ 645,554 * At December 31, 2009, approximately 60 percent and 40 percent of investments were held by domestic and foreign entities, respectively, compared to approximately 54 percent and 46 percent, respectively, at December 31, 2008. 155 AIG 2009 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries Investment Strategy AIGs investment strategies are tailored to the specific business needs of each operating unit. The investment objectives are driven by the business model for each of the businesses: General Insurance, life insurance, retirement services and the Matched Investment Program. The primary objectives are generation of investment income, preservation of capital, liquidity management and growth of surplus to support the insurance products. Market conditions varied in 2009, with notable improvement in the second half of the year increasing the value of the investments that had suffered declines in 2008 and early 2009. At the local operating unit level, investment strategies are based on considerations that include the local market, liability duration and cash flow characteristics, rating agency and regulatory capital considerations, legal investment limitations, tax optimization and diversification. The majority of assets backing insurance liabilities at AIG consist of intermediate and long duration fixed maturity securities. In the case of life insurance & retirement services companies, as well as in the MIP portfolio, the fundamental investment strategy is, as nearly as is practicable, to match the duration characteristics of the liabilities with comparable duration assets. Fixed maturity securities held by the insurance companies included in the Commercial Insurance Group historically have consisted primarily of laddered holdings of tax exempt municipal bonds, which provided attractive after tax returns and limited credit risk. In order to meet the Commercial Insurance Groups current risk/return and tax objectives, the domestic property and casualty companies have begun to shift investment allocations away from tax exempt municipal bonds towards taxable instruments which meet the companies liquidity, duration and quality objectives as well as current risk return and tax objectives. Fixed maturity securities held by Foreign General Insurance companies consist primarily of intermediate duration high grade securities. The market price of fixed maturity securities reflects numerous components, including interest rate environment, credit spread, embedded optionality (such as call features), liquidity, structural complexity, foreign exchange risk, and other credit and non credit factors. However, in most circumstances, pricing is most sensitive to interest rates, such that the market price declines as interest rates rise, and increases as interest rates fall. This effect is more pronounced for longer duration securities. AIG marks to market the vast majority of the invested assets held by its insurance companies. However, with limited exceptions (primarily with respect to separate account products on AIGs Consolidated Balance Sheet), AIG does not mark to market its insurance liabilities for changes in interest rates, even though rising interest rates have the effect of reducing the fair value of such liabilities, and falling interest rates have the opposite effect. This results in the recording of changes in unrealized gains (losses) on securities in Accumulated other comprehensive income resulting from changes in interest rates without any correlative, inverse changes in gains (losses) on AIGs liabilities. Because AIGs asset duration in certain low yield currencies, particularly Japan and Taiwan, is shorter than its liability duration, AIG views increasing interest rates in these countries as economically advantageous, notwithstanding the effect that higher rates have on the market value of its fixed maturity portfolio. At December 31, 2009, approximately 53 percent of the fixed maturity securities were in domestic entities. Approximately 27 percent of such securities were rated AAA by one or more of the principal rating agencies. Approximately 11 percent were below investment grade or not rated. AIGs investment decision process relies primarily on internally generated fundamental analysis and internal risk ratings. Third party rating services ratings and opinions provide one source of independent perspectives for consideration in the internal analysis. A significant portion of the foreign fixed maturity portfolio is rated by Moodys, S&P or similar foreign rating services. Rating services are not available in all overseas locations. AIGs Credit Risk Committee closely reviews the credit quality of the foreign portfolios non rated fixed maturity securities. At December 31, 2009, approximately 15 percent of the foreign fixed income investments were either rated AAA or, on the basis of AIGs internal analysis, were equivalent from a credit standpoint to securities so rated. Approximately 5 percent were below investment grade or not rated at that date. Approximately one third of the foreign fixed maturity portfolio is sovereign fixed maturity securities supporting policy liabilities in the country of issuance. AIG 2009 Form 10 K 156 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries Discussion of investments by reportable segment is as follows: General Insurance In AIGs General Insurance business, the duration of liabilities for long tail casualty lines is greater than other lines. As differentiated from the life insurance & retirement services companies, the focus is not on asset liability matching, but on preservation of capital and growth of surplus. Fixed income holdings of Commercial Insurance are currently comprised primarily of tax exempt securities, which provide attractive risk adjusted after tax returns as well as taxable municipal bonds, government bonds, and agency and corporate securities. The majority of these high quality investments are rated AAA or AA. Fixed income assets held in Foreign General Insurance are of high quality and short to intermediate duration, averaging 2.7 years compared to 6.1 years for those in Commercial Insurance. While invested assets backing reserves are invested in conventional fixed income securities in Commercial Insurance, a modest portion of surplus is allocated to large capitalization, high dividend, public equity strategies and to alternative investments, including private equity and hedge funds. Notwithstanding the current environment, these investments have provided a combination of added diversification and attractive long term returns over time. Domestic and Foreign Life Insurance & Retirement Services With respect to life insurance & retirement services companies, AIG uses asset liability management as a tool worldwide in these businesses to influence the composition of the invested assets and appropriate marketing strategies. AIGs objective is to maintain a matched asset liability structure. However, in certain markets, the absence of long dated fixed income investment instruments may preclude a matched asset liability position. In addition, AIG may occasionally determine that it is economically advantageous to be temporarily in an unmatched position. To the extent that AIG has maintained a matched asset liability structure, the economic effect of interest rate fluctuations is partially mitigated. AIGs investment strategy for its life insurance & retirement services companies is to produce cash flows greater than maturing insurance liabilities. AIG actively manages the asset liability relationship in its foreign operations, even though certain territories lack qualified long term investments or certain local regulatory authorities may impose investment restrictions. For example, in several Southeast Asian countries, the duration of investments is shorter than the effective maturity of the related policy liabilities. Therefore, there is risk that the reinvestment of the proceeds at the maturity of the initial investments may be at a yield below that of the interest required for the accretion of the policy liabilities. Additionally, there exists a future investment risk associated with certain policies currently in force which will have premium receipts in the future. That is, the investment of these future premium receipts may be at a yield below that required to meet future policy liabilities. AIG actively manages the interest rate assumptions and crediting rates used for its new and in force business. Business strategies continue to evolve to maintain profitability of the overall business. The investment of insurance cash flows and reinvestment of the proceeds of matured securities and coupons requires active management of investment yields while maintaining satisfactory investment quality and liquidity. AIG may use alternative investments, including equities, real estate and foreign currency denominated fixed income instruments in certain foreign jurisdictions where interest rates remain low and there are limited long dated bond markets to extend the duration or increase the yield of the investment portfolio to more closely match the requirements of the policyholder liabilities and DAC recoverability. This strategy has been effectively used in Japan, and more recently, by Nan Shan in Taiwan. AIG actively manages the asset liability relationship in its domestic operations. This relationship is more easily managed through the availability of qualified long term investments. 157 AIG 2009 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries A number of guaranteed benefits, such as living benefits or guaranteed minimum death benefits, are offered on certain variable life and variable annuity products. AIG manages its exposure resulting from these long term guarantees through reinsurance or capital market hedging instruments. AIG invests in equities for various reasons, including diversifying its overall exposure to interest rate risk. Available for sale bonds and equity securities are subject to declines in fair value. Such declines in fair value are presented in unrealized appreciation or depreciation of investments, net of taxes, as a component of Accumulated other comprehensive income. AIG recognizes the credit component of an other than temporary impairment of a fixed maturity security in earnings and the non credit component in accumulated other comprehensive income when AIG does not intend to sell the security or it is more likely than not that AIG will not be required to sell the security prior to recovery. See Investments Other Than Temporary Impairments herein. Generally, insurance regulations restrict the types of assets in which an insurance company may invest. When permitted by regulatory authorities and when deemed necessary to protect insurance assets, including invested assets, from adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and equity prices, AIG and its insurance subsidiaries may enter into derivative transactions as end users to hedge their exposures. For a further discussion of AIGs use of derivatives, see Risk Management Segment Risk Management Financial Services herein. Financial Services Capital Markets For a discussion of the unwinding of AIGs businesses and portfolios, see Capital Resources and Liquidity AIGs Strategy for Stabilization and Repayment of its Obligations as They Come Due AIGFP Wind down. The following information relates to AIGFPs operations during this wind down. AIGFPs management objective is to minimize interest rate, currency, commodity and equity risks associated with its investment securities. AIGFP hedges the market risk associated with the investment securities on a portfolio basis effectively converting the returns. While not qualifying for hedge accounting treatment, these transactions achieve the economic result of limiting interest rate volatility arising from such securities. The market risk associated with such hedges is managed on a portfolio basis. Securities purchased under agreements to resell are treated as collateralized financing transactions. AIGFP takes possession of or obtains a security interest in securities purchased under agreements to resell. AIGFP uses the proceeds from the issuance of notes and bonds and GIAs to invest in a diversified portfolio of securities, including trading securities, securities available for sale, and derivative transactions. The funds may also be invested in securities purchased under agreements to resell. The proceeds from the disposal of the aforementioned trading securities, securities available for sale and securities purchased under agreements to resell are used to fund the maturing GIAs or other AIGFP financings, or to invest in new assets. For a further discussion of AIGFPs borrowings, see Capital Resources and Liquidity Debt herein. Capital Markets derivative transactions are carried at fair value. AIGFP reduces its market risk exposure through similarly valued offsetting transactions including swaps, trading securities, options, forwards and futures. For a further discussion on the use of derivatives by Capital Markets, see Results of Operations Segment Results Financial Services Operations Capital Markets and Segment Risk Management Financial Services Derivative Transactions herein and Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. AIGFP owns inventories in certain commodities in which it trades, and may reduce the exposure to market risk through the use of swaps, forwards, futures, and option contracts. Physical commodities are recorded at the lower of cost or fair value. Trading securities, at fair value, and securities and spot commodities sold but not yet purchased, at fair value, are marked to fair value daily with the unrealized gain or loss recognized in income. These trading securities are purchased and sold as necessary to meet the risk management and business objectives of Capital Markets operations. AIG 2009 Form 10 K 158 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries Other Noncore Businesses Noncore Asset Management invested assets include those supporting the MIP, proprietary investments of AIG Global Real Estate and other proprietary investments including investments originally acquired for warehouse purposes described below. The MIP business strategy is to generate spread income from investments yielding returns greater than AIGs cost of funds. The asset liability relationship is actively managed. The goal of the business is to capture a spread between income earned on investments and the funding costs of the program while mitigating interest rate and foreign currency exchange rate risk. The invested assets are predominantly fixed maturity securities and include U.S. residential mortgage backed securities, asset backed securities and commercial mortgage backed securities. In addition, the MIP sold credit protection by issuing predominantly single name investment grade corporate credit default swaps with the intent to earn spread income on credit exposure in an unfunded and leveraged form. AIG Global Real Estate maintains a proprietary investment portfolio of direct real estate investments and investments in real estate based joint ventures and partnerships. AIG Global Real Estate invests primarily in strategic and opportunistic development projects domiciled in the U.S., Europe and Asia. AIG Investments holds investments in various direct private equity and private equity funds that were originally acquired as warehouse investments targeted for future managed investment products but which are now considered proprietary investments. The following table presents the credit ratings of AIGs fixed maturity investments: December 31, 2009 2008 Rating: AAA 23 % 27 % AA 24 28 A 28 26 BBB 17 13 Below investment grade 6 4 Non rated 2 2 Total 100 % 100 % 159 AIG 2009 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries Available for Sale Investments The following table presents the amortized cost or cost and fair value of AIGs available for sale securities: (in millions) Amortized Cost or Cost Gross Unrealized Gains Gross Unrealized Losses Fair Value Other Than Temporary Impairments in AOCI(a) December 31, 2009 Bonds available for sale: U.S. government and government sponsored entities $ 5,098 $ 174 $ (49 ) $ 5,223 $ Obligations of states, municipalities and political subdivisions 52,324 2,163 (385 ) 54,102 Non U.S. governments 63,080 3,153 (649 ) 65,584 (1 ) Corporate debt 185,188 10,826 (3,876 )(c) 192,138 119 Mortgage backed, asset backed and collateralized: RMBS 32,173 991 (4,840 ) 28,324 (2,121 ) CMBS 18,717 195 (5,623 ) 13,289 (739 ) CDO/ABS 7,911 284 (1,304 ) 6,891 (63 ) Total bonds available for sale(d) 364,491 17,786 (16,726 ) 365,551 (2,805 ) Equity securities available for sale: Common stocks 4,460 2,913 (75 ) 7,298 Preferred stocks 740 94 (20 ) 814 Mutual funds 1,264 182 (36 ) 1,410 Total equity securities available for sale 6,464 3,189 (131 ) 9,522 Total $ 370,955 $ 20,975 $ (16,857 ) $ 375,073 $ (2,805 ) December 31, 2008 Bonds available for sale: U.S. government and government sponsored entities $ 4,433 $ 331 $ (59 ) $ 4,705 Obligations of states, municipalities and political subdivisions 62,718 1,150 (2,611 ) 61,257 Non U.S. governments 62,176 6,560 (1,199 ) 67,537 Corporate debt 194,481 4,661 (13,523 )(c) 185,619 Mortgage backed, asset backed and collateralized: RMBS 32,092 645 (2,985 ) 29,752 CMBS 14,205 126 (3,105 ) 11,226 CDO/ABS 6,741 233 (843 ) 6,131 AIGFP(b) 217 217 Total bonds available for sale(d) 377,063 13,706 (24,325 ) 366,444 Equity securities available for sale: Common stocks 5,545 1,035 (512 ) 6,068 Preferred stocks 1,349 33 (138 ) 1,244 Mutual funds 1,487 78 (69 ) 1,496 Total equity securities available for sale 8,381 1,146 (719 ) 8,808 Total $ 385,444 $ 14,852 $ (25,044 ) $ 375,252 (a) Represents the amount of other than temporary impairment losses recognized in Accumulated other comprehensive loss, which, starting on April 1, 2009, were not included in earnings. Amount includes unrealized gains and losses on impaired securities relating to changes in the value of such securities subsequent to the impairment measurement date. (b)The amounts represent securities for which AIGFP has not elected the fair value option. At December 31, 2009, a total of $329 million in amortized cost and $375 million in fair value in securities for AIGFP were included in CDO/ABS. Historical amounts were not revised. (c)Financial institutions represent approximately 43 percent and 57 percent of the total gross unrealized losses at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. (d)At December 31, 2009 and 2008, bonds available for sale held by AIG that were below investment grade or not rated totaled $24.5 billion and $19.4 billion, respectively. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, fixed maturity securities reported on the Consolidated Balance Sheet include $188 million and $442 million, respectively, of short term investments included in Securities lending invested collateral. AIG 2009 Form 10 K 160  Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries The following table presents the industry categories of AIGs available for sale corporate debt securities: December 31, Industry Category 2009 2008 Financial institutions: Money Center /Global Bank Groups 18 % 20 % Regional banks other 5 5 Life insurance 4 4 Securities firms and other finance companies 2 4 Insurance non life 3 5 Regional banks North America 2 3 Other financial institutions 4 1 Utilities 14 13 Communications 8 8 Consumer noncyclical 8 8 Capital goods 7 6 Consumer cyclical 5 5 Energy 6 5 Other 14 13 Total* 100 % 100 % * At December 31, 2009 and 2008, approximately 94 percent and 96 percent, respectively, of these investments were rated investment grade. Investments in RMBS, CMBS, CDOs and ABS The following table presents the amortized cost, gross unrealized gains (losses) and fair value of AIGs investments in RMBS, CMBS, CDOs and ABS: December 31, 2009 December 31, 2008 (in millions) Amortized Cost* Gross Unrealized Gains Gross Unrealized Losses Fair Value Amortized Cost Gross Unrealized Gains Gross Unrealized Losses Fair Value Bonds available for sale: AIG, excluding AIGFP: RMBS $ 32,173 $ 991 $ (4,840 ) $ 28,324 $ 32,092 $ 645 $ (2,985 ) $ 29,752 CMBS 18,717 195 (5,623 ) 13,289 14,205 126 (3,105 ) 11,226 CDO/ABS 7,582 238 (1,304 ) 6,516 6,741 233 (843 ) 6,131 Subtotal, excluding AIGFP 58,472 1,424 (11,767 ) 48,129 53,038 1,004 (6,933 ) 47,109 AIGFP 329 46 375 217 217 Total $ 58,801 $ 1,470 $ (11,767 ) $ 48,504 $ 53,255 $ 1,004 $ (6,933 ) $ 47,326 * Increases to amortized cost in 2009 primarily reflect the adoption of the new other than temporary impairments accounting standard. 161 AIG 2009 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries Investments in RMBS The following table presents the amortized cost, gross unrealized gains (losses) and estimated fair value of AIGs investments in RMBS securities, other than those of AIGFP: December 31, 2009 December 31, 2008 (in millions) Amortized Cost Gross Unrealized Gains Gross Unrealized Losses Fair Value Percent of Total Amortized Cost Gross Unrealized Gains Gross Unrealized Losses Fair Value Percent of Total RMBS: U.S. agencies $ 12,875 $ 726 $ (22 ) $ 13,579 48 % $ 12,793 $ 537 $ (22 ) $ 13,308 45 % Prime non agency(a) 11,458 169 (2,027 ) 9,600 34 12,744 41 (1,984 ) 10,801 36 Alt A 5,371 43 (1,681 ) 3,733 13 4,927 25 (743 ) 4,209 14 Other housing related(b) 870 31 (391 ) 510 2 410 23 (54 ) 379 1 Subprime 1,599 22 (719 ) 902 3 1,218 19 (182 ) 1,055 4 Total $ 32,173 $ 991 $ (4,840 ) $ 28,324 100 % $ 32,092 $ 645 $ (2,985 ) $ 29,752 100 % (a)Includes foreign and jumbo RMBS related securities. (b) Primarily wrapped second lien. AIGs operations, other than AIGFP, held investments in RMBS with an estimated fair value of $28.3 billion at December 31, 2009, or approximately 5 percent of AIGs total invested assets. In addition, AIGs insurance operations held investments with a fair value totaling $6.5 billion in CDOs/ABS, of which $6 million included some level of subprime exposure. AIGs RMBS investments are predominantly in tranches that contain substantial protection features through collateral subordination. At December 31, 2009, approximately 64 percent of these investments were rated AAA, and approximately 5 percent were rated AA by one or more of the principal rating agencies. AIGs investments rated BBB or below totaled $8.7 billion, or approximately 1 percent of AIGs total invested assets at December 31, 2009. As of February 17, 2010, $12.1 billion of AIGs RMBS portfolio had been downgraded as a result of rating agency actions since January 1, 2007, and $169 million of such investments had been upgraded. Of the downgrades, $10.4 billion were AAA rated securities. In addition to the downgrades, as of February 17, 2010, the rating agencies had $377 million of RMBS on watch for downgrade. In 2009 and 2008, AIG collected approximately $5.0 billion and $7.5 billion, respectively, of principal payments on RMBS. AIG 2009 Form 10 K 162 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries The following table presents the amortized cost of AIGs RMBS investments, other than those of AIGFP, by year of vintage and credit rating: Year of Vintage At December 31, 2009 (in millions) Prior 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Total Rating: Total RMBS AAA $ 9,484 $ 2,779 $ 1,543 $ 1,809 $ 3,310 $ 1,578 $ 20,503 AA 895 310 157 81 104 1,547 A 410 518 167 247 64 17 1,423 BBB 431 616 233 148 1,428 Below investment grade 558 851 3,098 2,697 7,204 Non rated 8 44 16 68 Total RMBS* $ 11,778 $ 5,074 $ 5,206 $ 4,982 $ 3,418 $ 1,715 $ 32,173 Alt A RMBS AAA $ 1,015 $ 439 $ 88 $ 164 $ $ $ 1,706 AA 207 28 28 33 296 A 20 105 11 111 247 BBB 70 58 14 142 Below investment grade 204 250 1,357 1,169 2,980 Non rated Total Alt A $ 1,516 $ 880 $ 1,484 $ 1,491 $ $ $ 5,371 Subprime RMBS AAA $ 460 $ 112 $ 73 $ 32 $ $ $ 677 AA 61 57 22 10 150 A 92 79 14 5 190 BBB 120 38 1 159 Below investment grade 124 214 70 15 423 Non rated Total Subprime $ 857 $ 500 $ 180 $ 62 $ $ $ 1,599 Prime non agency AAA $ 3,634 $ 578 $ 383 $ 298 $ $ 298 $ 5,191 AA 599 219 106 38 56 1,018 A 267 266 134 131 64 17 879 BBB 136 509 177 134 956 Below investment grade 207 368 1,452 1,319 3,346 Non rated 8 44 16 68 Total prime non agency $ 4,843 $ 1,940 $ 2,260 $ 1,920 $ 108 $ 387 $ 11,458 * The weighted average expected life is 7 years. AIGs underwriting practices for investing in RMBS, other asset backed securities and CDOs take into consideration the quality of the originator, the manager, the servicer, security credit ratings, underlying characteristics of the mortgages, borrower characteristics, and the level of credit enhancement in the transaction. AIGs strategy is typically to invest in securities rated AA or better at the time of the investment. 163 AIG 2009 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries Investments in CMBS The following table presents the amortized cost, gross unrealized gains (losses) and estimated fair value of AIGs CMBS investments, other than those of AIGFP: December 31, 2009 December 31, 2008 (in millions) Amortized Cost* Gross Unrealized Gains Gross Unrealized Losses Fair Value Percent of Total Amortized Cost Gross Unrealized Gains Gross Unrealized Losses Fair Value Percent of Total CMBS (traditional) $ 16,599 $ 161 $ (4,925 ) $ 11,835 89 % $ 13,033 $ 110 $ (3,030 ) $ 10,113 92 % ReRemic/CRE CDO 932 20 (578 ) 374 5 583 2 (47 ) 538 4 Agency 200 8 (3 ) 205 1 159 7 (1 ) 165 1 Other 986 6 (117 ) 875 5 430 6 (26 ) 410 3 Total $ 18,717 $ 195 $ (5,623 ) $ 13,289 100 % $ 14,205 $ 125 $ (3,104 ) $ 11,226 100 % * Increases to amortized cost in 2009 primarily reflect the adoption of the new other than temporary impairments accounting standard. The following table presents the percentage of AIGs CMBS investments, other than those of AIGFP, by credit rating: At December 31, 2009 2008 Rating: AAA 46 % 84 % AA 12 8 A 10 6 BBB 12 1 Below investment grade 17 Non rated 3 1 Total 100 % 100 % The following table presents the percentage of AIGs CMBS investments, other than those of AIGFP, by year of vintage: At December 31, 2009 2008 Year: 2008 1 % 1 % 2007 27 23 2006 15 11 2005 21 17 2004 and prior 36 48 Total 100 % 100 % AIG 2009 Form 10 K 164 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries The following table presents the percentage of AIGs CMBS investments, other than those of AIGFP, by geographic region: At December 31, 2009 2008 Geographic region: New York 15 % 15 % California 14 13 Texas 7 6 Florida 6 6 Virginia 3 3 Illinois 3 3 New Jersey 3 3 Pennsylvania 3 3 Maryland 2 2 Georgia 3 2 All Other* 41 44 Total 100 % 100 % * Includes Non U.S. locations. The following table presents the percentage of AIGs CMBS investments, other than those of AIGFP, by industry: At December 31, 2009 2008 Industry: Office 30 % 32 % Retail 30 30 Multi family 15 16 Lodging 7 7 Industrial 7 7 Other 11 8 Total 100 % 100 % There have been disruptions in the CMBS market due to weakness in underlying commercial real estate fundamentals and the markets anticipation of increasing delinquencies and defaults. Although the market has improved and CMBS spreads have tightened during 2009, the market value of the holdings continues to be below amortized cost. AIGs investments in CMBS are predominantly in tranches that contain substantial protection features through collateral subordination. As indicated in the tables, downgrades have occurred on many CMBS holdings. The majority of CMBS holdings are traditional conduit transactions, broadly diversified across property types and geographical areas. Investments in CDOs The following table presents the amortized cost of AIGs CDO investments, other than those of AIGFP, by collateral type: At December 31, 2009 2008 (in millions) Amortized Cost* Percent of Total Amortized Cost Percent of Total Collateral Type: Bank loans (CLO) $ 2,015 74 % $ 824 61 % Synthetic investment grade 220 8 210 16 Other 443 17 291 22 Subprime ABS 33 1 12 1 Total $ 2,711 100 % $ 1,337 100 % * Increases to amortized cost in 2009 primarily reflect the adoption of the new other than temporary impairments accounting standard. 165 AIG 2009 Form 10 K  Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries The following table presents the amortized cost of AIGs CDO investments, other than those of AIGFP, by credit rating: At December 31, 2009 2008 (in millions) Amortized Cost Percent of Total Amortized Cost Percent of Total Rating: AAA $ 325 12 % $ 386 29 % AA 135 5 180 13 A 1,028 38 574 43 BBB 670 25 168 13 Below investment grade 550 20 16 1 Non rated 3 13 1 Total $ 2,711 100 % $ 1,337 100 % Commercial Mortgage Loans At December 31, 2009, AIG had direct commercial mortgage loan exposure of $16.3 billion, with $14.9 billion representing U.S. loan exposure. At that date, over 98 percent of the U.S. loans were current. Foreign commercial mortgage loans of $1.4 billion are secured predominantly by properties in Japan. In addition, at December 31, 2009, AIG had $1.9 billion in residential mortgage loans in jurisdictions outside the United States, primarily secured by properties in Taiwan and Thailand. The following table presents the U.S. commercial mortgage loan exposure by state and type of loan: At December 31, 2009 (dollars in millions) Number of Loans Amount* Apartments Offices Retails Industrials Hotels Others Percent of Total State: California 213 $ 4,102 $ 116 $ 1,807 $ 232 $ 985 $ 423 $ 539 28 % New York 75 1,584 307 930 174 40 48 85 11 New Jersey 73 1,286 602 282 276 49 77 9 Texas 72 1,061 75 488 127 260 81 30 7 Florida 103 996 45 357 239 114 29 212 6 Pennsylvania 68 535 108 135 142 117 18 15 4 Ohio 62 423 199 51 72 48 40 13 3 Maryland 23 401 28 194 169 1 4 5 2 Arizona 18 329 106 55 61 11 9 87 2 Colorado 25 328 18 207 4 12 27 60 2 Other states 417 3,819 316 1,527 742 408 367 459 26 Total 1,149 $ 14,864 $ 1,920 $ 6,033 $ 2,238 $ 2,045 $ 1,046 $ 1,582 100 % * Excludes portfolio valuation losses. AIG 2009 Form 10 K 166 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries AIGFP Trading Investments The following table presents the fair value of AIGFPs fixed maturity trading investments: At December 31, 2009 2008 (in millions) Fair Value Percent of Total Fair Value Percent of Total U.S. government and government sponsored entities $ 6,292 33 % $ 9,594 37 % Non U.S. governments 247 1 500 2 Corporate debt 1,342 7 3,530 13 State, territories and political subdivisions 365 2 Mortgage backed, asset backed and collateralized 11,016 57 12,445 48 Total $ 19,262 100 % $ 26,069 100 % The following table presents the credit ratings of AIGFPs fixed maturity trading investments: At December 31, 2009 2008 Rating: AAA 64 % 74 % AA 13 10 A 12 11 BBB 3 3 Below investment grade 8 2 Total 100 % 100 % The following table presents the fair value of AIGFPs trading investments in RMBS, CMBS, CDO/ABS and other collateralized securities: At December 31, 2009 2008 (in millions) Fair Value Percent of Total Fair Value Percent of Total RMBS $ 2,806 26 % $ 3,679 30 % CMBS 2,219 20 2,020 16 CDO/ABS and other collateralized 5,991 54 6,746 54 Total $ 11,016 100 % $ 12,445 100 % Other Than Temporary Impairments As a result of AIGs periodic evaluation of its securities for other than temporary impairments in value, AIG recorded impairment charges in earnings of $7.8 billion, $48.6 billion and $4.6 billion (including $643 million related to AIGFP recorded in other income) in 2009, 2008, and 2007 respectively. Refer to Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of AIGs other than temporary impairment accounting policy. 167 AIG 2009 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries The following table presents other than temporary impairment charges in earnings by segment: (in millions) General Insurance Domestic Life Insurance & Retirement Services Foreign Life Insurance & Retirement Services Financial Services Other Total December 31, 2009 Impairment Type: Severity $ 118 $ 829 $ 428 $ 2 $ 515 $ 1,892 Change in intent 186 656 146 48 1,036 Foreign currency declines 9 508 517 Issuer specific credit events 589 2,260 327 16 993 4,185 Adverse projected cash flows on structured securities 1 76 45 4 23 149 Total $ 903 $ 3,821 $ 1,454 $ 22 $ 1,579 $ 7,779 December 31, 2008 Impairment Type: Severity $ 2,367 $ 17,799 $ 4,546 $ 94 $ 2,992 $ 27,798 Change in intent 372 9,043 1,962 12 129 11,518 Foreign currency declines 1,903 1,903 Issuer specific credit events 1,305 2,160 1,331 15 974 5,785 Adverse projected cash flows on structured securities 7 1,462 24 6 146 1,645 Total $ 4,051 $ 30,464 $ 9,766 $ 127 $ 4,241 $ 48,649 December 31, 2007 Impairment Type: Severity $ 69 $ 1,063 $ 113 $ 643 $ 272 $ 2,160 Change in intent 83 652 224 7 27 993 Foreign currency declines 500 500 Issuer specific credit events 229 158 60 50 497 Adverse projected cash flows on structured securities 1 336 3 106 446 Total $ 382 $ 2,209 $ 900 $ 650 $ 455 $ 4,596 AIG 2009 Form 10 K 168 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries The following table presents other than temporary impairment charges in earnings by type of security and type of impairment: (in millions) RMBS CDO/ABS CMBS Other Fixed Income Equities/Other Invested Assets* Total December 31, 2009 Impairment Type: Severity $ 844 $ 481 $ 55 $ 133 $ 379 $ 1,892 Change in intent 19 8 74 755 180 1,036 Foreign currency declines 23 17 475 2 517 Issuer specific credit events 1,938 330 556 306 1,055 4,185 Adverse projected cash flows on structured securities 105 36 8 149 Total $ 2,906 $ 878 $ 710 $ 1,669 $ 1,616 $ 7,779 December 31, 2008 Impairment Type: Severity $ 14,387 $ 3,011 $ 6,191 $ 2,450 $ 1,759 $ 27,798 Change in intent 5,300 453 527 4,398 840 11,518 Foreign currency declines 59 1,511 333 1,903 Issuer specific credit events 1,948 92 240 2,105 1,400 5,785 Adverse projected cash flows on structured securities 1,608 32 5 1,645 Total $ 23,243 $ 3,647 $ 6,963 $ 10,464 $ 4,332 $ 48,649 December 31, 2007 Impairment Type: Severity $ 1,132 $ 706 $ 135 $ 37 $ 150 $ 2,160 Change in intent 121 4 799 69 993 Foreign currency declines 19 480 1 500 Issuer specific credit events 15 1 1 130 350 497 Adverse projected cash flows on structured securities 299 137 8 2 446 Total $ 1,567 $ 863 $ 148 $ 1,448 $ 570 $ 4,596 * Includes other than temporary impairment charges on partnership investments and direct private equity investments. 169 AIG 2009 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries The following table presents other than temporary impairment charges in earnings by type of security and credit rating: (in millions) RMBS CDO/ABS CMBS Other Fixed Income Equities/Other Invested Assets* Total December 31, 2009 Rating: AAA $ 793 $ 23 $ 97 $ 168 $ $ 1,081 AA 383 16 77 142 618 A 231 345 78 423 1,077 BBB 258 110 119 319 806 Below investment grade 1,241 344 298 595 2,478 Non rated 40 41 22 103 Equities/Other invested assets 1,616 1,616 Total $ 2,906 $ 878 $ 710 $ 1,669 $ 1,616 $ 7,779 December 31, 2008 Rating: AAA $ 14,197 $ 645 $ 4,228 $ 476 $ $ 19,546 AA 4,159 769 1,056 747 6,731 A 1,812 1,545 1,267 2,417 7,041 BBB 985 472 271 1,550 3,278 Below investment grade 2,025 125 141 4,834 7,125 Non rated 65 91 440 596 Equities/Other invested assets 4,332 4,332 Total $ 23,243 $ 3,647 $ 6,963 $ 10,464 $ 4,332 $ 48,649 December 31, 2007 Rating: AAA $ 275 $ 632 $ 2 $ 79 $ $ 988 AA 914 87 6 112 1,119 A 271 73 84 259 687 BBB 75 70 41 208 394 Below investment grade 24 11 533 568 Non rated 8 1 4 257 270 Equities/Other invested assets 570 570 Total $ 1,567 $ 863 $ 148 $ 1,448 $ 570 $ 4,596 * Includes other than temporary impairment charges on partnership investments and direct private equity investments. AIG has recognized the other than temporary impairment charges (severity losses) shown above in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. With the adoption of the new other than temporary impairments accounting standard on April 1, 2009, such severity loss charges subsequent to that date exclusively related to equity securities and other invested assets. In all prior periods, such charges primarily related to mortgage backed, asset backed and collateralized securities, corporate debt securities of financial institutions and other equity securities. Notwithstanding AIGs intent and ability to hold such securities until they had recovered their cost or amortized cost basis, and despite structures that indicated, at the time, that a substantial amount of the securities should have continued to perform in accordance with original terms, AIG concluded, at the time, that it could not reasonably assert that the impairment would be temporary. Determinations of other than temporary impairments are based on fundamental credit analyses of individual securities without regard to rating agency ratings. Based on this analysis, AIG expects to receive cash flows sufficient to cover the amortized cost of all below investment grade securities for which credit losses were not recognized. AIG 2009 Form 10 K 170  Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries Pricing of CMBS had been adversely affected by concerns that underlying mortgage defaults will increase. As a result, in the first quarter of 2009 prior to adopting the new other than temporary impairments accounting standard, AIG recognized $55 million of other than temporary impairment severity charges on CMBS valued at a severe discount to cost, despite the absence of any meaningful deterioration in performance of the underlying credits, because AIG concluded that it could not reasonably assert that the impairment period was temporary. In addition to the above severity losses, AIG recorded other than temporary impairment charges in 2009 and 2008 related to: securities for which AIG has changed its intent to hold or sell; declines due to foreign exchange rates; issuer specific credit events; certain structured securities; and other impairments, including equity securities, partnership investments and private equity investments. AIG recognized $1.0 billion, $11.5 billion and $993 million in other than temporary impairment charges in 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively, due to changes in intent. With respect to the issuer specific credit events shown above, no other than temporary impairment charge with respect to any one single credit was significant to AIGs consolidated financial condition or results of operations, and no individual other than temporary impairment charge exceeded 0.09 percent, 3 percent and 0.20 percent of Total equity in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. AIG holds approximately $500 million of affordable housing tax credits as of December 31, 2009, which are carried at fair value. AIG will continue to evaluate its ability to market such credits and their appropriate fair value. In periods subsequent to the recognition of an other than temporary impairment charge for available for sale fixed maturity securities that is not foreign exchange related, AIG generally prospectively accretes into earnings the difference between the new amortized cost and the expected undiscounted recovery value over the remaining expected holding period of the security. The amounts of accretion recognized in earnings for 2009 and 2008 were $735 million and $634 million, respectively. Prior to 2008 there were no material amounts of accretion recorded. For a discussion of recent accounting standards affecting fair values and other than temporary impairments, see Notes 1 and 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 171 AIG 2009 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries An aging of the pre tax unrealized losses of fixed maturity and equity securities, distributed as a percentage of cost relative to unrealized loss (the extent by which the fair value is less than amortized cost or cost), including the number of respective items was as follows: Less than or equal to 20% of Cost(b) Greater than 20% to 50% of Cost(b) Greater than 50% of Cost(b) Total At December 31, 2009 Aging(a) (dollars in millions) Cost(c) Unrealized Loss Items(f) Cost(c) Unrealized Loss Items(f) Cost(c) Unrealized Loss Items(f) Cost(c) Unrealized Loss(d) Items(f) Investment grade bonds 0 6 months $ 30,644 $ 815 3,493 $ 1,773 $ 519 165 $ 244 $ 151 24 $ 32,661 $ 1,485 3,682 7 12 months 10,663 589 1,102 7,057 2,286 666 2,870 1,967 324 20,590 4,842 2,092 &gt; 12 months 33,662 2,471 4,337 8,845 2,507 933 1,172 751 128 43,679 5,729 5,398 Total $ 74,969 $ 3,875 8,932 $ 17,675 $ 5,312 1,764 $ 4,286 $ 2,869 476 $ 96,930 $ 12,056 11,172 Below investment grade bonds 0 6 months $ 1,721 $ 106 271 $ 681 $ 179 63 $ 169 $ 113 51 $ 2,571 $ 398 385 7 12 months 2,893 338 456 2,862 986 293 2,626 1,840 276 8,381 3,164 1,025 &gt; 12 months 2,176 194 370 1,920 556 154 514 358 82 4,610 1,108 606 Total $ 6,790 $ 638 1,097 $ 5,463 $ 1,721 510 $ 3,309 $ 2,311 409 $ 15,562 $ 4,670 2,016 Total bonds 0 6 months $ 32,365 $ 921 3,764 $ 2,454 $ 698 228 $ 413 $ 264 75 $ 35,232 $ 1,883 4,067 7 12 months 13,556 927 1,558 9,919 3,272 959 5,496 3,807 600 28,971 8,006 3,117 &gt; 12 months 35,838 2,665 4,707 10,765 3,063 1,087 1,686 1,109 210 48,289 6,837 6,004 Total(e) $ 81,759 $ 4,513 10,029 $ 23,138 $ 7,033 2,274 $ 7,595 $ 5,180 885 $ 112,492 $ 16,726 13,188 Equity securities 0 6 months $ 1,195 $ 69 682 $ 94 $ 24 75 $ $ 1 $ 1,289 $ 93 758 7 12 months 262 29 63 16 6 29 3 3 4 281 38 96 &gt; 12 months Total $ 1,457 $ 98 745 $ 110 $ 30 104 $ 3 $ 3 5 $ 1,570 $ 131 854 (a)Represents the number of consecutive months that fair value has been less than cost by any amount. (b)Represents the percentage by which fair value is less than cost at the balance sheet date. (c)For bonds, represents amortized cost. (d) The effect on Net income of unrealized losses after taxes will be mitigated upon realization because certain realized losses will be charged to participating policyholder accounts, or realization will result in current decreases in the amortization of certain DAC. (e)Includes securities lending invested collateral. (f) Item count is by CUSIP by subsidiary. For 2009, net unrealized gains related to fixed maturity and equity securities increased by $14.3 billion ($9.3 billion after tax), reflecting an increase in fair value primarily due to the narrowing of credit spreads, partially offset by the reversal of prior other than temporary impairment charges in connection with the adoption of a new accounting standard which changed the recognition criteria for other than temporary impairment charges. See also Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Risk Management Overview AIG continues to focus on enhancing its risk management control environment, risk management processes and its enterprise risk management functions, at the board, corporate and individual business levels. In March 2009, the Board of Directors expanded the role of its Finance Committee to incorporate risk and finalized the charter of the Finance & Risk Management Committee. Similarly, the revised charter of the expanded Compensation & Management Resources Committee was approved. At the corporate level, the AIG Risk & Capital Committee (ARCC) was formed to ensure that risks and their effect on capital are assessed and consolidated in a coordinated AIG 2009 Form 10 K 172 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries fashion at senior levels of the company. In addition, two steering committees were formed to oversee the wind down of the real estate (Global Real Estate Steering Committee) and financial products (AIGFP Steering Committee) portfolios. At the business level, the asset/liability committees and sub committees have become increasingly active in the management of their assets and liabilities and their inherent risks. AIG continues to explore process improvements and risk mitigation strategies, both at the corporate and business levels in an effort to minimize the capital and liquidity needs of AIGs local legal entities. However, limited liquidity in the markets and a limitation in the number of counterparties willing to transact with AIG continue to constrain AIGs ability to utilize techniques for mitigating its exposure to credit, market and liquidity risks. During 2009, AIG continued to build on its scenario related stress testing for purposes of its asset liability and liquidity management processes. AIGs de risking strategies have resulted in the following: reduction of certain foreign exchange exposures at the local entity level by selling or hedging investments denominated in non local currencies; reduction of certain foreign exchange exposures at the AIG level by hedging non U.S. dollar exposures; and reduction of regulatory capital charges and volatility of earnings by selling certain equity and alternative investments, including common stock, mutual funds and real estate investments. The major risks to which AIG is exposed include the following: Credit risk the potential loss arising from an obligors inability or unwillingness to meet its obligations to AIG. Market risk the potential loss arising from adverse fluctuations in interest rates, foreign currencies, equity and commodity prices, and their levels of volatility. Market risk includes credit spread risk, the potential loss arising from adverse fluctuations in credit spreads of securities or counterparties. Operational risk the potential loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people, and systems, or from external events. Liquidity risk the potential inability to meet all payment obligations when they become due. General insurance risk the potential loss resulting from inadequate premiums, insufficient reserves and catastrophic exposures. Life insurance risk the potential loss resulting from experience deviating from expectations for mortality, morbidity and termination rates in the insurance oriented products and insufficient cash flows to cover contract liabilities in the retirement savings products. AIG is also exposed to reputational risk, which is defined as the risk of direct loss or loss in future business because of damage to AIGs reputation. Damage to the companys reputation can arise from a large number of issues, including potential conflicts of interest; legal and regulatory requirements; ethical issues; and sales and trading practices. In addition, reputational risk can be both the cause of or result from the major risks outlined above. See Item 1A Risk Factors Reputational Harm. The primary responsibility for risk management lies with the business executives within AIGs segments. The business executives are responsible for establishing and maintaining risk management processes in their areas of activity under the risk management framework established by AIG senior management, and responding to their specific business needs and issues, including risk concentrations within their respective businesses. The primary focus of corporate risk management is to provide oversight of these processes in the businesses and to assess the risk of AIG incurring economic losses from concentrations of risk in the risk categories outlined above. Corporate Risk Governance AIGs major risks are addressed at the corporate level through Enterprise Risk Management (ERM), which is headed by AIGs Chief Risk Officer (CRO). ERM reports to the Chief Executive Officer and is responsible for 173 AIG 2009 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries assisting AIGs business leaders, executive management and Board of Directors to identify, assess, quantify, manage and mitigate the risks incurred by AIG. An important goal of ERM is to ensure that, after appropriate governance, authorities, procedures and policies have been established, aggregated risks do not result in inappropriate concentrations. Senior management defines the policies and has established general operating parameters for its global businesses and various oversight committees to monitor the risks attendant to its businesses. These committees include the ARCC, as previously described, Credit Risk Committee (CRC), Liquidity Risk Committee (LRC), Catastrophic & Emerging Risks Committee (CERC), Complex Structured Finance Transaction Committee (CSFTC) and Global and Regional Pricing Committees. The CRC is responsible for the following: approving credit risk policies and procedures for use throughout AIG; delegating credit authority to business unit credit officers and select business unit managers; approving transaction requests and limits for corporate, sovereign, structured finance and cross border credit exposures that exceed delegated authorities; establishing and maintaining AIGs risk rating process for corporate, financial and sovereign obligors; conducting regular reviews of credit risk exposures in the portfolios of all credit incurring business units; and reviewing all credit concentration risks. The LRC is responsible for liquidity policy and implementation at AIG parent and exercises oversight and control of liquidity policies at each AIG entity. See Capital Resources and Liquidity herein. The CERC is responsible for enhancing and consolidating AIGs existing processes to analyze, discuss, quantify and report to senior management the risks to AIG of potential catastrophic events that have been insured by AIGs various divisions. The committee meets regularly and discusses potential events and emerging risks that may materialize in the future. The committees membership includes senior underwriting, actuarial, and risk management professionals. A CSFT is any AIG transaction or product that may involve a heightened legal, regulatory, accounting or reputational risk that is developed, marketed or proposed by AIG or a third party The CSFTC has the authority and responsibility to review and approve any proposed CSFT. The CSFTC provides guidance to and monitors the activities of transaction review committees (TRCs) which have been established in all major business units. TRCs have the responsibility to identify, review and refer CSFTs to the CSFTC. The Global Pricing Committee provides oversight of AIGs pricing valuation practices and processes and has delegated operational responsibility to the Regional Pricing Committees to implement and monitor these practices within the underlying businesses of each respective region. Credit Risk Management AIG devotes considerable resources to managing its direct and indirect credit exposures, such as those arising from fixed income investments, deposits, corporate and consumer loans, leases, reinsurance recoverables, counterparty risk in derivatives activities, cessions of insurance risk to reinsurers and customers, credit risk assumed through credit derivatives written, financial guarantees and letters of credit. Credit risk is defined as the risk that AIGs customers or counterparties are unable or unwilling to repay their contractual obligations when they become due. Credit risk may also be manifested: (i) through the downgrading of credit ratings of counterparties whose credit instruments AIG may be holding, or, in some cases, insuring, causing the value of the assets to decline or insured risks to rise; and (ii) as cross border risk where a country (sovereign government risk) or one or more non sovereign obligors within a country are unable to repay an obligation or are unable to provide foreign exchange to service a credit or equity exposure incurred by another AIG business unit located outside that country. AIG 2009 Form 10 K 174 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries AIGs credit risks are managed at the corporate level by the Credit Risk Management department (CRM) whose primary role is to support and supplement the work of the businesses and the CRC. CRM is headed by AIGs Chief Credit Officer (CCO), who reports to AIGs CRO. AIGs CCO is primarily responsible for the development and maintenance of credit risk policies and procedures approved by the CRC. In discharging this function CRM has the following responsibilities: approve delegated credit authorities to CRM credit executives and business unit credit officers; manage the approval process for all requests for credit limits, program limits and transactions above delegated authorities; aggregate globally all credit exposure data by counterparty, country and industry and report risk concentrations regularly to and review with the CRC and the Finance and Risk Management Committee of the Board of Directors; administer regular portfolio credit reviews of all investment, derivative and credit incurring business units and recommend any corrective actions where required; develop methodologies for quantification and assessment of credit risks, including the establishment and maintenance of AIGs internal risk rating process; and approve appropriate credit reserves and methodologies at the business unit and enterprise levels. The CRC also approves concentration limits on U.S. and international business unit consumer loan portfolios, including the mortgage insurance activities of UGC. In addition, the CRC is also responsible for establishing concentration limits on Asset Management Groups exposures in U.S. and international RMBS, CMBS, and CDOs. See Investments herein. AIG monitors and controls its company wide credit risk concentrations and attempts to avoid unwanted or excessive risk accumulations, whether funded or unfunded. To minimize the level of credit risk in certain circumstances, AIG may require third party guarantees, reinsurance or collateral, such as letters of credit and trust account deposits. These guarantees, letters of credit and reinsurance recoverables are also treated as credit exposure and are added to AIGs risk concentration exposure data. AIG defines its aggregate credit exposures to a counterparty as the sum of its fixed maturities, loans, finance leases, reinsurance recoverables, derivatives (mark to market), deposits and letters of credit (both in the case of financial institutions) and the specified credit equivalent exposure to certain insurance products which embody credit risk. The following table presents AIGs largest credit exposures as a percentage of Total equity: At December 31, 2009 Category Risk Rating(a) Credit Exposure as a Percentage of Total Equity Investment Grade: 10 largest combined A (b) 102.8 %(c) Single largest non sovereign (financial institution) BBB 9.4 Single largest corporate AA 3.4 Single largest sovereign AAA 21.3 Non Investment Grade: Single largest sovereign BB 1.9 Single largest non sovereign BB 0.6 (a)Reflects AIGs internal risk ratings. (b) Four of the ten largest credit exposures are to financial institutions, four are to investment grade rated sovereigns and two are to government sponsored entities. None of the top ten is rated lower than BBB or its equivalent. (c)Exposure to the ten largest combined as a percentage of Total equity was 150.7 percent at December 31, 2008. 175 AIG 2009 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries AIG monitors its aggregate cross border exposures by country and regional group of countries. AIG defines its cross border exposure to include both cross border credit exposures and its cross border investments in its own international subsidiaries. Nine countries had cross border exposures in excess of 10 percent of Total equity at December 31, 2009 (eight countries and 20 percent at December 31, 2008). Based on AIGs internal risk ratings, at that date, six were rated AAA, two were rated AA and one was rated A. The two largest sovereign exposures are to Bermuda and the United Kingdom. In addition, AIG reviews and manages its industry concentrations. AIGs single largest industry credit exposure is to the global financial institutions sector, which includes banks and finance companies, securities firms, insurance and reinsurance companies, and government sponsored entities (Federal National Mortgage Association and Federal Home Loan Mortgage Association). The following table presents AIGs largest credit exposures to the global financial institution sector as a percentage of Total equity: At December 31, 2009 Credit Exposure as a Percentage of Total Equity Industry Category: Money Center / Global Bank Groups 83.9 %* Government Sponsored Entities 20.1 European Regional Financial Institutions 15.1 Global Life Insurance Companies 14.1 Global Reinsurance Companies 12.2 Asian Regional Financial Institutions 8.0 North American Based Regional Financial Institutions 7.4 Supranational Banks 7.3 *Exposure to Money Center/Global Bank Groups as a percentage of Total equity was 138.7 percent at December 31, 2008. AIGs exposure to its five largest money center/global bank group institutions was 33.5 percent of Total equity at December 31, 2009 (56.8 percent of Total equity at December 31, 2008). Credit exposure to Global Reinsurance Companies was 12.2 percent of Total equity compared to 18.4 percent at December 31, 2008. Credit exposure to Transatlantic, previously a consolidated subsidiary, was added to this category. Transatlantic now represents AIGs largest reinsurance credit exposure, with approximately $1.6 billion of uncollateralized reinsurance assets. Transatlantics core operating subsidiaries have financial strength ratings of A by A.M. Best and A+ by S&P. AIG also has a risk concentration through the investment portfolios of its insurance companies in the U.S. municipal sector. AIG holds approximately $48.6 billion of tax exempt and taxable securities issued by a wide number of municipal authorities across the U.S. and its territories. A majority of these securities are held in available for sale portfolios of AIGs domestic property casualty insurance companies. These securities are comprised of the general obligations of states and local governments, revenue bonds issued by these same governments and bonds issued by transportation authorities, universities, state housing finance agencies and hospital systems. The average credit quality of these issuers is A+. Currently, several states, local governments and other issuers are facing pressures on their budget revenues from the effects of the recession and have had to cut spending and draw on reserve funds. Consequently, several municipal issuers in AIGs portfolios have been downgraded one or more notches by the rating agencies. The most notable of these issuers is the State of California, of which AIG holds approximately $1.1 billion of general obligation bonds and which at December 31, 2009 was also the largest single issuer in AIGs municipal finance portfolio. Nevertheless, despite the budget pressures facing the sector, AIG does not expect any significant defaults in portfolio holdings of municipal issuers. AIG 2009 Form 10 K 176 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries The CRC reviews quarterly concentration reports in all categories listed above as well as credit trends by risk ratings. The CRC may adjust limits to provide reasonable assurance that AIG does not incur excessive levels of credit risk and that AIGs credit risk profile is properly calibrated across business units. Market Risk Management AIG is exposed to market risks, primarily within its insurance and capital markets businesses (see Capital Resources and Liquidity AIGs Strategy for Stabilization and Repayment of its Obligations as They Come Due AIGFP Wind down regarding its market risk issues and management as transactions in that business are wound down). For AIGs insurance operations, the asset liability exposures are predominantly structural in nature, and not the result of speculative positioning to take advantage of short term market opportunities. For example, the business model of life insurance and retirement savings is to collect premiums or deposits from policyholders and invest the proceeds in predominantly long term, credit based assets. A spread is earned over time between the asset yield and the cost payable to policyholders. The asset and liability profiles are managed so that the cash flows resulting from invested assets are sufficient to meet policyholder obligations when they become due without the need to sell assets prematurely into a potentially distressed market. In periods of severe market volatility, depressed and illiquid market values on otherwise performing investments diminish shareholders equity even without the realization of actual credit event related losses. Such diminution of capital strength has caused downward pressure on the markets assessment of the financial strength and the credit ratings of insurers. The Market Risk Management and Independent Valuation function (MRMIV), which reports to the CRO, is responsible for control and oversight of all frequently traded market risks within AIG. The Insurance Risk Management function (IRM), which also reports to the CRO, is responsible for control and oversight of non frequently traded asset liability management risks and risk aggregation across AIGs financial services, insurance, and investment activities. AIGs market exposures can be categorized as follows: Benchmark interest rates. Benchmark interest rates are also known as risk free interest rates and are associated with either the government / treasury yield curve or the swap curve. The fair value of AIGs significant fixed maturity securities portfolio changes as benchmark interest rates change. Credit spread or risk premium. Credit spread risk is the potential for loss due to a change in an instruments risk premium or yield relative to that of a comparable duration, default free instrument. Equity and alternative investment prices. AIGs exposure to equity and alternative investment prices arises from direct investments in common stocks and mutual funds, from minimum benefit guarantees embedded in the structure of certain variable annuity and variable life insurance products and from other equity like investments, such as partnerships comprised of hedge funds and private equity funds, private equity investments, commercial real estate and real estate funds. Foreign currency exchange rates. AIG is a globally diversified enterprise with significant income, assets and liabilities denominated in, and significant capital deployed in, a variety of currencies. AIG uses a number of measures and approaches to measure and quantify its market risk exposure, including: Duration / key rate duration. Duration is the measure of the sensitivities of a fixed income instrument to the parallel shift in the benchmark yield curve. Key rate duration measures sensitivities to the movement at a given term point on the yield curve. Scenario analysis. Scenario analysis uses historical, hypothetical, or forward looking macro economic scenarios to assess and report exposures. Examples of hypothetical scenarios include a 100 basis point parallel shift in the yield curve or a 10 percent immediate and simultaneous decrease in world wide equity markets. 177 AIG 2009 Form 10 K  Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries Value at Risk (VaR). VaR is a summary statistical measure that uses the estimated volatility and correlation of market factors to calculate the maximum loss that could occur over a defined period of time with a specified level of statistical confidence. VaR measures not only the size of individual exposures but also the interaction between different market exposures, thereby providing a portfolio approach to measuring market risk. A key shortcoming of the VaR approach is its reliance on historical data, making VaR calculations essentially "backward looking." This shortcoming was most evident during the recent credit crisis. Stress testing. Stress testing is a special form of scenario analysis whereby the scenarios used are designed to lead to a material adverse outcome (for example, the stock market crash of October 1987 or the widening of yields or spread of RMBS or CMBS during 2008). Stress testing is often used to address VaR shortcomings and complement VaR calculations. Particularly in times of significant volatility in financial markets, using stress scenarios provides more pertinent and forward looking information on market risk exposure than VaR results based upon historical data alone. The magnitudes of volatilities of financial markets and degree of correlation among different markets, risks and asset classes in 2008 were unprecedented and rendered the VaR measure that is based on historical data analysis a much less reliable and indicative risk measure. As a result, AIG is using sensitivities for non Capital Markets activities under specific scenarios to convey the magnitude of its exposures to various key market risk factors, such as yield curve, equity markets and alternative assets, and foreign currency exchange rates. For Insurance, Noncore Asset Management, and Financial Services (excluding Capital Markets), these sensitivities and scenarios are shown in the table below. Insurance and Financial Services (excluding Capital Markets) Sensitivities The following table provides estimates of AIGs sensitivity to changes in yield curves, equity prices and foreign currency exchange rates: As of December 31, Exposure Effect (dollars in millions) 2009 2008 Sensitivity Factor 2009 2008 Yield sensitive assets $ 524,000 $ 500,000 100 bps parallel increase in all yield curves $ (26,200) $ (23,500) Equity and alternative investments exposure $ 44,000 $ 47,000 20% decline (15% in 2008) in stock prices and value of alternative investments* $ (8,800) $ (7,050) Foreign currency exchange rates net exposure $ 22,000 $ 17,000 10% depreciation of all foreign currency exchange rates against the U.S. dollar $ (2,200) $ (1,700) * 2008 utilized a sensitivity factor of 15 percent for Equity and Alternative Investments. Using a 20 percent factor, the effect would have been $9.4 billion. Exposures for yield curves include assets that are directly sensitive to yield curve movements, such as fixed maturity securities, loans, finance receivables and short term investments (excluding consolidated separate account assets). Exposures for equity and alternative investment prices include investments in common stocks, preferred stocks, mutual funds, hedge funds, private equity funds, commercial real estate and real estate funds (excluding consolidated separate account assets and consolidated managed partnerships and funds). Exposures to foreign currency exchange rates reflect AIGs consolidated non U.S. dollar net capital investments on a GAAP basis. Comparisons of 2009 exposures to 2008 are as follows: total yield sensitive assets increased 4.8 percent ($24 billion) compared to 2008, primarily due to improving markets which increased asset prices (specifically, fixed income securities), partially offset by asset reductions from the 2009 divestiture of certain businesses and a decrease in loan values ($17.5 billion) due to a decline in the loan portfolio combined with a steepening in yield curves, particularly in the U.S.; equity and alternative investments declined reflecting the effects of the poor 2008 market performance, in particular in partnership investments (down approximately $5.2 billion). These decreases were partially offset by AIG 2009 Form 10 K 178 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries the recovering world equity markets, which added approximately $2 billion in common and preferred stock investments; and the net increase in foreign exchange net combined exposure reflects: approximately $4.3 billion increase in the Taiwan dollar due to aggressive capital management driven local hedging program (away from U.S. and other non local currencies); $4.2 billion increase in Japanese yen primarily due to surrender activity in Japan; partially offset by a number of relatively small decreases in other currencies with a net combined position totaling approximately $4.0 billion. The above sensitivities of a 100 basis point increase in yield curves, a 20 percent decline in equities and alternative assets, and a 10 percent depreciation of all foreign currency exchange rates against the U.S. dollar were chosen solely for illustrative purposes. The selection of these specific events should not be construed as a prediction, but only as a demonstration of the potential effects of such events. These scenarios should not be construed as the only risks AIG faces; these events are shown as an indication of several possible losses AIG could experience. In addition, losses from these and other risks could be materially higher than illustrated. The sensitivity factors utilized for 2009 and presented above were selected based on historical data from 1989 to 2009, as follows (see the table below): a 100 basis point parallel shift in the yield curve is broadly consistent with a one standard deviation movement of the benchmark ten year treasury yield; a 20 percent drop for equity and alternative investments is broadly consistent with a one standard deviation movement in the S&P 500. In the 2008 sensitivity analysis, a standard deviation of 15 percent was based on the experience of the 20 years ended December 31, 2007; the volatile 2008 period was deemed to be a stress event and was thus excluded; and a 10 percent depreciation of foreign currency exchange rates is consistent with a one standard deviation movement in the U.S. dollar (USD)/Japanese Yen (JPY) exchange rate. Period Standard Deviation Suggested 2009 Scenario 2009 Scenario as a Multiple of Standard Deviation 2009 Change/ Return 2009 as a Multiple of Standard Deviation Original 2008 Scenario (based on Standard Deviation for 1987 2007 Period) 10 Year Treasury 1989 2009 1.0% 1.0% 1.0 1.6% 1.6 1.0% S&P 500 1989 2009 19.3% 20.0% 1.0 23.5% 1.2 15.0% USD/JPY 1989 2009 10.6% 10.0% 0.9 (2.6)% 0.2 10.0% Operational Risk Management AIGs Operational Risk Management department (ORM) oversees AIGs operational risk management practices. The Director of ORM reports to the CRO. ORM is responsible for establishing the framework, principles and guidelines of AIGs operational risk management program. AIG has implemented an operational risk management framework including a risk and control self assessment (RCSA) process. Each business unit is responsible for implementing the components of the operational risk management program to ensure that effective operational risk management practices are utilized throughout AIG. Business units continue to enhance their governance frameworks in order to perform more robust risk assessments. In addition, business units involved in the disposition process are engaged in the assessment of the specific operational risks attendant to a separation from AIG. 179 AIG 2009 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries Insurance Risk Management Reinsurance AIG uses reinsurance programs for its insurance risks as follows: facultative agreements to cover large individual exposures; quota share treaties to cover specific books of business; excess of loss treaties to cover large losses; excess or surplus automatic treaties to cover individual life risks in excess of stated per life retention limits; and catastrophe treaties to cover specific catastrophes, including earthquake, windstorm and flood. AIG monitors its exposures to natural catastrophes and takes corrective actions to limit its exposure with respect to particular geographic areas, companies, or perils. AIGs Reinsurance Security Department (RSD) conducts periodic detailed assessments of the financial status and condition of current and potential reinsurers, both foreign and domestic. The RSD monitors both the nature of the risks ceded to the reinsurers and the aggregation of total reinsurance recoverables ceded to reinsurers. Such assessments may include, but are not limited to, identifying if a reinsurer is appropriately licensed and has sufficient financial capacity and evaluating the local economic environment in which a foreign reinsurer operates. The RSD reviews the nature of the risks ceded to reinsurers and the need for credit risk mitigants. For example, in AIGs treaty reinsurance contracts, AIG frequently includes provisions that require a reinsurer to post collateral when a referenced event occurs. Furthermore, AIG limits its unsecured exposure to reinsurers through the use of credit triggers which include but are not limited to, insurer financial strength rating downgrades, declines in statutory surplus below pre determined levels, decreases in NAIC risk based capital (RBC) below certain levels, or setting maximum limits for reinsurance recoverables. In addition, AIGs CRC reviews all reinsurer exposures and credit limits and approves most large reinsurer credit limits above pre set limits that represent actual or potential credit concentrations. AIG believes that no exposure to a single reinsurer represents an inappropriate concentration of risk to AIG, nor is AIGs business substantially dependent upon any single reinsurance contract. AIG enters into intercompany reinsurance transactions for its General Insurance and life insurance & retirement services operations. AIG enters into these transactions as a sound and prudent business practice in order to maintain underwriting control and spread insurance risk among AIGs various insurance company subsidiaries and to leverage economies of scale with external reinsurers. When required for statutory recognition, AIG obtains letters of credit from third party financial institutions to collateralize these intercompany transactions. At December 31, 2009, approximately $5.4 billion of letters of credit were outstanding to cover intercompany reinsurance transactions among subsidiaries. Although reinsurance arrangements do not relieve AIG subsidiaries from their direct obligations to insureds, an efficient and effective reinsurance program substantially mitigates AIGs exposure to potentially significant losses. AIG continually evaluates the reinsurance markets and the relative attractiveness of various arrangements for coverage, including structures such as catastrophe bonds, insurance risk securitizations, "sidecars" and similar vehicles. AIG purchased U.S. property catastrophe coverage of approximately $4.22 billion and $1.5 billion in 2010 and 2009, respectively, in excess of a per occurrence deductible of $2.0 billion. In addition, AIG purchased over $320 million in workers compensation catastrophe reinsurance. AIG 2009 Form 10 K 180 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries Reinsurance Recoverable General reinsurance recoverable assets are comprised of: balances due from reinsurers for indemnity losses and loss expenses billed to, but not yet collected from, reinsurers (collectively, Paid Losses Recoverable); ultimate ceded reserves for indemnity losses and expenses, including reserves for claims reported but not yet paid and estimates for IBNR (collectively, Ceded Loss Reserves); and ceded Reserves for Unearned Premiums. At December 31, 2009, reinsurance recoverable assets of $21.4 billion include Paid Losses Recoverable of $744 million, Ceded Loss Reserves of $17.5 billion, and Ceded Reserves for Unearned Premiums of $3.2 billion. The methods used to estimate IBNR and to establish the resulting ultimate losses involve projecting the frequency and severity of losses over multiple years and are continually reviewed and updated by management. Any adjustments are reflected in income. It is AIGs belief that the ceded reserves for losses and loss expenses at December 31, 2009 reflect a reasonable estimate of the ultimate losses recoverable. Actual losses may differ from the reserves currently ceded. AIG manages the credit risk in its reinsurance relationships by transacting with reinsurers that it considers financially sound, and when necessary AIG requires reinsurers to post collateral in the form of funds withheld, securities in reinsurance trust accounts and or irrevocable letters of credit. This collateral can be drawn on for amounts that remain unpaid beyond specified time periods on an individual reinsurer basis. At December 31, 2009, approximately 56 percent of the reinsurance assets were from unauthorized reinsurers. The terms authorized and unauthorized pertain to regulatory categories, not creditworthiness. More than 52 percent of these balances were collateralized, permitting statutory recognition. Additionally, with the approval of insurance regulators, AIG posted approximately $1.5 billion of letters of credit issued by commercial banks and $2.8 billion of funded trusts in favor of certain General Insurance companies to permit those companies statutory recognition of balances otherwise uncollateralized at December 31, 2009. The remaining 44 percent of the reinsurance assets were from authorized reinsurers. At December 31, 2009, approximately 85 percent of the balances with respect to authorized reinsurers are from reinsurers rated A (excellent) or better, as rated by A.M. Best, or A (strong) or better, as rated by S&P. These ratings are measures of financial strength. The following table presents information for each reinsurer representing in excess of four percent of AIGs total Reinsurance assets: At December 31, 2009 (in millions) S&P Rating(a) A.M. Best Rating(a) Gross Reinsurance Assets Percent of Reinsurance Assets, Net Collateral Held(b) Uncollateralized Reinsurance Assets Reinsurer: Transatlantic A+ A $ 1,692 8.1 % $ 105 $ 1,587 Swiss Reinsurance Group of Companies A+ A $ 1,569 7.6 % $ 372 $ 1,197 Munich Reinsurance Group of Companies AA A+ $ 1,597 7.5 % $ 677 $ 920 Lloyds Syndicates Lloyds of London(c) A+ A $ 908 4.3 % $ 99 $ 809 (a) The financial strength ratings reflect the ratings of the various reinsurance subsidiaries of the companies listed as of February 5, 2010. (b)Excludes collateral held in excess of applicable treaty balances. (c) Excludes Equitas gross reinsurance assets that are unrated, which are less than five percent of AIGs general reinsurance assets. AIG maintains an allowance for estimated unrecoverable reinsurance of $440 million. At December 31, 2009, AIG had no significant reinsurance recoverables due from any individual reinsurer that was financially troubled (i.e., liquidated, insolvent, in receivership or otherwise subject to formal or informal regulatory restriction). In the current environment of weaker economic conditions and strained financial markets, certain reinsurers are reporting 181 AIG 2009 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries losses and could be subject to rating downgrades. AIGs reinsurance recoverable exposures are primarily to the regulated subsidiaries of such companies which are subject to minimum regulatory capital requirements. The RSD, in conjunction with CRM, is reviewing these developments, is monitoring compliance with credit triggers that may require the reinsurer to post collateral, and, as appropriate, will seek to use other means to mitigate any material risks arising from these developments. Segment Risk Management Other than as described above, AIG manages its business risk oversight activities through its operating segments. Insurance Operations AIGs multiple insurance businesses conducted on a global basis expose AIG to a wide variety of risks with different time horizons. These risks are managed throughout the organization, both centrally and locally, through a number of procedures, including: pre launch approval of product design, development and distribution; underwriting approval processes and authorities; exposure limits with ongoing monitoring; modeling and reporting of aggregations and limit concentrations at multiple levels (policy, line of business, product group, country, individual/group, correlation and catastrophic risk events); compliance with financial reporting and capital and solvency targets; extensive use of reinsurance, both internal and third party; and review and establishment of reserves. AIG closely manages insurance risk by overseeing and controlling the nature and geographic location of the risks in each line of business underwritten, the terms and conditions of the underwriting and the premiums charged for taking on the risk. Concentrations of risk, including, but not limited to wind, flood, earthquake, terrorism and accident are analyzed using various modeling techniques. AIG has two major categories of insurance risks as follows: General Insurance risks covered include property, casualty, fidelity/surety, management liability and mortgage insurance. Risks in the general insurance segment are managed through aggregations and limitations of concentrations at multiple levels: policy, line of business, correlation and catastrophic risk events. Domestic Life Insurance & Retirement Services and Foreign Life Insurance & Retirement Services risks include mortality and morbidity in the insurance oriented products and insufficient cash flows to cover contract liabilities in the retirement savings oriented products. Risks are managed through product design, sound medical underwriting, external traditional reinsurance programs and external catastrophe reinsurance programs. AIG is a major purchaser of reinsurance for its insurance operations. The use of reinsurance facilitates insurance risk management (retention, volatility, concentrations) and capital planning locally (branch and subsidiary). AIG may purchase reinsurance on a pooled basis. Pooling of AIGs reinsurance risks enables AIG to purchase reinsurance more efficiently at a consolidated level, manage global counterparty risk and relationships and manage global catastrophe risks, both for the General Insurance and Life Insurance & Retirement Services businesses. General Insurance In General Insurance, underwriting risks are managed through the application approval process, exposure limitations as well as through exclusions, deductibles and self insured retentions, coverage limits and reinsurance. The risks covered by AIG are managed through sound underwriting practices, pricing procedures and the use of actuarial AIG 2009 Form 10 K 182 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries analysis as part of the determination of overall adequacy of provisions for insurance contract liabilities. Underwriting practices and pricing procedures are based on historical experience, current regulation and judicial decisions as well as proposed or anticipated regulatory changes. Climate change and related regulatory initiatives may increase both the frequency and severity of claims or the cost of defending such claims. General Insurance policies are primarily written for periods of 12 months or less providing General Insurance with the ability to modify underwriting practices and pricing procedures; limiting the financial impact to such increase in claims. Each line of business and many individual policyholders may have different exposures to the effects of climate change. While it is not possible to precisely quantify the impact of a policyholders operations on climate change, underwriters routinely evaluate the potential effect on greenhouse gas emissions when considering policy renewals. Property and casualty insurance policies typically exclude or significantly limit coverage for pollution and related environmental damage. While these pollution exclusions have sustained judicial scrutiny and have not been overturned by judicial decisions, there can be no assurance that future court decisions will uphold prior case law precedents. A primary goal of AIG in managing its General Insurance operations is to achieve an underwriting profit. To achieve this goal, AIG must be disciplined in its risk selection, premiums must be adequate, and terms and conditions must be appropriate to cover the risk accepted. Catastrophe Exposures The nature of AIGs business exposes it to various catastrophic events in which multiple losses across multiple lines of business can occur in any calendar year. In order to control this exposure, AIG uses a combination of techniques, including setting aggregate limits in key business units, monitoring and modeling accumulated exposures, and purchasing catastrophe reinsurance to supplement its other reinsurance protections. The majority of policies exposed to catastrophic events are one year contracts allowing AIG to quickly adjust its exposure to catastrophic events in the event climate changes increase the frequency or severity of such events. Natural disasters, such as hurricanes, earthquakes and other catastrophes, have the potential to adversely affect AIGs operating results. Other risks, such as a pandemic disease, like the Swine Flu Influenza A Virus (H1N1), could adversely affect AIGs business and operating results to an extent that may be only partially offset by reinsurance programs. AIG evaluates catastrophic events and assesses the probability of occurrence and magnitude of catastrophic events through the use of industry recognized models, among other techniques. AIG updates these models by periodically monitoring the exposure risks of AIGs worldwide General Insurance operations and adjusting such models accordingly. Changing climate conditions have added to the unpredictability and frequency of natural disasters (including, but not limited to, hurricanes, tornadoes, floods and fires) increasing the uncertainty as to future trends and exposures. Following is an overview of modeled losses associated with the more significant natural perils, which includes exposures for Commercial Insurance and Foreign General. Significant A&H exposures have been added to these results as well. The modeled results assume that all reinsurers fulfill their obligations to AIG in accordance with their terms. It is important to recognize that there is no standard methodology to project the possible losses from total property and workers compensation exposures. Further, there are no industry standard assumptions to be utilized in projecting these losses. The use of different methodologies and assumptions could materially change the projected losses. Therefore, these modeled losses may not be comparable to estimates made by other companies. These estimates are inherently uncertain and may not reflect AIGs maximum exposures to these events. It is highly likely that AIGs losses will vary, perhaps significantly, from these estimates. The modeled results provided in the table below were based on the aggregate exceedence probability (AEP) losses, which represent total property, workers compensation, life, and A&H losses that may occur in any single year from one or more natural events. The A&H data include exposures for United States, Japan and Taiwan earthquakes. These exposures represent the largest share of A&H exposures to earthquakes. A&H losses were modeled using April 2008 data. The property exposures for the divisions with AIGs largest property exposures, Lexington commercial lines and Private Client Group, were modeled with data as of August 2009, and June 2009 data was used for most 183 AIG 2009 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries other divisions. All reinsurance program structures, domestic and international, reflect the reinsurance programs in place as of January 31, 2010. The values provided were based on 100 year return period losses, which have a one percent likelihood of being exceeded in any single year. Thus, the model projects that there is a one percent probability that AIG could incur in any year losses in excess of the modeled amounts for these perils. Losses include loss adjustment expenses and the net values include reinstatement premiums. At December 31, 2009 (in millions) Gross Net of 2010 Reinsurance Net of 2010 Reinsurance, After Tax Percent of Total Equity Natural Peril: Earthquake $ 6,932 $ 3,530 $ 2,294 2.3% Tropical Cyclone* $ 7,384 $ 4,299 $ 2,794 2.8% * Includes hurricanes, typhoons and European Windstorms. Gross earthquake and tropical cyclone modeled losses decreased $973 million and $214 million, respectively, compared to 2008, while net losses decreased $951 million and $219 million, respectively, compared to 2008. These decreases are primarily due to decreases in AIGs exposure and increases in U.S. catastrophe reinsurance. In addition to the return period loss, AIG evaluates potential single event earthquake and hurricane losses that may be incurred. The single events utilized are a subset of potential events identified and utilized by Lloyds (see Lloyds Realistic Disaster Scenarios, Scenario Specifications, April 2006) and referred to as Realistic Disaster Scenarios (RDS). The purpose of this analysis is to utilize these RDS to provide a reference frame and place into context the model results. However, it is important to note that the specific events used for this analysis do not necessarily represent the worst case loss that AIG could incur from this type of an event in these regions. The losses associated with the RDS are included in the following table. Single event modeled property and workers compensation losses to AIGs worldwide portfolio of risk for key geographic areas are set forth below. Gross values represent AIGs liability after the application of policy limits and deductibles, and net values represent losses after reinsurance is applied; the net losses also include reinsurance reinstatement premiums. Both gross and net losses include loss adjustment expenses. At December 31, 2009 (in millions) Gross Net of 2010 Reinsurance Natural Peril: Miami Hurricane $ 7,996 $ 3,725 San Francisco Earthquake $ 6,732 $ 2,599 Los Angeles Earthquake $ 6,650 $ 2,909 Gulf Coast Hurricane $ 5,357 $ 3,074 Northeast Hurricane $ 4,429 $ 2,651 Japanese Earthquake $ 1,066 $ 477 European Windstorm $ 425 $ 301 Japanese Typhoon $ 282 $ 139 AIG also monitors key international property risks utilizing modeled statistical return period losses. Based on these simulations, the 100 year return period loss for Japanese Earthquake is $610 million gross and $283 million net; the 100 year return period loss for European Windstorm is $675 million gross and $464 million net; and the 100 year return period loss for Japanese Typhoon is $504 million gross and $325 million net. ACTUAL RESULTS IN ANY PERIOD ARE LIKELY TO VARY, PERHAPS MATERIALLY, FROM THE MODELED SCENARIOS, AND THE OCCURRENCE OF ONE OR MORE SEVERE EVENTS COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON AIGS FINANCIAL CONDITION, RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND LIQUIDITY. AIG 2009 Form 10 K 184 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries Terrorism Exposure to loss from terrorist attack is controlled by limiting the aggregate accumulation of workers compensation and property insurance that is underwritten within defined target locations. Modeling is used to provide projections of probable maximum loss by target location based upon the actual exposures of AIG policyholders. Terrorism risk is monitored to manage AIGs exposure. AIG shares its exposures to terrorism risks under the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization Act of 2007 (TRIPRA). During 2009, AIGs deductible under TRIPRA was approximately $3.8 billion, with a 15 percent share of certified terrorism losses in excess of the deductible. As of January 1, 2010, the deductible decreased to approximately $3.3 billion, with a 15 percent share of certified terrorism losses in excess of the deductible. Life Insurance & Retirement Services Companies For AIGs domestic and foreign life insurance & retirement services companies, the primary risks are the following: Pricing risk, which represents the potential exposure to loss resulting from actual policy experience emerging adversely in comparison to the assumptions made in product pricing associated with mortality, morbidity, termination and expenses; and Investment risk, which represents the exposure to loss resulting from the cash flows from the invested assets being less than cash flows required to meet the obligations of the expected policy and contract liabilities and the necessary return on investments. Interest rate risk due to the long duration of liabilities and the sensitivity to changes in interest rates. AIG businesses manage these risks through product design, exposure limitations and the active management of the asset liability relationship in their operations. The emergence of significant adverse experience would require an adjustment to DAC and benefit reserves that could have a material adverse effect on AIGs consolidated results of operations for a particular period. For a further discussion of this risk, see Item 1A. Risk Factors Adjustments to Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs for Life Insurance and Retirement Services Companies. AIGs Foreign Life Insurance & Retirement Services companies generally limit their maximum underwriting exposure on life insurance of a single life to approximately $5 million of coverage. AIGs Domestic Life Insurance and Domestic Retirement Services companies generally limit their maximum underwriting exposure on life insurance of a single life to $15 million of coverage, in certain circumstances by using yearly renewable term reinsurance. For AIGs life insurance & retirement services companies, the reinsurance programs provide risk mitigation per life for individual and group covers and for catastrophic risk events. Pandemic Influenza On June 11, 2009, the World Health Organization (WHO) raised its alert level to 6 and declared that the new variant influenza H1N1 had reached pandemic alert status. Although AIG continues to monitor the developing facts, current evidence suggests that a resulting pandemic will be of moderate severity with some chance that it could be severe. To date, the virus has been mostly mild. The virus is occurring disproportionately in younger people and there is some evidence that individuals over 60 may have some resistance to the virus due to pre existing immunity. Individuals infected generally recover fully after a few days and hospitalization rates have been low. However, it should be noted that instances have been identified in which the H1N1 virus demonstrated a resistance to Tamiflu, the preferred treatment for the virus. The emergence of this resistant virus, or the emergence of a more virulent virus during the Northern Hemisphere flu season could result in a more severe pandemic. 185 AIG 2009 Form 10 K  Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries A significant global pandemic could have a material adverse effect on the life insurance & retirement services companies operating results and liquidity from increased mortality and morbidity rates. Utilizing a scenario based approach and an industry standard model, AIG has analyzed its insurance risk associated with pandemic influenza. For a severe event, considered to be a recurrence of the 1918 Flu Pandemic, the analysis indicates AIG could incur a pre tax loss of approximately $6.3 billion if this event were to recur. For a mild event, considered to be a recurrence of the influenza epidemic of 1968, the analysis indicates AIG could incur a pre tax loss of approximately $0.6 billion if such an event were to recur. These analyses were based on 2008 policy data representing approximately 95 percent of AIGs individual life, group life and credit life books of business, net of reinsurance at that point in time. These estimates do not include claims that could be made under other policies, such as business interruption or general liability policies, and do not reflect estimates for losses resulting from disruption of AIGs own business operations or asset valuation losses that may arise consequent to such a pandemic. These related losses may be significant and in some scenarios exceed the losses incurred from AIGs life insurance coverages. Financial Services AIGs Financial Services subsidiaries engage in diversified activities including aircraft leasing, capital markets, consumer finance and insurance premium finance. Together, the Aircraft Leasing, Capital Markets and Consumer Finance operations generate the majority of the revenues produced by the Financial Services operations. A.I. Credit also contributes to Financial Services income principally by providing insurance premium financing for both AIGs policyholders and those of other insurers. Capital Markets Capital Markets represents the operations of AIGFP, which engaged as principal in a wide variety of financial transactions, including standard and customized financial products involving commodities, credit, currencies, energy, equities and interest rates. AIGFP also invested in a diversified portfolio of securities and principal investments and engaged in borrowing activities that involve issuing standard and structured notes and other securities and entering into GIAs. AIGFP is currently being wound down. See Capital Resources and Liquidity AIGs Strategy for Stabilization and Repayment of its Obligations as They Come Due AIGFP Wind down. The senior management of AIG defines the policies and establishes general operating parameters for Capital Markets operations. AIGs senior management has established various oversight committees to monitor on an ongoing basis the various financial market, operational and credit risk attendant to the Capital Markets operations. The senior management of AIGFP reports the results of its operations to and reviews future strategies with AIGs senior management. AIGFP actively manages its exposures to limit potential economic losses, and in doing so, AIGFP must continually manage a variety of exposures including credit, market, liquidity, operational and legal risks. Derivative Transactions A counterparty may default on any obligation to AIG, including a derivative contract. Credit risk is a consequence of extending credit and or carrying trading and investment positions. Credit risk exists for a derivative contract when that contract has a positive fair value to AIG. The maximum potential exposure will increase or decrease during the life of the derivative commitments as a function of maturity and market conditions. To help manage this risk, AIGFPs credit department operates within the guidelines set by the CRC. Transactions which fall outside these pre established guidelines require the specific approval of the CRC. It is also AIGs policy to include credit valuation adjustments for potential counterparty default when necessary. In addition, AIGFP utilizes various credit enhancements, including letters of credit, guarantees, collateral, credit triggers, credit derivatives and margin agreements to reduce the credit risk relating to its outstanding financial derivative transactions. AIGFP requires credit enhancements in connection with specific transactions based on, among other things, the creditworthiness of the counterparties, and the transactions size and maturity. Furthermore, AIGFP generally seeks to enter into agreements that have the benefit of set off and close out netting provisions. AIG 2009 Form 10 K 186 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries These provisions provide that, in the case of an early termination of a transaction, AIGFP can set off its receivables from a counterparty against its payables to the same counterparty arising out of all covered transactions. As a result, where a legally enforceable netting agreement exists, the fair value of the transaction with the counterparty represents the net sum of estimated fair values. The fair value of AIGFPs interest rate, currency, commodity and equity swaps, options, swaptions, and forward commitments, futures, and forward contracts reported in unrealized gains on swaps, options and forward transactions approximated $7.6 billion at December 31, 2009 and $16.0 billion at December 31, 2008. Where applicable, these amounts have been determined in accordance with the respective master netting agreements. AIGFP evaluates the counterparty credit quality by reference to ratings from rating agencies or, where such ratings are not available, by internal analysis consistent with the risk rating policies of the CRC. In addition, AIGFPs credit approval process involves pre set counterparty and country credit exposure limits subject to approval by the CRC and, for particularly credit intensive transactions, requires approval from the CRC. AIG estimates that the average credit rating of Capital Markets derivatives counterparties, measured by reference to the fair value of its derivative portfolio as a whole, is equivalent to the AA rating category. The following table presents the fair value of Capital Markets derivatives portfolios by counterparty credit rating: At December 31, (in millions) 2009 2008 Rating: AAA $ 896 $ 3,278 AA 1,286 4,963 A 3,682 5,815 BBB 1,535 1,694 Below investment grade 213 251 Total $ 7,612 $ 16,001 See Critical Accounting Estimates and Note 11 for additional discussion related to derivative transactions. Capital Markets Trading VaR AIGFP attempts to minimize risk in benchmark interest rates, equities, commodities and foreign exchange. Market exposures in option implied volatilities, correlations and basis risks are also minimized over time. AIGFPs minimal reliance on market risk driven revenue is reflected in its VaR. AIGFPs VaR calculation is based on the interest rate, equity, commodity and foreign exchange risk arising from its portfolio. Credit related factors, such as credit spreads or credit default, are not included in AIGFPs VaR calculation. Because the market risk with respect to securities available for sale, at market, is substantially hedged, segregation of the financial instruments into trading and other than trading was not considered necessary. AIGFP operates under established market risk limits based upon this VaR calculation. In addition, AIGFP back tests its VaR. In the calculation of VaR for AIGFP, AIG uses the historical simulation methodology based on estimated changes to the value of all transactions under explicit changes in market rates and prices within a specific historical time period. AIGFP attempts to secure reliable and independent current market prices, such as published exchange prices, external subscription services, such as Bloomberg or Reuters, or third party or broker quotes. When such prices are not available, AIGFP uses an internal methodology that includes extrapolation from observable and verifiable prices nearest to the dates of the transactions. Historically, actual results have not deviated from these models in any material respect. AIGFP reports its VaR level using a 95 percent confidence level and a one day holding period, facilitating risk comparison with AIGFPs trading peers and reflecting the fact that market risks can be actively assumed and offset in AIGFPs trading portfolio. 187 AIG 2009 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries The following table presents the year end, average, high, and low VaRs on a diversified basis and of each component of market risk for Capital Markets operations. The diversified VaR is usually smaller than the sum of its components due to correlation effects. For the Year Ended December 31, 2009 For the Year Ended December 31, 2008 At December 31, 2009 At December 31, 2008 (in millions) Average High Low Average High Low Total AIG trading market risk: Diversified $ 3 $ 3 $ 6 $ 2 $ 3 $ 5 $ 9 $ 3 Interest rate 3 2 5 2 2 2 4 1 Currency 1 3 2 1 4 Equity 1 1 3 1 2 2 4 2 Commodity 1 1 4 7 1 See Critical Accounting Estimates Valuation of Level 3 Assets and Liabilities for a comprehensive discussion of AIGFPs super senior credit default swap portfolio. Aircraft Leasing AIGs Aircraft Leasing operations represent the operations of ILFC, which generates its revenues primarily from leasing new and used commercial jet aircraft to foreign and domestic airlines. Revenues also result from the re marketing of commercial jet aircraft for ILFCs own account and re marketing and fleet management services for airlines and financial institutions. Risks inherent in this business, which are managed at the business unit level, include the following: the risk that there will be no market for the aircraft acquired; the risk that aircraft cannot be placed with lessees; the risk of non performance by lessees; and the risk that aircraft and related assets cannot be disposed of at the time and in a manner desired. The airline industry is sensitive to changes in economic conditions and is cyclical and highly competitive. Airlines and related companies may be affected by political or economic instability, terrorist activities, changes in national policy, competitive pressures, fuel prices and shortages, labor stoppages, pilot shortages, insurance costs, recessions, health concerns and other political or economic events adversely affecting world or regional trading markets. ILFCs revenues and pre tax income may be adversely affected by the volatile competitive environment in which its customers operate. ILFC is exposed to pre tax loss and liquidity strain through non performance of aircraft lessees, through owning aircraft which it is unable to sell or re lease at acceptable rates at lease expiration, and, in part, through committing to purchase aircraft which it is unable to lease. ILFC is currently marketing various aircraft portfolios for potential sale. Significant uncertainties exist as to the aircraft comprising any actual sale portfolio, the terms of any sale portfolio (including price), and whether any portfolio sale will be approved. See Capital Resources and Liquidity Liquidity Liquidity of Parent and Subsidiaries Financial Services ILFC for further discussion. To date ILFC manages the risk of nonperformance by its lessees with security deposit requirements, repossession rights, overhaul requirements and close monitoring of industry conditions through its marketing force. More than 90 percent of ILFCs fleet is leased to non U.S. carriers, and the fleet, comprised of the most efficient aircraft in the airline industry, continues to be in high demand from such carriers. ILFCs management formally reviews regularly, and no less frequently than quarterly, issues affecting ILFCs fleet, including events and circumstances that may cause impairment of aircraft values. Management evaluates aircraft in the fleet as necessary based on these events and circumstances. ILFC recognized an impairment related to its fleet in AIG 2009 Form 10 K 188 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries 2009 of $51 million. ILFC has, in the past, been able to re lease the aircraft without diminution in lease rates that would result in an impairment and did not recognize any impairment charges in 2008 or 2007. Consumer Finance AIGs Consumer Finance operations in North America are principally conducted through AGF. AGF derives most of its revenues from finance charges assessed on real estate loans, secured and unsecured non real estate loans and retail sales finance receivables. In the second quarter of 2008, AGF ceased its wholesale origination activities (originations through mortgage brokers). AIGs foreign consumer finance operations are principally conducted through AIGCFG. AIGCFG operates primarily in emerging and developing markets. As of December 31, 2009, AIGCFG has operations in Argentina, Poland, Taiwan, India and Colombia. Many of AGFs borrowers are non prime or subprime. The real estate loans are comprised principally of first lien mortgages on residential real estate generally having a maximum term of 360 months, and are considered non conforming. The real estate loans are principally closed end accounts and fixed rate products. AGF does not offer mortgage products with borrower payment options that allow for negative amortization of the principal balance. The majority of AGFs non real estate loans are secured by consumer goods, automobiles or other personal property. Both secured and unsecured non real estate loans and retail sales finance receivables generally have a maximum term of 60 months. Current economic conditions, such as interest rate and employment levels, can have a direct effect on the borrowers ability to repay these loans. AGF manages the credit risk inherent in its portfolio by using credit scoring models at the time of credit applications, established underwriting criteria and review procedures. AGF systematically monitors the quality of the finance receivables portfolio and determines the appropriate level of the allowance for losses through its Credit Strategy and Policy Committee. This Committee bases its conclusions on quantitative analyses, qualitative factors, current economic conditions and trends, and each Committee members experience in the consumer finance industry. The overall credit quality of AGFs finance receivable portfolio deteriorated during 2009 due to negative economic fundamentals, the aging of the real estate loan portfolio and portfolio sales and liquidations. Based upon anticipated difficult economic conditions for the U.S. consumer, AGF expects credit quality to remain under pressure in 2010. At December 31, 2009, the 60 day delinquency rate for the entire portfolio increased by 225 basis points to 7.24 percent compared to December 31, 2008, while the 60 day delinquency rate for real estate loans increased by 277 basis points to 7.88 percent. For 2009, AGFs net charge off rate increased to 3.92 percent compared to 2.08 percent in 2008. AGFs allowance for finance receivable losses as a percentage of outstanding receivables was 8.11 percent at December 31, 2009 compared to 4.61 percent at December 31, 2008. AIGCFG monitors the quality of its finance receivable portfolio and determines the appropriate level of the allowance for losses through several internal committees. These committees base their conclusions on quantitative analysis, qualitative factors, current economic conditions and trends, political and regulatory implications, competition and the judgment of the committees members. AIGs Consumer Finance operations are exposed to credit risk and risk of loss resulting from adverse fluctuations in interest rates and payment defaults. Credit loss exposure is managed through a combination of underwriting controls, mix of finance receivables, collateral and collection efficiency. Large product programs and exposures to certain high risk products are subject to CRC approval. Over half of the finance receivables are real estate loans which are collateralized by the related properties. With respect to credit losses, the allowance for losses is maintained at a level considered adequate to absorb anticipated credit losses existing in that portfolio as of the balance sheet date. 189 AIG 2009 Form 10 K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries Noncore Asset Management Operations AIGs Noncore Asset Management operations are exposed to various forms of credit, market and operational risks. Noncore Asset Management complies with AIGs corporate risk management guidelines and framework and is subject to periodic reviews by the CRC. Investment decisions and recommendations made on behalf of AIG subsidiaries are referred to the applicable investment committee for approval. The majority of the credit and market risk exposures within Noncore Asset Management results from the MIP and the investment activities of AIG Global Real Estate and to a lesser extent, assets originally acquired for warehouse purposes. In the MIP, the primary risk is investment risk, which represents the exposure to loss resulting from the cash flows from the invested assets being less than the cash flows required to meet the obligations of the liabilities and the necessary return on investments. Credit risk is also a significant component of the investment strategy for these businesses. Market risk is taken in the form of duration and convexity risk. While AIG generally maintains a matched asset liability relationship, it may occasionally determine that it is economically advantageous to be in an unmatched duration position. The risks in the MIP are managed through exposure limitations, active management of the investment portfolios and close oversight of the asset liability relationship. AIG Global Real Estate is exposed to the general conditions in global real estate markets and credit markets. Such exposure can subject AIG Global Real Estate to delays in real estate property development, stabilization and sales, thereby resulting in additional carrying costs and, in turn, adversely affecting operating results. The lack of available funding for development, repositioning and refinancing is also negatively affecting current market conditions. The focus of AIG Global Real Estate is on managingexisting investments. No platform growth initiatives are being actively pursued. Periodically, AIG assesses whether there are any indicators which suggest that the value of AIG Global Real Estates real estate investments may be impaired, including but not limited to declines in property operating performance, general market conditions, and changes to asset plans or strategies. Increases in capitalization rates, discount rates, and vacancies along with adverse changes in local market conditions contributed to valuation declines. As a result, AIG recorded impairment charges of $1.2 billion to reflect the declines in market value during 2009. AIGs exposure to real estate investments is monitored on an ongoing basis by the Asset Management Real Estate Investment Committee. In addition, a Real Estate Steering Committee was established with responsibility for oversight of AIG Global Real Estates restructuring efforts, including, but not limited to, making recommendations with regard to restructuring alternatives, capital optimization, evaluating and approving decisions for AIG Global Real Estates investments and periodically assessing ongoing changes to the underlying conditions of AIG Global Real Estates investments. Noncore Asset Management is also exposed to market and liquidity risk with respect to proprietary direct private equity and fund investments originally acquired for warehouse purposes. As a result of AIGs restructuring initiatives, AIG Investments intended launch of new products and funds for which these warehoused investments were targeted have been abandoned. Further, these investments will not be included in the announced sale of AIGs third party asset management business. Accordingly, AIG will retain all current warehoused investments with a carrying value of $455 million at December 31, 2009 as permanent balance sheet investments until such time that they can be divested. Further, certain of these warehoused investments include unfunded investment commitments of $155 million at December 31, 2009 which are to be funded over the next three to five years. AIG accounts for these investments based on the attributes of the investment using consolidation, equity or cost accounting methods, as appropriate. AIG has worked to divest these warehouse investments and related unfunded investment commitments through secondary market sales and to transfer of such assets and investment commitments to AIG operating companies where appropriate. During the fourth quarter of 2009, AIG divested more than $335 million in unfunded investment commitments related to warehoused investments with approximately $90 million divested in early 2010. AIG continues to manage the warehouse assets and unfunded investment commitments.  Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Included in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. AIG 2009 Form 10 K 190  Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries  
 
