FILE:PKI/PKI-8K-20051212111531.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01.    Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
 
On December 6, 2005, PerkinElmer, Inc. (the "Company") entered into a supplemental agreement (the "Supplemental Agreement") to the master purchase and sale agreement (as modified by the Supplemental Agreement, the "Purchase Agreement") with Eaton Corporation ("Eaton") regarding the Company's sale to Eaton of the stock of P.T. Fluid Sciences Batam, an indirect subsidiary of the Company, and certain assets of the Company and its subsidiaries that comprise the business of developing, manufacturing, marketing, servicing and repairing sealing valve and pneumatic products and systems for the aerospace and industrial market, and design and manufacturing support services for aircraft engine manufacturers and airframe OEMs (collectively, the "Aerospace Business"). The Supplemental Agreement, among other things, provides for a delayed closing with respect to the Company's French operations related to the Aerospace Business (the "French Business") that are to be sold to Eaton.
 
The foregoing description of the Supplemental Agreement does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Supplemental Agreement, which is filed with this report as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 2.01.    Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
 
On December 6, 2005, the Company completed its sale of the Aerospace Business (not including the French Business) to Eaton pursuant to the Purchase Agreement. The aggregate consideration paid for the Aerospace Business (not including the French Business) was $299,214,298.40.
 
Prior to the execution of the Purchase Agreement, to the best of the knowledge of the Company, neither the Company nor any of its affiliates, any director or officer of the Company, or any associate of any such director or officer, had any material relationship with Eaton.
 
A copy of the press release announcing the completion of the transactions contemplated by the Purchase Agreement is filed with this report as Exhibit 99.2.
 
Item 9.01.    Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
See Exhibit Index attached hereto.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
PERKINELMER, INC.
 
Date: December 12, 2005
 
By:
  /s/  Robert F. Friel                
        Robert F. Friel
        Executive Vice President and
        Chief Financial Officer
 
 
(1) The exhibits and schedules to the Supplemental Agreement have been omitted from this filing pursuant to Item 601(b)(2) of Regulation S-K. The Company will furnish copies of any of the exhibits and schedule to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission upon request.

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
This SUPPLEMENTAL AGREEMENT (this "") is made and entered into as of December 6, 2005, by and between PerkinElmer, Inc., a Massachusetts corporation (""), and Eaton Corporation, an Ohio corporation ("").
Agreement
PKI
Eaton
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the representations, warranties, covenants and agreements contained in this Agreement and other good and valuable consideration, the parties hereby agree as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the parties has caused this Agreement to be duly executed and delivered by its duly authorized representatives as of the date first written above.
 
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.2
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
December 6, 2005
 
 
PerkinElmer, Inc. (NYSE: PKI) announced today that it has completed the sale of its aerospace business to Eaton Corporation.
BOSTON 
 
This divestiture is part of the company's previously announced plan to sell its Fluid Sciences segment, which had been comprised of its aerospace, fluid testing and semiconductor businesses. The sale of the Fluid Sciences segment is intended to increase the company's strategic focus on its higher-growth Health Sciences and Photonics markets, with emphasis on genetic screening, medical imaging, molecular medicine and service. The company closed the sale of its fluid testing business earlier in the fourth quarter of 2005 and is in discussions to sell its semiconductor business.
 
Factors Affecting Future Performance
 
This press release contains "forward-looking" statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including, but not limited to, statements relating to estimates and projections of future earnings per share and revenue growth and other financial results, developments relating to our customers and end-markets, the planned divestiture of our Fluid Sciences business segment, and plans concerning business development opportunities. Words such as "believes," "anticipates," "plans," "expects," "projects," "forecasts," "will" and similar expressions, and references to guidance, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Such statements are based on management's current assumptions and expectations and no assurances can be given that our assumptions or expectations will prove to be correct. A number of important risk factors could cause actual results to differ materially from the results described, implied or projected in any forward-looking statements. These factors include, without limitation: (1) our ability to identify a purchaser of the Company's semiconductor business, negotiate and consummate the sale of such business, including obtaining regulatory approvals; (2) economic and geopolitical forces that may limit any continued or expected economic or end market strengthening or recoveries; (3) risks related to our failure to introduce new products in a timely manner; (4) the impact of our debt on our cash flow and investment opportunities: (5) our ability to comply with financial covenants contained in our credit agreements and our debt instruments: (6) a delay in resolution of the Company's tax audits and an adverse determination by the Internal Revenue Service with respect to the Company's tax audits; (7) cyclical downturns continuing to affect several of the industries into which we sell our
products; (8) our ability to adjust our operations to address unexpected changes; (9) our ability to execute acquisitions and license technologies and successfully integrate acquired businesses and licensed technologies into our existing business; (10) the loss of any of our licenses that may require us to stop selling products or lose competitive advantage; (11) competition; (12) regulatory compliance; (13) regulatory changes; (14) our failure to obtain and enforce intellectual property protection; (15) our defense of third party claims of patent infringement and our ability to realize the full value of our intangible assets; (16) other factors which we describe under the caption "Forward-Looking Information and Factors Affecting Future Performance" in our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and in our most recent quarterly report on Form 10-Q and in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We disclaim any intention or obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of developments occurring after the date of this press release.
 
PerkinElmer, Inc. is a global technology leader driving growth and innovation in Health Sciences and Photonics markets to improve the quality of life. The Company reported revenues of $1.7 billion in 2004, has 10,000 employees serving customers in more than 125 countries, and is a component of the S&P 500 Index. Additional information is available through or 1-877-PKI-NYSE.
www.perkinelmer.com
 
 
For further information:
 
Contact:
 
Dan Sutherby
PerkinElmer, Inc.
(781) 431-4306


