FILE:PKI/PKI-8K-20061031152658.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
On October 25, 2006, the Board of Directors of PerkinElmer, Inc. ("PerkinElmer") appointed Michael Battles Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer, effective November 1, 2006. Mr. Battles will also retain his position as Corporate Controller. Jeffrey Capello, PerkinElmer's Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, previously also acted as principal accounting officer of PerkinElmer. Effective November 1, 2006, Mr. Battles will be the principal accounting officer.
In connection with his new position, Mr. Battles entered into a one-year employment agreement with PerkinElmer as of November 1, 2006 (the "Employment Agreement"), which automatically renews for additional one-year terms until terminated. The Employment Agreement contains customary non-competition and non-solicitation provisions and is similar to employment agreements PerkinElmer has with other executive officers. The Employee Agreement provides that Mr. Battles will be paid an initial annual base salary of $260,000. In the event of a change in control of PerkinElmer (as defined in the Employment Agreement), the term of Mr. Battle's employment will be extended for a period of three years from the date of the change in control and, if he is terminated without cause or resigns for good reason (as defined in the Employment Agreement) within thirty-six months following a change in control, he is entitled to receive a severance payment equivalent to his base salary plus bonuses and continuation of specified benefits for one year from the date of termination.
The foregoing description of the Employment Agreement is fully qualified by reference to the Employment Agreement, which is attached as Exhibit 10.1 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
Experience
Mr. Battles, 38, joined PerkinElmer in November 2001 as Global Controller, Analytical Instruments Division. Beginning in 2003, he served as Director of Technical Accounting, Controls and Compliance and in October 2005 became Vice President, Corporate Controller, where he oversaw all aspects of financial reporting to management and external entities and helped ensure adherence to internal control practices, among other things. Prior to joining PerkinElmer, Mr. Battles held several positions at Deloitte & Touche (now Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu) from 1990 until 2001, including Senior Manager, Accounting and Auditing from 1998 to 2001, but while in private practice he was not engaged to perform work on behalf of PerkinElmer. Mr. Battles is a certified public accountant. No family relationship exists between Mr. Battles and any other directors or executive officers of PerkinElmer.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
See Exhibit Index attached hereto.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

EXHIBIT 10.1
This Employment Agreement (the "Agreement") is effective as of November 1, 2006 between PerkinElmer, Inc., a Massachusetts corporation (hereinafter called the "Company"), and Michael Battles (hereinafter referred to as the "Employee").
WHEREAS, the Company wishes to continue the employment of the Employee on the terms and conditions set forth herein; and
WHEREAS, the Employee wishes to continue such employment on the terms and conditions set forth herein, and hereby agrees to the compensation herein provided and agrees to serve the Company to the best of his ability during the period of this Agreement.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the sum of One Dollar, and of the mutual covenants herein contained, the parties agree as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
therefore, in the event of any such breach, in addition to such other remedies which may be available, the Company shall have the right to seek specific performance and injunctive relief.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
payment in an amount equal to the sum of (x) his unpaid base salary through the date of termination, (y) a pro rata portion of his prior year's bonus and (z) his Full Salary (as defined below), and (B) the Employee shall for 12 months following such termination of employment be eligible to participate in all employee benefit plans and arrangements of the Company (such as life, health and disability insurance and automobile arrangements but excluding qualified retirement plans, incentive arrangements and grants of equity awards) to the same extent (including coverage of dependents, if any) and upon the same terms as were in effect immediately prior to the Change in Control. For purposes of this Agreement, "Full Salary" shall mean the Employee's annual base salary, plus the amount of any bonus or incentive payments (excluding the cash portion of the Company's long-term incentive program) received by the Employee with respect to the last full fiscal year of the Company prior to the Change in Control for which all bonus or incentive payments (excluding the cash portion of the Company's long-term incentive program) to be made have been made."
 
"The Employee may pursue any lawful remedy he deems necessary or appropriate for enforcing his rights under this Agreement following a Change in Control of the Company, and all costs incurred by the Employee in connection therewith (including without limitation attorneys' fees) shall be promptly reimbursed to him by the Company, regardless of the outcome of such endeavor."
 
 
 
 
 
 
amended (the "Exchange Act") (a "Person") of beneficial ownership of any capital stock of the Company if, after such acquisition, such Person beneficially owns (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act) 20% or more of either (A) the then-outstanding shares of common stock of the Company (the "Outstanding Company Common Stock") or (B) the combined voting power of the then-outstanding securities of the Company entitled to vote generally in the election of directors (the "Outstanding Company Voting Securities"); provided, however, that for purposes of this paragraph (i), none of the following acquisitions of Outstanding Company Common Stock or Outstanding Company Voting Securities shall constitute a Change in Control: (I) any acquisition directly from the Company (excluding an acquisition pursuant to the exercise, conversion or exchange of any security exercisable for, convertible into or exchangeable for common stock or voting securities of the Company, unless the Person exercising, converting or exchanging such security acquired such security directly from the Company or an underwriter or agent of the Company), (II) any acquisition by the Company, (III) any acquisition by any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company or any corporation controlled by the Company, or (IV) any acquisition by any corporation pursuant to a transaction which complies with subclauses (A) and (B) of clause (iii) of this Paragraph 6(b); or
 
 
and Outstanding Company Voting Securities immediately prior to such Business Combination beneficially own, directly or indirectly, more than 50% of the then-outstanding shares of common stock and the combined voting power of the then-outstanding securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, respectively, of the surviving, resulting or acquiring corporation in such Business Combination (which shall include, without limitation, a corporation which as a result of such transaction owns the Company or substantially all of the Company's assets either directly or through one or more other entities) (such resulting or acquiring corporation is referred to herein as the "Acquiring Corporation") in substantially the same proportions as their ownership, immediately prior to such Business Combination, of the Outstanding Company Stock and Outstanding Company Voting Securities, respectively; and (B) no Person beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, 20% or more of the then outstanding shares of common stock of the Acquiring Corporation, or of the combined voting power of the then-outstanding securities of such corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors (except to the extent that such ownership existed prior to the Business Combination); or
 
 
circumstances are fully corrected prior to the date of resignation. The Employee's right to terminate his employment for Good Reason shall not be affected by his incapacity due to physical or mental illness.
 
 
 
 
 
 
the Company to assume expressly in writing and to agree to perform its obligations under this Agreement in the same manner and to the same extent that the Company would be required to perform it if no such succession had taken place. Failure of the Company to obtain an assumption of this Agreement prior to the effectiveness of succession shall be a breach of this Agreement. As used in this Agreement, "the Company" shall mean the Company as defined above and any successor to its business or assets as aforesaid which assumes and agrees to perform this Agreement, whether by operation of law, or otherwise.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused its seal to be hereunto affixed and these presents to be signed by its proper officers, and the Employee has hereunto set his hand and seal effective as of the day and year first above written.
(SEAL)
 
 
EXHIBIT A COMPETITIVE BUSINESSES AND/OR ENTITIES
Opto
Roper Scientific
dpiX
Ushio
West (division of Matsushita)
GE Lighting (Cermax)
Canon (X-ray detector division only)
Varian Medical
LAS
ABI
Bio-Rad
Bruker BioSciences
Caliper
Tecan
Charles River Labs
Invitrogen
Mettler-Toledo
Agilent
Millipore
Molecular Devices
Sigma Aldrich
Thermo
Varian
Varian Medical
Waters
Beckman Coulter
Becton Dickensen
GE Healthcare
Dionex
Fisher Scientific


