FILE:PKI/PKI-8K-20061206144217.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
On November 30, 2006, PerkinElmer LAS (Germany) GmbH, ("PKI LAS"), a German subsidiary of PerkinElmer, Inc. ("PerkinElmer"), entered into a Sale and Purchase Agreement (the "Purchase Agreement") with Evotec AG ("Evotec AG") and Pfizer, Inc. to acquire the outstanding shares of Evotec Technologies GmbH ("Evotec") and its wholly owned US subsidiary, Evotec Technologies, Inc. Under the terms of the Purchase Agreement, a second German subsidiary of PerkinElmer, PerkinElmer Instruments International Ltd. & Co. KG, also will acquire two subordinated loans granted by Evotec AG to Evotec. Evotec is a provider of high performance screening instrumentation and analysis software, which is used to accurately determine the composition of cells and cell structure.
As consideration, the PerkinElmer subsidiaries referenced above will pay Evotec AG and Pfizer, Inc. in the aggregate approximately EUR 23.6 million cash at the closing of the transaction, plus an additional amount estimated at approximately EUR 1.0 million to reflect adjustments for cash available at closing and working capital as of the closing. Payment of the consideration is subject to the establishment of escrow accounts to secure potential claims under the Purchase Agreement. PerkinElmer is also party to the Purchase Agreement as a guarantor with respect to PKI LAS' obligations under the Purchase Agreement, including for payment of the purchase price at closing. The transaction is subject to regulatory approvals and other customary closing conditions, but is expected to be completed in the first quarter of 2007.
The Purchase Agreement contains customary representations, warranties and covenants as to the parties' business, financial and legal obligations, as well as customary terms of indemnification between the parties. The foregoing descriptions of the Purchase Agreement does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Purchase Agreement, which is filed with this report as Exhibit 99.1, and is incorporated herein by reference. A copy of the press release announcing the entry into the Purchase Agreement is filed with this report as Exhibit 99.2.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
See Exhibit Index attached hereto.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
(1) The exhibits and schedules to this agreement have been omitted from this filing pursuant to Item 601(b)(2) of Regulation S-K. The Registrant will furnish copies of any of the exhibits and schedules to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission upon request.

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
(hereinafter referred to as the "",
Seller 1
)
 
(hereinafter referred to as the ""),
Seller 2
(Seller 1 and Seller 2 hereinafter collectively referred to as the ""),
Sellers
 
(hereinafter referred to as the ""),
Purchaser
 
(hereinafter referred to as the ""),
Shareholder Loans Purchaser
 
(hereinafter referred to as the ""),
Purchaser's Guarantor
(Seller 1, Seller 2, the Purchaser, the Shareholder Loans Purchaser and the Purchaser's Guarantor hereinafter collectively referred to as the ", and each of them as a "").
Parties"
Party
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
WHEREAS, Seller 1 is a stock corporation duly organised and existing under the laws of the Federal Republic of Germany;
WHEREAS, Seller 2 is a U.S. corporation duly organised and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware, USA, with principal place of business at 235 East 42nd Street, New York, N.Y. 10017, USA;
WHEREAS, the Purchaser is a limited liability company duly organised and existing under the laws of the Federal Republic of Germany,
WHEREAS, the Shareholder Loans Purchaser is a limited partnership duly organised and existing under the laws of the Federal Republic of Germany,
WHEREAS, the Purchaser's Guarantor is a U.S. corporation duly organised and existing under the laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, USA, with registered offices in 45 William Street, Wellesley, MA 02481, USA;
WHEREAS, Evotec Technologies GmbH is a limited liability company duly organised and existing under the laws of the Federal Republic of Germany and, together with its direct subsidiary Evotec Technologies, Inc., active in the field of automation and integration of life sciences applications (such business hereinafter also referred to as the "");
Business
WHEREAS, the Sellers have determined to divest of the Business and wish to sell all shares in Evotec Technologies GmbH and its direct subsidiary Evotec Technologies, Inc., as well as loans granted by Seller 1 to Evotec Technologies GmbH, and the Purchaser and the Shareholder Loans Purchaser, respectively, wish to acquire these shares and loans subject to the terms and conditions of this sale and purchase agreement (hereinafter referred to as the "").
Agreement
 
NOW, THEREFORE, the Parties hereto agree as follows:
 
Evotec Technologies GmbH, registered with the commercial register of the lower court () of Dsseldorf under HRB 48029, (hereinafter referred to as the "") is a limited liability company () organized under the laws of Germany with registered seat in Dsseldorf.
Amtsgericht
Company
Gesellschaft mit beschrnkter Haftung
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Seller 1 Share A, the Seller 2 Share, the Claussen Share, the Bauer Share and the Gnther Share are hereinafter collectively referred to as the "".
Shares
 
 
 
The Company holds all shares issued and outstanding in Evotec Technologies, Inc., a U.S. corporation duly organised and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware with registered offices at 2711 Centerville Road, Wilmington, Delaware, 19808, County of New Castle (hereinafter referred to as the ""). The issued share capital of the Subsidiary amounts to US $ 1.00 (in words: US Dollar one). Except for the shares in the Subsidiary held by the Company there is no share capital and there are no other equity interests in the Subsidiary outstanding. The Company and the Subsidiary are hereinafter collectively referred to as the "". The shares and interests in the Company and in the Subsidiary are hereinafter also referred to collectively as the "".
Subsidiary
Companies
Companies' Shares
 
Seller 1 has granted two subordinated loans to the Company the principle amounts and the interest amounts accrued thereon as of 31 December 2006 of
 
which are set out in (hereinafter referred to as the "" and each as a ""). Other than the aforementioned arrangements, there are no loans or borrowings between the Sellers and their Affiliates (other than the Companies) on the one part and one of the Companies on the other part.
Exhibit 1.4
Shareholder Loans
Shareholder Loan
 
For the purposes of this Agreement, "Effective Date" shall mean 1 January 2007 0:00 hours (German time) (hereinafter referred to as the "").
,
Effective Date
 
 
Seller 2 hereby sells, and the Purchaser hereby purchases, upon the terms and conditions of this Agreement, the Seller 2 Share.
 
 
Upon the terms and conditions of this Agreement, Seller 1 hereby sells with commercial effect () as of the Effective Date to the Shareholder Loans Purchaser, who accepts such sale, all its rights and claims under the Shareholder Loans, together with any interest thereupon accrued and outstanding as of the later of the Closing Date and 31 December 2006. Subject to the effectiveness of the transfer () of such rights and claims to the Shareholder Loans Purchaser, the Shareholder Loans Purchaser shall become party to the loan agreements pertaining to the Shareholder Loans instead of Seller 1 ().
mit wirtschaftlicher Wirkung
in rem
mit dinglicher Wirkung
Vertragsbernahme
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Seller 2 hereby transfers title to the Seller 2 Share to the Purchaser. The Purchaser hereby accepts such transfer.
 
 
 
The purchase price to be paid by the Purchaser for the Shares and by the Shareholder Loans Purchaser for the Shareholder Loans as sold and purchased hereunder shall be an amount equal to:
 
 
 
 
 
Such amount shall be referred to as the ".
Purchase Price"
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
in each case as per 31 December 2006.
 
 
cash at hand (), Federal Bank deposits (), deposits with banks () including fixed term deposits (), and cheques within the meaning of section 266 (2) lit. B IV HGB;
Kassenbestand
Bundesbankguthaben
Guthaben bei Kreditinstituten
Festgelder
with respect to the Subsidiary:
any amount shown in the line item "Checking/Savings" as shown in the balance sheet of the Subsidiary drawn up according to US generally accepted accounting principles (US-GAAP);
 
in each case as per 31 December 2006.
 
 
less
 
provided, however, that all assets and liabilities stemming from the Olympus Transaction shall not be taken into account and that an amount of EUR 50,000.00 shall be added to the Working Capital Surplus or deducted from the Working Capital Shortfall, as the case may be, in order to reflect the participation of the Purchaser in the upfront payment due by the Company under the license agreement entered into with TILL Photonics GmbH and TILL ID GmbH on 27 November 2006. For the avoidance of doubt, provisions () to be deducted pursuant to section 3.2.4 (2) above shall include any and all provisions () for the envisaged termination of certain employment relationships pursuant to section 9 below in the Q4 Financial Statements but not in the Q3 Financial Statements.
Rckstellungen
Rckstellungen
 
 
 
The Parties have provisionally estimated the amounts of Financial Debt, Cash, Working Capital Shortfall as well as the Shareholder Loans Remuneration to be the amounts set out in and, based thereon, the amount of the Purchase Price to be EUR 24,961,572.23 (in words: Euro twenty four million nine hundred sixty one thousand five hundred seventy two and twenty three Eurocent). The purchase price estimated pursuant to sentence 1 of this section 3.3 shall hereinafter be referred to as the "".
Exhibit 3.3
Preliminary Purchase Price
 
 
 
 
in each case within 10 (ten) Business Days after the Preliminary Q4 Financial Statements have become binding upon the Parties (such excess or shortfall hereinafter referred to as the "").
Purchase Price Adjustment
 
 
 
 
Receipt of sums in Seller 1's Account shall be an effective discharge of the obligation of the Purchaser or the Shareholder Loans Purchaser, as the case may be, to pay such sums to Seller 1.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Receipt of such sums in the relevant bank accounts shall be an effective discharge of the obligation of the Purchaser to pay such sums to the respective Sellers.
 
 
 
The Purchase Price shall be allocated to the Shares and the Shareholder Loans as set out in .
Exhibit 3.7
 
 
 
 
the Purchaser pursuant to section 9 of this Agreement. As between Seller 1 and Seller 2, the Escrow Account II shall be funded, and the remaining Escrow Amount II, if any, together with the interest accrued thereon shall be paid to Seller 1 and Seller 2 immediately upon dissolution of the Escrow Account II, to the following percentages: Seller 1 to 90% and Seller 2 to 10%.
 
The consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement shall take place at the offices of Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer in 20354 Hamburg, Alsterarkaden 27, 5 (five) Business Days after the date on which the Closing Condition set forth in section 4.2.1 has been fulfilled, or at any other time or place which the Parties may mutually agree upon (hereinafter referred to as the "").
Closing Date
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If the Closing Condition has not been satisfied, at the latest, 5 (five) months after the Signing Date, the Sellers, acting jointly, as well as the Purchaser may rescind this Agreement by written notice to the other Parties ( with a copy to the acting notary. In case this Agreement is rescinded in accordance with this section 4.3, this Agreement shall cease to have force and effect and shall not create any binding obligation between the Parties except that sections 13 (Confidentiality and Public Communication), 14 (Purchaser's Guarantor) 15 (Costs and Taxes), 16 (Notices) and 18 (Miscellaneous) shall remain in force and effect. If this Agreement is rescinded pursuant to sentence 1 of this subsection, the Purchaser shall reimburse the Sellers for all costs and expenses incurred in connection with the preparation and execution of this Agreement up to a maximum amount of EUR 250,000.00 (in words: Euro two hundred fifty thousand), provided that the information presented by Seller 1 to the Purchaser with respect to the German Federal Cartel Office filing was correct in all material regards.
Erklrung des Rcktritts vom Vertrag)
,
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Preliminary Effective Date Itemization and the Preliminary Purchase Price Calculation are together referred to as the "" and, to the extent that they have become binding pursuant to sections 5.4.1, 5.4.2 or 5.5.2, the "".
Preliminary Effective Date Accounts
Effective Date Accounts
 
 
The Q4 Financial Statements shall be prepared in applying the generally accepted accounting principles under German law ("") and according to the same methods as the Q3 Financial Statements. In each case the formal and material balance sheet continuity () shall be ensured, the methods of valuation be maintained and all options to capitalize or to include items on the liabilities side) shall be exercised consistently with past practice.
German GAAP
Wahrung formeller und materieller Bilanzkontinuitt
(Aktivierungs- und Passivierungswahlrechte
 
Each of the Parties may review the Preliminary Q4 Financial Statements and the Preliminary Effective Date Accounts, and have them reviewed by an auditor of its choice, within a period of 30 (thirty) Business Days of receipt by the Sellers and the Purchaser of the Preliminary Q4 Financial Statements and the Preliminary Effective Date Accounts. Such review shall be restricted to whether the requirements set forth in sections 3.1, 3.2, 5.1 and 5.2 are complied with. Any costs incurred in connection with such review shall be borne by the reviewing Party.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Parties shall procure that auditors instructed by the Parties pursuant to section 5.3 and the Expert gain access to the management, employees, accounts and other documents and records of the Company to the extent this is reasonably necessary for the purposes of this section 5. The Parties shall release
 
the auditors instructed by them pursuant to section 5.3 from their professional confidentiality obligations vis--vis the Expert and shall procure that such auditors provide all information to the Expert which the Expert requests from the auditors for the purpose of delivering his written expert opinion. The Parties shall further procure that the auditors instructed by them pursuant to section 5.3 and the Expert have reasonable access to previous financial statements of the Company.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Seller 2 hereby guarantees to the Purchaser by way of an independent promise of guarantee pursuant to section 311 (1) BGB () within the scope and subject to the requirements and limitations provided in section 6 hereof or otherwise in this Agreement that the statements set forth in section 6.2.1 (4) and 6.2.1 (5) below are true and correct as of the Signing Date and of the Effective Date with respect to the Seller 2 Share sold by Seller 2 pursuant to section 2.1.1.
selbstndiges Garantieversprechen im Sinne des  311 Abs. 1 BGB
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As of the Signing Date, the Seller 1 Share A, the Seller 1 Share B, the Claussen Share, the Bauer Share and the Gnther Share have been validly
 
issued and are free from any encumbrances (), pending transfers or other rights of Third Parties (with the exception of Prof. Claussen regarding the Claussen Share, Dr. Bauer regarding the Bauer Share and Dr. Gnther regarding the Gnther Share). As of the later of the Closing Date and the Effective Date the Seller 1 Share A, the Claussen Share, the Bauer Share and the Gnther Share have been validly issued and are free from any encumbrances (), pending transfers or other rights of Third Parties.
dingliche Belastungen
dingliche Belastungen
As of the Signing Date and the later of the Closing Date and the Effective Date, the Seller 1 Share A, the Claussen Share, the Bauer Share and the Gnther Share are fully paid in, either in cash or in kind, and have not been repaid.
As of the Signing Date, with respect to the Seller 1 Share A, the Seller 1 Share B, the Claussen Share, the Bauer Share and the Gnther Share, there are no obligations to make further contributions in the meaning of section 26 (1) GmbHG (). As of the later of the Closing Date and the Effective Date, with respect to the Seller 1 Share A, the Claussen Share, the Bauer Share and the Gnther Share, there are no obligations to make further contributions in the meaning of section 26 (1) GmbHG ().
keine Nachschusspflichten im Sinne von  26 Abs. 1 GmbHG
keine Nachschusspflichten im Sinne von  26 Abs. 1 GmbHG
As of the Signing Date, there are no pre-emptive rights, rights of first refusal or other rights of Third Parties to acquire the Seller 1 Share A, the Seller 1 Share B, the Claussen Share, the Bauer Share and the Gnther Share (save from any rights under the Shareholders' Agreement regarding the Seller 1 Share B). As of the later of the Closing Date and the Effective Date, there are no pre-emptive rights, rights of first refusal or other rights of Third Parties to acquire the Seller 1 Share A, the Claussen Share, the Bauer Share and the Gnther Share.
 
On the later of the Effective Date and the Closing Date, Seller 1 will directly own the Seller 1 Share A, the Claussen Share, the Bauer Share, and the Gnther Share.
On the Signing Date, Seller 1 is entitled to freely dispose of the Seller 1 Share A and the Seller 1 Share B, in each case without requiring the consent of any Third Party (save from the consents required pursuant to the Shareholders' Agreement and the Constitutional Documents for the Seller 1 Share B) and without such a disposal infringing any rights of a Third Party.
 
On the later of the Effective Date and the Closing Date, Seller 1 is entitled to freely dispose of the Seller 1 Share A, the Claussen Share, the Bauer Share, and the Gnther Share without requiring the consent of any Third Party and without such a disposal infringing any rights of a Third Party.
Seller 2 directly owns the Seller 2 Share. Seller 2 is entitled to freely dispose of the Seller 2 Share transferred by it under this Agreement without requiring the consent of any Third Party and without such a disposal infringing any rights of a Third Party.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In this section 6.2.6:
"" shall mean all intellectual and industrial property rights, whether registered or unregistered, including without limitation patents, utility models, trademarks, trade names, service marks, copyrights, design rights, and any application thereof owned by or licensed to the Companies, including without limitation items set forth in  (patents, utility models, design patents),  (trademarks) and (copyrights). The Intellectual Property Rights owned by the Companies shall be referred to as "" and the Intellectual Property Rights licensed to the Companies shall be referred to as "". For the avoidance of doubt, ownership with respect to copyrights shall mean ownership of all exploitation and use rights arising from such copyright.
Intellectual Property Rights
Exhibit 6.2.6 (a)
Exhibit 6.2.6 (b)
Exhibit 6.2.6 (c)
Owned IP Rights
Licensed IP Rights
(Nutzungs- und Verwertungsrechte)
"" shall mean all of the Companies' embodied confidential business information (whether in written or electronic or magnetic form), including trade secrets, unpatented inventions and other tangible or intangible information such as all documentation on research & development (encompassing without limitation documentation on research materials, test data, product data and safety data) in relation to the business of the Companies.
Know-How
 
 
 
In addition to this, the Companies have all rights and licenses necessary to use all hardware, firmware and software programs world-wide and without time-limitations for all applications for which such hardware, firmware and software programs are currently used by the Companies, including all internal and external uses of such hardware, firmware and software programs world-wide and including the right to sell its current products with all currently implemented software applications world-wide and without time limitations, unless indicated otherwise in . The Companies have paid all royalties for the past, present and future use of the hardware, firmware and software programs, unless indicated otherwise in . None of the license agreements regarding the hardware, firmware and software programs currently used by the Company provides that the license agreement may be terminated for whatever reason because of the execution of and performance under this Agreement.
Exhibit 6.2.6 (3)
Exhibit 6.2.6 (3)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and the Companies and Seller 1 are not aware of any material violation of such confidentiality obligations by any employee. The Companies have further included adequate confidentiality clauses in their research and development collaboration agreements with third parties to protect the Know-how of the Companies, and the Companies and Seller 1 are not aware of any material violation of such confidentiality obligation by any of such collaboration partners.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
contains a complete and correct list of material agreements as described below to which any of the Companies, as of the Signing Date, is a party and of which the primary contractual obligations have not yet been completely fulfilled (hereinafter referred to as the ""):
Exhibit 6.2.8
Material Agreements
 
 
 
 
 
As of the Signing Date, none of the Companies has received a written notice of termination, and, to the Sellers' Best Knowledge, each of the Material Agreements and each Real Property Agreement is, as of the Signing Date, in full force and effect. As of the Signing Date, no party to a Material Agreement or a Real Property Agreement has asserted in writing that a Material Agreement or a Real Property Agreement is partially or entirely invalid. The Companies have no obligation or liability to pay any fees or commissions to any broker, finder or agent in relation to the consummation of the transaction.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
To the Sellers' Best Knowledge, the insurance policies listed in are valid and in full force as of the Signing Date. Except as set forth in , all premiums due on the above policies have been duly paid and will be paid until the Effective Date, and, to the Sellers' Best Knowledge, as of the Signing Date no such policy can be terminated.
Exhibit 6.2.12
Exhibit 6.2.12
 
Except for the measures and transactions listed in , from 30 September 2006 up to and including the Signing Date none of the measures and transactions set forth in section 12.2 (Period until Closing Date) have been performed and the Business has been conducted in the ordinary course and substantially in line with past practice.
Exhibit 6.2.13
 
 
 
 
 
 
"" shall encompass the actual knowledge or the grossly negligent lack of knowledge ( as of the Signing Date of Dr. Dirk Ehlers, Prof. Claussen, Anja Bosler, Martina Walter, Dr. Christoph Seibt, Dr. Hans-Christoph Voigt, Sabine Kindt or Dr. Christoph Stoecker.
Sellers' Best Knowledge
grob fahrlssige Unkenntnis)
 
 
 
If and to the extent that the respective Seller fails to provide restitution in kind within the period set out in the foregoing sentence, the Purchaser or the Shareholder Loans Purchaser, as the case may be, at its election, shall be entitled to claim for monetary damage compensation () instead of restitution in kind.
Schadenersatz in Geld
The obligations under the foregoing sentences exist regardless of any fault or negligence () of the Sellers.
Verschulden
The damage compensation shall only cover (i) actual damages, (ii) consequential damages (), and (iii) lost profits, in each case as far as such damages are recoverable under sections 249 et seq. BGB. For the avoidance of doubt, damage compensation shall not cover internal administration or overhead costs and expenses of the Purchaser or the Shareholder Loans Purchaser. The Purchaser and the Shareholder Loans Purchaser shall not be entitled to argue that the Purchase Price and/or the Shareholder Loans Remuneration was calculated upon incorrect assumptions.
Folgeschden, mittelbare Schden
Any payment made by any of the Sellers pursuant to this Agreement shall be deemed to be an adjustment of the Purchase Price.
 
 
 
 
 
 
For the avoidance of doubt, the final sentence of section 8.1.1 shall apply in respect of any corporate income tax or trade tax burden (as the case may be) that entitle to damages under this section 7.
 
 
With regard to all claims of the Purchaser or the Shareholder Loans Purchaser under this Agreement which are not directed only against an individual Seller, for example with regard to claims of the Purchaser under section 3.4.1, the Sellers shall only be liable as partial debtors () to the following percentages: Seller 1 to 90% and Seller 2 to 10%.
teilschuldnerische Haftung
With regard to all claims of the Purchaser or the Shareholder Loans Purchaser under this Agreement which are directed only against an individual Seller only such individual Seller shall be liable.
Regardless of the liability of the Sellers set out in the preceding subsections, the Purchaser and the Shareholder Loans Purchaser may demand payment from the Escrow Account I for the claims set out in section 3.8.1. For the avoidance of doubt, the Purchaser shall for example be entitled to demand payment from the Escrow Account I if it has a claim against only one Seller on the basis of a guarantee given by such Seller under section 6.2.1 (5).
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Purchaser or  as the case may be  the Shareholder Loans Purchaser shall only be entitled to any claims under this section 7 if (i) such individual claim exceeds an amount of EUR 20,000.00 (in words: Euro twenty thousand) (with the exception of claims under section 6.2.11 (Tax) where such amount shall be EUR 10,000.00 (in words: Euro ten thousand)) (hereinafter referred to as the "") and (ii) the aggregate individual claims exceeding the De Minimis Amount exceed EUR 50,000.00 (in words: Euro fifty thousand) (hereinafter referred to as the ""). In case each individual
De Minimis Amount
Threshold
 
claim exceeds the De Minimis Amount and the aggregate amount of all such individual claims exceeds the Threshold, the Purchaser or  as the case may be  the Shareholder Loans Purchaser can claim the aggregate amount including the De Minimis Amounts and the Threshold (). For the avoidance of doubt, this section 7.3 shall not apply with respect to claims based on the indemnities set out in sections 8 and 9 of this Agreement.
Freigrenze
 
The Purchaser or  as the case may be  the Shareholder Loans Purchaser  shall not be entitled to bring any claim under this section 7 if the underlying facts or circumstances to which the claim relates were known, or if there was a grossly negligent lack of knowledge () of such underlying facts or circumstances, by the persons identified in . Section 377 HGB shall not apply. Section 442 BGB shall apply with respect to the knowledge of the persons identified in Exhibit 7.4.
grob fahrlssige Unkenntnis
Exhibit 7.4
mutatis mutandis
 
All claims of the Purchaser and the Shareholder Loans Purchaser pursuant to this section 7 shall become time-barred () on 31 March 2008 (24:00 hours German time), except for claims under this section 7 in connection with section 6.2.1, section 6.2.3, 6.2.6 and 6.2.11.
verjhren
Claims under this section 7 in connection with section 6.2.1 and section 6.2.3 shall become time-barred on 31 December 2014.
Claims under this section 7 in connection with section 6.2.6 shall become time-barred on 31 December 2010.
Claims under this section 7 in connection with section 6.2.11 shall be time-barred at the later of (i) three (3) months after the final and non appealable assessment () of the relevant Tax or (ii) three (3) months after the date on which the relevant statute of limitation for assessment of the Tax (taking into account all relevant suspensions ()) has expired, and (iii) in no event later than 31 December 2014 except in the case of criminal or administrative offences related to Taxes () and in the case of Tax Contests related to Taxes in which case the relevant claims of the Purchaser shall become time-barred only three (3) months after the final and non appealable assessment () of the relevant Tax.
bestandskrftige Festsetzung
Ablaufhemmung
Steuerstraftaten, Steuerordnungswidrigkeiten
bestandskrftige Festsetzung
Section 203 BGB shall not apply.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For the avoidance of doubt, it is understood that any Tax refunds resulting from a carry back of Tax losses incurred after the Effective Date into a Tax assessment period prior to or ending on the Effective Date shall not limit the Sellers' indemnification obligation pursuant to this section 8.1.1. It is further understood that the Sellers' indemnification obligation pursuant to this section 8.1.1 in respect of corporate income tax and trade tax payable by, or imposed on, the Company shall be mitigated, if and to the extent Tax loss carry forwards for corporate income tax and trade tax purposes are available as of the Effective Date in excess of the respective amounts set out in 8.1.1 (iii) and can be used to reduce the corporate income tax or trade tax that would otherwise be payable by the Company.
 
 
Seller 1 shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and make, or cause to be made, all Tax filings for the Companies required to be filed by or on behalf of the Companies after the Closing Date for periods including the period ending on the Effective Date. Such Tax filings shall be prepared by Seller 1, subject to the Purchaser's approval, on a basis consistent with those prepared for prior Tax assessment periods, provided that applicable law so allows. Seller 1 and
 
Purchaser shall fully co-operate in connection with any Tax matter relating to any Tax assessment or time periods ending on or before the Effective Date, including the preparation and filing of any Tax Return and transfer pricing documentation. Such co-operation shall include, without limitation, providing or making available all relevant books, records and documentation and the assistance of officers and employees. KPMG Deutsche Treuhand-Gesellschaft Aktiengesellschaft Wirtschaftsprfungsgesellschaft, Hamburg, shall be mandated to prepare all Tax filings for the Companies required to be filed by or on behalf of them after the Closing Date for periods including the period ending on the Effective Date.
 
The Purchaser covenants to the Sellers that except as required by any Tax Authority or otherwise compelled by mandatory law and after having given Sellers' Agent the opportunity to intervene, the Purchaser will not cause or permit the Companies to make or change any Tax election, amend any Tax Return or take any Tax position on any Tax Return or take any action, omit to take any action or enter into any transaction with retroactive effect for Tax purposes prior to the Effective Date that results in any increased Tax liability (including a Tax indemnification liability) of the Sellers.
 
 
 
 
 
If the Company and/or the Subsidiary will receive a Tax refund relating to any Tax period ending on or before the Effective Date (to the extent not reflected in the Q4 Financial Statements of the Company as an asset), the amount of the Tax refund shall be paid by the Purchaser to the Sellers. The Purchaser shall duly notify the Sellers of any Tax refund relating to any period ending on or before the Effective Date. If and to the extent the respective Tax refund is a result of a benefit (such as e.g. a decrease in any Tax base or income item) attributable to a period or portion thereof ending on or before the Effective Date which triggers corresponding charges (such as e.g. increases of any Tax base or income item) attributable to a period or portion thereof after the Effective Date (""; ), then the amount of the Tax to be refunded shall be reduced by the Tax attributable to such Reverse Effects, whereby future Tax burdens shall be calculated on the basis of the Tax rates and Tax laws in force and effect at the time when the Tax refund is claimed by the Sellers or at such time enacted to come into force.
Reverse Effects
Umkehreffekte
 
With regard to all claims of the Purchaser against the Sellers under this section 8 the Sellers shall not be jointly and severally liable () but only be liable as partial debtors () to the following percentages: Seller 1 to 90% and Seller 2 to 10%.
keine gesamtschuldnerische Haftung
teilschuldnerische Haftung
The liabilities of the Sellers under this section 8 shall neither be subject to the De Minimis Amount nor the Threshold as stipulated in section 7.3. The aggregate liability of Seller 1 under this section 8 is limited to a maximum amount
 
of EUR 5,000,000.00 (in words: Euro five million). The aggregate liability of Seller 2 under this section 8 is limited to a maximum amount of EUR 200,000.00 (in words: Euro two hundred thousand).
As far as a claim of the Purchaser against Seller 2 under this section 8 exceeds an amount of EUR 200,000.00 (in words: Euro two hundred thousand), the Purchaser can, despite the liability of the Sellers as partial debtors (), claim such excess amount from Seller 1 ().
Teilschuldner
Ausfallhaftung
The aggregate liability of Seller 1 under this section 8 together with its aggregate liability under and pursuant to section 7.2.2 shall in no event exceed EUR 5,000,000.00 (in words: Euro five million) and the aggregate liability of Seller 2 under this section 8 together with its aggregate liability under and pursuant to sections 7.2.2, 9.3.2 and 10.2 shall in no event exceed EUR 594,324.75 (in words: Euro five hundred ninety four thousand three hundred twenty four and seventy five Eurocent).
 
Claims of the Purchaser under this section 8 shall be time-barred at the later of (i) three (3) months after the final and non appealable assessment () of the relevant Tax or (ii) three (3) months after the date on which the relevant statute of limitation for assessment of the Tax (taking into account all relevant suspensions ()) has expired, however (iii) in no event later than 31 December 2014, except in the case of criminal or administrative offences related to Taxes () and in the case of Tax Contests related to Taxes in which case the relevant claims of Purchaser shall be time-barred only three (3) months after the final and non appealable assessment of the relevant Tax. Section 203 BGB shall not apply.
bestandskrftige Festsetzung
Ablaufhemmung
Steuerstraftaten, Steuerordnungswidrigkeiten
 
Payments by the Sellers to the Purchaser or by the Purchaser to the Sellers pursuant to this section 8 shall constitute a reduction or increase of the Purchase Price, as the case may be. If and to the extent payments are made by the Sellers to any of the Companies at the election of the Purchaser, such payments shall be construed and deemed as a payment (either as a contribution () or a loan) by the Purchaser, directly or indirectly, into the respective Company.
Einlage
 
In the event that a claim of the Purchaser may be based on either a breach of a guarantee under section 6.2.11 (Tax) or an indemnification under this section
 
8, the Purchaser may freely elect on which ground he demands payment, it being understood that payment may not be obtained for more than once (no double counting).
 
The Purchaser is not interested in the continuation of the employment relationships of the employees and the managing director () of the Company listed in (""). The Sellers shall cause the Company to use its best efforts to immediately terminate the employment relationships with the Redundant Employees effective as of the next legally admissible date, e.g. by means of a unilateral notice of termination or a mutual termination agreement. Any change to the individuals listed as Redundant Employees requires the consent of Purchaser and Seller 1 which shall not be unreasonably withheld.
Geschftsfhrer
Exhibit 9.1
Redundant Employees
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As far as a claim of the Purchaser against Seller 2 under this section 9 exceeds an amount of EUR 200,000.00 (in words: Euro two hundred thousand), the Purchaser can, despite the liability of the Sellers as partial debtors (), claim such excess amount from Seller 1 ().
Teilschuldner
Ausfallhaftung
Seller 1's aggregate liability under this section 9 is not capped.
 
 
Section 7.6 shall apply .
mutatis mutandis
 
In the event that, after the Effective Date, provisions () for Redundancy Costs which are shown in the Q4 Financial Statements are dissolved until 31 December 2010 due to the fact that such provisions are no longer required because it turns out that the underlying liability will not materialise, the Purchaser shall, within ten (10) Business Days, pay an amount equal to the reduction of the provisions for the Redundancy Costs to Seller 1 and Seller 2 to the following percentages: Seller 1 to 90%, Seller 2 to 10%.
Rckstellungen
 
 
 
For the avoidance of doubt, with regard to all claims of the Purchaser against the Sellers under this section 10 the Sellers shall, pursuant to section 7.2.1, not be jointly and severally liable () but only be liable as partial debtors () to the following percentages: Seller 1 to 90% and Seller 2 to 10%.
keine gesamtschuldnerische Haftung
teilschuldnerische Haftung
Seller 2's aggregate liability under this section 10 shall be limited to EUR 200,000.00 (in words: Euro two hundred thousand) and, together with its aggregate liability under sections 7.2.2, 8.6 and 9.3.2, shall in no event exceed EUR 594,324.75 (in words: Euro five hundred ninety four thousand three hundred twenty four and seventy five Eurocent).
As far as a claim of the Purchaser against Seller 2 under this section 10 exceeds an amount of EUR 200,000.00 (in words: Euro two hundred thousand), the Purchaser can, despite the liability of the Sellers as partial debtors (), claim such excess amount from Seller 1 ().
Teilschuldner
Ausfallhaftung
Seller 1's aggregate liability under this section 10 is not capped.
 
In no event shall the Purchaser or the Company be entitled to acknowledge or settle a claim or permit any such acknowledgement or settlement without Sellers' Agent's prior written consent. The Purchaser and the Company shall fully cooperate with Sellers' Agent in collecting such payments from Olympus Corporation, provide Sellers' Agent and its representatives access to the relevant business records and documents and permit Sellers' Agent and its representatives to consult with the directors, employees and representatives of the Purchaser and the Company in connection with such measures and proceedings.
 
All reasonable costs and expenses incurred by the Purchaser or the Company in connection with the measures described in the foregoing sentences of this section 10.3 shall be borne by the Sellers. As between them, the Sellers shall bear the costs to the following percentages: Seller 1 to 90%, Seller 2 to 10%.
The failure of the Purchaser to fully comply with its obligations under this section 10.3 shall not exclude or limit the claims of the Purchaser or the Shareholder Loans Purchaser under this Agreement if the failure of such compliance has not materially prejudiced the Sellers.
 
The Purchaser hereby guarantees by way of an independent guarantee pursuant to section 311 (1) BGB ():
selbstndiges Garantieversprechen im Sinne des  311 Abs. 1 BGB
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If and to the extent that the Purchaser fails to provide restitution in kind within the period set out in the foregoing sentence, the Sellers, at the election of the Sellers' Agent, shall be entitled to claim for monetary damage compensation () instead of restitution in kind.
Schadenersatz in Geld
The obligations under the foregoing sentences exist regardless of any fault or negligence () of the Purchaser.
Verschulden
The damage compensation shall only cover (i) actual damages, (ii) consequential damages (), and (iii) lost profits, in each case as far as such damages are recoverable under sections 249 et seq. BGB. For the avoidance of doubt, damage compensation shall not cover internal administration or overhead costs and expenses of the Sellers. The Sellers shall not be entitled to argue that the Purchase Price and/or the Shareholder Loans Remuneration was calculated upon incorrect assumptions.
Folgeschden, mittelbare Schden
The aggregate amount of the Purchaser's liability for breach of any of the guarantees pursuant to section 11.1 shall be EUR 2,500,000.00 (in words: two million five hundred thousand). All claims of the Sellers arising under this section 11 shall become time-barred () on 31 March 2008 (24:00 hours German time), except for claims based on a breach of the guarantee given under section 11.1.1 which shall become time-barred on 31 December 2014.
verjhren
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Except for the measures and transactions listed in , the Sellers shall between the Signing Date and the later of the Effective Date and the Closing Date procure that the Business will be conducted in the ordinary course and substantially in line with past practice, and, to the extent permissible under applicable law, will (i) without the written consent of the Purchaser not sell, transfer, otherwise dispose of (save from the Measures), or create any encumbrances on, any Companies' Shares or rights or claims under the Shareholder Loans, and (ii) use best efforts to ensure that with respect to any of the Companies without the written consent of the Purchaser (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld) none of the following shall occur:
Exhibit 12.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Purchaser may mitigate the Purchase Price in the event that (i) between the Signing Date and the Effective Date the Companies sustain a loss or damage on account of fire, flood, explosion, death, strike or any other cause (whether similar or not and including breaches of obligations of the Sellers under section 12.2) which materially and adversely affects the value of the Shares or the manner in which the Companies can continue to carry out their business in substantially the same manner as it is now carried on and (ii) such loss or damage exceeds EUR 5,000,000.00 (in words: Euro five million) (hereinafter referred to as the "").
MAC
The Purchaser must notify Sellers' Agent in writing and in reasonable detail without undue delay () of any circumstances which in his reasonable opinion give rise to a MAC and its intention to mitigate the Purchase Price pursuant to the foregoing sentence. However, the right of the Purchaser to mitigate the Purchase Price shall elapse on 31 March 2007 (24:00 hours German time) if not notified before.
unverzglich
The mitigation shall be such amount as in all the circumstances reasonable and as agreed between Sellers' Agent and the Purchaser. If the Sellers' Agent and
 
 
After the Closing Date, the Purchaser shall afford to the Sellers and their representatives access, upon reasonable advance notice, to accounting, financial and other records (and allow them to make copies thereof), as well as to other information, management, employees and auditors of the Companies to the extent necessary for the Sellers in connection with any audit, investigation, dispute or litigation or any other reasonable business purpose of the Sellers. The Purchaser shall keep, and procure that the Companies will keep, all books and records relating to any period prior to the later of the Closing Date and 31 December 2006 in accordance with and during the periods required under applicable law.
 
 
 
 
The Purchaser shall not, within a period of 12 (twelve) months following the Closing Date, relocate the core business of the Company from Hamburg, it being understood that such core business encompasses the research, development and manufacturing operations for the Opera and Cytoclone products. The Purchaser may elect to relocate selected portions of the business as currently carried out by the Companies.
 
Upon request of the Purchaser, Seller 1 agrees to support, to the extent permissible by law, any potential hiring of Seller 1's personnel by the Company that is presently dedicated exclusively to the Company's business.
 
Seller 1 undertakes not to and to procure that its Affiliates will not, for the period ending three years after the Closing Date:
 
 
 
Seller 1 and Purchaser hereby undertake, for a period of 6 (six) months following the Signing Date, to fully cooperate and use their best efforts to notify and contact the relevant authorities with respect to the public grants listed in in order to prevent revocation of already committed public grants or repayment of public grants already received by the Company in connection with the transactions contemplated under this Agreement or the intended use () of the Intellectual Property Rights by the Purchaser or any of its Affiliates outside of the European Union as described in .
Exhibit 12.9 (a)
Verwertung
Exhibit 12.9 (b)
 
The Sellers shall cooperate with the Purchaser and the Shareholder Loans Purchaser in good faith regarding the Measures. The documents drafted by or on behalf of the Sellers for the implementation of the Measures shall only be used after such documents have been discussed with the Purchaser and its advisors in good faith.
 
The Parties mutually undertake to keep the existence and the contents of this Agreement secret and confidential vis--vis any Third Party (with the exception of the Companies) except to the extent that the relevant facts are publicly known or disclosure is required by law or applicable stock exchange or other regulatory requirements. In such case, the Parties shall, however, inform each other prior to such disclosure and shall limit any disclosure to the minimum required by law or applicable stock exchange or other regulatory requirements. No press releases or other public communication regarding the transactions contemplated by this Agreement shall be made by either Party without the prior written consent of the other Parties.
 
In the unlikely event that this Agreement is terminated without the Closing having been consummated, the Purchaser and the Purchaser's Guarantor undertake to keep confidential all information received from the Sellers or the Companies in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and to return all documents and information embodied otherwise which they received from the Sellers or any of the Companies, together with any copies thereof, and to destroy all documents and information embodied otherwise it produced based on information received from the Sellers, unless such information is in the public domain without breach of a confidentiality obligation towards the Sellers. The Purchaser and the Purchaser's Guarantor shall not be entitled to any retention right with respect to such documents or information.
 
The Purchaser's Guarantor hereby guarantees by way of an independent promise of guarantee pursuant to section 311 (1) BGB ( i.S.d.  311 Abs. 1 BGB) the proper fulfillment of all of the obligations of the Purchaser and the Shareholder Loans Purchaser pursuant to this Agreement, in particular, but not limited to, the payment of the Preliminary Purchase Price on the Closing Date.
selbstndiges Garantieversprechen
All transfer taxes, (including real estate transfer taxes, if any), stamp duties, fees (including notarial fees for the notarization of this Agreement), registration duties and any other charges and costs payable in connection with the execution of this Agreement and the implementation of the transactions contemplated hereby shall be borne by the Purchaser. All charges, costs and fees which result from the filings under the merger control laws shall be borne by the Purchaser. Each Party shall bear its own expenses, including the costs and fees of its advisors, incurred in connection with this Agreement; section 4.3 sentence 3 of this Agreement shall remain unaffected.
 
All declarations, notices or other communications hereunder (hereinafter referred to as the "") shall be made in writing in the English language and delivered by hand or by courier or by facsimile to the person at the addresses set forth below, or such other addresses as may be designated by the respective Party to the other Parties in the same manner:
Notices
 
Evotec AG
Attn.: Chief Financial Officer / Head of Legal
Schnackenburgallee 114
D-22525 Hamburg
Fax-no.: + 49 (40) 560 81 333
 
Pfizer Inc.
Attn.: Allen Waxman, Senior Vice President and General Counsel
235 East 42nd Street
New York
N.Y. 10117
USA
Fax no.: +1 (212) 309 0564
 
Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer
Attn.: Dr. Christoph H. Seibt
Alsterarkaden 27
D-20354 Hamburg
Fax no.: +49 (40) 36 90 62 05
 
Perkin Elmer, Inc.
Attn.: Jack Healy
45 William Street
Wellesley
MA 02481
USA
Fax no.: +1 (781) 4314115
 
Lovells
Attn.: Dr. Lutz Angerer
Karl-Scharnagl-Ring 5
D-80539 Munich
Fax no: +49 (89) 29012 222
 
The Parties are to, without being legally obliged to, communicate any change of their respective addresses set forth in section 16.1 as soon as possible in writing to the respective other Parties. Until such communication, the address as hitherto shall be relevant.
 
The receipt of copies of Notices by the Parties' advisors shall not constitute or substitute the receipt of such Notices by the Parties themselves. Any Notice shall be deemed received by a Party regardless of whether any copy of such Notice has been sent to or received by an advisor of such Party or the acting notary, irrespective of whether the delivery of such copy was mandated by this Agreement.
If and to the extent insurance policies have been taken out by Seller 1 as policy holder () for the benefit of the Companies () Seller 1 shall be entitled to terminate any such insurance policy with effect as of the later of the Closing Date and the Effective Date. Following this date, it shall be the sole responsibility of the Purchaser to provide appropriate insurance coverage for each of the Companies and their respective businesses.
Versicherungsnehmer
fr fremde Rechnung
 
This Agreement shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of Germany, excluding the United Nations Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods (CISG) and the German conflict of laws rules.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Any right of the Purchaser to set-off and/or to withhold any payments due under this Agreement is hereby expressly waived and excluded except for claims which are undisputed or .
res iudicatae
 
Without the prior written consent of the other Parties, no Party shall be entitled to assign, in whole or in part, any rights and obligations under this Agreement. The Sellers hereby consent to the assignment by the Purchaser or the Shareholder Loans Purchaser of any rights and obligations under this Agreement to any Affiliate of the Purchaser or the Shareholder Loans Purchaser, as the case may be.
 
Any amendment or supplementation of this Agreement, including of this section 18.5, shall be valid only if made in writing, except where a stricter form (e.g. notarization) is required under applicable law.
 
This Agreement is written in the English language (except that Exhibits may be partly in the German language). If the English legal meaning differs from the German legal meaning of this Agreement and its terms, the German meaning shall prevail. Terms to which a German translation has been added shall be interpreted throughout this Agreement in the meaning assigned to them by the German translation.
 
The headings and sub-headings in this Agreement are inserted for convenience and reference purposes only and shall not affect the interpretation of this Agreement.
 
This Agreement, including the Exhibits attached hereto which form an integral part of the Agreement, constitutes the full understanding of the Parties and the complete and exclusive statements of the terms and conditions of the Parties' agreements relating to the subject matter hereof and supersedes any and all prior agreements and understandings, whether written or oral, that may exist between the Parties with respect to the subject matter of this Agreement or parts thereof.
 
Should any provision of this Agreement be or become invalid, ineffective or unenforceable as a whole or in part, the validity, effectiveness and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not be affected thereby. The Parties shall replace such invalid, ineffective or unenforceable provision by such valid, effective and enforceable provision as comes closest to the economic intent and the purpose of such invalid, ineffective or unenforceable provision as regards subject-matter, amount, time, place and extent. The aforesaid shall apply to any gap in this Agreement.
mutatis mutandis
 
This Agreement shall not grant any rights to, and is not intended to operate for, the benefit of Third Parties unless otherwise explicitly provided for herein. Wherever under this Agreement (i) any party other than the Purchaser or the Shareholder Loans Purchaser is to be indemnified by the Sellers, or (ii) any party other than the Sellers is to be indemnified by the Purchaser, such other parties, in particular the Companies, are not entitled to bring any claims for indemnification against the Sellers, the Purchaser or the Shareholder Loans Purchaser, as the case may be ().
kein echter Vertrag zu Gunsten Dritter
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
November 30, 2006
 
 
 
PerkinElmer, Inc. (NYSE: PKI) today announced that it has signed a definitive agreement with Evotec AG (Frankfurt Stock Exchange: EVT, TecDAX 30) to acquire its majority owned subsidiary, Evotec Technologies GmbH, in a cash transaction valued at approximately EUR 23 million. Based in Hamburg, Germany, Evotec Technologies is a leading provider of high performance screening instrumentation and analysis software. The transaction is subject to regulatory approvals and other customary closing conditions, and is targeted to be completed in the first quarter of 2007.
BOSTON 
Through this acquisition, PerkinElmer will provide its customers in the pharmaceutical, biotechnology and academic arenas with Evotec Technologies' high content screening (HCS) instruments and software. These analysis tools efficiently and accurately determine the composition of cells and cell structure, a critical step in moving potential drug targets quickly through the discovery process.
"Our customers today require unique, flexible tools and platforms that produce better quality and biologically relevant data for mapping cellular events to new discoveries," said Gregory L. Summe, chairman and chief executive officer, PerkinElmer, Inc. "Evotec Technologies' strong product portfolio  combined with PerkinElmer's global distribution capabilities, service and support  will help our customers speed target validation and lead optimization along the drug discovery pipeline."
Evotec Technologies' product portfolio includes the popular Opera HCS platform, a premier tool for high content analysis that combines the precision of confocal microscopy with the throughput required for primary and secondary screening. The complete Evotec Technologies product collection includes high content cellular analysis and screening systems; cell manipulation and sorting systems; image capture and cellular analysis software; and integrated ultra high throughput screening platforms.
Factors Affecting Future Performance
This press release contains "forward-looking" statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including, but not limited to, statements relating to estimates and projections of future earnings per share and revenue growth and other financial results, developments relating to our customers and end-markets, and plans concerning business development opportunities. Words such as "believes," "intends," "anticipates," "plans," "expects," "projects," "forecasts," "will" and similar expressions, and references to guidance, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Such statements are based on management's current assumptions and expectations and no assurances can be given that our assumptions or expectations will prove to be correct. A number of important risk factors could cause actual results to differ materially from the results described, implied or projected in any forward-looking statements. These factors include, without limitation: (1) our failure to introduce new products in a timely manner; (2) our ability to execute acquisitions and license technologies, or to successfully integrate acquired businesses and licensed technologies into our existing business or to make them profitable; (3) our failure to protect adequately our intellectual property; (4) the loss of any of our licenses or licensed rights; (5) our ability to compete effectively; (6) fluctuation in our quarterly operating results and our ability to adjust our operations to address unexpected changes; (7) our ability to produce an adequate quantity of products to meet our customers' demands; (8) our failure to maintain compliance with applicable government regulations; (9) regulatory changes; (10) economic, political and other risks associated with foreign operations; (11) our ability to retain key personnel; (12) restrictions in our credit agreement; (13) our ability to realize the full value of our intangible assets; and (14) other factors which we describe under the caption "Risk Factors" in our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and in our most recent quarterly report on Form 10-Q and in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We disclaim any intention or obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of developments occurring after the date of this press release.
Other Information
Health Sciences end markets include genetic screening, environmental, service, biopharma, and medical imaging. Photonics markets include sensors and specialty lighting.
information is available through www.perkinelmer.com or 1-877-PKI-NYSE.
PerkinElmer, Inc. is a global technology leader driving growth and innovation in Health Sciences and Photonics markets to improve the quality of life. The Company reported revenues of $1.5 billion in 2005, has 8,000 employees serving customers in more than 125 countries, and is a component of the S&P 500 Index. Additional
For further information regarding PerkinElmer, please contact:
 


