FILE:PKI/PKI-8K-20070731141442.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
 
 
 
 
On July 26, 2007, PerkinElmer, Inc. (the "Company") announced that its Board of Directors (the "Board") has approved a leadership succession plan. On July 25, 2007, the Board elected Robert F. Friel to the position of President and Chief Operating Officer of the Company, effective August 1, 2007. He had previously served as Vice Chairman of the Company and President of the Life and Analytical Sciences Strategic Business Unit and he remains a Director of the Company. It is expected that the Board will elect Mr. Friel Chief Executive Officer in February 2008.
Gregory L. Summe, who will continue to hold the title of President through July 31, 2007, will remain Chief Executive Officer until Mr. Friel is appointed to that position, at which time Mr. Summe will be appointed Executive Chairman. As Executive Chairman, Mr. Summe will continue to work with the Company as directed by the Board at a reduced schedule until the earlier of April 21, 2009 or the date of the Company's 2009 annual meeting of shareholders (the "2009 Meeting Date"), subject to the terms of Mr. Summe's amended and restated employment agreement with the Company, described below. The Board intends that Mr. Summe will remain a Director of the Company until the 2009 Meeting Date, at which time Mr. Summe will step down as Chairman and a member of the Board.
Experience
Mr. Friel, age 51, has been Vice Chairman of the Company and a member of the Board since January 2006 and President of the Company's Life and Analytical Sciences division since February 2006. Mr. Friel joined the Company in February 1999 as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. In 2004, he was named Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer with responsibility for business development and information technology, in addition to his oversight of the finance functions. From 1980 to 1999, he held several positions at AlliedSignal, Inc., now Honeywell International, including Corporate Vice President and Treasurer from 1997 to 1999 and Vice President, Finance and Administration of Aerospace Engines from 1992 to 1996. Mr. Friel holds a Bachelor of Arts degree in economics from Lafayette College and a Master of Science degree in taxation from Fairleigh Dickinson University. He is a director of Millennium Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and Fairchild Semiconductor, Inc.
Mr. Friel's Employment Arrangement
Mr. Friel entered into an employment agreement with the Company in June 2004. On July 25, 2007, in connection with this leadership transition, the Compensation Committee of the Board approved changes to Mr. Friel's compensation in recognition of his increased responsibility to the Company. Under this arrangement, his annual base salary will increase to $700,000, effective August 1, 2007.
Mr. Summe's Restated Employment Agreement
In connection with the leadership succession plan described above, on July 25, 2007, Mr. Summe and the Company entered into a Second Amended and Restated Employment Agreement (the "Restated Employment Agreement"), which terminates on the 2009 Meeting Date or Mr. Summe's earlier resignation, termination or death. Under the Restated Employment Agreement, until February 1, 2008, Mr. Summe's annual base salary remains $1,000,000 and he continues to be eligible to participate in certain employee benefit plans, including the Company's supplemental executive retirement plan (the "SERP"), as well as the Company's short-term performance incentive plan (the "PIP"). To reflect his reduced schedule as Executive Chairman, from and after February 1, 2008, Mr. Summe's annual base salary will be reduced to $500,000. His participation in the PIP will continue for 2008
 
and for 2009 (pro rated in 2009 for the portion of the year in which he serves as Executive Chairman) at his current award opportunity levels, which are expressed as a percentage of base salary. Mr. Summe will not be eligible for new awards under the Company's equity or long-term incentive programs during the 2008 and 2009 fiscal years, and his outstanding restricted stock awards, stock options and performance unit awards will continue to be governed by the pre-existing applicable award agreements. Under the Restated Employment Agreement, Mr. Summe also agreed to specific limitations on the timing and amount of dispositions he may make of his shares of the Company's common stock (or options for the same) through the 2009 Meeting Date.
Other provisions in the Restated Employment Agreement generally remain the same as under Mr. Summe's previous employment agreement. For example, in the event of a change in control of the Company, which definition remains unchanged from his previous agreement (a "Change in Control"), Mr. Summe's outstanding shares of restricted stock and options will vest in full, the period in which he may exercise such options will be extended for a specified period, and he both vests in full in the Company's SERP and is credited with three additional years of service for the SERP, as provided previously. If after a Change in Control, he is terminated without cause, as defined in the Restated Employment Agreement ("Cause"), or resigns for good reason as defined in the Restated Employment Agreement, he will continue to be entitled to receive a severance payment and continuation of benefits on similar terms and timing (or with adjustments to timing necessary to satisfy specified tax provisions, as detailed in the Restated Employment Agreement) as he was previously.
Under the Restated Employment Agreement, in the absence of a Change in Control, if Mr. Summe is terminated without Cause before February 1, 2008 he will receive certain salary and bonus payments, continuation of benefits, and treatment of his outstanding equity awards on the same terms as under his previous agreement. If he is terminated without Cause during his term as Executive Chairman, he will receive certain salary and bonus payments and certain benefits through the 2009 Meeting Date, his outstanding shares of restricted stock will vest to the extent they would have vested as of the 2009 Meeting Date and the period in which he will be able to exercise his already vested options will be extended for a year after his termination, or through the original term of the option, whichever is earlier.
In addition, the Restated Employment Agreement provides that Mr. Summe will maintain the confidentiality of Company information during the period of his employment and thereafter.
This description of the Restated Employment Agreement is fully qualified by reference to the Restated Employment Agreement, which is attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 10.1 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
 
On July 26, 2007, the Company issued a press release announcing the succession plan described above in Item 5.02. A copy of the Company's press release is filed with this Form 8-K and attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
This Second Amended and Restated Employment Agreement (the "Agreement") is entered into as of the 25th day of July, 2007 between PerkinElmer, Inc., a Massachusetts corporation (hereinafter called the "Company"), and Gregory L. Summe (hereinafter referred to as the "Employee").
WHEREAS, the Employee and the Company entered into an Amended and Restated Employment Agreement effective as of the 8
th
day of January, 2004 (the "First Restated Agreement"); and
WHEREAS, the parties desire to provide for an orderly transition to the Employee's successor as President and Chief Executive Officer ("CEO") of the Company between the date hereof and the date of the Company's 2009 Annual Meeting of Shareholders (the "2009 Meeting Date"), when (unless sooner terminated as provided for herein) the Employee's employment with the Company and this Agreement will terminate; and
WHEREAS, in connection with the foregoing, the Employee and the Company wish to amend and restate the First Restated Agreement, with this Agreement to supersede all prior employment agreements between the parties;
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants herein contained and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt of which is hereby acknowledged, the parties agree as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, upon the termination of this Agreement as provided above, all of the Company's obligations under this Agreement, including, but not limited to, making payments to the Employee, shall immediately cease and terminate.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
"If a Change in Control of the Company occurs prior to February 1, 2008, except as hereinafter otherwise provided, the Company agrees to continue to employ the Employee in the position of Chief Executive Officer of the Company, and the Employee agrees to remain in the employment in the Company in that capacity, until February 1, 2008. Except as provided in Paragraph 4(g), the Employee's salary as set forth in Paragraph 4(a) and his other employee benefits pursuant to the plans described in Paragraph 4(c) through 4(f) shall not be decreased during such period."
 
", provided that the Employee agrees not to resign, except for Good Reason (as defined below), until February 1,2008."
 
 
"Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions, if, prior to the 2009 Meeting Date, a Change in Control of the Company occurs, and the Employee's employment by the Company is terminated (i) by the Company other than for Cause, which shall not include any failure to perform his duties hereunder after giving notice of termination for Good Reason, disability or death or (ii) by the Employee for Good Reason, (A) the Company shall pay to the Employee, on the date of his employment termination, a lump sum cash payment in an amount equal to the sum of (x) his unpaid base salary through the date of termination, (y) a pro rata
 
 
 
"The Employee may pursue any lawful remedy he deems necessary or appropriate for enforcing his rights under this Agreement following a Change in Control of the Company, and all costs incurred by the Employee in connection therewith (including without limitation attorneys' fees) shall be promptly reimbursed to him by the Company, regardless of the outcome of such endeavor."
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused its seal to be hereunto affixed and these presents to be signed by its proper officers, and the Employee has hereunto set his hand and seal this 25
th
day of July, 2007, effective as of the day and year first above written.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
July 26, 2007
PerkinElmer, Inc. (NYSE:PKI) Chairman and CEO Gregory L. Summe, and the Board of Directors, announced today a succession plan that will continue the Company's growth strategy and provide strong leadership continuity.
WALTHAM, Mass. 
In the initial step, Robert F. Friel will become President and Chief Operating Officer of the Company effective August 1. It is expected that he will then be elected Chief Executive Officer in February 2008. At the time Rob Friel assumes the CEO role, Greg Summe will become Executive Chairman of the Board, and remain as such through the Annual Shareholders meeting in April 2009.
"This appointment is an important step in the succession plan that was put in place with the Board of Directors over the last several years," said Greg Summe. "The plan is consistent with my desire to transition from the role of Chief Executive Officer in 2008, after leading the Company for 10 years. During these years, I have had the privilege to guide the Company through its transformation from EG&G, a diversified government contractor to PerkinElmer, a global technology leader in Health Sciences and Photonics. I am very proud of what the organization has accomplished in building an industry leadership position. This is a good time for a succession; I believe the Company is in terrific shape with accelerating growth, strong profitability, and an experienced and talented leadership team."
Rob Friel, who joined the Company in 1999 as Chief Financial Officer, was appointed Vice Chairman, Director of the Company, and President of the Life and Analytical Sciences (LAS) business in 2006. In his new role, Friel will be responsible for LAS, as well as the Optoelectronics business. John Roush will continue to lead the Optoelectronics business as President, reporting to Friel. The Company does not intend to fill the LAS President position. The title of President of PerkinElmer, Inc. was previously held by Summe.
"Rob is the right person to lead the next phase of our development," said Summe. "His demonstrated leadership over the last eight years, and his deep understanding of our products, markets and organization have earned him the full confidence of the Board and our employees. My priority through April 2009, is to support Rob and the Board to ensure that this leadership transition goes smoothly."
Greg Summe joined PerkinElmer in January 1998 as President, Chief Operating Officer and Director of the Company, and became CEO in January 1999. In April 1999, Summe was elected Chairman. During his tenure, through operational improvements, a series of acquisitions and divestitures, and significant investments in innovation and organizational capability, the Company has delivered a compounded average annual return to shareholders of approximately 12.5%, considerably outperforming the major equity indices over that period.
Factors Affecting Future Performance
This press release contains "forward-looking" statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including, but not limited to, statements relating to estimates and projections of future earnings per share and revenue growth and other financial results, developments relating to our customers and end-markets, and plans concerning business development opportunities. Words such as "believes," "intends," "anticipates," "plans," "expects," "projects," "forecasts," "will" and similar expressions, and references to guidance, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Such statements are based on management's current assumptions and expectations and no assurances can be given that our assumptions or expectations will prove to be correct. A number of important risk factors could cause actual results to differ materially from the results described, implied or projected in any forward-looking statements. These factors include, without limitation: (1) our failure to introduce new products in a timely manner; (2) our ability to execute acquisitions and license technologies, or to successfully integrate acquired businesses and licensed technologies into our existing business or to make them profitable; (3) our failure to protect adequately our intellectual property; (4) the loss of any of our licenses or licensed rights; (5) our ability to compete effectively; (6) fluctuation in our quarterly operating results and our ability to adjust our operations to address unexpected changes; (7) our ability to produce an adequate quantity of products to meet our customers' demands; (8) our failure to maintain compliance with applicable government regulations; (9) regulatory changes; (10) economic, political and other risks associated with foreign operations; (11) our ability to retain key personnel; (12) restrictions in our credit agreement; (13) our ability to realize the full value of our intangible assets; and (14) other factors which we describe under the caption "Risk Factors" in our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and in our most recent quarterly report on Form 10-Q and in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We disclaim any intention or obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of developments occurring after the date of this press release.
PerkinElmer, Inc. is a global technology leader driving growth and innovation in Health Sciences and Photonics markets to improve the quality of life. The Company reported revenues of $1.55 billion in 2006, has 8,500 employees serving customers in more than 125 countries, and is a component of the S&P 500 Index. Additional information is available through or 1-877-PKI-NYSE.
www.perkinelmer.com
For further information regarding PerkinElmer, please contact:
 


