FILE:PKI/PKI-8K-20080125140028.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
Leadership Succession Plan
On January 23, 2008, in connection with its previously announced leadership succession plan, PerkinElmer, Inc. ("PerkinElmer" or the "Company") announced that its Board of Directors (the "Board") has elected Robert F. Friel to the position of Chief Executive Officer, effective February 1, 2008. Mr. Friel will continue to serve as President of the Company and remains a Director of the Company.
As part of the same transition, effective February 1, 2008, Gregory L. Summe will become Executive Chairman of the Board. As Executive Chairman, Mr. Summe will work with the Company at a reduced schedule until the earlier of April 21, 2009 or the date of the Company's 2009 annual meeting of shareholders, subject to the terms of his employment agreement with the Company.
Experience
Mr. Friel, age 52, served as President and Chief Operating Officer of the Company since August 1, 2007, Vice Chairman of the Company and a member of the Board since January 2006 and President of the Company's Life and Analytical Sciences division since February 2006. Mr. Friel joined the Company in February 1999 as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. In 2004, he was named Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer with responsibility for business development and information technology, in addition to his oversight of the finance functions. From 1980 to 1999, he held several positions at AlliedSignal, Inc., now Honeywell International, including Corporate Vice President and Treasurer from 1997 to 1999 and Vice President, Finance and Administration of Aerospace Engines from 1992 to 1996. Mr. Friel holds a Bachelor of Arts degree in economics from Lafayette College and a Master of Science degree in taxation from Fairleigh Dickinson University. He is a director of Millennium Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and Fairchild Semiconductor, Inc. Mr. Friel is not related to any Director or officer of PerkinElmer.
Mr. Friel's Restated Employment Agreement
In connection with the leadership succession plan described above, on January 23, 2008, the Compensation & Benefits Committee of the Board increased Mr. Friel's salary to $875,000, effective February 1, 2008. Mr. Friel also entered into a Second Amended and Restated Employment Agreement with the Company (the "Restated Employment Agreement"), which becomes effective on February 1, 2008.
Under the terms of the Restated Employment Agreement, Mr. Friel continues to be eligible to participate in the same employee benefit plans, including the Company's equity plans, supplemental executive retirement plan (the "SERP"), as well as the Company's short-term performance incentive plan. Certain provisions relating to timing and form of benefit payments have been updated in the Restated Employment Agreement as necessary to satisfy specified tax provisions.
In the event of a change in control of the Company, as defined in the Restated Employment Agreement (a "Change in Control"), Mr. Friel's outstanding shares of restricted stock, options or similar equity awards vest in full, the period in which he may exercise vested options extends for a specified period, and he both vests in full in the Company's SERP and is credited with three additional years of service for the SERP, as provided under his previous employment agreement. If, after a Change in Control, his
employment is terminated within thirty six months without cause, as defined in the Restated Employment Agreement ("Cause"), or resigns for good reason, as defined in the Restated Employment Agreement, including for a material diminution in salary or position that is not cured within the specified time period, he continues to be entitled to receive a severance payment and continuation of benefits on similar terms and timing (with adjustments to timing as necessary to satisfy specified tax provisions, as detailed in the Restated Employment Agreement) as he was previously.
Under the Restated Employment Agreement, in the absence of a Change in Control, in the event Mr. Friel's employment with the Company is terminated without Cause (for which one-year notice is no longer required), Mr. Friel is entitled to continued salary and benefits for two years after the termination (excluding equity awards, qualified retirement plans and incentive arrangements). In addition, his vested options will remain exercisable for a specified period and he will be credited with two additional years of service for the SERP at such termination. The Restated Employment Agreement also includes customary non-competition and non-solicitation terms for the period of Mr. Friel's employment and extending post-employment for the longer of one year or any period during which the Company pays him severance benefits under the Restated Employment Agreement.
This description of the Restated Employment Agreement is fully qualified by reference to the Restated Employment Agreement, which is attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 10.1 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 8.01 Regulation FD Disclosure
On January 23, 2008, the Company issued a press release announcing the leadership progression described above in Item 5.02. A copy of the Company's press release is filed with this Form 8-K and attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
This Second Amended and Restated Employment Agreement (the "Agreement") made as of this 1
st
day of February, 2008, between PerkinElmer, Inc., a Massachusetts corporation (hereinafter called the "Company"), and Robert F. Friel (hereinafter referred to as the "Employee").
WHEREAS, the Employee is employed by the Company in a management position pursuant to an Amended and Restated Employment Agreement effective as of the 8
th
day of January, 2004 (the "First Restated Agreement"); and
WHEREAS, the Employee and the Company wish to amend and restate the First Restated Agreement, with this Agreement to supersede all prior agreements between the parties;
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the sum of One Dollar, and of the mutual covenants herein contained, the parties agree as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
"Except as hereinafter otherwise provided, the Company agrees to continue to employ the Employee in the position of Chief Executive Officer and President of the Company, and the Employee agrees to remain in the employment in the Company in that capacity, for a period of three (3) years from the date of the Change in Control. Except as provided in Paragraph 3d, the Employee's salary as set forth in Paragraph 3a and his other employee benefits pursuant to the plans described in Paragraph 3c shall not be decreased during such period."
 
"provided that the Employee agrees not to resign, except for Good Reason (as defined below), during the one-year period following the date of the Change in Control."
 
"Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions, if, within 36 months following the occurrence of a Change in Control, the Employee's employment by the Company is terminated (i) by the Company
 
other than for Cause, which shall not include any failure to perform his duties hereunder after giving notice or termination for Good Reason, disability or death or (ii) by the Employee for Good Reason, (A) the Company shall pay to the Employee, on the date of his employment termination, a lump sum cash payment in an amount equal to the sum of (x) his unpaid base salary through the date of termination, (y) a pro rata portion of his prior year's bonus and (z) his Full Salary (as defined below) multiplied by three (provided, however, that if the Change in Control is not described in Section 409(a)(2)(v), such payment shall be made on the same schedule as provided in Paragraph 5(f) prior to the application of this Paragraph 6), and (B) the Employee shall for 36 months following such termination of employment be eligible to participate in all employee benefit plans and arrangements of the Company (such as life, health and disability insurance and automobile arrangements but excluding qualified retirement plans, incentive arrangements and grants of equity awards) to the same extent (including coverage of dependents, if any) and upon the same terms as were in effect immediately prior to the Change in Control to the extent the Employee was then eligible to participate in such benefit plans and arrangements of the Company. For purposes of this Agreement, "Full Salary" shall mean the Employee's then current annual base salary, plus the amount of any bonus or incentive payments excluding the cash portion of the Company's long-term incentive program) received by the Employee with respect to the last full fiscal year of the Company prior to the Change in Control for which all bonus or incentive payments (excluding the cash portion of the Company's long-term incentive program) to be made have been made."
 
"The Employee may pursue any lawful remedy he deems necessary or appropriate for enforcing his rights under this Agreement following a Change in Control of the Company, and all costs incurred by the Employee in connection therewith (including without limitation attorneys' fees) shall be promptly
 
reimbursed to him by the Company, regardless of the outcome of such endeavor."
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
[REMAINDER OF PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK]
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused its seal to be hereunto affixed and these presents to be signed by its proper officers, and the Employee has hereunto set his hand and seal this 23
rd
day of January, 2008, effective as of the day and year first above written.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
January 23, 2008
PerkinElmer, Inc. (NYSE: PKI), a global leader in Health Sciences and Photonics, today announced that Robert F. Friel has been elected Chief Executive Officer by the Company's Board of Directors effective February 1, 2008. He will also retain the title of President.
WALTHAM, Mass. 
Gregory L. Summe will continue in the role of Executive Chairman of the Board, and remain as such through the Annual Shareholders meeting in April 2009. Today's announcement is consistent with the Company's leadership succession plan announced in July 2007.
Friel joined PerkinElmer in 1999 as Chief Financial Officer, and was appointed Vice Chairman and President of its Life and Analytical Sciences business in 2006. In 2007, Friel was appointed President and Chief Operating Officer of the Company.
"I am honored by the Board's decision and look forward to leading PerkinElmer," said Friel. "The Company has a great set of businesses, outstanding employees and is well-positioned to continue to drive advancements in Health Sciences and Photonics. I look forward to building on the strong foundation to deliver sustainable growth."
"Rob has a long track record of results in a wide variety of challenging roles and knows the Company extremely well," said Summe. "The Board of Directors and I believe that Rob is the right leader to drive PerkinElmer's future growth and expansion, and look forward to his continued success."
Factors Affecting Future Performance
This press release contains "forward-looking" statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including, but not limited to, statements relating
to estimates and projections of future earnings per share, cash flow, revenue growth and other financial results, developments relating to our customers and end-markets, and plans concerning business development opportunities. Words such as "believes," "intends," "anticipates," "plans," "expects," "projects," "forecasts," "will" and similar expressions, and references to guidance, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Such statements are based on management's current assumptions and expectations and no assurances can be given that our assumptions or expectations will prove to be correct. A number of important risk factors could cause actual results to differ materially from the results described, implied or projected in any forward-looking statements. These factors include, without limitation: (1) our failure to introduce new products in a timely manner; (2) our ability to execute acquisitions and license technologies, or to successfully integrate acquired businesses and licensed technologies into our existing business or to make them profitable; (3) our failure to protect adequately our intellectual property; (4) the loss of any of our licenses or licensed rights; (5) our ability to compete effectively; (6) fluctuation in our quarterly operating results and our ability to adjust our operations to address unexpected changes; (7) our ability to produce an adequate quantity of products to meet our customers' demands; (8) our failure to maintain compliance with applicable government regulations; (9) regulatory changes; (10) our failure to comply with health care industry regulations; (11) economic, political and other risks associated with foreign operations; (12) our ability to retain key personnel; (13) restrictions in our credit agreements; (14) our ability to realize the full value of our intangible assets; and (15) other factors which we describe under the caption "Risk Factors" in our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and in our most recent quarterly report on Form 10-Q and in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We disclaim any intention or obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of developments occurring after the date of this press release.
PerkinElmer, Inc. is a global technology leader driving growth and innovation in Health Sciences and Photonics markets to improve the quality of life. The Company projects revenues of $1.8 billion in 2007, has 9,100 employees serving customers in more than 125 countries, and is a component of the S&P 500 Index. Additional information is available through or 1-877-PKI-NYSE.
www.perkinelmer.com
For further information regarding PerkinElmer, please contact:
 


