FILE:PKI/PKI-8K-20080124165504.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
______________
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): January 24, 2008
Registrants telephone number, including area code:
(781) 663-6900
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions
(
see
General Instruction A.2. below)
:
 - 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 - 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 2.02.
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On January 24, 2008, PerkinElmer, Inc. announced its financial results for the quarter ended December 30, 2007. The full text of the press release issued in connection with the announcement is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
The information in this Form 8-K (including Exhibit 99.1) shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)
Exhibits
The following exhibit relating to Item 2.02 shall be deemed to be furnished, and not filed:
99.1 Press Release entitled "PerkinElmer Announces Financial Results for the Fourth Quarter of 2007", issued by PerkinElmer, Inc. on January 24, 2008.
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit 99.1
PerkinElmer Announces Financial Results for the Fourth Quarter of 2007
Revenue of $511 million, up 20%
EPS from continuing operations of $0.46; Adjusted EPS of $0.45 exceeds guidance
Cash flow from continuing operations of $97 million, up 15%
WALTHAM, Mass.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--PerkinElmer, Inc. (NYSE: PKI), a global leader in Health Sciences and Photonics markets, today reported financial results for the fourth quarter and fiscal year ended December 30, 2007. For the fourth quarter 2007, the Company reported GAAP earnings per share from continuing operations of $0.46. On a non-GAAP basis, which includes the adjustments noted in the attached reconciliation, the Company announced adjusted earnings per share for the fourth quarter 2007 of $0.45, which is above the Companys previously forecasted range of $0.42 to $0.44.
Revenue for the fourth quarter 2007 was $511.5 million, an increase of 20% versus the fourth quarter 2006. Revenue growth was 19% in Life and Analytical Sciences and 22% in Optoelectronics, compared to the same period a year ago. From an end-market perspective, fourth quarter 2007 revenue from Health Sciences, which represented 84% of total revenues for the quarter, increased 19% over the fourth quarter 2006. This increase was driven by strong growth across most businesses, particularly in genetic screening, medical imaging, and analytical sciences. Changes in foreign exchange rates and acquisitions each contributed approximately 5% to the fourth quarter 2007 revenue growth.
Our excellent fourth quarter results finish off a year of strong growth for the Company, said Gregory L. Summe, Chairman and CEO of PerkinElmer, Inc. The solid fundamentals across our portfolio of businesses reflect the investments that we have made in new products, services and geographic expansion. During the quarter, we also completed the acquisition of ViaCell, a leader in the processing and storage of stem cells from umbilical cord blood. We believe that we are very well positioned to sustain our growth momentum in 2008.
GAAP operating profit for the fourth quarter 2007 was $51.1 million, compared to $52.2 million for the same period a year ago. On a non-GAAP basis, which includes the adjustments noted in the attached reconciliation, adjusted operating profit for the fourth quarter 2007 was $75.5 million, up 18% as compared to $64.0 million in the fourth quarter 2006.
The Company generated cash flow from continuing operations of $96.6 million in the fourth quarter 2007, up 15% over the prior year. In addition, the Company repurchased 1.0 million shares of its common stock in the fourth quarter 2007. This leaves approximately 1.9 million shares remaining of the Companys stock repurchase program. At December 30, 2007, the Company had cash and cash equivalents of $203.3 million and net debt (defined as long-term debt plus short-term debt, less cash and cash equivalents) of $313.3 million.
Financial Overview by Reporting Segment
reported revenue of $382.1 million for the fourth quarter 2007, up 19% from revenue of $320.6 million in the fourth quarter 2006, driven primarily by growth in the Companys genetic screening, analytical sciences, and laboratory services businesses, as well as a positive impact from acquisitions, new product introductions, and changes in foreign exchange rates.
Life and Analytical Sciences
The segments GAAP operating profit for the fourth quarter 2007 was $40.0 million, compared to $40.9 million for the same period a year ago. On a non-GAAP basis, which includes the adjustments noted in the attached reconciliation, the segments adjusted operating profit for the fourth quarter 2007 was $59.9 million, up 17% as compared to $51.3 million in the fourth quarter 2006.
reported revenue of $129.4 million for the fourth quarter 2007, up 22% from revenue of $106.3 million in the fourth quarter 2006, driven primarily by revenue growth in the Companys medical imaging and specialty lighting businesses, as well as a positive impact from new product introductions and changes in foreign exchange rates.
Optoelectronics
The segments GAAP operating profit for the fourth quarter 2007 was $22.6 million, compared to $19.8 million for the same period a year ago. On a non-GAAP basis, which includes the adjustments noted in the attached reconciliation, the segments adjusted operating profit for the fourth quarter 2007 was $26.2 million, up 28% as compared to $20.4 million in the fourth quarter 2006.
Financial Guidance
For the full year 2008, the Company expects revenue to increase in the low double digits to mid-teens, with acquisitions and changes in foreign exchange rates contributing approximately 500 basis points, and on a non-GAAP basis, which is expected to include the adjustments noted in the attached reconciliation, adjusted earnings per share to grow in the low double digits to mid-teens, which includes the previously announced earnings dilution from the ViaCell acquisition.
For the first quarter 2008, the Company projects revenue to increase in the low double digits to mid-teens with acquisitions and changes in foreign exchange rates contributing approximately 700 basis points. The Company expects to earn GAAP earnings per share in the range of $0.18 to $0.19, and on a non-GAAP basis, which is expected to include the adjustments noted in the attached reconciliation, adjusted earnings per share in the range of $0.26 to $0.27.
Conference Call Information
The Company will discuss its fourth quarter results in a conference call on January 24, 2008, at 5:00 p.m. Eastern Time (ET). To access the call, please dial (617) 597-5346 prior to the scheduled conference call time and provide the access code 69812791. A replay of this conference call will be available approximately two hours after the call. The replay phone number is (617) 801-6888 and the access code is 34068087.
A live audio webcast of the call will be available on the "Investors" section of our Web site, www.perkinelmer.com. Please go to the site at least 15 minutes prior to the call in order to register, download, and install any necessary software. An archived version of the webcast will be posted on our Web site approximately two hours after the call and will be available through February 24, 2008.
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
In addition to financial measures prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), this earnings announcement also contains non-GAAP financial measures. The reasons that we use these measures, a reconciliation of these measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures, and other information relating to these measures are included below following our GAAP financial statements.
Factors Affecting Future Performance
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including, but not limited to, statements relating to estimates and projections of future earnings per share, cash flow and revenue growth and other financial results, developments relating to our customers and end-markets, and plans concerning business development opportunities. Words such as believes, intends, anticipates, plans, expects, projects, forecasts, will and similar expressions, and references to guidance, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Such statements are based on managements current assumptions and expectations and no assurances can be given that our assumptions or expectations will prove to be correct. A number of important risk factors could cause actual results to differ materially from the results described, implied or projected in any forward-looking statements. These factors include, without limitation: (1) our failure to introduce new products in a timely manner; (2) our ability to execute acquisitions and license technologies, or to successfully integrate acquired businesses and licensed technologies into our existing business or to make them profitable; (3) our failure to protect adequately our intellectual property; (4) the loss of any of our licenses or licensed rights; (5) our ability to compete effectively; (6) fluctuation in our quarterly operating results and our ability to adjust our operations to address unexpected changes; (7) our ability to produce an adequate quantity of products to meet our customers demands; (8) our failure to maintain compliance with applicable government regulations; (9) regulatory changes; (10) our failure to comply with health care industry regulations; (11) economic, political and other risks associated with foreign operations; (12) our ability to retain key personnel; (13) restrictions in our credit agreements; (14) our ability to realize the full value of our intangible assets; and (15) other factors which we describe under the caption Risk Factors in our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and in our most recent quarterly report on Form 10-Q and in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We disclaim any intention or obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of developments occurring after the date of this press release.
PerkinElmer, Inc. is a global technology leader driving growth and innovation in Health Sciences and Photonics markets to improve the quality of life. The Company reported revenues of $1.8 billion in 2007, has 9,100 employees serving customers in more than 125 countries, and is a component of the S&P 500 Index.
Additional information is available through www.perkinelmer.com or 1-877-PKI-NYSE.
Adjusted Gross Margin and Adjusted Gross Margin Percentage
We use the term adjusted gross margin to refer to GAAP gross margin, excluding amortization of intangible assets and stock option expense, and including estimated revenue from contracts acquired in the ViaCell acquisition that will not be fully recognized due to business combination accounting rules. We use the related term adjusted gross margin percentage to refer to adjusted gross margin as a percentage of GAAP revenue. We believe that these non-GAAP measures, when taken together with our GAAP financial measures, allow us and our investors to better measure the performance of our investments in technology, to evaluate the long-term profitability trends and to assess our ability to invest in the business. We exclude amortization of intangible assets from these measures because intangibles amortization charges do not represent what our management and what we believe our investors consider to be costs of producing our products and could distort the additional value generated over the cost of producing those products. In addition, we exclude stock option expense from these measures because stock-based compensation plans and the critical assumptions used to calculate the expense vary dramatically between us and our peers, which we believe makes comparisons of long-term operating performance trends difficult for management and investors, and could result in overstating or understating to our investors the costs used in producing our products. We include estimated revenues from contracts acquired in the ViaCell acquisition that will not be fully recognized because our GAAP revenues for the periods subsequent to our acquisition do not reflect the full amount of storage revenue on these contracts that would have otherwise been recorded by ViaCell. The non-GAAP adjustment is intended to reflect the full amount of such revenue. Our management and we believe our investors will use this adjustment as a measure of the ongoing performance of the ViaCell business because customers have historically renewed these contracts, although there can be no assurance that customers will do so in the future.
Adjusted Selling, General and Administrative (SG&A) Expense and Adjusted SG&A Percentage
We use the term adjusted SG&A expense to refer to GAAP SG&A expense, excluding amortization of intangible assets, significant legal settlements and stock option expense. We use the related term adjusted SG&A percentage to refer to adjusted SG&A expense as a percentage of GAAP revenue. We believe that these non-GAAP measures, when taken together with our GAAP financial measures, allow us and our investors to better measure the cost of the internal operating structure, our ability to leverage that structure and the level of investment required to grow our business. We exclude amortization of intangible assets and significant legal settlements from these measures because intangibles amortization charges and significant legal settlements do not represent what our management and what we believe our investors consider to be costs that support our internal operating structure and could distort the efficiencies of that structure. We also exclude stock option expense from these measures because stock-based compensation plans and the critical assumptions used to calculate the expense vary dramatically between us and our peers, which we believe makes comparisons of long-term operating performance trends difficult for management and investors, and could result in overstating or understating to our investors the costs to support our internal operating structure.
Adjusted Research and Development (R&D) Expense and Adjusted R&D Percentage
We use the term adjusted R&D expense to refer to GAAP R&D expense, excluding amortization of intangible assets and stock option expense. We use the related term adjusted R&D percentage to refer to adjusted R&D expense as a percentage of GAAP revenue. We believe that these non-GAAP measures, when taken together with our GAAP financial measures, allow us and our investors to better understand and evaluate our internal technology investments. We exclude amortization of intangible assets from these measures because intangibles amortization charges do not represent what our management and what we believe our investors consider to be internal investments in R&D activities and could distort our R&D investment level. In addition, we exclude stock option expense from these measures because stock-based compensation plans and the critical assumptions used to calculate the expense vary dramatically between us and our peers, which we believe makes comparisons of long-term operating performance trends difficult for management and investors, and could result in overstating or understating to our investors the amount of our internal investments in R&D activities.
Adjusted Operating Profit and Adjusted Operating Profit Margin
We use the term adjusted operating profit to refer to GAAP operating profit, excluding amortization of intangible assets, significant legal settlements, restructuring and lease charges and stock option expense, and including estimated revenue from contracts acquired in the ViaCell acquisition that will not be fully recognized due to business combination accounting rules. Adjusted operating profit is calculated by subtracting adjusted R&D expense, adjusted SG&A expense and restructuring and lease charges from adjusted gross margin. We use the related term adjusted operating profit margin to refer to adjusted operating profit as a percentage of GAAP revenue. We believe that these non-GAAP measures, when taken together with our GAAP financial measures, allow us and our investors to analyze the costs of the different components of producing and selling our products, to better measure the performance of our internal investments in technology and to evaluate the long-term profitability trends of our core operations. Adjusted operating profit also provides for easier comparisons of our performance and profitability with prior and future periods and relative comparisons to our peers. We believe our investors do not consider the items that we exclude from adjusted operating profit to be costs of producing our products, investments in technology and production, and costs to support our internal operating structure, and so we present this non-GAAP measure to avoid overstating or understating to our investors the performance of our operations. We exclude restructuring and lease charges because they tend to occur due to an acquisition, divestiture, repositioning of the business or other unusual event that could distort the performance measures of our internal investments and costs to support our internal operating structure. We include estimated revenue from contracts acquired in the ViaCell acquisition that will not be fully recognized because our GAAP revenue for the periods subsequent to our acquisition do not reflect the full amount of storage revenue on these contracts that would have otherwise been recorded by ViaCell. The non-GAAP adjustment is intended to reflect the full amount of such revenue. Our management and we believe our investors will use this adjustment as a measure of the ongoing performance of the ViaCell business because customers have historically renewed these contracts, although there can be no assurance that customers will do so in the future.
Adjusted Earnings per Share
We use the term adjusted earnings per share to refer to GAAP earnings per share, excluding discontinued operations, amortization of intangible assets, significant legal settlements, restructuring and lease charges, stock option expense and income from significant tax audit settlements, and including estimated revenue from contracts acquired in the ViaCell acquisition that will not be fully recognized due to business combination accounting rules. Adjusted earnings per share is calculated by subtracting adjusted R&D expense, adjusted SG&A expense, restructuring and lease charges, other income/expense and provision for taxes from adjusted gross margin. We believe that this non-GAAP measure, when taken together with our GAAP financial measures, allows us and our investors to analyze the costs of producing and selling our products and the performance of our internal investments in technology and our internal operating structure, to evaluate the long-term profitability trends of our core operations and to calculate the underlying value of the core business on a dilutive share basis, which is a key measure of the value of the Company used by our management and we believe used by investors as well. Adjusted earnings per share also facilitates the overall analysis of the value of the Company and the core measure of the success of our operating business model as compared to prior and future periods and relative comparisons to our peers. We exclude discontinued operations, amortization of intangible assets, significant legal settlements, restructuring and lease charges, stock option expense and income from significant tax audit settlements as these items do not represent what our management and what we believe our investors consider to be costs of producing our products, investments in technology and production, and costs to support our internal operating structure, which could result in overstating or understating to our investors the performance of our operations. We include estimated revenue from contracts acquired in the ViaCell acquisition that will not be fully recognized because our GAAP revenue for the periods subsequent to our acquisition do not reflect the full amount of storage revenue on these contracts that would have otherwise been recorded by ViaCell. The non-GAAP adjustment is intended to reflect the full amount of such revenue. Our management and we believe our investors will use this adjustment as a measure of the ongoing performance of the ViaCell business because customers have historically renewed these contracts, although there can be no assurance that customers will do so in the future.
* * * *
The non-GAAP financial measures described above are not meant to be considered superior to, or a substitute for, our financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. There are material limitations associated with non-GAAP financial measures because they exclude charges that have an effect on our reported results and, therefore, should not be relied upon as the sole financial measures to evaluate our financial results. Management compensates and believes that investors should compensate for these limitations by viewing the non-GAAP financial measures in conjunction with the GAAP financial measures. In addition, the non-GAAP financial measures included in this earnings announcement may be different from, and therefore may not be comparable to, similar measures used by other companies.
Each of the non-GAAP financial measures listed above are also used by our management to evaluate our operating performance, communicate our financial results to our Board of Directors, benchmark our results against our historical performance and the performance of our peers, evaluate investment opportunities including acquisitions and discontinued operations, and determine the bonus payments for senior management and employees.
CONTACT: PerkinElmer, Inc. Investor Relations: Michael A. Lawless, 781-663-5659 or Media Contact: Kevin J. Lorenc, 781-663-5701


