FILE:PKI/PKI-8K-20080519163614.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On May 16, 2008, Jeffrey D. Capello resigned as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of PerkinElmer, Inc., effective June 6, 2008. Michael L. Battles, who currently serves as Vice President, Corporate Controller and Chief Accounting Officer will immediately succeed Mr. Capello as principal financial officer, and will remain PerkinElmer's principal accounting officer.
Mr. Battles, age 39, joined PerkinElmer in November 2001 as Global Controller, Analytical Instruments Division. Beginning in 2003, he served as Director of Technical Accounting, Controls and Compliance and became Vice President, Corporate Controller in October 2005. He has served as Chief Accounting Officer since November 2006 and is a certified public accountant. No family relationship exists between Mr. Battles and any other directors or executive officers of PerkinElmer.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
May 19, 2008
PerkinElmer, Inc. (NYSE: PKI), a global technology leader in Health Sciences and Photonics, today announced that Michael L. Battles, the Company's vice president and controller, will lead the finance function on an interim basis, reporting directly to president and chief executive officer, Robert F. Friel. PerkinElmer's current chief financial officer, Jeffrey D. Capello, is resigning to pursue another opportunity outside the Company effective June 6, 2008.
WALTHAM, Mass. 
"I want to thank Jeff for his many contributions to PerkinElmer and wish him success in the future," said Friel. "We are fortunate to have someone of Mike's experience and knowledge of the Company who can step in and oversee the financial functions of the Company while we conduct a search to find a new CFO."
Since Battles joined PerkinElmer in 2001 as controller for the Analytical Instruments business, he has held positions of increasing importance and responsibility. Prior to joining PerkinElmer, Battles held several positions at Deloitte & Touche LLP during his eleven year tenure there.
PerkinElmer, Inc. is a global technology leader driving growth and innovation in Health Sciences and Photonics markets to improve the quality of life. The Company reported revenues of $1.8 billion in 2007, has 9,100 employees serving customers in more than 150 countries, and is a component of the S&P 500 Index. Additional information is available through or 1-877-PKI-NYSE.
www.perkinelmer.com
For further information regarding PerkinElmer, please contact:
 


