FILE:PKI/PKI-8K-20100805162247.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
______________________________
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): August 5, 2010
Registrants telephone number, including area code:  
(781) 663-6900
( General Instruction A.2. below)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions
see
:
 - 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 - 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 2.02.     Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On  August 5, 2010, PerkinElmer, Inc. announced its financial results for the quarter ended July 4, 2010.  The full text of the press release issued in connection with the announcement is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
The information in this Form 8-K (including Exhibit 99.1) shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act) or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
Item 9.01.     Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)       Exhibits
The following exhibit relating to Item 2.02 shall be deemed to be furnished, and not filed:
99.1      Press Release entitled PerkinElmer Announces Financial Results for the Second Quarter of 2010, issued by PerkinElmer, Inc. on August 5, 2010.
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit 99.1
PerkinElmer Announces Financial Results for the Second Quarter of 2010
WALTHAM, Mass.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--August 5, 2010--PerkinElmer, Inc. (NYSE: PKI):
Revenue of $498 million, reported and organic revenue growth of 14%
Operating income from continuing operations of $43 million; Adjusted operating income of $66 million, up 120 basis points
GAAP earnings per share from continuing operations of $0.46; Adjusted earnings per share of $0.38, up 36%
Raises full year guidance
PerkinElmer, Inc. (NYSE: PKI), a global leader focused on improving the health and safety of people and the environment, today reported financial results for the second quarter ended July 4, 2010. The Company reported GAAP earnings per share from continuing operations of $0.46, as compared to $0.20 in the second quarter of 2009. On a non-GAAP basis, which includes the adjustments noted in the attached reconciliation, the Company announced adjusted earnings per share of $0.38, exceeding the Companys prior guidance of $0.32-$0.34, representing an increase of 36% as compared to the second quarter of 2009.
Revenue in the second quarter of 2010 was $497.8 million, up 14% as compared to the same period a year ago. Organic revenue, which includes the adjustments noted in the attached reconciliation, increased 14% as compared to the second quarter of 2009. Revenue in the Human and Environmental Health segments increased by 7% and 19%, respectively, as compared to the same period a year ago. As compared to the second quarter of 2009, organic revenue, which includes the adjustments noted in the attached reconciliation, increased 6% in the Human Health segment and increased 19% in the Environmental Health segment.
We are pleased with our performance for the second quarter of 2010 as we generated significant revenue and EPS growth as well as strong cash flow, said Robert Friel, chairman and chief executive officer of PerkinElmer. During the first half of this year we have made very good progress against our strategic priorities of increasing the growth profile of the company through leveraging adjacent markets and geographic expansion as well as establishing a framework to drive higher profitability.
GAAP operating profit from continuing operations for the second quarter of 2010 was $42.6 million, as compared to $38.2 million for the same period a year ago. Adjusted operating profit, which includes the adjustments noted in the attached reconciliation, increased by 120 basis points as a percentage of revenue to $65.8 million, as compared to $52.5 million in the second quarter of 2009.
Financial Overview by Reporting Segment
Human Health
Revenue of $197.5 million for the second quarter of 2010, as compared to $184.9 million for the second quarter of 2009.
GAAP operating profit of $25.8 million, as compared to $24.1 million for the same period a year ago.
Adjusted operating profit of $40.6 million, as compared to $35.0 million in the second quarter of 2009.
Adjusted operating profit was 20.5% as a percentage of revenue, an increase of approximately 160 basis points as compared to the second quarter of 2009.
Environmental Health
Revenue of $300.4 million for the second quarter of 2010, as compared to $253.4 million for the second quarter of 2009.
GAAP operating profit of $24.8 million, as compared to $22.8 million for the same period a year ago.
Adjusted operating profit of $33.2 million, as compared to $26.1 million in the second quarter of 2009.
Adjusted operating profit was 11.1% as a percentage of revenue, an increase of approximately 80 basis points as compared to the second quarter of 2009.
Financial Guidance
Given the broad based strength we have experienced in the first half across many of our served markets, we have increased our full year adjusted earnings per share guidance to $1.49 to $1.54 which now represents a year-over-year growth of 17% to 21%, said Robert Friel, chairman and chief executive officer of PerkinElmer.
For the full year 2010, the Company forecasts GAAP earnings per share from continuing operations in the range of $1.29 to $1.34 representing an increase from the Companys prior forecast of $1.08 to $1.13. On a non-GAAP basis, which includes the adjustments noted in the attached reconciliation, the Company forecasts adjusted earnings per share in the range of $1.49 to $1.54 representing an increase from the Companys prior forecast of $1.43 to $1.48.
Conference Call Information
The Company will discuss its second quarter results and its outlook for business trends in a conference call on August 5, 2010 at 5:00 p.m. Eastern Time (ET). To access the call, please dial (857) 350-1676 prior to the scheduled conference call time and provide the access code 62854397. A playback of this conference call will be available beginning 8:00 p.m. ET, Thursday, August 5, 2010. The playback phone number is (617) 801-6888 and the code number is 54019467.
A live audio webcast of the call will be available on the Investor section of the Companys Web site, . Please go to the site at least 15 minutes prior to the call in order to register, download, and install any necessary software. An archived version of the webcast will be posted on the Companys Web site for a two week period beginning approximately two hours after the call.
www.perkinelmer.com
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
In addition to financial measures prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), this earnings announcement also contains non-GAAP financial measures. The reasons that we use these measures, a reconciliation of these measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures, and other information relating to these measures are included below following our GAAP financial statements.
Factors Affecting Future Performance
This press release contains "forward-looking" statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including, but not limited to, statements relating to estimates and projections of future earnings per share, cash flow and revenue growth and other financial results, developments relating to our customers and end-markets, and plans concerning business development opportunities. Words such as "believes," "intends," "anticipates," "plans," "expects," "projects," "forecasts," "will" and similar expressions, and references to guidance, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Such statements are based on management's current assumptions and expectations and no assurances can be given that our assumptions or expectations will prove to be correct. A number of important risk factors could cause actual results to differ materially from the results described, implied or projected in any forward-looking statements. These factors include, without limitation: (1) markets into which we sell our products decline or do not grow as anticipated; (2) fluctuations in the global economic and political environments; (3) our failure to introduce new products in a timely manner; (4) our ability to execute acquisitions and license technologies, or to successfully integrate acquired businesses and licensed technologies into our existing business or to make them profitable; (5) our failure to adequately protect our intellectual property; (6) the loss of any of our licenses or licensed rights; (7) our ability to compete effectively; (8) fluctuation in our quarterly operating results and our ability to adjust our operations to address unexpected changes; (9) significant disruption in third-party package delivery and import/export services or significant increases in prices for those services; (10) disruptions in the supply of raw materials and supplies; (11) the manufacture and sale of products and services may expose us to product liability claims; (12) our failure to maintain compliance with applicable government regulations; (13) regulatory changes; (14) our failure to comply with healthcare industry regulations; (15) economic, political and other risks associated with foreign operations; (16) our ability to retain key personnel; (17) significant disruption in our information technology systems; (18) restrictions in our credit agreements; (19) our ability to realize the full value of our intangible assets; (20) significant fluctuations in our stock price; (21) reduction or elimination of dividends on our common stock; and (22) other factors which we describe under the caption "Risk Factors" in our most recent quarterly report on Form 10-Q and in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We disclaim any intention or obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of developments occurring after the date of this press release.
About PerkinElmer
PerkinElmer, Inc. is a global leader focused on improving the health and safety of people and the environment. The company reported revenue of approximately $1.8 billion in 2009, has about 8,800 employees serving customers in more than 150 countries, and is a component of the S&P 500 Index. Additional information is available through 1-877-PKI-NYSE, or at .
www.perkinelmer.com
Organic Revenue and Organic Revenue Growth
We use the term organic revenue to refer to GAAP revenue, excluding the effect of foreign currency translation and acquisitions, and including the effect of product lines transferred between segments. We use the related term organic revenue growth to refer to the measure of comparing current period organic revenue with the corresponding period of the prior year. We believe that these non-GAAP measures, when taken together with our GAAP financial measures, allow us and our investors to better measure the performance of our investments in technology, to evaluate the long-term performance trends and to assess our ability to invest in the business. Organic revenue growth also provides for easier comparisons of our performance with prior and future periods and relative comparisons to our peers. We exclude the effect of foreign currency translation from these measures because foreign currency translation is subject to volatility and can obscure underlying trends. We exclude the effect of acquisitions because acquisition activity can vary dramatically between reporting periods and between us and our peers, which we believe makes comparisons of long-term performance trends difficult for management and investors, and could result in overstating or understating to our investors the performance of our operations. We include the effect of product lines transferred between segments because this activity can vary between reporting periods, which we believe makes comparisons of long-term performance trends difficult for management and investors, and could result in overstating or understating to our investors the performance of our operations.
Adjusted Gross Margin and Adjusted Gross Margin Percentage
We use the term adjusted gross margin to refer to GAAP gross margin, excluding amortization of intangible assets, and including estimated revenue from contracts acquired in the acquisition of ViaCell, Inc., or ViaCell, that will not be fully recognized due to business combination accounting rules. We use the related term adjusted gross margin percentage to refer to adjusted gross margin as a percentage of GAAP revenue. We believe that these non-GAAP measures, when taken together with our GAAP financial measures, allow us and our investors to better measure the performance of our investments in technology, to evaluate the long-term profitability trends and to assess our ability to invest in the business. We exclude amortization of intangible assets from these measures because intangibles amortization charges do not represent what our management and what we believe our investors consider to be costs of producing our products and could distort the additional value generated over the cost of producing those products. We include estimated revenue from contracts acquired in the ViaCell acquisition that will not be fully recognized because our GAAP revenue for the periods subsequent to our acquisition do not reflect the full amount of storage revenue on these contracts that would have otherwise been recorded by ViaCell. The non-GAAP adjustment is intended to reflect the full amount of such revenue. Our management and we believe our investors will use this adjustment as a measure of the ongoing performance of the ViaCell business because customers have historically renewed these contracts, although there can be no assurance that customers will do so in the future.
Adjusted Selling, General and Administrative (SG&A) Expense and Adjusted SG&A Percentage
We use the term adjusted SG&A expense to refer to GAAP SG&A expense, excluding amortization of intangible assets, changes to the fair values assigned to contingent consideration, other costs related to business acquisitions, and the gain on sale of building. We use the related term adjusted SG&A percentage to refer to adjusted SG&A expense as a percentage of GAAP revenue. We believe that these non-GAAP measures, when taken together with our GAAP financial measures, allow us and our investors to better measure the cost of the internal operating structure, our ability to leverage that structure and the level of investment required to grow our business. We exclude amortization of intangible assets, changes to the fair values assigned to contingent consideration, other costs related to business acquisitions, and the gain on sale of building from these measures because intangibles amortization charges, changes to the fair values assigned to contingent consideration, other costs related to business acquisitions, and the gain on sale of building do not represent what our management and what we believe our investors consider to be costs that support our internal operating structure and could distort the efficiencies of that structure.
Adjusted Research and Development (R&D) Expense and Adjusted R&D Percentage
We use the term adjusted R&D expense to refer to GAAP R&D expense, excluding amortization of intangible assets. We use the related term adjusted R&D percentage to refer to adjusted R&D expense as a percentage of GAAP revenue. We believe that these non-GAAP measures, when taken together with our GAAP financial measures, allow us and our investors to better understand and evaluate our internal technology investments. We exclude amortization of intangible assets from these measures because intangibles amortization charges do not represent what our management and what we believe our investors consider to be internal investments in R&D activities and could distort our R&D investment level.
Adjusted Operating Profit and Adjusted Operating Profit Margin
We use the term adjusted operating profit to refer to GAAP operating profit, excluding amortization of intangible assets, inventory fair value adjustments related to business acquisitions, changes to the fair values assigned to contingent consideration, other costs related to business acquisitions, the gain on sale of building, and restructuring and lease charges, and including estimated revenue from contracts acquired in the ViaCell acquisition that will not be fully recognized due to business combination accounting rules. Adjusted operating profit is calculated by subtracting adjusted R&D expense, adjusted SG&A expense, and restructuring and lease charges from adjusted gross margin. We use the related term adjusted operating profit margin to refer to adjusted operating profit as a percentage of GAAP revenue. We believe that these non-GAAP measures, when taken together with our GAAP financial measures, allow us and our investors to analyze the costs of the different components of producing and selling our products, to better measure the performance of our internal investments in technology and to evaluate the long-term profitability trends of our core operations. Adjusted operating profit also provides for easier comparisons of our performance and profitability with prior and future periods and relative comparisons to our peers. We believe our investors do not consider the items that we exclude from adjusted operating profit to be costs of producing our products, investments in technology and production, and costs to support our internal operating structure, and so we present this non-GAAP measure to avoid overstating or understating to our investors the performance of our operations. We exclude restructuring and lease charges because they tend to occur due to an acquisition, divestiture, repositioning of the business or other unusual event that could distort the performance measures of our internal investments and costs to support our internal operating structure. We include estimated revenue from contracts acquired in the ViaCell acquisition that will not be fully recognized because our GAAP revenue for the periods subsequent to our acquisition do not reflect the full amount of storage revenue on these contracts that would have otherwise been recorded by ViaCell. The non-GAAP adjustment is intended to reflect the full amount of such revenue. Our management and we believe our investors will use this adjustment as a measure of the ongoing performance of the ViaCell business because customers have historically renewed these contracts, although there can be no assurance that customers will do so in the future.
Adjusted Earnings Per Share
We use the term adjusted earnings per share, or adjusted EPS, to refer to GAAP earnings per share, excluding discontinued operations, amortization of intangible assets, inventory fair value adjustments related to business acquisitions, changes to the fair values assigned to contingent consideration, other costs related to business acquisitions, the gain on sale of building, the gain on the step acquisition, and restructuring and lease charges, and including estimated revenue from contracts acquired in the ViaCell acquisition that will not be fully recognized due to business combination accounting rules. Adjusted earnings per share is calculated by subtracting the items above included in adjusted gross margin, adjusted R&D expense, adjusted SG&A expense, restructuring and lease charges, and provision for taxes, related to these items, from GAAP earnings per share. We believe that this non-GAAP measure, when taken together with our GAAP financial measures, allows us and our investors to analyze the costs of producing and selling our products and the performance of our internal investments in technology and our internal operating structure, to evaluate the long-term profitability trends of our core operations and to calculate the underlying value of the core business on a dilutive share basis, which is a key measure of the value of the Company used by our management and we believe used by investors as well. Adjusted earnings per share also facilitates the overall analysis of the value of the Company and the core measure of the success of our operating business model as compared to prior and future periods and relative comparisons to our peers. We exclude discontinued operations, amortization of intangible assets, inventory fair value adjustments related to business acquisitions, changes to the fair values assigned to contingent consideration, other costs related to business acquisitions, the gain on sale of building, the gain on the step acquisition, and restructuring and lease charges, as these items do not represent what our management and what we believe our investors consider to be costs of producing our products, investments in technology and production, and costs to support our internal operating structure, which could result in overstating or understating to our investors the performance of our operations. We include estimated revenue from contracts acquired in the ViaCell acquisition that will not be fully recognized because our GAAP revenue for the periods subsequent to our acquisition do not reflect the full amount of storage revenue on these contracts that would have otherwise been recorded by ViaCell. The non-GAAP adjustment is intended to reflect the full amount of such revenue. Our management and we believe our investors will use this adjustment as a measure of the ongoing performance of the ViaCell business because customers have historically renewed these contracts, although there can be no assurance that customers will do so in the future.
The second quarter tax effect on adjusted EPS for discontinued operations was an expense of $0.00 in both 2010 and 2009, amortization of intangible assets was an expense of $0.05 in 2010 and an expense of $0.04 in 2009, the gain on sale of building was a benefit of $0.01 in 2010, the gain on the step acquisition was a benefit of $0.01 in 2010, and restructuring and lease charges was an expense of $0.02 in 2010. The second quarter tax effect on adjusted EPS for each of the remaining items (changes to the fair values assigned to contingent consideration, other costs related to business acquisitions, and the estimated revenue from contracts acquired in the ViaCell acquisition that will not be fully recognized due to business combination accounting rules) was $0.00 for both 2010 and 2009. The full year tax effect on adjusted EPS for discontinued operations was an expense of $0.01 in 2010 and a benefit of $0.00 in 2009, amortization of intangible assets was an expense of $0.09 in 2010 and $0.08 in 2009, the gain on sale of building was a benefit of $0.01 in 2010, the gain on the step acquisition was a benefit of $0.01 in 2010, and restructuring and lease charges was an expense of $0.02 in 2010 and $0.02 in 2009. The full year tax effect on adjusted EPS for each of the remaining items (inventory fair value adjustments related to business acquisitions, changes to the fair values assigned to contingent consideration, other costs related to business acquisitions, and the estimated revenue from contracts acquired in the ViaCell acquisition that will not be fully recognized due to business combination accounting rules) was $0.00 for both 2010 and 2009. The tax effect for discontinued operations is calculated based on the authoritative guidance in the Financial Accounting Standards Boards Accounting Standards Codification 740, Income Taxes. The tax effect for amortization of intangible assets, inventory fair value adjustments related to business acquisitions, changes to the fair values assigned to contingent consideration, other costs related to business acquisitions, restructuring and lease charges, and the estimated revenue from contracts acquired in the ViaCell acquisition is calculated based on operational results and applicable jurisdictional law, which contemplates tax rates currently in effect to determine our tax provision.
* * * *
The non-GAAP financial measures described above are not meant to be considered superior to, or a substitute for, our financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. There are material limitations associated with non-GAAP financial measures because they exclude charges that have an effect on our reported results and, therefore, should not be relied upon as the sole financial measures to evaluate our financial results. Management compensates and believes that investors should compensate for these limitations by viewing the non-GAAP financial measures in conjunction with the GAAP financial measures. In addition, the non-GAAP financial measures included in this earnings announcement may be different from, and therefore may not be comparable to, similar measures used by other companies.
Each of the non-GAAP financial measures listed above are also used by our management to evaluate our operating performance, communicate our financial results to our Board of Directors, benchmark our results against our historical performance and the performance of our peers, evaluate investment opportunities including acquisitions and discontinued operations, and determine the bonus payments for senior management and employees.
CONTACT: Investor Relations: PerkinElmer, Inc. David C. Francisco, 781-663-5677 or Media Contact: PerkinElmer, Inc. Stephanie R. Wasco, 781-663-5701 or Additional Media Contact: Edelman Alexis Guthrie, 212-642-7702
dave.francisco@perkinelmer.com
stephanie.wasco@perkinelmer.com
alexis.guthrie@edelman.com


