FILE:PKI/PKI-8K-20111020084354.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01. Other Events
On October 20, 2011, PerkinElmer, Inc. (the "Company") announced the expiration of the waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended, and clearance under Germany's Act against Restraints of Competition, in connection with its previously announced acquisition of Caliper Life Sciences, Inc. The Company's press release announcing the expiration of the waiting period is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and incorporated herein by reference.
Safe Harbor for Forward-looking Statements
Statements in this Current Report on Form 8-K contain "forward-looking" statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including, but not limited to, statements relating to estimates and projections of future earnings per share, cash flow and revenue growth and other financial results, developments relating to the Company's customers and end-markets, and plans concerning business development opportunities and divestitures. Words such as "believes," "intends," "anticipates," "plans," "expects," "projects," "forecasts," "will" and similar expressions, and references to guidance, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Such statements are based on management's current assumptions and expectations and no assurances can be given that the Company's assumptions or expectations will prove to be correct. A number of important risk factors could cause actual results to differ materially from the results described, implied or projected in any forward-looking statements. These factors include, without limitation: (1) markets into which the Company sells its products declining or not growing as anticipated; (2) fluctuations in the global economic and political environments; (3) the Company's failure to introduce new products in a timely manner; (4) the Company's ability to execute acquisitions and license technologies, or to successfully integrate acquired businesses and licensed technologies into its existing business or to make them profitable, or successfully divest businesses; (5) the Company's failure to adequately protect its intellectual property; (6) the loss of any of the Company's licenses or licensed rights; (7) the Company's ability to compete effectively; (8) fluctuation in the Company's quarterly operating results and its ability to adjust its operations to address unexpected changes; (9) significant disruption in third-party package delivery and import/export services or significant increases in prices for those services; (10) disruptions in the supply of raw materials and supplies; (11) the manufacture and sale of products exposing the Company to product liability claims; (12) the Company's failure to maintain compliance with applicable government regulations; (13) regulatory changes; (14) the Company's failure to comply with healthcare industry regulations; (15) economic, political and other risks associated with foreign operations; (16) the Company's ability to retain key personnel; (17) significant disruption in the Company's information technology systems; (18) restrictions in the Company's credit agreements; (19) the Company's ability to realize the full value of its intangible assets; (20) significant fluctuations in the Company's stock price; (21) reduction or elimination of dividends on the Company's common stock; and (22) other factors which are described under the caption "Risk Factors" in the Company's most recent quarterly report on Form 10-Q and in other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company disclaims any intention or obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of developments occurring after the date of this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
See the Exhibit Index attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K, which is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
October 20, 2011
 PerkinElmer, Inc. (NYSE: PKI), a global leader focused on improving the health and safety of people and the environment, today announced the expiration of the waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended, and clearance under Germany's Act against Restraints of Competition (which was granted on October 10, 2011), in connection with its previously announced acquisition of Caliper Life Sciences, Inc. Completion of the transaction remains subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions, including approval of the stockholders of Caliper Life Sciences.
WALTHAM, Mass.
Factors Affecting Future Performance
This press release contains "forward-looking" statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including, but not limited to, statements relating to estimates and projections of future earnings per share, cash flow and revenue growth and other financial results, developments relating to our customers and end-markets, and plans concerning business development opportunities and divestitures. Words such as "believes," "intends," "anticipates," "plans," "expects," "projects," "forecasts," "will" and similar expressions, and references to guidance, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Such statements are based on management's current assumptions and expectations and no assurances can be given that our assumptions or expectations will prove to be correct. A number of important risk factors could cause actual results to differ materially from the results described, implied or projected in any forward-looking statements. These factors include, without limitation: (1) markets into which we sell our products declining or not growing as anticipated; (2) fluctuations in the global economic and political environments; (3) our failure to introduce new products in a timely manner; (4) our ability to execute acquisitions and license technologies, or to successfully integrate acquired businesses and licensed technologies into our existing business or to make them profitable, or successfully divest businesses; (5) our failure to adequately protect our intellectual property; (6) the loss of any of our licenses or licensed rights; (7) our ability to compete effectively; (8) fluctuation in our quarterly operating results and our ability to adjust our operations to address unexpected changes; (9) significant disruption in third-party package delivery and import/export services or significant increases in prices for
those services; (10) disruptions in the supply of raw materials and supplies; (11) the manufacture and sale of products exposing us to product liability claims; (12) our failure to maintain compliance with applicable government regulations; (13) regulatory changes; (14) our failure to comply with healthcare industry regulations; (15) economic, political and other risks associated with foreign operations; (16) our ability to retain key personnel; (17) significant disruption in our information technology systems; (18) restrictions in our credit agreements; (19) our ability to realize the full value of our intangible assets; (20) significant fluctuations in our stock price; (21) reduction or elimination of dividends on our common stock; and (22) other factors which we describe under the caption "Risk Factors" in our most recent quarterly report on Form 10-Q and in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We disclaim any intention or obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of developments occurring after the date of this press release.
About Caliper Life Sciences
Caliper Life Sciences is a premier provider of cutting-edge technologies enabling researchers in the life sciences industry to create life-saving and enhancing medicines and diagnostic tests more quickly and efficiently. Caliper is aggressively innovating new technology to bridge the gap between in vitro assays and in vivo results, enabling the translation of those results into cures for human disease. Caliper's portfolio of offerings includes state-of-the-art microfluidics, lab automation and liquid handling, optical imaging technologies, and discovery and development outsourcing solutions. For more information please visit www.caliperLS.com.
About PerkinElmer, Inc.
PerkinElmer, Inc. is a global leader focused on improving the health and safety of people and the environment. The Company reported revenue of approximately $1.7 billion in 2010, has about 6,200 employees serving customers in more than 150 countries, and is a component of the S&P 500 Index. Additional information is available through 1-877-PKI-NYSE, or at www.perkinelmer.com.
Important additional information filed with the SEC and distributed to shareholders of Caliper Life Sciences.
Caliper Life Sciences has filed with the SEC and mailed to its shareholders a Definitive Proxy Statement on Schedule 14A pursuant to Section 14(a) of the Exchange Act in connection with the transaction.
This document contains important information about PerkinElmer, Inc., Caliper Life Sciences, the transaction and other related matters. Caliper Life Sciences' investors and security holders are urged to read this document carefully.
Caliper Life Sciences' investors and security holders will be able to obtain free copies of the Definitive Proxy Statement and other documents filed with the SEC by Caliper Life Sciences through the web site maintained by the SEC at www.sec.gov.
Caliper Life Sciences and its directors and executive officers may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies in respect of the transactions contemplated by the merger agreement. Information regarding Caliper Life Sciences' directors and executive officers is contained in Caliper Life Sciences' Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010 and its proxy statement dated April 26, 2011, which are filed with the SEC. Caliper Life Sciences' proxy statement dated April 26, 2011 also contains information regarding the beneficial ownership of Caliper Life Sciences stock by Caliper Life Sciences' directors and executive officers. In addition, outstanding stock options and restricted stock units held by directors, executive officers and other employees of Caliper Life Sciences will be accelerated in connection with the transactions contemplated by the merger agreement. A more complete description is available in the Definitive Proxy Statement.
Investor Relations:
David C. Francisco
Vice President, Investor Relations
Phone: (781) 663-5677
Email: dave.francisco@perkinelmer.com
Media Contacts:
Stephanie R. Wasco
Vice President, Corporate Communications
Phone: (781) 663-5701
Email: stephanie.wasco@perkinelmer.com
Mario Fante
Corporate Public Relations Manager
PerkinElmer, Inc.
Phone: (781) 663-5602
Email: mario.fante@perkinelmer.com


