FILE:PKI/PKI-8K-20120119143305.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On November, 7, 2011, PerkinElmer, Inc. (the "Company") filed a Current Report on Form 8-K reporting that on November 7, 2011 the Company completed its acquisition of Caliper Life Sciences, Inc. ("Caliper") by merging one of its indirect, wholly-owned subsidiaries with and into Caliper such that Caliper became an indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company.
This Current Report on Form 8-K/A amends the original Form 8-K to provide the historical financial statements of Caliper required under Item 9.01(a) and the pro forma financial information required under Item 9.01(b).
 
 
The audited consolidated financial statements of Caliper as of December 31, 2010 and 2009 and for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 are filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K/A and are incorporated by reference herein. The consent of Caliper's independent auditors is attached hereto as Exhibit 23.1.
The unaudited consolidated financial statements of Caliper as of September 30, 2011 and 2010 and for the year-to-date interim periods ended September 30, 2011 and 2010 are filed as Exhibit 99.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K/A and are incorporated by reference herein.
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information of the Company and Caliper with respect to the year ended January 2, 2011 and as of and for the nine months ended October 2, 2011 are included as Exhibit 99.3 to this Current Report on Form 8-K/A and are incorporated by reference herein.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 23.1
We consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements of PerkinElmer, Inc. listed below of our report dated March 11, 2011 with respect to the consolidated financial statements of Caliper Life Sciences, Inc. included in this Current Report on Form 8-K/A of PerkinElmer, Inc.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
/s/ E & Y LLP
RNST
OUNG
Boston, Massachusetts
January 17, 2012

Exhibit 99.1
The Board of Directors and Stockholders of Caliper Life Sciences, Inc.
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Caliper Life Sciences as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, and the related consolidated statements of operations, stockholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2010. Our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed in the Index at Item 15(a). These financial statements and schedule are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and schedule based on our audits.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Caliper Life Sciences at December 31, 2010 and 2009, and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2010, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all material respects the information set forth therein.
As discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, effective January 1, 2009, the Company adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board Accounting Standards Update 2009-13, and Accounting Standards Update 2009-14, .
Multiple-Deliverable Revenue Arrangements
Certain Revenue Arrangements that Include Software Elements
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), Caliper Life Sciences' internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2010, based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated March 11, 2011 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
 
 
 
 
 
1. Organization and Basis of Presentation
Caliper Life Sciences, Inc. (Caliper) was incorporated in the state of Delaware on July 26, 1995. Caliper develops and sells innovative and enabling products and services to the life sciences research community, a customer base that includes pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, and government and other not-for-profit research institutions. Caliper's strategy is to transform drug discovery and development by offering technologies and services that ultimately enhance the ability to predict the effects that new drug candidates will have on humans. Caliper believes that its integrated systems, consisting of instruments, software and reagents, laboratory automation tools and assay and discovery services enable researchers to better understand the basis for disease and more effectively discover safe and effective drugs.
Financial Statement Presentation and Principles of Consolidation
Caliper's financial statements include the accounts of its wholly owned operating subsidiaries including Cambridge Research & Instrumentation, Inc. (CRi), Xenogen Corporation (Xenogen), NovaScreen Biosciences Corporation (NovaScreen), Caliper Life Sciences Limited (United Kingdom), Caliper Life Sciences Ltd. (Canada), Caliper Life Sciences N.V. (Belgium), Caliper Life Sciences GmbH (Germany), Caliper Life Sciences SA (France), and Caliper Life Sciences AG (Switzerland). All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. Caliper's financial statements include the results of operations of its divested subsidiary, Xenogen Biosciences Corporation (XenBio) up to and through December 11, 2009, the date of the divestiture.
2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
Use of Estimates
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
Cash Equivalents and Marketable Securities
Caliper considers all highly liquid investments with maturities of three months or less from the date of purchase to be cash equivalents. Management determines the appropriate classification of its investment securities at the time of purchase and re-evaluates such determination at each reporting date. Management has classified Caliper's marketable securities as available-for-sale securities in the accompanying financial statements. Available-for-sale securities are carried at fair value based on quoted market prices, with unrealized gains and losses reported in a separate component of stockholders' equity. Realized gains and losses and declines in value, if any, judged to be other than temporary on available-for-sale securities are reported in other income or expense. The cost of securities sold is based on the specific identification method.
Caliper invests its excess cash in U.S. government and agency securities, debt instruments of financial institutions and corporations, and money market funds with strong credit ratings. Caliper has established guidelines regarding diversification of its investments and their maturities to maintain safety and liquidity.
 
2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)
 
Customer Accounts Receivable
Customer accounts receivable are stated at billed amounts, net of related reserves. No collateral is required on these trade receivables. The majority of sales made by Caliper do not include any return rights or privileges. Caliper has historically not experienced significant credit losses in connection with its customer receivables but does consider historic trends and existing economic conditions in establishing reserve requirements.
Inventories
Inventories for use in the manufacture of Caliper's instruments include electronic and optical components, devices and accessories either produced or purchased from original equipment manufacturers. Inventories for use in the manufacture of certain chips used with Caliper's LabChip systems consist primarily of glass, quartz and reagents and certain other chips are manufactured for Caliper using advanced plastics. Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market, reflect appropriate reserves for potential obsolete, slow moving or otherwise impaired material, and include appropriate elements of material, labor and overhead.
Property and Equipment
Additions to property and equipment are recorded at cost. Major replacements and improvements are capitalized, while general repairs and maintenance are expensed as incurred. Depreciation commences once the assets have been placed in service, and is computed using the straight-line method over the shorter of the lease term or the estimated useful lives of the assets, which primarily range from three to five years. Leasehold improvements are amortized over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the assets or the lease term, generally four to ten years.
Impairment of Long-Lived Assets
Caliper reviews long-lived assets and identifiable intangibles which have definite lives for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. If indicators of impairment exist, recoverability of assets to be held and used is assessed by a comparison of the carrying amount of an asset to future undiscounted net cash flows expected to be generated by the asset. Recoverability measurement and estimating of undiscounted cash flows is done at the lowest possible levels for which there are identifiable cash flows. This is referred to as the "asset group." If the aggregate undiscounted cash flows are less than the carrying value of the asset group, the next step is to determine the fair value of the asset group. If the fair value of the asset group is less than the carrying value of the asset group, impairment exists and that impairment is allocated to each individual asset in the group based on its relative book value; however, in no circumstances would an individual asset be written down below its fair value. Caliper also performs an annual assessment of impairment for all indefinitely-lived intangible assets. If the fair value exceeds the carrying value of the asset, then the intangible is not impaired. If the fair value is less than the carrying value, then an impairment charge is recorded equal to the difference. Assets to be disposed of are reported at the lower of the carrying amount or fair value less costs to sell. Caliper performed its assessments in 2010 and concluded that no indicators of impairment existed for its long-lived assets.
 
2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)
 
Fair Value of Financial Instruments
The carrying amounts reflected in the consolidated balance sheets for cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, other current assets, accounts payable and other accrued expenses approximate fair value due to their short-term maturities. Caliper's available-for-sale marketable securities are carried at fair value based on quoted market prices, consistent with the requirements of Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 320, . Under Caliper's credit facility, any amounts outstanding are carried at book value as outstanding amounts approximate fair value as monthly interest payments are indexed based on the prime rate.
Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities
Revenue Recognition
General Policy
Caliper recognizes revenue when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred or services have been rendered, the fee is fixed or determinable, and collectability is reasonably assured or probable, as applicable. Product revenue is recognized upon passage of title, which for the majority of sales occurs when goods are shipped under Caliper's standard terms of "FOB origin." Revenue associated with customer product purchases delivered under terms of "FOB destination" is deferred until the product is received by the customer. Revenues on shipments subject to customer acceptance provisions are recognized only upon customer acceptance provided all other revenue recognition criteria are met. In general, sales made by Caliper do not include general return rights or privileges. In the limited circumstance where a right of return exists, Caliper recognizes revenue when the right has lapsed. Based upon Caliper's prior experiences, sales returns have not been significant and therefore a general provision for sales returns or other allowances is not recorded at the time of sale. Revenue from services offered by Caliper is generally recognized as the services are performed (or, as applicable, ratably over the contract service term in the case of annual maintenance contracts). Provision is made at the time of sale for estimated costs related to Caliper's warranty obligations to customers.
Cash received from customers as advance deposits for undelivered products and services including contract research and development services, is recorded within customer deposits until revenue is recognized. Revenue related to annual maintenance contracts or other remaining undelivered performance obligations is deferred and recognized upon completion of the underlying performance criteria.
Product Revenue
Product revenue is recognized upon the shipment and transfer of title to customers and is recorded net of discounts and allowances. Revenues on shipments subject to customer acceptance provisions are recognized only upon customer acceptance provided all other revenue recognition criteria are met. Customer product purchases are generally delivered under standardized terms of "FOB origin" with the customer assuming the risks and rewards of product ownership at the time of shipping from Caliper's warehouse. Revenue associated with customer product purchases delivered under terms of "FOB destination" is deferred until product is delivered to the customer. In accordance with Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2009-13, Caliper defers the relative selling price of any elements that remain undelivered after product shipment and/or acceptance (as applicable), such as remaining services to be performed.
 
2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)
 
Service and Annual Maintenance Agreements
Caliper's general policy is to recognize revenue as services are performed, typically using the proportional performance method based upon defined outputs or other reasonable measures as applicable, or ratably over the contract service term in the case of annual maintenance contracts. Customers may purchase optional warranty coverage during the initial standard warranty term and annual maintenance contracts beyond the standard warranty expiration. These optional service offerings are not included in the price Caliper charges customers for the initial product purchase. Under Caliper's standard warranty, the customer is entitled to repair or replacement of defective goods.
Licensing and Royalty
Revenue from up-front license fees is recognized when the earnings process is complete and no further obligations exist. If further obligations exist, the up-front license fee is recognized ratably over the obligation period. Royalties and milestone payments under licenses are recorded as earned in accordance with contract terms, when third-party results are reliably measured and collectability is reasonably assured. Imaging patent rights granted to commercial imaging customers are recognized ratably over the term of the license.
Contract Revenue
Revenue from contract research and development services is recognized as earned based on the performance requirements of the contract. Non-refundable contract fees, unless based upon time and materials, time and expense, or substantive milestones, are generally recognized using the proportional performance method.
Multiple Element Arrangements
Caliper's revenue arrangements often include the sale of an instrument, consumables, software, service, technology licenses, installation and training. Revenue arrangements may include one of these single elements, or may incorporate one or more elements in a single transaction or combination of related transactions. During the third quarter of 2009, Caliper adopted the guidance of ASU No. 2009-13, Revenue Recognition (Topic 605): , and ASU No. 2009-14, Software (Topic 985): which were ratified by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Emerging Issues Task Force on September 23, 2009. ASU No. 2009-13 affects accounting and reporting for all multiple-deliverable arrangements.
Multiple-Deliverable Revenue Arrangements
Certain Revenue Arrangements That Include Software Elements
The amendments in ASU No. 2009-14 provide that tangible products containing software components and non-software components that function together to deliver the tangible product's essential functionality are no longer within the scope of the software revenue guidance in Subtopic 985-605. In addition, the amendments require that hardware components of a tangible product containing software components always be excluded from the software revenue guidance.
 
2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)
 
ASU No. 2009-13 establishes a selling price hierarchy for determining the selling price of a deliverable in a sale arrangement. The selling price for each deliverable is based on vendor-specific objective evidence ("VSOE") if available, third-party evidence ("TPE") if VSOE is not available, or estimated selling price if neither VSOE or TPE is available. The amendments in this ASU eliminate the residual method of allocation and require that arrangement consideration be allocated at the inception of the arrangement to all deliverables using the relative selling price method. The relative selling price method allocates any discount in the arrangement proportionately to each deliverable on the basis of the deliverable's selling price. Caliper adopted these standards in the third quarter of 2009, effective January 1, 2009 and on a prospective basis thereafter. The adoption of these standards did not materially affect Caliper's results and continued to be immaterial in 2010.
Imaging
Caliper's Imaging products typically contain the following elements: the imaging instrument, software, installation services, training services, post-contract support services (PCS), and for Caliper's commercial customers, a method patent license. Prior to ASU 2009-14, Caliper accounted for these instruments under the software revenue recognition guidance as the software was determined to be more than incidental to the instrument. As a result of the adoption of ASU 2009-14, Caliper has concluded that the software functions together with the instrument to deliver the instrument's essential functionality, and thus is no longer subject to the guidance of Subtopic 985-605. As such, Caliper now uses the guidance of ASC 605-25, as updated by ASU 2009-13, to allocate arrangement consideration to each element of the arrangement.
As required by ASU 2009-13, when allocating arrangement consideration, a determination of selling price must be made for each element of the arrangement. Where VSOE exists for an element, Caliper has used VSOE as the selling price. Caliper generally and historically has demonstrated VSOE for installation services, training services, PCS, and its method patents. Caliper's Imaging instruments are always delivered together with software. As such, VSOE does not exist for these elements. Caliper concluded that sufficient TPE does not exist to serve as a basis for determining selling price due to the unique and proprietary technologies offered in its products; however, Caliper has considered any TPE information that is available in its estimates of selling price. As a result, Caliper has estimated the selling price of the combined Imaging instrument and software. In estimating selling prices, Caliper considers a number of factors including: Caliper's pricing policies and objectives, information gathered from its experience in customer negotiations, market research and information, recent technological trends and innovation, the nature of any services purchased by the customer, and competitor pricing (where available).
Research
Caliper's Research products, which include microfluidic and automation offerings, typically contain the following elements: the instrument, software, installation services, training services and for Caliper's microfluidic customers, the microfluidic chip. Caliper uses the guidance of ASC 605-25, as updated by ASU 2009-13, to allocate arrangement consideration to each element of the arrangement.
As required by ASU 2009-13, when allocating arrangement consideration, a determination of selling price must be made for each element of the arrangement. Where VSOE exists for an element, Caliper has used VSOE as the selling price. Caliper generally and historically has demonstrated VSOE for installation services, training services and its microfluidic chips. Caliper's Research instruments and software are rarely sold separately. As such, VSOE does not exist for these elements. Caliper concluded that sufficient TPE does not exist to serve as a basis for determining selling price due to the unique and proprietary technologies offered in its products; however, Caliper has considered any TPE information that is available in its estimates of selling price. Caliper has estimated the selling price of the combined Research instrument and software. In estimating selling prices, Caliper considers a number of factors including: Caliper's pricing policies and objectives, information gathered from our experience in customer negotiations, market research and information, recent technological trends and innovation, the nature of any services purchased by the customer, and competitor pricing (where available).
 
2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)
 
Segment Reporting
Caliper currently operates in one business segment, the development and commercialization of life science instruments and related consumables and services for use in drug discovery and other life sciences research and development. Caliper's entire business is comprehensively managed by a single management team that reports to the Chief Executive Officer. Caliper does not operate its core lines of product and services as separate business entities, nor does it accumulate discrete financial information with respect to separate product and service areas. As such, Caliper does not have separately reportable segments as defined by FASB ASC 280, . Refer to Note 17 for discussion regarding Caliper's geographical activities.
Disclosure about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information
Goodwill
In accordance with FASB ASC 805, , and FASB ASC 350, , goodwill and certain other intangibles are not amortized but are instead subject to periodic impairment assessments. Caliper performs a test for the impairment of goodwill annually following the related acquisition, or more frequently if events or circumstances indicate that goodwill may be impaired. Because Caliper has a single operating segment which is the sole reporting unit, Caliper performs this test by comparing the fair value of Caliper with its carrying value, including goodwill. If the fair value exceeds the carrying value, goodwill is not impaired. If the book value exceeds the carrying value, Caliper would calculate the potential impairment loss by comparing the implied fair value of goodwill with the book value of goodwill. If the implied fair value of goodwill is less than the book value, an impairment charge would be recorded equal to the difference.
Business Combinations
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets
Caliper performs an annual impairment analysis of goodwill to determine if impairment exists, and may perform a test for the impairment of goodwill more frequently if events or circumstances indicate that goodwill may be impaired. The goodwill impairment analysis is a two-step process. The first step of the goodwill impairment test, used to identify potential impairment, compares the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount, including goodwill. Caliper is comprised of a single segment which is the sole reporting unit. Caliper determines the fair value of the reporting unit using the concepts of ASC 820, which includes the appropriate weighting of acceptable indicators of fair value, primarily market and income based indicators of fair value. If the fair value of a reporting unit its carrying amount, goodwill of the reporting unit is not impaired. However, if the carrying value exceeds estimated fair value, there is an indication of potential impairment and a second step is performed to measure the amount of impairment. Fair value is determined by utilizing information about the Company as well as publicly available industry information. Determining fair value involves judgments by Caliper's management and requires the use of significant estimates and assumptions, including point-in-time estimates of revenue growth rates, profit margin percentages, discount rates, perpetuity growth rates, future capital expenditures and future market conditions, among others.
The second step of the goodwill impairment process involves the calculation of an implied fair value of goodwill. The implied fair value of goodwill is determined in a manner that is similar to how goodwill is calculated in a business combination, by measuring the excess of the estimated fair value of the reporting unit as calculated in step one, over the estimated fair values of the individual assets, liabilities and identifiable intangibles as if the reporting unit was being acquired in a business combination. If the carrying value of goodwill assigned to a reporting unit exceeds the implied fair value of the goodwill, an impairment charge is recorded for the excess. In determining the fair value of its net assets Caliper determined the fair value of leases and certain intangible assets, including trademarks, patents, core and developed technologies and customer relationships.
Caliper recorded an impairment charge of $43.4 million in 2008. In 2010 and 2009, the fair value of Caliper's reporting unit was greater than its carrying value, and thus the second step of the process was not required.
 
2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)
 
Foreign Currency Translation
The financial statements of Caliper's foreign subsidiaries are translated in accordance with FASB ASC 830, . In translating the accounts of the foreign subsidiaries into U.S. dollars, stockholders' equity is translated at historical rates, while assets and liabilities are translated at the rate of exchange in effect as of the end of the period. Revenue and expense transactions are translated using the weighted-average exchange rate in effect during the period in which they arise. The resulting foreign currency translation adjustments are reflected within comprehensive income (loss) as a separate component of stockholders' equity.
Foreign Currency Translation
Foreign currency transaction gains and losses from the settlement of account balances denominated in another currency are included in current period other income, net, as incurred. Foreign currency gains and losses on intercompany accounts are included in current period income to the extent that settlement of these accounts is anticipated in the future.
Research and Development
Caliper charges research and development costs to expense as incurred. Research and development costs consist primarily of salaries and related personnel costs, fees paid to consultants and outside service providers for development, material cost of prototypes and test units, facility and other research-related allocation expenses, and other expenses related to the design, development, testing and enhancement of Caliper's products.
Warranty Obligations
Caliper provides for estimated warranty expenses as a component of cost of revenue at the time product revenue is recognized in accordance with FASB ASC 450, and FASB ASC 460, . Caliper offers a one-year limited warranty on most products, which is included in the selling price. Caliper's standard limited warranty covers repair or replacement of defective goods, a preventative maintenance visit on certain products, and telephone-based technical support. Factors that affect Caliper's warranty liability include the number of installed units, historical and anticipated rates of warranty claims, and cost per claim. Caliper periodically assesses the adequacy of its recorded warranty liabilities and adjusts amounts as necessary.
Accounting for Contingencies
Guarantor's Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others
Other Income (Expense)
Other income (expense), net consists of the following (in thousands):
 
 
2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)
 
Guarantees and Indemnifications
Caliper recognizes liabilities for guarantees in accordance with FASB ASC 460 that requires upon issuance of a guarantee, the guarantor must recognize a liability for the fair value of the obligations it assumes under that guarantee.
Caliper has certain indemnification obligations related to the divestiture of the Xenogen Biosciences Corporation ("XenBio") operations (see Note 4). The divestiture agreements also contain representations, warrants and indemnities that are customary in stock purchase transactions.
Caliper, as permitted under Delaware law and in accordance with its Bylaws, indemnifies its officers and directors for certain events or occurrences, subject to certain limits, while the officer or director is or was serving at Caliper's request in such capacity. The term of the indemnification period is the officer's or director's lifetime. Caliper may terminate the indemnification agreements with its officers and directors upon 90 days written notice, but termination will not affect claims for indemnification relating to events occurring prior to the effective date of termination. The maximum amount of potential future indemnification is unlimited; however, Caliper has a director and officer insurance policy that limits its exposure and may enable it to recover a portion of any future amounts paid. Caliper believes the fair value of these indemnification agreements is minimal. Accordingly, Caliper has not recorded any liabilities for these agreements as of December 31, 2010 and 2009.
Shipping and Handling Fees and Costs
Shipping and handling fees billed to customers for product shipments are recorded in "Product revenue" in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations. Shipping and handling costs incurred for inventory purchases and product shipments are recorded in "Cost of revenue" in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations.
Advertising Expense
Caliper expenses costs of advertising as incurred. Advertising costs were $2.0 million, $1.7 million and $1.8 million during 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.
Risk Management
Caliper has purchased commercial insurance to cover its estimated future legal costs and settlements related to workers' compensation, product, general, auto, general liability and directors' and officers' liability claims. Caliper's management decides the amount of insurance coverage to purchase from unaffiliated companies and the appropriate amount of risk coverage based on the cost and availability of insurance and the likelihood of a loss. Management believes that the levels of risk that Caliper has provided insurance coverage for are consistent with those of other companies in its industry. There can be no assurance that Caliper will not incur losses beyond the limits, or outside the coverage, of its insurance.
 
2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)
 
Significant Concentrations, Credit and Other Risks
Certain financial instruments, such as cash equivalents and marketable securities, investments and accounts receivable, may potentially subject Caliper to concentrations of credit risk. Caliper believes that its investments bear minimal risk. These investments are of a short-term nature and include investments in commercial paper and government and corporate debt securities. By policy, the amount of credit exposure to any one institution or issuer is limited. These investments are generally not collateralized and primarily mature within three years. Caliper has not experienced any losses due to institutional failure or bankruptcy.
Caliper's allowance for doubtful accounts at December 31, 2010 and 2009 was $1.1 million and $0.8 million, respectively. Caliper grants credit to customers based on evaluations of their financial condition, generally without requiring collateral. However, credit risk is reduced through Caliper's efforts to monitor its exposure for credit losses and maintain allowances, if necessary. In 2010 and 2009, no customer accounted for greater than 10% of total revenues or gross accounts receivable at year end. Caliper's policy is to perform an analysis of the recoverability of its trade accounts receivable at the end of each reporting period and to establish allowances for those accounts considered uncollectible. Caliper analyzes historical bad debts, customer concentrations, customer credit-worthiness, and current economic trends when evaluating the adequacy of the allowance for doubtful accounts.
Caliper's products include certain components that are currently sourced from single vendors. Caliper believes that other vendors would be able to provide similar equipment, however the qualification of such vendors may require start-up time. In order to mitigate any adverse impacts from a disruption of supply, Caliper attempts to maintain an adequate supply of critical single-sourced equipment.
Comprehensive Income (Loss)
Caliper accounts for comprehensive income (loss) in accordance with FASB ASC 220, . The components of comprehensive income (loss) are unrealized gains and losses on available-for-sale securities and foreign currency translation adjustments. Comprehensive income (loss) has been disclosed in the Statement of Stockholders' Equity. As of December 31, 2010, accumulated other comprehensive income included $387,000 in foreign currency translation gains and $1,000 in unrealized gains on available-for-sale securities. As of December 31, 2009, accumulated other comprehensive income included $293,000 in foreign currency translation gains and $1,000 in unrealized losses on available-for-sale securities.
Reporting Comprehensive Income
Stock-Based Compensation
Caliper accounts for stock-based compensation in accordance with FASB ASC 718, , which requires all share-based payments, including grants of stock options, to be recognized in the income statement as an operating expense, based on their fair values. Caliper estimates the fair value of each option award on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes-Merton based option-pricing model.
Share-Based Payment
Net Loss Per Share
Basic net income (loss) per share is calculated based upon net income (loss) divided by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the period. The calculation of diluted net income per share gives effect to the dilutive effect of common stock equivalents consisting of stock options, unvested restricted stock, unvested restricted stock units and warrants (calculated using the treasury stock method). Potentially dilutive securities are excluded from the diluted earnings per share computation to the extent they have an antidilutive effect due to Caliper's net loss.
A reconciliation of shares used in the calculations is as follows (in thousands):
 
 
2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)
 
The following outstanding options, restricted stock and warrants were excluded from the computation of diluted net income (loss) per share because they had an antidilutive effect (in thousands):
 
Income Taxes
Caliper accounts for income taxes in accordance with FASB ASC 740, , and accounts for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in financial statements in accordance with FASB ASC 740, . FASB ASC 740 prescribes a comprehensive model for the recognition, measurement, and financial statement disclosure of uncertain tax positions. Unrecognized tax benefits are the difference between tax positions taken, or expected to be taken, in tax returns, and the benefits recognized for accounting purposes pursuant to FASB ASC 740. Caliper classifies uncertain tax positions as short-term liabilities within accrued expenses. During the fiscal years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, Caliper's tax provisions primarily relate to domestic alternative minimum tax, foreign taxes in jurisdictions where its wholly owned subsidiaries are profitable and state taxes in the State of California.
Accounting for Income Taxes
Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes
Recent Accounting Pronouncements
Caliper has reviewed recent accounting pronouncements and determined that there are no pronouncements that when adopted would have a material impact on Caliper's reported results of operations.
3. Acquisition
CRi, Inc.
On December 17, 2010, Caliper completed the acquisition of CRi for $20.0 million, consisting of approximately $7.9 million in cash, issuance of 1,648,641 shares of Caliper's common stock valued at $10.3 million and an assumed liability resulting from a litigation settlement of approximately $1.8 million. Caliper incurred approximately $0.9 million in acquisition related costs that were expensed within selling, general and administrative costs in the accompanying Statements of Operations. CRi develops and markets optical imaging systems to advance biomedical research and molecular-based drug and diagnostic development. CRi's patented systems enable researchers and clinicians to quantify multiple disease and drug response markers in intact tissue samples, at a cellular level or in living small animals. CRi's products integrate a unique multispectral imaging technology with proprietary image analysis algorithms to achieve unparalleled accuracy and sensitivity, rapidly and cost-effectively. The principal goals of the acquisition were as follows:
 
 
 
 
3. Acquisition (Continued)
 
CRi's operations, assumed as of the date of the acquisition, are included in the results of operations of Caliper beginning on December 17, 2010. The acquisition was accounted for as a purchase business combination in accordance with ASC 805, , and Caliper accordingly allocated the purchase price of CRi based upon the fair value of net assets acquired and liabilities assumed. The total purchase price has preliminarily been allocated to acquired assets and liabilities as follows (in thousands):
Business Combinations
 
The factors that Caliper believes make up the goodwill of $9.6 million that was recorded with the CRi acquisition consist of the value of the workforce as well as unidentifiable intangible assets, the fair value of expected synergies (not including those available to market participants) and potentially a premium paid by Caliper in order to achieve the goals of expanding market potential, Caliper's growth profile and the ability to fulfill the needs of researchers within the marketplace.
The allocation of the purchase price is expected to be finalized within one year of the acquisition. Goodwill related to the CRi transaction is not tax deductible. Acquired intangible assets consisted of the following (in thousands):
 
Fair value was determined by an independent appraisal and was based upon projected future discounted cash flows taking into account risks related to the characteristics and application of the technology, existing and future markets and assessments of the life cycle stage of the technology. Caliper is using the excess earnings method to value the acquired intangible assets related to customer relationships. This method is an income approach that identifies the future cash flows specifically related to the individual assets. The developed technologies and trademarks were valued via a relief from royalty method. This method identifies similar licensing transactions for trademarks and patents and then applies those rates to the acquired assets.
Caliper recorded $2.3 million of in-process research and development ("IPR&D") related to three projects that were in existence as of the acquisition date. Caliper expects the projects to be done within the next 12 to 36 months. There are inherent risks and uncertainties associated with completing research and development and therefore the exact timing of completion is uncertain. Upon completion of the projects Caliper will begin to amortize the value over the estimated useful life. If a project is abandoned Caliper will write off the project value in that period. The IPR&D intangible asset was valued in purchase accounting using the multi-period excess earnings approach which measures fair value by discounting expected future cash flows attributable to a single intangible asset.
 
3. Acquisition (Continued)
 
As of December 31, 2010, the weighted average amortization period for acquired intangibles, excluding the in-process research and development, is 7.8 years. Amortization expense was approximately $41,000 related to CRi in 2010. Future amortization of acquired intangible assets, excluding in-process research and development, is estimated as follows (in thousands):
 
Amortization of in-process research and development costs of approximately $2.3 million will begin when the technologies are complete and available for commercial release. The expense will be amortized over the useful life determined at the point of completion.
Unaudited Pro Forma Financial Information
Unaudited pro forma operating results for Caliper for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, assuming the above acquisition was completed as of January 1, 2009, would have been as follows (in thousands, except per share amounts, unaudited):
 
The unaudited pro forma financial information is presented for informational purposes only, and is not necessarily indicative of Caliper's operating results had the acquisition been completed on the date for which the pro forma results give effect. The pro forma results reflect the following pro forma adjustments:
 
 
 
 
4. Divestitures
TurboVap and RapidTrace Product Lines Divestiture
On May 17, 2010, Caliper entered into a Purchase Agreement (the "Purchase Agreement") providing for the sale of its solvent evaporation and solid phase extraction product lines, consisting of the TurboVap and RapidTrace product lines, to Biotage LLC for approximately $16.5 million in cash. The sale of these product lines to Biotage was completed on May 24, 2010. The Purchase Agreement contains representations, warranties and indemnities that are customary in purchase transactions. In addition, Caliper has agreed not to engage in activities that are competitive with the divested product lines for five years from the closing date. Upon the closing date, the parties also entered into a two-year toll manufacturing agreement, with an option for a third year, pursuant to which Caliper will exclusively manufacture the TurboVap and RapidTrace products in quantities requested by Biotage and sell such units to Biotage at fair market prices, mutually agreed to by both parties. As of the closing date for this transaction, the TurboVap and RapidTrace product lines had net assets of $5.0 million comprised of $2.7 million of goodwill allocated on a relative fair value basis, $1.6 million in accounts receivable and $1.4 million in inventory, less $0.7 million of assumed liabilities. The sale resulted in a $11.4 million gain before estimated income taxes of approximately $0.3 million.
Xenogen Biosciences Divestiture
On December 11, 2009, Caliper entered into a Stock Purchase Agreement (the "Stock Purchase Agreement") with Taconic Farms, Inc., ("Taconic"), a New York corporation. The Stock Purchase Agreement provided for the sale of Caliper's XenBio operations to Taconic for a purchase price of approximately $10.8 million, which included $9.7 million in cash together with $1.1 million which was placed into an escrow account until April 30, 2011. The escrow secures Caliper's indemnification obligations to Taconic, if any, under the Stock Purchase Agreement. The Stock Purchase Agreement also contains representations, warranties and indemnities that are customary in stock purchase transactions. As of the transaction date, XenBio had net assets of $4.9 million comprised of $2.6 million in identified intangibles, $1.9 million of goodwill allocated on a relative fair value basis, and $0.4 million of other net assets. The sale of XenBio resulted in a $4.2 million gain based upon the net proceeds received to date, excluding the amount held in escrow, in excess of total divested net assets.
PDQ Product Line Divestiture
On October 29, 2008, Caliper entered into an Asset Sale and Purchase Agreement (the "Sotax Purchase Agreement") with Sotax Corporation ("Sotax"), a Virginia corporation and a privately-owned subsidiary of SOTAX Holding A.G. based in Switzerland. The Sotax Purchase Agreement provided for the sale of Caliper's Pharmaceutical Development and Quality ("PDQ") product line to Sotax for a purchase price of approximately $15.8 million, including $13.8 million in cash together with certain assumed liabilities upon closing which were approximately $2.0 million (the "Purchase Price"). Pursuant to the Sotax Purchase Agreement, $1.0 million of the Purchase Price was placed into an escrow account until the first anniversary of November 10, 2008, the closing date. The escrow secured Caliper's indemnification obligations to Sotax, if any, under the Sotax Purchase Agreement. The Sotax Purchase Agreement also contains representations, warranties and indemnities that are customary in asset sale transactions. Caliper realized approximately $12.6 million in net cash proceeds from the sale of its PDQ product line upon closing, after the escrow account deposit and transaction expenses. As of the transaction date, net assets of the PDQ product line were approximately $11.0 million consisting of $10.5 million of goodwill allocated on a relative fair value basis, and $0.5 million of inventory, net of deferred revenue and accrued expenses. The sale of the PDQ product line resulted in a $1.4 million gain in 2008 based upon the net proceeds received to date, excluding the amount held in escrow, in excess of total divested net assets. In November 2009, upon the anniversary of the closing, Caliper recorded an additional gain of $0.7 million based upon the release from escrow after the parties reached agreement related to indemnification claims made by Sotax in connection with the Sotax Purchase Agreement. The additional gain was recorded within other income in Caliper's statement of operations.
 
4. Divestitures (Continued)
 
AutoTrace Product Line Divestiture
On November 10, 2008, Caliper entered into an Asset Purchase Agreement (the "Asset Purchase Agreement") with Dionex Corporation ("Dionex"), a publicly traded Delaware corporation. The Asset Purchase Agreement provided for the sale of Calipe's AutoTrace product line to Dionex for a purchase price of approximately $5.0 million. As of the transaction date, net assets of the AutoTrace product line were approximately $4.1 million consisting of $3.8 million of goodwill allocated on a relative fair value basis, and $0.5 million of inventory, net of deferred revenue and accrued expenses. The sale of the AutoTrace product line resulted in a $0.7 million gain in 2008 based upon the net proceeds received in excess of total divested net assets.
5. Cash, Cash Equivalents and Marketable Securities
Caliper's cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities are invested in a diversified portfolio of financial instruments, including money market instruments, corporate notes and bonds, government or government agency securities and other debt securities issued by financial institutions and other issuers with strong credit ratings. Marketable securities are freely tradable at any time, irrespective of their maturity dates. Caliper's marketable securities are classified within current assets as such investments are available to be sold in response to operating cash needs. By policy, the amount of credit exposure to any one institution is limited. Investments are generally not collateralized and primarily mature within three years. As of December 31, 2010, the majority of Caliper's marketable securities mature within one year; however, $1.4 million of such holdings mature beyond one year.
The following is a summary of cash and available-for-sale securities as of December 31, 2010 (in thousands):
 
 
 
5. Cash, Cash Equivalents and Marketable Securities (Continued)
 
The following is a summary of cash and available-for-sale securities as of December 31, 2009 (in thousands):
 
 
Gross realized gains and losses on sales of available-for-sale securities have been included within other income in Caliper's statement of operations and were not material in 2010, 2009 and 2008. Caliper utilizes the specific identification basis to reclassify amounts out of accumulated other comprehensive income into earnings.
As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, Caliper held available-for-sale securities having an aggregate value of $10.2 million and $3.5 million, respectively. Unrealized gains and losses pertaining to underlying individual securities were not material in either year. Although available to be sold to meet operating needs or otherwise, securities are generally held through maturity. Therefore, any unrealized losses have been deemed temporary and have been included within accumulated other comprehensive income.
In accordance with the provisions of FASB ASC 820, , Caliper measures fair value at the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. The Statement prioritizes the assumption that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability (the "inputs") into a three-tier fair value hierarchy. This fair value hierarchy gives the highest priority (Level 1) to quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities and the lowest priority (Level 3) to unobservable inputs in which little or no market data exists, requiring companies to develop their own assumptions. Observable inputs that do not meet the criteria of Level 1, and include quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets or quoted prices for identical assets and liabilities in markets that are not active, are categorized as Level 2. Level 3 inputs are those that reflect our estimates about the assumptions market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability, based on the best information available in the circumstances. Valuation techniques for assets and liabilities measured using Level 3 inputs may include methodologies such as the market approach, the income approach or the cost approach, and may use unobservable inputs such as projections, estimates and management's interpretation of current market data. These unobservable inputs are only utilized to the extent that observable inputs are not available or cost-effective to obtain.
Fair Value Measurements
 
5. Cash, Cash Equivalents and Marketable Securities (Continued)
 
On December 31, 2010, Caliper's investments were valued in accordance with the fair value hierarchy as follows (in thousands):
 
Investments are generally classified Level 1 because they are valued using quoted market prices, broker or dealer quotations, market prices received from industry standard pricing data providers or alternative pricing sources with reasonable levels of price transparency. Investments in U.S. Treasury Securities and overnight money market mutual funds have been classified as Level 1 because these securities are value based upon quoted prices in active markets or because the investments are actively traded.
Caliper held twelve investments in debt securities that were in an unrealized loss position as of December 31, 2010, however, the losses are not material and management does not believe any individual unrealized loss at December 31, 2010 represents an other-than-temporary impairment as these unrealized losses are primarily attributable to changes in the interest rates. Caliper currently has both the intent and ability to hold the securities for a time necessary to recover the amortized cost. During the twelve months ended December 31, 2010, a net unrealized gain of $3,000 was recorded to accumulated other comprehensive income within the accompanying balance sheet.
6. Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost (determined on a first-in, first-out basis, or "FIFO") or market. Amounts are relieved from inventory and recognized as a component of cost of sales on a FIFO basis. Inventories consist of the following (in thousands):
 
Caliper reserves or writes off the cost of inventory which it specifically identifies and considers to be obsolete or excess. Caliper defines obsolete inventory as inventory that will no longer be used in the manufacturing process. Excess inventory is generally defined as inventory in excess of projected usage, and is determined using management's best estimate of future demand at the time, based upon information then available to Caliper. Caliper uses a twelve-month demand forecast and, in addition to the demand forecast, Caliper also considers: (1) parts and subassemblies that can be used in alternative finished products, (2) parts and subassemblies that are unlikely to be impacted by engineering changes, and (3) known design changes which would reduce Caliper's ability to use the inventory as planned. During 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, Caliper recorded charges of $0.7 million, $2.2 million and $1.7 million, respectively, to cost of product revenues for excess and obsolete inventories.
 
7. Property and Equipment
Property and equipment consists of the following (in thousands):
 
Depreciation expense was $2.4 million, $2.9 million and $3.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively.
8. Goodwill and Intangible Assets
Goodwill
Caliper's annual goodwill impairment assessment has historically been completed at the beginning of the fourth quarter. Goodwill is not amortized, but is reviewed for impairment at least annually. The results of the impairment test are as of a point in time. If the future growth and operating results of our business are not as strong as anticipated and/or Caliper's market capitalization declines, this could impact the assumptions used in calculating the fair value in subsequent years. To the extent goodwill is impaired, its carrying value will be further written down to its implied fair value and a charge will be made to Caliper's earnings. Such an impairment charge could materially and adversely affect Caliper's GAAP reported operating results. As of December 31, 2010, Caliper had recorded goodwill of $28.0 million in its consolidated balance sheet. No impairment was identified in fiscal years 2010 and 2009.
In 2010, with the sale of its TurboVap and RapidTrace product lines, Caliper first determined the amount of goodwill ($2.7 million) that was to be allocated to these divested product lines based upon a relative fair value basis considering the transaction value. Caliper determined that the sale of the business resulted in an indicator of impairment under ASC 350 which required an interim goodwill impairment test, after such allocation. Caliper performed this test and concluded that after the sale of its TurboVap and RapidTrace product lines, the fair value of the reporting unit continues to exceed its carrying value, and thus there was no impairment.
 
8. Goodwill and Intangible Assets (Continued)
 
Intangibles
As of December 31, 2010, intangible assets consisted of the following (in thousands):
 
As of December 31, 2009, intangible assets consist of the following (in thousands):
 
Gross intangible assets of $5.4 million and accumulated amortization of $2.8 million were included in the calculation of the gain on the divestiture of XenBio.
Amortization expense is computed based upon the estimated timing of the undiscounted cash flows used to value each respective asset over the estimated useful life of the particular intangible asset, or using the straight-line method over the estimated useful life of the intangible asset when the pattern of cash flows is not necessarily reflective of the true consumption rate of the particular intangible asset.
 
8. Goodwill and Intangible Assets (Continued)
 
Amortization expense was $4.8 million, $6.6 million and $8.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Scheduled amortization in future periods is as follows (in thousands):
 
9. Other Current and Non-current Liabilities
Other current and non-current liabilities consist of the following (in thousands):
 
 
9. Other Current and Non-current Liabilities (Continued)
 
Warranty Obligation
Changes in Caliper's warranty obligation during the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 are as follows (in thousands):
 
Assumed Litigation Settlement
In connection with the CRi acquisition (see Note 3), Caliper assumed an obligation pursuant to a previous litigation settlement between CRi and AntiCancer Incorporated ("AntiCancer"). In addition to the assumed settlement obligations shown below, Caliper assumed CRi's obligation to pay AntiCancer defined royalties based upon products sold. The remaining litigation settlement obligations are as follows (in thousands):
 
10. Credit Facility
On December 30, 2010, Caliper entered into a Third Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement ("credit facility") with a bank, which permits Caliper to borrow up to $25 million in the form of revolving loan advances, including up to $5 million in the form of letters of credit and other contingent reserves. The principal effect of this modification was to extend the maturity date of the credit facility from April 1, 2011 to April 1, 2013. The modification also established financial covenants that are tested as of the last day of each quarter. Principal borrowings under the credit facility accrue interest at a floating annual rate equal to the bank's prime rate (4% at December 31, 2010). Under the credit facility, Caliper is permitted to borrow up to $25 million, subject to a borrowing base limit consisting of (a) 80% of eligible accounts receivable plus (b) the lesser of 90% of Caliper's unrestricted cash at the bank or $15 million. Eligible accounts receivable do not include internationally billed receivables, unbilled receivables, and receivables aged over 90 days from invoice date. The credit facility serves as a source of capital for ongoing operations and working capital needs.
 
10. Credit Facility (Continued)
 
The credit facility includes traditional lending and reporting covenants including that certain financial covenants applicable to liquidity and earnings are to be maintained by Caliper and tested as of the last day of each quarter. As of December 31, 2010, Caliper was in compliance with all of its covenants. The credit facility also includes a net liquidity clause. Under this clause, if Caliper's cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, held at the bank, net of debt outstanding under the credit facility, is less than $0.5 million (Net Liquidity), the bank will apply all of Caliper's accounts receivable collections, received within its lockbox arrangement with the bank, to the outstanding principal. Such amounts are eligible to be re-borrowed by Caliper subject to the borrowing base limit described above.
The credit facility also includes subjective rights for the bank to accelerate the maturity of the debt, lower the borrowing base or stop making advances, which are typical within asset based lending arrangements. Caliper does not believe the bank will exercise these rights as long as it is meeting its covenants.
There were no outstanding obligations under the credit facility as of December 31, 2010. Outstanding obligations under the credit facility were $14.9 million as of December 31, 2009. The credit facility is classified as short-term consistent with Caliper's intent to utilize the credit facility to fund operations and working capital needs on a revolving loan basis and pay down the obligation within the year to minimize interest costs. Interest is due monthly and has ranged from 4.5% to 5.5% during 2010 and 4.5% to 6.5% during 2009.
11. Commitments and Contingencies
Leases
As of December 31, 2010, future minimum payments under operating leases (excluding idled facilities accounted for within accrued restructuring) were as follows (in thousands):
 
Rent expense relating to operating leases was approximately $3.5 million in 2010, $5.3 million in 2009 and $6.0 million in 2008.
 
11. Commitments and Contingencies (Continued)
 
Letters-of-Credit
As of December 31, 2010, Caliper had outstanding standby letters-of-credit, which restrict available borrowing under its credit facility, in the outstanding amount of $1.1 million primarily securing facility operating leases.
Inventory Purchases
As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, Caliper had a non-cancelable purchase commitment in the amount of approximately $1.4 million and $0.4 million, respectively, with its foreign supplier for the purchase of glass stock used in the manufacture of certain types of its chips.
As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, Caliper had non-cancelable purchase commitments in the amount of approximately $1.7 million and $2.5 million, respectively, with its CCD camera suppliers, lens and filter suppliers for the purchase of parts used in the manufacture of in vivo imaging instrumentation.
Royalty Arrangements
On August 9, 2006, Stanford University provided Xenogen with the results of an audit performed pursuant to the exclusive license agreement between Stanford and Xenogen. The audit report, which was prepared by a third party consultant, asserted certain claims of underpayments during the period from 2002 through March 31, 2006 based upon a different interpretation of the scope of imaging products that are subject to the royalty provisions of the license than Caliper had used for the calculation of royalties since the beginning of this licensing arrangement in 1997. Upon review of the audit report, Caliper determined that additional royalties of $71,000 were owed to Stanford, and paid this obligation in 2006. Caliper is contesting the remaining payment obligation that is claimed in the Stanford audit report, and as a result, has not accrued for any additional liability. The amount of any remaining contingent obligation, if any, cannot currently be estimated, nor does Caliper believe that it is probable that a liability exists. At any time, either party may choose binding arbitration to resolve any dispute over the amount of back royalties owed, if any.
Caliper has entered into royalty arrangements with several third parties whereby Caliper owes royalties related to revenues that are derived pursuant to in-licensed technologies. Royalty obligations are expensed when incurred or over the minimum royalty periods. Some of the arrangements include minimum royalties over a defined term. The future minimum royalty payments are as follows (in thousands):
 
 
11. Commitments and Contingencies (Continued)
 
In March 2010, Caliper received a letter from AntiCancer which claimed that Caliper had underpaid royalties during the period from July 2008 through December 2009, under a cross-license agreement entered into in February 2008. The claim is based upon a different interpretation of the royalty sharing provisions within the cross-license agreement. Caliper is contesting the claim that additional royalties are due, and as a result, has not accrued for any additional liability. The amount of any remaining contingent obligation, if any, cannot currently be estimated, nor does Caliper believe that it is probable that a liability exists. AntiCancer and Caliper held a mediation session with a neutral third party in September 2010, and are attempting to reach a negotiated settlement of this dispute. If this dispute cannot be resolved through mediation, either party may choose binding arbitration to resolve any dispute over the amount of back royalties owed, if any.
12. Restructuring Activities
The following table summarizes the restructuring accrual activity (in thousands):
 
The restructuring liability as of December 31, 2010 reflects the minimum future payment obligations related to base lease rentals and operating charges, net of sub-lease income, over the remaining lease lives through November 2015, discounted at the borrowing rate in effect at the time of the restructuring event (5% or 8.75%).
 
12. Restructuring Activities (Continued)
 
The remaining idle facility obligations are as follows (in thousands):
 
Included within the above obligations is estimated future sublease income of $0.7 million in 2011, $0.9 million in 2012, $0.6 million in 2013 and $0.2 million per year in 2014 and 2015.
The restructuring obligations reflected above resulted from the following actions:
Severance
In December 2010, Caliper acquired CRi (see Note 3). In connection with the acquisition Caliper recorded a $0.7 million restructuring charge related to employee separation costs incurred by Caliper after the acquisition date. This action reduced the total CRi workforce by 13 employees, or approximately 28%. All affected employees were notified in December 2010 and all severance payments are expected to be completed by the end of the third quarter of 2011. The affected employees are not required to perform future services to earn the payments.
Facility Closures
During 2008, Caliper consolidated its West Coast business operations to reduce overall facility costs and improve productivity and effectiveness of its research and development spending. The consolidation plan entailed vacating approximately 26,300 square feet of occupied space in Mountain View, California. In 2009, Caliper revised its assumptions around the restructuring charge taken in 2008 regarding the facility. The effect of the change was to update the sublease timing and rates assumed as a result of conditions in the current real estate market, as well as to correct an error in the amount of vacated space by approximately 10,200 square feet. This facility closure was accounted for in accordance with FASB ASC 420, Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities, pursuant to which Caliper recorded a liability equal to the fair value of the remaining lease payments as of the cease-use date. Fair value was determined based upon the discounted present value of remaining lease rentals (using a discount rate of 5.5%) for the space no longer occupied, considering future estimated sublease income, estimated broker fees and required tenant improvements. The lease term expires on November 30, 2013.
In July 2009, Caliper vacated approximately 19,000 square feet at its Hopkinton, Massachusetts facilities. This facility consolidation was enabled as the result of the product line divestitures completed in the fourth quarter of 2008 and continued efforts to reduce idle capacity. Caliper recorded a restructuring charge of approximately $1.0 million related to this action in the third quarter of 2009. Caliper has accounted for this restructuring activity in accordance with FASB ASC 420, pursuant to which Caliper has recorded a liability equal to the fair value of the remaining lease payments as of the cease-use date. Fair value was determined based upon the discounted present value of remaining lease payments (using a discount rate of 6.5%), considering future estimated sublease income, estimated broker fees and required tenant improvements. The lease term expires on December 31, 2015.
 
12. Restructuring Activities (Continued)
 
In April 2010, Caliper vacated approximately 5,400 additional square feet of its Mountain View, California facility. This facility consolidation was due to the ongoing efforts to streamline chip manufacturing operations and increase the likelihood of securing a sub-tenant. Caliper recorded a restructuring charge of approximately $0.6 million related to this action in the second quarter of 2010. This partial facility abandonment was accounted for in accordance with FASB ASC 420, pursuant to which Caliper recorded a liability equal to the fair value of the remaining lease payments as of the cease-use date. Fair value was determined based upon the discounted present value of remaining lease payments (using a discount rate of 5.5%) for the space no longer occupied, considering future estimated sublease income, estimated broker fees and required tenant improvements.
In September 2010, Caliper entered into a two year sublease for approximately 13,200 square feet of the vacated space in Mountain View, California. As a result of entering into this agreement, Caliper revised its assumptions around the restructuring charge taken with respect to this property in 2009, and recorded an additional $0.7 million restructuring charge during the three months ended September 30, 2010. The effect of the charge was to update the sublease rates for the remaining space as well as to capture the period from the end of the sublease through November 2013 for which Caliper does not expect to receive sublease income.
13. Stockholders' Equity
Preferred Share Purchase Rights Plan
In December 2001, the Board of Directors and stockholders of Caliper adopted a Preferred Share Purchase Rights Plan (Rights Plan) under which Caliper issued as a dividend to all holders of its common stock certain rights to acquire additional shares of common stock at a discount price under certain circumstances (Rights). The dividend of the Rights was made to holders of Caliper's common stock on record as of January 8, 2002. Shares of common stock that are newly issued after this date will also carry Rights. The Rights Plan is designed to provide protection to stockholders from unsolicited and abusive takeover tactics, including attempts to acquire control of Caliper at an inadequate price or to treat all stockholders equally. Under the Rights Plan, each stockholder received one Right for each share of Caliper's outstanding common stock held by the stockholder. Each Right will entitle the holder to purchase one one-hundredth of a share of newly designated Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock of Caliper at an initial exercise price of $100. Initially, the Rights are not detachable from Caliper's common stock and are not exercisable. Subject to certain exceptions, they become immediately exercisable after any person or group (Acquiring Person) acquires beneficial ownership of 15% or more of Caliper's common stock, or 10 business days (or such date as the Board of Directors may determine) after any person or entity announces a tender or exchange offer that would result in a 15% or greater beneficial ownership level. At no time will the Rights have any voting power. If the Rights become exercisable and a buyer becomes an Acquiring Person, all Rights holders, except the Acquiring Person, will be entitled to purchase, for each Right held, $200 worth of Caliper's common stock for $100. Caliper's Board of Directors may amend or terminate the Rights Plan at any time or redeem the Rights prior to the time a person acquires more than 15% of Caliper's common stock. Issuance of the Rights will not affect the financial position of Caliper or interfere with its business plans. Issuance of the Rights will not affect reported earnings per share and will not be taxable to Caliper or Caliper's stockholders except, under certain circumstances, if the Rights become exercisable. The Rights Plan terminates in January 2012 unless it is renewed.
 
13. Stockholders' Equity (Continued)
 
Warrants
In connection with Caliper's 2006 acquisition of Xenogen, Caliper granted Xenogen stockholders an aggregate of 4,701,733 warrants, and reserved an additional 411,814 warrants for potential issuance upon the exercise of Xenogen warrants which were assumed by Caliper. Each warrant granted permits the holder to acquire one Caliper common share at an exercise price of $6.79 per share through August 9, 2011. Upon the potential exercise of these warrants, the holders are entitled to receive that number of Caliper shares and warrants that such holder would have been entitled to receive as a Xenogen stockholder as of the acquisition date. The termination date of the Caliper warrants that are to be issued upon the eventual exercise of the Xenogen warrants may not be extended beyond the 5 year expiration date.
The following table summarizes information with respect to warrants assumed from Xenogen which remain outstanding and exercisable at December 31, 2010:
 
Stock Plans
The following is a summary of Caliper's stock plans that are in place as of December 31, 2010:
 
 
13. Stockholders' Equity (Continued)
 
On June 2, 2009, Caliper's stockholders approved a new 2009 Equity Incentive Plan (the "2009 Equity Incentive Plan"), and Caliper reserved an aggregate of 10 million shares of common stock for issuance pursuant to the 2009 Equity Incentive Plan. The 2009 Equity Incentive Plan replaced Caliper's 1999 Equity Incentive Plan (the "1999 Plan") and 1999 Non-Employee Directors' Equity Incentive Plan (the "1999 Directors' Plan" and, collectively with the 1999 Plan, the "Existing Plans"). Collectively, the 2009 Equity Incentive Plan and Existing Plans are referred to as the "Plans." The 2009 Equity Incentive Plan provides for the grant of incentive stock options, nonqualified stock options, restricted stock, restricted stock units, and other types of stock-based awards to officers, employees, non-employee directors and consultants. Of the 10 million shares reserved under the 2009 Equity Incentive Plan, Caliper has established a 2.5 million share limit on the number of shares that may be granted as "full value" awards. A full value award is an award which is a one-for-one common stock equivalent, such as a restricted stock grant that does not require the individual to pay a purchase or exercise price to receive the shares of common stock. The 2009 Equity Incentive Plan has a ten-year term through June 2, 2019, and stock options granted under the 2009 Equity Incentive Plan have a maximum term of ten years.
The 1999 Equity Plan expired automatically upon the adoption of the new 2009 Equity Incentive Plan on June 2, 2009. This Plan, which was in place since being adopted by Caliper's Board of Directors and stockholders in 1999, continues to be in effect for outstanding options. The 1999 Equity Plan provided for an automatic annual increase in the shares reserved for issuance for a period of ten years starting in 2000, by the greater of 5% of outstanding shares on a fully-diluted basis or the number of shares that have been made subject to awards granted under the 1999 Equity Plan during the prior 12-month period, and included certain limitations with respect to the number of awards designated as "incentive stock options" which could be granted. Future cancellations of outstanding stock awards issued under the 1999 Equity Plan are not available for future grant under the 2009 Equity Incentive Plan. Options granted under the Plan generally carried a 10-year term and were subject to vesting provisions as determined by Caliper's Board of Directors. The majority of employee equity awards carried a 4-year vesting term.
The 1999 Directors' Plan expired automatically upon the adoption of the new 2009 Equity Incentive Plan on June 2, 2009. This Plan, which was in place since being adopted by Caliper's Board of Directors and stockholders in 1999, as amended and approved by stockholders in June 2007, provided for the automatic grant of options and restricted stock units to non-employee directors. Future cancellations of outstanding stock awards issued under the 1999 Directors Plan are not available for future grant under the 2009 Equity Incentive Plan.
In December 2001, Caliper's Board of Directors adopted the 2001 Non-Statutory Stock Option Plan (the "2001 Non-Statutory Plan"). Options under the 2001 Non-Statutory Plan cannot be issued to Caliper's current officers and directors and was therefore not required to be voted on and approved by stockholders.
In June 2003, Caliper's Board of Directors adopted the Acquisition Equity Plan (the "Acquisition Plan"), which provides for the grant of options and restricted shares as inducements to retain key employees in connection with a significant acquisition. In July 2003, Caliper granted 600,000 options and 275,000 shares of restricted common stock under this plan in connection with the Zymark acquisition.
 
13. Stockholders' Equity (Continued)
 
In October 1999, Caliper's Board of Directors and stockholders adopted the 1999 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the "1999 Purchase Plan"). The initial number of shares reserved was 300,000 and under the 1999 Equity Plan, the number of shares reserved for issuance automatically increases annually by the greater of 0.5% of outstanding shares on a fully-diluted basis, or the number of shares issued under the 1999 Purchase Plan during the prior 12-month period. The automatic share reserve increase may not exceed 3 million shares in aggregate over the 10-year period.
The 1999 Purchase Plan permits eligible employees to acquire shares of Caliper's common stock through payroll deductions of up to 10% of their gross earnings. No employee may participate in the 1999 Purchase Plan if, immediately after the grant, the employee has voting power over 5% or more of the outstanding capital stock. The Board may specify offerings of up to 27 months under the terms of the plan; however, Caliper's Board of Directors has currently limited offering periods to six months. Unless the Board determines otherwise, common stock may be purchased at the lower of 85% of the fair market value of Caliper's common stock on the first day of the offering or 85% of the fair market value of Caliper's common stock on the purchase date. The initial offering period began on the effective date of the initial public offering. Caliper issued 285,040, 512,083 and 313,477 shares under the 1999 Purchase Plan in the years 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, at a weighted average price of $2.59, $1.12 and $2.05, respectively.
A summary of activity under the stock plans, excluding the 1999 Purchase Plan, is as follows:
 
Included in the summary of activity are 200,067 shares that relate to previously cancelled or forfeited shares that are no longer available for future grant under the expired plans described above.
 
13. Stockholders' Equity (Continued)
 
Stock Based Compensation
On January 1, 2006, Caliper adopted FASB ASC 718, which requires all share-based payments to be recognized in the income statement as an operating expense, based on their fair values. Caliper's share-based payment arrangements within the scope of FASB ASC 718 include options, restricted stock and other forms of stock bonuses, including restricted stock units, awarded under its option plans, and its Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP) which enables participating employees to purchase Caliper's stock at a discount from fair market value. Caliper applied the modified prospective method in adopting FASB ASC 718. For stock option awards and ESPP purchases, Caliper estimates the fair value of share-based payments using the Black-Scholes-Merton formula and, for all share-based payments made after the adoption of FASB ASC 718, recognizes the resulting compensation expense using a straight-line recognition method over the applicable service period of each award. The fair value of restricted stock awards (including restricted stock units) is determined based upon the fair market value of Caliper's stock on the date of grant. The majority of the incentive and non-statutory stock option grants and restricted stock awards carry a 4-year vesting term, which is generally the requisite service period. There are typically no acceleration provisions related to the stock option grants or restricted stock awards. The exercise price of stock option grants is equal to the fair market value of Caliper's stock on the date of grant. For certain restricted stock awards that cliff vest Caliper recognizes the resulting compensation expense using a straight-line recognition method over the applicable service period of each award. Shares issued pursuant to option exercises or restricted stock unit conversion are generally made from previously authorized, but un-issued shares of common stock, or if available, outstanding treasury shares.
Under the modified prospective method, compensation cost recognized includes (a) all share-based payments granted prior to, but not yet vested as of, January 1, 2006, based on the grant date fair value estimated in accordance with the original provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 123 (SFAS 123), , and (b) all share-based payments granted subsequent to January 1, 2006, based on the grant date fair value estimated in accordance with the provisions of FASB ASC 718. Prior to the adoption of FASB ASC 718, forfeitures of unvested awards were accounted for in the period in which they occurred. Effective with the adoption of FASB ASC 718 estimated prospective forfeitures are included in the determination of compensation cost to be recognized. Caliper applied an expected forfeiture rate of 5% to unvested stock options for which expense was recognized during the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008.
Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation
Caliper accounts for options issued to non-employees in accordance with the provisions of FASB ASC 718 and EITF No. 96-18, Accounting for Equity Instruments that are issued to other than Employees for Acquiring, or in Conjunction with Selling Goods or Services. For the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, compensation expense related to stock-based compensation issued to non-employees was not material.
Stock-based compensation expense is included within costs and expenses as follows (in thousands):
 
 
13. Stockholders' Equity (Continued)
 
The fair value of each option award issued under Caliper's equity plans is estimated on the date of grant using a Black-Scholes-Merton based option pricing model that uses the assumptions noted in the following table. Expected volatilities are based on historical volatility of Caliper's stock and warrants. The expected term of the options is based on Caliper's historical option exercise data taking into consideration the exercise patterns of the option holder during the option's life. The risk-free interest rate is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect on the date of the grant.
 
A summary of stock option and restricted stock unit activity under the Plans as of December 31, 2010, and changes during the year then ended as follows:
 
 
Restricted stock units do not carry an exercise price and typically vest over a four-year period, although the vesting period of certain awards may vary. As of December 31, 2010, the weighted average remaining vesting term is 2.21 years and the aggregate intrinsic value of outstanding and non-vested restricted stock is approximately $9.1 million.
 
13. Stockholders' Equity (Continued)
 
During the twelve months ended December 31, 2010, Caliper granted 1,365,644 options at a weighted average grant date fair value, using the Black-Scholes-Merton option pricing model, of $2.67 per share, and 373,500 restricted stock units at a weighted average grant date fair value of $3.63 per share. The total fair value of restricted stock that vested during the year ended December 31, 2010 was approximately $1.8 million.
As of December 31, 2010, there was $6.0 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested stock-based compensation arrangements granted under the Plans. That cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average remaining service period of approximately 2.8 years.
14. Income Taxes
The components of the provision (benefit) for income taxes are as follows (in thousands):
 
Total foreign pre-tax loss was $0.8 million, $0.6 million and $1.8 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. In 2010, Caliper recorded a provision for U.S, federal taxes of $326,000 for alternative minimum tax. In 2009 and 2008, Caliper recorded net benefits for U.S. federal taxes of $8,000 and $76,000, respectively, resulting from refundable tax credits related to the election under the Housing Economic Recovery Act of 2008. Caliper's total deferred tax provision was $3,000 in 2010 and was zero in 2009 and 2008. In 2010 and 2009, the State of California suspended the use of net operating losses by corporations to reduce taxable net income which is apportioned to California. In 2010 and 2009, Caliper incurred a state tax liability in California as a result of not being able to utilize previously generated losses. As of December 31, 2010, Caliper's California tax net operating losses amounted to $47.3 million.
A reconciliation of income taxes at the statutory federal income tax rate to net income taxes included in the accompanying statements of operations is as follows (in thousands):
 
Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes.
 
14. Income Taxes (Continued)
 
Significant components of Caliper's deferred tax assets for federal and state income taxes are as follows (in thousands):
 
As of December 31, 2010, Caliper had federal and state net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $279.3 million and $114.0 million, respectively. Caliper also had federal and state research and development tax credit carryforwards of approximately $8.6 million and $4.9 million, respectively. The federal net operating loss and credit carryforwards will expire at various dates through 2030 beginning in the year 2011, if not utilized. The current remaining state net operating losses have varying expiration dates through 2030.
Because of Caliper's lack of earnings history and the uncertainty of realizing these net operating losses, the deferred tax assets have been fully offset by a valuation allowance. The valuation allowance increased by $1.5 million during the year ended December 31, 2010, increased $0.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2009 and increased $4.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2008.
Utilization of the federal and state net operating losses and credits may be subject to a substantial limitation due to the change in ownership provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and similar state provisions. The annual limitation may result in the expiration of net operating losses and credits before utilization. The acquisition of Xenogen resulted in Xenogen stockholders owning approximately one-third of Caliper and, therefore, in all likelihood resulted in a change of ownership that will cause pre-merger losses to be subject to limitation.
The following table summarizes the activity related to Caliper's gross unrecognized tax benefits from January 1, 2009 to December 31, 2010 (in thousands):
 
 
14. Income Taxes (Continued)
 
Caliper's gross unrecognized tax benefits as reflected in the table above are $14.6 million which includes certain benefits that if recognized would also result in an increase to Caliper's income tax valuation allowance. As a result, the amount of gross unrecognized tax benefit that would potentially reduce Caliper's effective tax rate is approximately $0.8 million. In the ordinary course of Caliper's business, its income tax filings are regularly under audit by tax authorities. While Caliper believes it has appropriately provided for all uncertain tax positions, amounts asserted by taxing authorities could be greater or less than its accrued position. Accordingly, additional provisions on income tax matters, or reductions of previously accrued provisions, could be recorded in the future as Caliper revises its estimates due to changing facts and circumstances or the underlying matters are settled or otherwise resolved. Federal and certain state taxes for the years 2007 through 2010 are subject to examination, as well as foreign jurisdiction tax returns covering these same periods. Caliper does not anticipate that the total amount of unrecognized tax benefit related to any particular tax position will change significantly within the next twelve months. Caliper recognizes accrued interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits in income tax expense. Interest and penalties accrued as of December 31, 2010 were not material.
The Company considers the excess of its financial reporting over its tax basis in its investment in foreign subsidiaries essentially permanent in duration and as such has not recognized a deferred tax liability related to this difference.
15. 401(k) Plans
Caliper has a 401(k) plan qualified under section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code that is available to all eligible employees as defined in the plan. Caliper instituted a discretionary employer match of employee contributions in April 2010. The discretionary matching contribution formula has been defined as 25% of an employee's elected deferral contribution up to a maximum of 6% of the employee's contributions. Caliper matching contributions are made only if, and as long as, the employee is making deferral contributions to the 401(k) Plan.
16. Legal Proceedings
As reported previously, on February 23, 2010, Caliper, its wholly owned subsidiary Xenogen Corporation, and Stanford University filed a complaint for patent infringement against Carestream Health, Inc. ("Carestream") in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas. Caliper, Xenogen and Stanford University seek a judgment that Carestream induced infringement of seven United States patents that Caliper, through Xenogen, exclusively licenses from Stanford University. Caliper and its co- plaintiffs seek an award of compensatory damages, trebled damages due to Carestream's willfulness, a permanent injunction and attorneys' fees against Carestream for its ongoing, indirect infringement of the patents-in-suit. The complaint was served on Carestream on February 26, 2010. On April 20, 2010, Carestream filed its answer to the complaint, denying it induces infringement of the asserted patents. Carestream also counterclaimed for declaratory judgments of non-infringement and invalidity of the asserted patents. Carestream also filed a motion to transfer the venue of the litigation to another District Court. Caliper and Carestream subsequently agreed to the transfer of this case to the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California, where it is pending. The claim construction hearing for this case is presently scheduled for June 22, 2011, and the trial is presently scheduled for April 2012.
On June 8, 2010, the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office ("PTO") issued U.S. Patent Number 7,734,325 ("the '325 Patent") to Carestream. The next day, Caliper filed a request for reexamination of all claims of the '325 Patent. On August 12, 2010, the PTO issued an order granting reexamination of all claims of the '325 Patent. On the same day, the PTO also issued an action closing prosecution of the reexamination of the '325 Patent. On September 29, 2010, the PTO issued a right of appeal notice notifying Caliper and Carestream of each party's right to appeal the examiner's determinations in the reexamination. Caliper filed a Notice of Appeal with the PTO on October 29, 2010, and filed its appeal brief on February 4, 2011. Carestream filed its reply to Caliper's appeal brief on March 7, 2011.
 
16. Legal Proceedings (Continued)
 
On July 9, 2010, Carestream filed a complaint for patent infringement against Caliper in the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Wisconsin. Carestream's complaint alleges that Caliper's Lumina XR imaging system, which is a multi-modal imaging system with both optical and x-ray capabilities that Caliper first introduced in September 2009, infringes the '325 Patent and that Caliper indirectly infringes the '325 Patent. Caliper filed its answer to Carestream's complaint on August 2, 2010. Carestream's allegations of infringement do not involve any of Caliper's imaging products other than the Lumina XR. Caliper believes that the '325 Patent is invalid and that the Lumina XR system does not infringe the claims of the '325 Patent, and Caliper intends to defend against this lawsuit vigorously. With its complaint for patent infringement, Carestream also filed with the Court a motion for preliminary injunction to prevent Caliper from selling the Lumina XR system during the pendency of this litigation. Caliper filed its opposition to Carestream's motion for a preliminary injunction on October 20, 2010. The hearing on Carestream's preliminary injunction motion was held on March 4, 2011, but the Court has not yet issued an order regarding Carestream's preliminary injunction motion. On October 20, 2010, Caliper also filed a motion for summary judgment based on non-infringement of the '325 Patent. No hearing date for Caliper's summary judgment motion has been set by the Court. On November 10, 2010, Carestream filed a cross-motion for summary judgment of infringement, and Caliper filed its opposition to Carestream's summary judgment motion on December 10, 2010. No hearing date has been set by the Court for that motion. The claim construction hearing for this case was also held on March 4, 2011, but the Court has not yet issued its claim construction order. The trial for this case is presently scheduled for January 2012.
On November 10, 2010, GenMark Diagnostics, Inc., a life sciences company based in Carlsbad, California, filed a complaint against Caliper in U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California, seeking declaratory judgment that either (i) GenMark's products do not infringe three microfluidic patents owned by Caliper (U.S. Patent Nos. 6,366,924; 6,399,025; and 6,495,104) and/or (ii) the claims of the three patents at issue are invalid. GenMark's complaint was served on Caliper on November 11, 2010. The complaint filed by GenMark did not contain any other claims against Caliper, other than a claim for recovery of reasonable attorneys' fees. Caliper had been in the beginning stages of license discussions with GenMark when it filed its complaint. GenMark agreed to extend the date on which Caliper is required to answer GenMark's complaint. On February 28, 2011, Caliper and GenMark entered an agreement under which Caliper agreed not to assert any infringement claims under certain specified patents against GenMark during the next six-month period and GenMark agreed to dismiss its complaint without prejudice. Caliper intends to continue its discussions with GenMark regarding a potential licensing arrangement during this six-month period.
From time to time Caliper is involved in litigation arising out of claims in the normal course of business, and when a probable loss contingency arises, records a loss provision based upon actual or possible claims and assessments. The amount of possible claim recorded is determined on the basis of the amount of the actual claim, when the amount is both probable and the amount of the claim can be reasonably estimated. If a loss is deemed probable, but the range of potential loss is wide, Caliper records a loss provision based upon the low end estimate of the probable range and may adjust that estimate in future periods as more information becomes available. Litigation loss provisions, when made, are reflected within general and administrative expenses in our statement of operations and are included within accrued legal expenses in the accompanying balance sheet. Based on the information presently available, management believes that there are no outstanding claims or actions pending or threatened against Caliper, the ultimate resolution of which will have a material adverse effect on our financial position, liquidity or results of operations, although the results of litigation are inherently uncertain, and adverse outcomes are possible.
17. Geographic Data
FASB ASC 280, , establishes standards for reporting information regarding operating segments in annual financial statements and requires selected information of those segments to be presented in interim financial reports issued to stockholders. Operating segments are identified as components of an enterprise about which separate discrete financial information is available for evaluation by the chief operating decision-maker, or decision-making group, in making decisions of how to allocate resources and assess performance. Caliper's chief decision maker, as defined under FASB ASC 280, is the chief executive officer. Caliper views its operations and manages its business as one operating segment.
Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information
 
17. Geographic Data (Continued)
 
The table below presents Caliper's activities by geographical location (in thousands). Caliper attributes revenue to geographic locations based upon location of the end customer.
 
For all periods presented, no individual country within Europe, Asia or other exceeded 10% of the consolidated totals for revenue, net loss, property and equipment and net assets. Caliper's other long-lived assets include restricted cash, goodwill, intangible assets and other assets which are primarily located in the United States.
18. Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)
Unaudited Results
The following table sets forth a summary of our unaudited quarterly operating results for each of the eight quarters up through the year ended December 31, 2010. This data has been derived from our unaudited consolidated interim financial statements which, in our opinion, have been prepared in substantially the same basis as the audited consolidated financial statements contained elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and include all normal recurring adjustments necessary for a fair presentation of the financial information for the periods presented. These unaudited quarterly results should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The operating results in any quarter are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for any future period.
 
18. Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited) (Continued)
 
Correction of an Error
Included within fourth quarter 2009 net income is a $1.2 million reversal of certain prior period restructuring charges and a $0.4 million charge to operating rent expense that resulted from having not fully vacated certain office and lab space that was originally intended to be vacated in connection with Caliper's consolidation of its Mountain View, California facility in 2008 (further discussed in Note 12). During the fourth quarter of 2009, management became aware that certain space previously included in restructuring charges taken in the third and fourth quarter of 2008 had not met the "cease-use" date as required under ASC 420 to record a restructuring accrual. Accordingly, Caliper reversed the previously recorded charges in the fourth quarter of 2009 and recorded the appropriate rent expense, both on a cumulative basis. Caliper evaluated the materiality of this error in accordance with ASC 250, , and SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin Nos. 99, , and 108, , and concluded that the effects of the correction of the error were not material to its full year 2009 and 2008 financial results or to any interim quarterly period therein.
Accounting Changes and Error Corrections
Materiality
Considering the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements when Quantifying Misstatements in Current Year Financial Statements
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
1. Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
Basis of Presentation
The accompanying unaudited consolidated financial statements of Caliper Life Sciences, Inc. and its wholly owned subsidiaries (collectively, the "Company" or "Caliper") have been prepared by the Company pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") and generally accepted accounting principles for interim financial information. Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") have been condensed or omitted pursuant to such rules or regulations. The December 31, 2010 consolidated balance sheet has been derived from the Company's audited financial statements as of that date, but does not include all disclosures required by U.S. GAAP. However, in the opinion of management, all adjustments (consisting of normal recurring entries) considered necessary for a fair presentation have been included. These unaudited consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with Caliper's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010.
Operating results for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2011, are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the full fiscal year or for any future periods. For example, the Company typically experiences higher revenue in the fourth quarter of its fiscal year due to spending patterns of its customers, and may realize significant periodic fluctuations in license and contract revenue depending on the timing and circumstances of underlying individual transactions.
On September 7, 2011, the Company entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger ("the Merger Agreement") with PerkinElmer, Inc., a Massachusetts corporation ("Buyer"), and PerkinElmer Hopkinton Co., a Delaware corporation and wholly owned subsidiary of Buyer ("Merger Sub") pursuant to which, subject to satisfaction or waiver of the conditions therein, Merger Sub will merge with and into the Company (the "Merger") with the Company surviving as a wholly-owned subsidiary of Buyer. A description of the Merger Agreement is contained in the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on September 8, 2011. The waiting period for the Merger under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended, expired on October 19, 2011, and clearance for the Merger under Germany's Act against Restraints of Competition was granted on October 10, 2011. Completion of the Merger remains subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions, including approval of the Company's stockholders. The Company will hold a special meeting of stockholders on November 7, 2011 at which the Company's stockholders will vote on the Merger Agreement.
Summary of Significant Accounting Principles
The accounting policies underlying the accompanying unaudited consolidated financial statements are those set forth in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010, filed with the SEC on March 11, 2011. Those policies are not presented herein, except to the extent that new policies have been adopted or that the description of existing policies has been meaningfully updated.
Revenue Recognition
General Policy
Caliper recognizes revenue when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred or services have been rendered, the fee is fixed or determinable, and collectability is reasonably assured or probable, as applicable. Product revenue is recognized upon passage of title, which for the majority of sales occurs when goods are shipped under Caliper's standard terms of "FOB origin." Revenue associated with customer product purchases delivered under terms of "FOB destination" is deferred until the product is received by the customer. Revenues on shipments subject to customer acceptance provisions are recognized only upon customer acceptance provided all other revenue recognition criteria are met. In general, sales made by Caliper do not include general return rights or privileges. In the limited circumstance where a right of return exists, Caliper recognizes revenue when the right has lapsed. Based upon Caliper's prior experiences, sales returns have not been significant and therefore a general provision for sales returns or other allowances is not recorded at the time of sale. Revenue from services offered by Caliper is generally recognized as the services are performed (or, as applicable, ratably over the contract service term in the case of annual maintenance contracts). Provision is made at the time of sale for estimated costs related to Caliper's warranty obligations to customers.
Cash received from customers as advance deposits for undelivered products and services including contract research and development services, is recorded within customer deposits until revenue is recognized. Revenue related to annual maintenance contracts or other remaining undelivered performance obligations is deferred and recognized upon completion of the underlying performance criteria.
Product Revenue
Product revenue is recognized upon the shipment and transfer of title to customers and is recorded net of discounts and allowances. Revenues on shipments subject to customer acceptance provisions are recognized only upon customer acceptance provided all other revenue recognition criteria are met. Customer product purchases are generally delivered under standardized terms of "FOB origin" with the customer assuming the risks and rewards of product ownership at the time of shipping from Caliper's warehouse. Revenue associated with customer product purchases delivered under terms of "FOB destination" is deferred until product is delivered to the customer. In accordance with Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2009-13, Caliper defers the relative selling price of any elements that remain undelivered after product shipment and/or acceptance (as applicable), such as remaining services to be performed.
Service and Annual Maintenance Agreements
Caliper's general policy is to recognize revenue as services are performed, typically using the proportional performance method based upon defined outputs or other reasonable measures, as applicable, or ratably over the contract service term in the case of annual maintenance contracts. Customers may purchase optional warranty coverage during the initial standard warranty term and annual maintenance contracts beyond the standard warranty expiration. These optional service offerings are not included in the price Caliper charges customers for the initial product purchase. Under Caliper's standard warranty, the customer is entitled to repair or replacement of defective goods.
Licensing and Royalty
Revenue from up-front license fees is recognized when the earnings process is complete and no further obligations exist. If further obligations exist, the up-front license fee is recognized ratably over the obligation period. Royalties and milestone payments under licenses are recorded as earned in accordance with contract terms, when third-party results are reliably measured and collectability is reasonably assured. Imaging patent rights granted to commercial imaging customers are recognized ratably over the term of the license.
Contract Revenue
Revenue from contract research and development services is recognized as earned based on the performance requirements of the contract. Non-refundable contract fees, unless based upon time and materials, time and expense, or substantive milestones, are generally recognized using the proportional performance method.
Fair Value of Assets and Liabilities
Caliper measures fair value at the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") 820, , prioritizes the assumption that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability (the "inputs") into a three-tier fair value hierarchy. This fair value hierarchy gives the highest priority (Level 1) to quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities and the lowest priority (Level 3) to unobservable inputs in which little or no market data exists, requiring companies to develop their own assumptions.
Fair Value Measurements
Observable inputs that do not meet the criteria of Level 1, and include quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets or quoted prices for identical assets and liabilities in markets that are not active, are categorized as Level 2. Level 3 inputs are those that reflect our estimates about the assumptions market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability, based on the best information available in the circumstances. Valuation techniques for assets and liabilities measured using Level 3 inputs may include methodologies such as the market approach, the income approach or the cost approach, and may use unobservable inputs such as projections, estimates and management's interpretation of current market data. These unobservable inputs are only utilized to the extent that observable inputs are not available or cost-effective to obtain. Caliper's investments are all classified as Level 1 inputs because they are valued using quoted market prices, broker or dealer quotations, or market prices received from industry standard pricing data providers. On September 30, 2011, Caliper's investments were valued as follows (in thousands):
 
As of September 30, 2011, Caliper's cash and available for sale securities of $47.3 million all have contracted maturities of less than one year, with the exception of six securities with an aggregate value of $2.8 million. In addition, Caliper held securities that were in an unrealized loss position as of September 30, 2011; however, these unrealized losses were not material either individually or in the aggregate.
Income Taxes
Caliper accounts for income taxes in accordance with FASB ASC 740, , and accounts for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in financial statements in accordance with FASB ASC 740-10, . FASB ASC 740 prescribes a comprehensive model for the recognition, measurement, and financial statement disclosure of uncertain tax positions. Unrecognized tax benefits are the difference between tax positions taken, or expected to be taken, in tax returns, and the benefits recognized for accounting purposes pursuant to FASB ASC 740. Caliper classifies uncertain tax positions as short-term liabilities within accrued expenses. For the nine months ended September 30, 2011 and 2010, Caliper's tax provisions primarily relate to foreign taxes in jurisdictions where its wholly owned subsidiaries are profitable and in certain states, state income taxes.
Accounting for Income Taxes
Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes
Goodwill
Caliper performs a test for the impairment of goodwill annually, or more frequently if events or circumstances indicate that goodwill may be impaired. Because Caliper has a single operating segment, which is the sole reporting unit, Caliper performs this test by comparing the fair value of Caliper with its carrying value, including goodwill. If the fair value exceeds the carrying value, goodwill is not impaired. If the book value exceeds the carrying value, Caliper would calculate the potential impairment loss by comparing the implied fair value of goodwill with the book value of goodwill. If the implied fair value of goodwill is less than the book value, an impairment charge would be recorded equal to the difference. As of September 30, 2011, Caliper analyzed its goodwill for indicators of impairment, and concluded that there were none.
Recently Issued Accounting Standards
There are no recently issued accounting standards, which, if adopted, would have a material impact on Caliper's reported results of operations.
2. Acquisition
On December 17, 2010, Caliper completed the acquisition of Cambridge Research & Instrumentation, Inc. ("CRi") for $20.0 million, consisting of approximately $7.9 million in cash, issuance of 1,648,641 shares of Caliper's common stock valued at $10.3 million and an assumed liability resulting from a litigation settlement of approximately $1.8 million. Caliper incurred approximately $1.0 million in acquisition related costs that were expensed within selling, general and administrative costs, of which approximately $0.9 million was incurred within the fourth quarter of 2010 and approximately $0.1 million was incurred within the first quarter of 2011. CRi's operations, assumed as of the date of the acquisition, are included in the results of operations of Caliper beginning on December 17, 2010, the closing date of the acquisition.
3. Divestitures
On May 17, 2010, Caliper entered into a Purchase Agreement (the "Purchase Agreement") providing for the sale of its specialty product lines, consisting of the TurboVap and RapidTrace instrument groups, to Biotage LLC ("Biotage") for approximately $16.5 million in cash. The sale of these specialty product lines to Biotage was completed on May 24, 2010. As of the closing date for this transaction, the specialty product lines had net assets of $5.0 million comprised of $2.7 million of goodwill allocated on a relative fair value basis, $1.6 million in accounts receivable and $1.4 million in inventory, less $0.7 million of assumed liabilities. The sale resulted in an $11.4 million gain before estimated income taxes of approximately $0.3 million.
4. Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost (determined on a first-in, first-out basis, or "FIFO") or market. Amounts are relieved from inventory and recognized as a component of cost of sales on a FIFO basis. Inventories consist of the following (in thousands):
 
5. Intangibles
Intangibles, net of amortization expense and other charges, consist of the following assets acquired in connection with previous business combinations (in thousands):
 
In connection with the acquisition of CRi, $2.3 million of the intangible assets acquired relate to in-process research and development ("IPR&D") assets. These IPR&D assets represent projects that were in existence as of the acquisition date. Caliper assesses the status of the projects on a quarterly basis to determine whether they have been completed or abandoned. In the second quarter of 2011, Caliper abandoned certain of these projects, resulting in a $1.1 million impairment charge which is recorded within amortization of intangible assets within the accompanying consolidated statements of operations. The abandonment of these projects represented an indicator of impairment, which prompted Caliper to perform a recoverability test during the second quarter of 2011. Caliper used a multi-period excess earnings approach which measures fair value by discounting expected future cash flows attributable to a single intangible asset. Based on information learned by Caliper during the second quarter as our research and analysis of the projects progressed, there were changes in the estimated costs to be incurred to complete the projects. As such, the results of the recoverability test showed that there was no value to the abandoned projects.
6. Warranty Obligations
Caliper provides for estimated warranty expenses as a component of cost of revenue at the time product revenue is recognized. Caliper offers a one-year limited warranty on most products, which is included in the selling price. Caliper's standard limited warranty covers repair or replacement of defective goods, a preventative maintenance visit on certain products, and telephone-based technical support. Factors that affect Caliper's warranty liability include the number of installed units, historical and anticipated rates of warranty claims, and cost per claim. Caliper periodically assesses the adequacy of its recorded warranty liabilities and adjusts amounts as necessary.
Changes in Caliper's warranty obligation are as follows (in thousands):
 
7. Comprehensive Income (loss)
Comprehensive income (loss) is as follows (in thousands):
 
8. Accrued Restructuring Costs
Caliper's accrued restructuring costs as of September 30, 2011 were comprised of future contractual obligations pursuant to facility operating leases covering certain idle space as further described below. The following table summarizes changes in accrued restructuring obligations during the nine months ended September 30, 2011 (in thousands):
The remaining facility and severance obligations are payable as follows (in thousands):
 
The restructuring obligations reflected above resulted from the following actions:
Severance
In December 2010, Caliper acquired CRi (see Note 2). In connection with the acquisition in the fourth quarter of 2010, Caliper recorded a $0.7 million restructuring charge related to employee separation costs incurred by Caliper after the acquisition date. This action reduced the total CRi workforce by 13 employees, or approximately 28%. All affected employees were notified in December 2010 and are not required to perform future services to earn severance payments. In March 2011, Caliper recorded an additional $0.5 million restructuring charge related to employee separation costs incurred in connection with the termination of a former executive officer of CRi. As of September 30, 2011, the majority of the obligations have been paid.
Facility Closures
During 2008, Caliper consolidated its California-based business operations to reduce overall facility costs and improve productivity and effectiveness of its research and development spending. The consolidation plan entailed vacating approximately 26,300 square feet of occupied space in Mountain View, California. In 2009, Caliper revised its assumptions around the restructuring charge taken in 2008 regarding the facility. The effect of the change was to update the sublease timing and rates assumed as a result of conditions in the current real estate market, as well as to correct an error in the amount of vacated space which was reduced by approximately 10,200 square feet. This facility closure was accounted for in accordance with FASB ASC 420, Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities, pursuant to which Caliper recorded a liability equal to the fair value of the remaining lease payments as of the cease-use date. The fair value was determined based upon the discounted present value of remaining lease rentals (using a discount rate of 5.5%) for the space no longer occupied, considering future estimated sublease income, estimated broker fees and required tenant improvements. The lease term expires on November 30, 2013.
In April 2010, Caliper vacated approximately 5,400 additional square feet of its Mountain View, California facility to streamline chip manufacturing operations and increase the likelihood of securing a sub-tenant for unutilized space within the facility. Caliper recorded a restructuring charge of approximately $0.6 million related to this action during the three months ended June 30, 2010. This partial facility abandonment was accounted for in accordance with FASB ASC 420, pursuant to which Caliper recorded a liability equal to the fair value of the remaining lease payments as of the cease-use date. The fair value was determined based upon the discounted present value of remaining lease payments (using a discount rate of 5.5%) for the space no longer occupied, considering future estimated sublease income, estimated broker fees and required tenant improvements.
In September 2010, Caliper entered into a two year sublease for approximately 13,200 square feet of the unutilized space in Mountain View, California. As a result of entering into this agreement, Caliper revised its assumptions around the restructuring charge taken with respect to this property in 2009, and recorded an additional $0.7 million restructuring charge during the three months ended September 30, 2010. The effect of the charge was to update the sublease rates for the remaining space as well as to capture the period from the end of the sublease through November 2013 for which Caliper does not expect to receive sublease income.
In April 2011, Caliper entered into a sublease for approximately 13,080 square feet of the unutilized space in Mountain View, California, at terms consistent with those assumed in the previously recorded restructuring charges. As a result of entering into this agreement, Caliper revised its assumptions around the remaining space, concluding that the remaining space would not generate sublease income, and recorded an additional $0.4 million restructuring charge during the three months ended June 30, 2011. The effect of the charge was to update the timing of sublease income related to the remaining space in Mountain View, California.
In July 2009, Caliper vacated approximately 19,000 square feet at its Hopkinton, Massachusetts facilities in order to reduce idle excess capacity created as a result of product line divestitures completed in 2008. Caliper recorded a restructuring charge of approximately $1.0 million related to this action in the third quarter of 2009. Caliper has accounted for this restructuring activity in accordance with FASB ASC 420, pursuant to which Caliper has recorded a liability equal to the fair value of the remaining lease payments as of the cease-use date. Fair value was determined based upon the discounted present value of remaining lease payments (using a discount rate of 6.5%), considering future estimated sublease income, estimated broker fees and required tenant improvements. The lease term expires on December 31, 2015.
In June 2011, Caliper closed its approximately 30,000 square feet, Woburn, Massachusetts facility which was assumed as part of the acquisition of CRi. The Woburn operations were transitioned to Caliper's corporate headquarters in Hopkinton, Massachusetts, consistent with its announced integration plan. Caliper recorded a restructuring charge of approximately $1.3 million related to this action during the three months ended June 30, 2011. The facility closure was accounted for in accordance with FASB ASC 420, pursuant to which Caliper has recorded a liability equal to the fair value of the remaining lease payments as of the cease-use date. Fair value was determined based upon the discounted present value of remaining lease payments (using a discount rate of 4.0%), considering future estimated sublease income, estimated broker fees and required tenant improvements. The lease term expires on August 31, 2015. In September 2011, Caliper entered into a sublease for approximately 20,000 square feet of the unutilized space at the Woburn, Massachusetts facility at terms consistent with those assumed in the previously recorded restructuring charge; the economics of the sublease were substantially the same as our original sublease assumption and, therefore, an immaterial restructuring charge true up was recorded during the three months ended September 30, 2011.
9. Revolving Credit Facility
On December 31, 2010, Caliper entered into a Third Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement ("credit facility") with a bank, which permits Caliper to borrow up to $25 million in the form of revolving loan advances, including up to $5 million in the form of letters of credit and other contingent reserves. The principal effect of this modification was to extend the maturity date of the credit facility from April 1, 2011 to April 1, 2013. The modification also established financial covenants that are tested as of the last day of each quarter. Principal borrowings under the credit facility accrue interest at a floating annual rate equal to the bank's prime rate (4.0% at September 30, 2011). Under the credit facility, Caliper is permitted to borrow up to $25 million, subject to a borrowing base limit consisting of (a) 80% of eligible accounts receivable plus (b) the lesser of 90% of Caliper's unrestricted cash at the bank or $15 million. Eligible accounts receivable do not include internationally billed receivables, unbilled receivables, and receivables aged over 90 days from invoice date. The credit facility serves as a source of capital for ongoing operations and working capital needs.
The credit facility includes traditional lending and reporting covenants including certain financial covenants applicable to liquidity and earnings that are to be maintained by Caliper and tested as of the last day of each quarter. As of September 30, 2011, Caliper was in compliance with all of its covenants in the credit facility. There were no outstanding borrowings under the credit facility as of September 30, 2011.
10. Commitments and Contingencies
Caliper's commitments and contingencies are disclosed within Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements included in Caliper's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010 filed with the SEC on March 11, 2011. There have not been any material changes to Caliper's commitments and contingencies during the current period, except as follows.
On December 11, 2009, Caliper entered into a Stock Purchase Agreement (the "Stock Purchase Agreement") with Taconic Farms, Inc., ("Taconic"), a New York corporation. The Stock Purchase Agreement provided for the sale of Caliper's XenBio operations to Taconic for a purchase price of approximately $10.8 million, which included $9.7 million in cash together with $1.1 million which was placed into an escrow account until April 30, 2011. On April 18, 2011, Caliper received notice from Taconic regarding a claim for indemnification by Taconic for various potential contingent losses that may be suffered by Taconic and for which, if such losses are actually realized by Taconic, Taconic believes Caliper would have an obligation to indemnify Taconic under the terms of the Stock Purchase Agreement. Under the terms of the Stock Purchase Agreement, Caliper's maximum liability for any such losses actually suffered by Taconic, and for which Caliper is determined to be responsible, is $3.0 million. Caliper believes that the $1.1 million placed into escrow will likely remain in escrow until this issue is further clarified or otherwise resolved.
On August 9, 2006, Stanford University ("Stanford") provided Xenogen Corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary of Caliper ("Xenogen") with the results of an audit performed pursuant to the exclusive license agreement between Stanford and Xenogen. The audit report, which was prepared by a third party consultant, asserted certain claims of underpayments by Xenogen to Stanford during
the period from 2002 through March 31, 2006 based upon a different interpretation of the scope of imaging products that are subject to the royalty provisions of the license than Xenogen had used for the calculation of royalties since the beginning of this licensing arrangement in 1997. Upon review of the audit report, Caliper determined that additional royalties of $71,000 were owed to Stanford, and paid this obligation in 2006. In July 2011, Caliper and Stanford entered into an agreement to resolve all remaining disputes regarding the audit report and how the terms of the license agreement would be interpreted by the parties going forward. As a result of the agreement, no additional payments were made to Stanford for past licensing or royalties. However, the original license agreement was modified to increase the prospective royalty rate, effective July 1, 2011, for purposes of calculating any future payments to Stanford from sublicensing revenue received by Caliper.
11. Legal Proceedings
As reported previously, on February 23, 2010, Caliper, Xenogen, and Stanford filed a complaint for patent infringement against Carestream Health, Inc. ("Carestream") in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas. Caliper, Xenogen, and Stanford sought a judgment that Carestream induced infringement of seven United States patents that Caliper, through Xenogen, exclusively licenses from Stanford. Caliper and its co-plaintiffs sought an award of compensatory damages, treble damages due to Carestream's willfulness, a permanent injunction and attorneys' fees against Carestream for its ongoing, indirect infringement of the patents-in-suit. The complaint was served on Carestream on February 26, 2010. On April 20, 2010, Carestream filed its answer to the complaint, denying it induced infringement of the asserted patents. Carestream also counterclaimed for declaratory judgments of non-infringement and invalidity of the asserted patents. Carestream also filed a motion to transfer the venue of the litigation to another district court. Caliper and Carestream subsequently agreed to the transfer of this case to the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California. See below for a description of the settlement agreement for this litigation that was entered into on August 8, 2011.
On June 8, 2010, the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office ("PTO") issued U.S. Patent Number 7,734,325 (the "325 Patent") to Carestream. The next day, Caliper filed a request for reexamination of all claims of the 325 Patent. On August 12, 2010, the PTO issued an order granting reexamination of all claims of the 325 Patent. On the same day, the PTO also issued an action closing prosecution of the reexamination of the 325 Patent. On September 29, 2010, the PTO issued a right of appeal notice notifying Caliper and Carestream of each party's right to appeal the examiner's determinations in the reexamination. Caliper filed a Notice of Appeal with the PTO on October 29, 2010, and filed its appeal brief on February 4, 2011. Carestream filed its reply to Caliper's appeal brief on March 7, 2011. This appeal is still pending in the PTO.
On July 9, 2010, Carestream filed a complaint for patent infringement against Caliper in the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Wisconsin. Carestream's complaint alleges that Caliper's Lumina XR imaging system infringes the 325 Patent and that Caliper indirectly infringes the 325 Patent. Caliper filed its answer to Carestream's complaint on August 2, 2010. Carestream's allegations of infringement did not involve any of Caliper's imaging products other than the Lumina XR. The Lumina XR system is a multi-modal imaging system with both optical and x-ray capabilities that Caliper first introduced in September 2009. With its complaint for patent infringement, Carestream also filed with the Court a motion for preliminary injunction to prevent Caliper from selling the Lumina XR system during the pendency of this litigation. Caliper filed its opposition to Carestream's motion for a preliminary injunction on October 20, 2010. The hearing on Carestream's preliminary injunction motion was held on March 4, 2011. The Court issued its Opinion and Order denying Carestream's preliminary injunction motion on March 31, 2011, finding that Carestream failed to establish either a reasonable likelihood of success on the merits of its infringement claim or any irreparable harm if the requested preliminary injunction were not entered. In its Opinion and Order the Court also denied both Caliper's and Carestream's cross-motions for summary judgment, but indicated that each party could file a new motion for summary judgment after additional discovery has taken place. The Court also conducted a claim construction hearing on March 4, 2011.
On August 8, 2011, Caliper and Carestream entered into a settlement agreement (the "Settlement Agreement") which resolves both Caliper's and Stanford's complaints against Carestream in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California (the "California Litigation") as well as Carestream's complaint against Caliper in U.S. District Court for the Western District of Wisconsin (the "Wisconsin Litigation"). In connection with the settlement of the California Litigation, Carestream agreed not to market or sell its optical imaging systems that are capable of performing in vivo optical imaging of mammals for the applications covered by the patents that are exclusively licensed by Stanford to Caliper. In connection with the settlement of the Wisconsin Litigation, Carestream agreed not to assert any of its intellectual property against Caliper Lumina XR optical imaging system, as such system is presently marketed and sold by Caliper. Also in connection with the Settlement Agreement, each party's complaint against the other party was dismissed with prejudice.
On November 10, 2010, GenMark Diagnostics, Inc. ("GenMark"), a life sciences company based in Carlsbad, California, filed a complaint against Caliper in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California, seeking declaratory judgment that either (i) GenMark's products do not infringe three microfluidic patents owned by Caliper (U.S. Patent Nos. 6,366,924; 6,399,025; and 6,495,104) and/or (ii) the claims of the three patents at issue are invalid. GenMark's complaint was served on Caliper on November 11, 2010. The complaint filed by GenMark did not contain any other claims against Caliper, other than a claim for recovery of reasonable attorneys' fees. Caliper had been in the beginning stages of license discussions with GenMark when it filed its complaint. On February 28, 2011, Caliper and GenMark entered an agreement under which Caliper agreed not to assert any
infringement claims under certain specified patents against GenMark during the next six-month period and GenMark agreed to dismiss its complaint without prejudice. On August 24, 2011 Caliper and GenMark entered an amended and restated agreement which extended the prior agreement to February 24, 2012. Discussions between Caliper and GenMark regarding a potential licensing arrangement are on-going.
On September 12, 2011, a putative stockholder class action lawsuit was filed in the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware against Caliper, the board of directors of Caliper, PerkinElmer, Inc. and PerkinElmer Hopkinton Co. This action, styled , Case No. 6853 (the "Greenberg Action"), alleges that each of the defendants violated applicable law by directly breaching and/or aiding breaches of fiduciary duties owed to the plaintiff and other public stockholders of Caliper. The plaintiff in this lawsuit seeks to enjoin the consummation of the proposed merger (the "Merger") of Caliper with PerkinElmer Hopkinton Co., a wholly owned subsidiary of PerkinElmer, Inc., pursuant to the Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of September 7, 2011. The plaintiff also seeks an award of the costs and disbursements of the action, including reasonable attorneys' and experts' fees, and the grant of other and further equitable relief as the Court deems just and proper.
Betty Greenberg v. Caliper Life Sciences, Inc., E. Kevin Hrusovsky, Kathryn A. Tunstall, David W. Carter, Van Billet, Robert C. Bishop, David V. Milligan, Allan L. Comstock, PerkinElmer, Inc. and PerkinElmer Hopkinton Co.
On September 16, 2011, a second plaintiff filed a putative stockholder class action lawsuit in the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware against the board of directors of Caliper, Caliper, PerkinElmer, Inc. and PerkinElmer Hopkinton Co. This action, styled , Case No. 6871 (the "Dalton Action"), contains allegations that are substantially similar to those alleged in the previously-filed complaintnamely, that each of the defendants breached and/or aided in breaches of fiduciary duties owed to Caliper's stockholders. The plaintiff in this lawsuit seeks to enjoin the consummation of the Merger, an award of the costs of the action, including reasonable allowance for attorneys' and experts' fees, and the grant of further relief as the Court deems just and proper.
James Dalton v. E. Kevin Hrusovsky, Robert Bishop, Van Billet, David Carter, Allan Comstock, David Milligan, Kathryn Tunstall, Caliper Life Sciences, Inc., PerkinElmer, Inc. and PerkinElmer Hopkinton Co.
On October 5, 2011, a third plaintiff, also purportedly a Caliper stockholder, filed a putative stockholder class action complaint in the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware against Caliper, certain directors and officers of Caliper, PerkinElmer, Inc. and PerkinElmer Hopkinton Co. This action, styled , Case No. 6911, (the "Chaney Action"), contains allegations that are substantially similar to those alleged in the previously-filed complaintsnamely, that each of the defendants breached and/or aided in breaches of fiduciary duties owed to Caliper's stockholders. The plaintiff in this lawsuit seeks to enjoin the consummation of the Merger, an award of the costs of the action, including reasonable allowance for attorneys' and experts' fees, and the grant of further relief as the Court deems just and proper.
Elizabeth Chaney v. E. Kevin Hrusovsky, Robert Bishop, Van Billet, David Carter, Allan Comstock, David Milligan, Kathryn Tunstall, Caliper Life Sciences, Inc., PerkinElmer, Inc. and PerkinElmer Hopkinton Co.
On October 6, 2011, Plaintiff Chaney filed a Motion for Preliminary Injunction with this Court as well as a Proposed Amended Order of Consolidation, following which, on October 7, 2011, the Court entered an amended consolidation order, consolidating the Chaney Action into the Dalton Action and the Greenberg Action and designating the Chaney complaint as the operative complaint.
The three actions described in the paragraphs above are collectively referred to as the "Stockholder Actions." On October 25, 2011, the parties to the Stockholder Actions, without the defendants admitting any wrongdoing or liability of any kind, reached an agreement in principle providing for the withdrawal of the plaintiffs' pending motion for a preliminary injunction and to resolve all claims asserted in the Stockholder Actions. Caliper has agreed, pursuant to the terms of the proposed settlement, to make certain supplemental disclosures related to the proposed Merger, which was filed with the SEC on October 26, 2011. The agreement in principle contemplates that the parties will enter into a stipulation of settlement. The stipulation of settlement will be subject to customary conditions, including court approval following notice to Caliper's stockholders. In the event that the parties enter into a stipulation of settlement, a hearing will be scheduled at which the Court will consider the fairness, reasonableness, and adequacy of the settlement. If the settlement is finally approved by the Court, it will resolve and release all claims in all actions that were or could have been brought challenging any aspect of the proposed Merger, the Merger Agreement, and any disclosure made in connection therewith (but excluding claims for appraisal under Section 262 of the Delaware General Corporation Law). In addition, in connection with the settlement, the parties contemplate that plaintiffs' counsel will file a petition in the Court for an award of attorneys' fees and expenses to be paid by Caliper or its successor, which the defendants may oppose. Caliper or its successor will pay or cause to be paid any attorneys' fees and expenses awarded by the Court. There can be no assurance that the parties will ultimately enter into a stipulation of settlement or that the Court will approve the settlement even if the parties were to enter into such stipulation. In such event, the proposed settlement as contemplated by the agreement in principle may be terminated.
From time to time Caliper is involved in litigation arising out of claims in the normal course of business, and when a probable loss contingency arises, records a loss provision based upon actual or possible claims and assessments. The amount of possible claim recorded is determined on the basis of the amount of the actual claim, when the amount is both probable and the amount of the claim can be reasonably estimated. If a loss is deemed probable, but the range of potential loss is wide, Caliper records a loss provision based upon the low end estimate of the probable range and may adjust that estimate in future periods as more information becomes available. Litigation loss provisions, when made, are reflected within general and administrative expenses in our statement of operations and are included within accrued legal expenses in the accompanying balance sheet. Based on the information presently
available, management believes that there are no outstanding claims or actions pending or threatened against Caliper, the ultimate resolution of which will have a material adverse effect on our financial position, liquidity or results of operations, although the results of litigation are inherently uncertain, and adverse outcomes are possible.
12. Stock-Based Compensation, Options and Restricted Stock Activity and Net Loss per Weighted Average Common Share Outstanding
Warrants
In connection with Caliper's 2006 acquisition of Xenogen, Caliper granted Xenogen stockholders an aggregate of 4,701,733 warrants, and reserved an additional 411,814 warrants for potential issuance upon the exercise of Xenogen warrants which were assumed by Caliper. Upon the potential exercise of these assumed warrants, the holders are entitled to receive that number of Caliper shares and warrants that such holder would have been entitled to receive as a Xenogen stockholder as of the acquisition date. Each warrant granted permits the holder to acquire one Caliper common share at an exercise price of $6.79 per share through August 9, 2011. The termination date of the Caliper warrants that are to be issued upon the eventual exercise of the assumed Xenogen warrants may not be extended beyond the 5 year expiration date for the Caliper warrants.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2011, 4,627,424 Caliper warrants were exercised, and all unexercised and unissued Caliper warrants expired on August 9, 2011. In addition, during the nine months ended September 30, 2011, 310,668 of the assumed Xenogen warrants were exercised resulting in 96,875 Xenogen warrants outstanding as of September 30, 2011. Collectively, the net effect of the Caliper and Xenogen warrant exercises for the nine months ended September 30, 2011, including the effect of "net or cashless exercises" was the issuance of 1,928,668 shares of Caliper common stock for proceeds of approximately $9.0 million.
The following table summarizes information with respect to warrants assumed from Xenogen which remain outstanding and exercisable at September 30, 2011:
 
Subsequent to September 30, all of the Xenogen warrants that remained outstanding as of September 30, 2011 were either net exercised or terminated, either because of the warrant's expiration date or in consideration of a cash payment equal to the excess of the merger consideration of $10.50 per share over the exercise price per share of such warrant. The net exercise of these remaining Xenogen warrants resulted in the issuance of 17,495 shares of Caliper common stock.
Stock Plans
Caliper's stock plans are disclosed within Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements included in Caliper's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010 filed with the SEC on March 11, 2011. In June 2011, Caliper's stockholders adopted the 2011 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the "2011 Purchase Plan"). The initial number of shares reserved was 1.5 million shares, subject to adjustment, and the term of the 2011 Purchase Plan is ten years. Under the 2011 Purchase Plan, employees have the option to purchase shares of Caliper's common stock at 85% of the closing price on the first trading day of each offering period or the last trading day of each offering period (as defined in the 2011 Purchase Plan), whichever is lower, up to specified limits. Eligible employees are given the option to purchase shares of Caliper's common stock, on a tax-favored basis, through regular payroll deductions in compliance with Section 423 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
In connection with the Merger, Caliper will terminate all of its stock option plans and all other equity-related plans prior to the effective time of the Merger.
Stock-Based Compensation
Caliper recognizes all share-based payments, including grants of stock options, in the income statement as an operating expense, based on their fair values. Caliper estimates the fair value of each option award on the date of grant using a Black-Scholes-Merton based option-pricing model. Stock-based compensation expense is included within costs and expenses as follows (in thousands):
On September 30, 2011, Caliper had share-based compensation plans (the "Plans"), which are described within Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements included in Caliper's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010, filed with the SEC on March 11, 2011.
The fair value of each option award issued under the Plans is estimated on the date of grant using a Black-Scholes-Merton based option pricing model that uses the assumptions noted in the following table. Expected volatilities are based on historical volatility of Caliper's stock. The expected term of the options is based on Caliper's historical option exercise data taking into consideration the exercise patterns of the option holders during the option's life. The risk-free interest rate is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect on the date of the grant.
 
Options and Restricted Stock Activity
A summary of stock option and restricted stock activity under the Plans as of September 30, 2011, and changes during the nine months then ended is as follows:
 
 
Restricted stock units do not carry an exercise price and typically vest over a four-year period, although the vesting period of certain awards may vary. As of September 30, 2011, the weighted average remaining vesting term is 1.91 years and the aggregate intrinsic value of outstanding and non-vested restricted stock is approximately $13.4 million.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2011, Caliper granted 946,630 options at a weighted average grant date fair value, using the Black-Scholes-Merton option pricing model, of $4.51 per share, and 240,122 restricted stock units at a weighted average grant date fair value of $6.62 per share. The total fair value of restricted stock that vested during the nine months ended September 30, 2011 was approximately $1.1 million.
As of September 30, 2011, there was $8.9 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested stock-based compensation arrangements granted under the Plans. That cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average remaining service period of approximately 2.93 years.
In connection with the Merger, at the effective time of the Merger, each stock option representing the right to acquire shares of Caliper common stock outstanding immediately prior to the effective time of the Merger (whether then vested or unvested) will be cancelled in exchange for the right to receive a cash amount, without interest and less any applicable withholding taxes, equal to the product of (1) the total number of shares of common stock subject to such stock option, multiplied by (2) an amount equal to the excess, if any, of the merger consideration of $10.50 per share over the exercise price per share of such stock option. Stock options with an exercise price per share equal to or greater than the merger consideration of $10.50 per share will be cancelled for no consideration and have no further force or effect from and after the effective time of the Merger.
Furthermore, at the effective time of the Merger, each restricted stock unit representing the right to acquire shares of Caliper common stock outstanding immediately prior to the effective time of the Merger (whether then vested or unvested) will be cancelled in exchange for the right to receive a cash amount, without interest and less any applicable withholding taxes, equal to the product of (1) the total number of shares of common stock subject to such restricted stock unit, multiplied by (2) the merger consideration of $10.50 per share.
Common Share Issuances
During the nine months ended September 30, 2011, Caliper issued 2,839,426 shares of common stock as a result of stock option and warrant exercises, issuances of shares under Caliper's 1999 Employee Stock Purchase Plan and vesting of restricted stock.
Net Loss per Weighted Average Common Share Outstanding
Basic net income (loss) per share is calculated based upon net income (loss) divided by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the period. The calculation of diluted net income per share gives effect to the dilutive effect of common stock equivalents consisting of stock options, unvested restricted stock, unvested restricted stock units and warrants (calculated using the treasury stock method). Potentially dilutive securities are excluded from the diluted earnings per share computation to the extent they have an antidilutive effect due to Caliper's net loss.
A reconciliation of shares used in the calculations is as follows (in thousands):
 
The following outstanding options, restricted stock and warrants (prior to the application of the treasury stock method) were excluded from the computation of diluted net loss per share as they had an antidilutive effect (in thousands):
 

Exhibit 99.3
PerkinElmer, Inc. and its subsidiaries are referred to herein collectively as the "Company".
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information for the year ended January 2, 2011 and the nine months ended October 2, 2011 are based on the historical financial statements of the Company and Caliper after applying the assumptions and adjustments described in the accompanying notes to the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information. Therefore, this financial information should be read in conjunction with the historical financial statements and the accompanying disclosures of the Company for the year ended January 2, 2011 and the quarters ended April 3, 2011, July 3, 2011 and October 2, 2011, and of Caliper for the year ended December 31, 2010 and the quarters ended March 30, 2011, June 30, 2011 and September 30, 2011.
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of operations for the year ended January 2, 2011 and the nine months ended October 2, 2011 are presented as if the acquisition had occurred on January 4, 2010. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet as of October 2, 2011 is presented as if the acquisition had occurred on October 2, 2011. The pro forma adjustments give effect to the events that are directly attributable to the transaction and are expected to have a material and continuing impact on the financial results of the combined companies. The pro forma adjustments are based on available information and certain assumptions that the Company believes are reasonable.
The Caliper acquisition occurred less than 75 days ago, and accordingly the Company is still in the process of valuing the assets acquired and liabilities assumed. The allocation of the purchase price is preliminary and subject to change. Adjustments may be made to the values of the acquired assets and liabilities as additional information is obtained about the facts and circumstances that existed at the valuation date. The differences that may occur between the preliminary estimates and the final acquisition accounting could have a material impact on the accompanying unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information.
Assumptions underlying the pro forma adjustments are described in the accompanying notes. The Company has prepared the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information for illustrative purposes only. It has been prepared in accordance with the regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and is not necessarily indicative of what the results of operations actually would have been had the Company completed the Caliper acquisition at the beginning of fiscal year 2010, nor does it purport to project the future operating results of the combined company. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information does not reflect any operating efficiencies and cost savings that the Company may achieve with respect to the combined operations.
 
 
 
 
On November 7, 2011, PerkinElmer, Inc. (the "Company") announced that it had completed its acquisition of Caliper Life Sciences, Inc. ("Caliper") for total consideration of $646.3 million in cash. The purchase price was funded by the issuance of $496.9 million of debt, net of original issue discount of $3.1 million, and available cash on hand. The results of Caliper have been included in the Company's consolidated financial statements since the date of acquisition.
 
PerkinElmer, Inc. and its subsidiaries are referred to herein collectively as the "Company".
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information for the year ended January 2, 2011 and the nine months ended October 2, 2011 are based on the historical financial statements of the Company and Caliper after applying the assumptions and adjustments described in the accompanying notes to the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information. Therefore, this financial information should be read in conjunction with the historical financial statements and the accompanying disclosures of the Company for the year ended January 2, 2011 and the quarters ended April 3, 2011, July 3, 2011 and October 2, 2011, and of Caliper for the year ended December 31, 2010 and the quarters ended March 30, 2011, June 30, 2011 and September 30, 2011.
The Company and Caliper have different fiscal quarter and year ends. The Company's fiscal year ends on the Sunday nearest December 31. The Company reports fiscal years under a 52/53 week format. Under this method, certain years will contain 53 weeks. The fiscal year ended January 2, 2011 included 52 weeks. Caliper's fiscal year always ends on December 31, and its fiscal quarters always end on the calendar quarter end. Accordingly, the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information for the fiscal year ended January 2, 2011 combines the historical results of (i) the Company for the fiscal year January 4, 2010 through January 2, 2011 and (ii) Caliper for the fiscal year January 1, 2010 through December 31, 2010. In addition, the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information for the fiscal nine months ended October 2, 2011 combines the unaudited historical results of (i) the Company for the period from January 3, 2011 through October 2, 2011 and (ii) Caliper for the period from January 1, 2011 through September 30, 2011. The difference in fiscal periods for the Company and Caliper is considered to be insignificant and no related adjustments have been made in the preparation of this unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information.
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of operations for the year ended January 2, 2011 and the nine months ended October 2, 2011 are presented as if the acquisition had occurred on January 4, 2010. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet as of October 2, 2011 is presented as if the acquisition had occurred on October 2, 2011. The pro forma adjustments give effect to the events that are directly attributable to the transaction and are expected to have a material and continuing impact on the financial results of the combined companies. The pro forma adjustments are based on available information and certain assumptions that the Company believes are reasonable.
The following table summarizes the Company's pro forma purchase price allocation which includes the estimated fair values of the assets acquired, including goodwill and intangible assets, and liabilities assumed as if the acquisition had occurred as of the pro forma balance sheet date. The purchase price allocation presented is for illustrative purposes only and these amounts are not intended to represent or be indicative of the purchase price allocation that would have been reported had the Caliper acquisition been completed as of the pro forma balance sheet date. In addition, the pro forma purchase price allocation is preliminary and may differ significantly from the final valuation of net tangible and intangible assets acquired.
 
The Caliper acquisition occurred less than 75 days ago, and accordingly the Company is still in the process of valuing the assets acquired and liabilities assumed. The allocation of the purchase price is preliminary and subject to change. Adjustments may be made to the values of the acquired assets and liabilities as additional information is obtained about the facts and circumstances that existed at the valuation date. The differences that may occur between the preliminary estimates and the final acquisition accounting could have a material impact on the accompanying unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information.
The Company has prepared the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information for illustrative purposes only. It has been prepared in accordance with the regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and is not necessarily indicative of what the results of operations actually would have been had the Company completed the Caliper acquisition at the beginning of fiscal year 2010, nor does it purport to project the future operating results of the combined company. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information does not reflect any operating efficiencies and cost savings that the Company may achieve with respect to the combined operations.
 
The Company is still in the process of evaluating Caliper's accounting policies. As a result of this review, it may become necessary to conform accounting policies for the combined entity. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information does not assume adjustments for any remaining differences in accounting policies.
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of operations for the year ended January 2, 2011 and nine months ended October 2, 2011 and the pro forma adjustments included in the unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet as of October 2, 2011 are as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
Amortization expense is calculated utilizing the accelerated method and is expensed over a average period ranging from 1 to 7 years (expected useful lives). The expected amortization for fiscal years 2012 through 2016 is $34.5 million, $33.9 million, $31.7 million, $22.7 million, and $16.3 million, respectively.
 
 
 
 
For the nine months ended October 2, 2011 represents the estimated amortization of acquired intangibles ($12.6 million recorded in cost of sales and $12.7 million recorded in selling, general, and administrative expenses), and the reversal of Caliper's previously recorded intangible asset amortization of $5.4 million.
 
For the nine months ended October 2, 2011 represents the additional depreciation expense on property, plant and equipment as a result of the fair value adjustment at acquisition ($0.7 million recorded in cost of sales and $0.1 million recorded in selling, general, and administrative expenses, and $0.2 million recorded in research and development).
 
 
For the nine months ended October 2, 2011 represents the additional rent expense as a result of the fair value adjustment to deferred rent at acquisition ($0.3 million recorded in cost of sales and $0.2 million recorded in selling, general, and administrative expenses, and $0.2 million recorded in research and development).
 
 
 


