FILE:NBR/NBR-8K-20030429210101.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): April 29, 2003 NABORS INDUSTRIES LTD. (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) Bermuda 000-49887 980363970 (State or Other Jurisdiction (Commission (IRS Employer of Incorporation) File Number) Identification No.) 2nd Fl. International Trading Centre Warrens PO Box 905E St. Michael, Barbados N/A (Address of Principal Executive Offices) (Zip Code) Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (246) 421-9471 N/A (Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
ITEM 7. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, PRO FORMA FINANCIAL INFORMATION AND EXHIBITS. (c) Exhibits Exhibit No. Description ----------- ----------- 99.1 Press Release issued by Nabors Industries Ltd. on April 29, 2003. ITEM 9. REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE In accordance with SEC Release No. 33-8216, Nabors Industries Ltd., a Bermuda corporation (the "Company"), is furnishing this Current Report on Form 8-K to report information pursuant to Item 12 - Disclosure of Results of Operations and Financial Condition of Form 8-K. On April 29, 2003, the Company issued a press release announcing its results of operations for the first quarter ended March 31, 2003. A copy of that release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1. The Company has presented its adjusted cash flows derived from operating activities for the quarter in the earnings release, which is a "non-GAAP" financial measure under Regulation G. The components of adjusted cash flows derived from operating activities are computed by using amounts which are determined in accordance with GAAP. Adjusted cash flows derived from operating activities is computed by: subtracting direct costs and general and administrative expenses from Operating revenues and then adding Earnings from unconsolidated affiliates. As part of our press release information we have provided a reconciliation of adjusted cash flows derived from operating activities to net cash provided by operating activities, which is its nearest comparable GAAP financial measure. The Company also presented its adjusted income derived from operating activities for the quarter in the earnings release, which is a "non-GAAP" financial measure under Regulation G. The components of adjusted income derived from operating activities are computed by using amounts which are determined in accordance with GAAP. Adjusted income derived from operating activities is computed by: subtracting direct costs, general and administrative expenses, and depreciation and amortization expense from Operating revenues and then adding Earnings from unconsolidated affiliates. As part of our press release information we have provided a reconciliation of adjusted income derived from operating activities to consolidated income before income taxes, which is its nearest comparable GAAP financial measure. The Company included its adjusted cash flows derived from operating activities and adjusted income derived from operating activities in the release because management evaluates the performance of its business units and the consolidated Company based on several criteria, including adjusted cash flows derived from operating activities and adjusted income derived from operating activities, and because it believes these financial measures are an accurate reflection of the ongoing profitability of the Company.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. NABORS INDUSTRIES LTD. Date: April 29, 2003 By: /s/ BRUCE P. KOCH --------------------------------- Bruce P. Koch Vice President & Chief Financial Officer
EXHIBIT INDEX Exhibit No. Description - ----------- ----------- 99.1 Press Release issued by Nabors Industries Ltd. on April 29, 2003.

EXHIBIT 99.1 - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- [NABORS INDUSTRIES LOGO] NEWS RELEASE - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- NABORS POSTS FIRST QUARTER NET INCOME OF $0.31 PER DILUTED SHARE ST. MICHAEL, BARBADOS, APRIL 29, 2003, NABORS INDUSTRIES LTD. (AMEX: NBR) today reported its financial results for the first quarter of 2003. Adjusted income derived from operating activities(1) was $56.0 million compared to $61.1 million in the prior year and $39.3 million in the prior quarter ended December 31, 2002. Net income was $48.1 million or $0.31 per diluted share, which reflected lower taxes compared to last year as a result of the Company's reorganization as a Bermuda company in June of 2002. This net income result compares to $41.9 million or $0.28 per diluted share in the same period of 2002 and $27.2 million or $0.18 per diluted share in the fourth quarter of 2002. Operating revenues and earnings from unconsolidated affiliates for the quarter were $455.7 million compared to $386.8 million in the prior year and $382.8 million in the fourth quarter of 2002. Gene Isenberg, Nabors' Chairman and Chief Executive Officer commented on the results, "The first quarter was solidly in line with our expectations reflecting a seasonally strong showing in Canada and Alaska. The most significant improvement in performance came from our Canadian operations where we saw the benefits of an improving market and our much larger exposure to it. Comparing sequential quarterly performance, our U.S. Land Drilling results were up on the strength of Alaska's winter exploration season and the recording of a $5.7 million business interruption settlement related to a fire on one of our rigs which has subsequently returned to service. Our U.S. Lower 48 Drilling business saw the beginning of an improving market with increasing utilization throughout the quarter. The financial impact of this increase in activity was offset by slightly lower margins which appear to have bottomed during the quarter. Our manufacturing and logistics businesses also showed sequential improvement largely attributable to our 50% owned Peak Oilfield Services joint venture which also benefited from the strong winter exploration season in Alaska. All of our other five businesses in this segment were flat to modestly up with higher rig activity in the North American land markets. Our U.S. Lower 48 well servicing business also posted a significant increase with higher rig hours and a slight improvement in margins. Internationally, results were essentially flat as we derived a partial quarter's contribution from an early start of a jackup in Trinidad and the mid quarter startup of four new platform rig contracts offshore Mexico, which encountered substantial construction delays due to two tropical storms in the later part of last year. The initial contribution of these projects were offset by lower activity in Brazil, Bolivia, Colombia and Qatar, where our jackup OMVIII incurred some idle time following the completion of a long-term contract and undertook an interim workover contract at lower rates. Our U.S. Gulf of Mexico offshore business saw a large sequential drop in its results as the fourth quarter of 2002 benefited from a $6.4 million business interruption insurance settlement on the loss of a jackup rig in a hurricane and an increase in late-year end activity that did not continue in the new year. -------- (1) Adjusted income derived from operating activities is computed by subtracting: direct costs, general and administrative expenses, and depreciation and amortization expense from Operating revenues and then adding Earnings from unconsolidated affiliates. Such amounts should not be used as a substitute to those amounts reported under GAAP. A reconciliation of this non-GAAP measure to consolidated income before taxes, which is a GAAP measure, is provided herein.
I am increasingly optimistic regarding the eventual magnitude and sustainability of this cycle, particularly regarding our North American gas directed businesses. Increasingly it appears that almost all of our businesses are at the beginning of a more sustainable growth period. We saw the initial indications of the potential of our greatly enhanced position in Canada during the first quarter, which was still well short of the record results in the first quarter of 2001, after giving effect to our subsequent acquisitions of Command, Enserco and Ryan. In our U.S. Lower 48 drilling unit all indications are that we will continue to see a steady increase in utilization with improving margins materializing in the second half of this year. This combination of rig activity increases in both the U.S. and Canada also bodes well for the future performance of our manufacturing and technology units. Continuing increases in rig hours for our U.S. well servicing business indicate better results over the next few quarters further bolstered by expanding margins as more gas stimulation projects increase the utilization of our higher margin 24 hour rigs. Currently, the least certain element of our business is our U.S. offshore unit, although bidding for short-term platform projects is showing signs of pending improvement. Fortunately, we have found opportunities to export nine of our underutilized Gulf of Mexico platform rigs to more lucrative longer-term international projects. We expect to see significant increases in contribution over the balance of the year from the deployment of the remainder of these rigs, a full quarter's operation for our Trinidad jackup, a return to higher margin drilling work for OMVIII, and a high likelihood of additional contracts in Colombia. We expect our second quarter results will exhibit a much higher degree of seasonality than previously experienced due to our larger position in Canada and the higher level of winter-only exploratory programs in Alaska. Once our other businesses develop more fully, particularly our U.S. lower 48 drilling unit, the impact of this seasonality will be more muted. While we expect second quarter earnings per share to be significantly lower than first quarter due to this increased seasonality, it does not diminish our comfort with the full-year 2003 consensus or our longer-term increasingly bullish expectations." The Nabors companies own and operate almost 600 land drilling and 933 land workover and well-servicing rigs worldwide. Offshore, Nabors operates 43 platforms, 16 jack-ups, and three barge rigs in the domestic and international markets. Nabors markets 30 marine transportation and support vessels, primarily in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. In addition, Nabors manufactures top drives and drilling instrumentation systems and provides comprehensive oilfield hauling, engineering, civil construction, logistics and facilities maintenance, and project management services. Nabors participates in most of the significant oil, gas and geothermal markets in the world. The information above includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties, as disclosed by Nabors from time to time in its filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. As a result of these factors, Nabors' actual results may differ materially from those indicated or implied by such forward-looking statements. - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- For further information, please contact Dennis A. Smith, Director of Corporate Development of Nabors Corporate Services, Inc. at (281) 775-8038. To request Investor Materials, call Angela Ridgell at (281) 775-8063 or our corporate headquarters in St. Michael, Barbados at (246) 421-9471 or via email at dan.mclachlin@nabors.com. Nabors will conduct a conference call to discuss the quarter's results and the near-term outlook, today at 11:00 a.m. Eastern Standard Time. The call can be accessed on our website at www.nabors.com, or through First Call at www.firstcallevents.com
NABORS INDUSTRIES LTD. AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME Page 1 of 6
(1) We adopted Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) No. 01-14, "Income Statement Characterization of Reimbursements Received for Out-of-Pocket Expenses Incurred", in the second quarter of 2002. Previously, we recognized reimbursements received as a reduction to the related direct costs. EITF 01-14 requires that reimbursements received be included in operating revenues and "out-of-pocket" expenses be included in direct costs. Accordingly, reimbursements received from our customers have been reclassified to revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2002. The effect of adopting EITF 01-14 increased operating revenues and direct costs from previously reported amounts by $15.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2002. This reclassification had no impact on net income. (2) We have revised the classification of revenues for certain rigs that we own that are leased to our joint venture in Saudi Arabia, in which we have a 50% ownership interest. We now report 100% of these revenues as operating revenues. Previously, we had reported 50% of these lease revenues as earnings from unconsolidated affiliates and 50% as operating revenues. The effect of this change in classification resulted in an increase in operating revenues and offsetting decrease in earnings from unconsolidated affiliates of $5.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2002. These reclassifications had no impact on total revenues and other income, or net income. (3) We adopted SFAS No. 145, "Rescission of FASB Statements No. 4, 44, and 64, Amendment of FASB Statement No. 13, and Technical Corrections", effective April 1, 2002. Due to the nature of our business, Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Statements No. 44 and 64, and Amendment of FASB Statement No. 13 are not applicable. SFAS 145 eliminates SFAS No. 4, "Reporting Gains and Losses from Extinguishment of Debt," and states that gains and losses from the extinguishment of debt should be classified as extraordinary items only if they meet the criteria in Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 30, "Reporting the Results of Operations-Reporting the Effects of Disposal of a Segment of a Business, and Extraordinary, Unusual and Infrequently Occurring Events and Transactions." APB 30 defines extraordinary items as events and transactions that are distinguished by their unusual nature and by the infrequency of their occurrence. Accordingly, we no longer classify gains and losses from extinguishment of debt that are usual and frequent as extraordinary items, and we reclassified to other income all similar debt extinguishment items that had been reported as extraordinary items in prior accounting periods. In conjunction with adopting SFAS 145, we reclassified an extraordinary loss recorded during the three months ended March 31, 2002 totaling $.13 million, net of taxes of $.08 million, to other income with the related income tax component reclassified to income tax expense. This reclassification had no impact on net income. (4) See "Computation of Per Share Earnings" included as a separate schedule. (5) Adjusted income derived from operating activities is computed by: subtracting direct costs, general and administrative expenses, and depreciation and amortization expense from Operating revenues and then adding Earnings from unconsolidated affiliates. Such amounts should not be used as a substitute to those amounts reported under GAAP. However, management evaluates the performance of our business units and the consolidated company based on several criteria, including adjusted income derived from operating activities, because it believes that this financial measure is an accurate reflection of the ongoing profitability of our company. A reconciliation of this non-GAAP measure to consolidated income before income taxes, which is a GAAP measure, is provided herein. Page 2 of 6
NABORS INDUSTRIES LTD. AND SUBSIDIARIES CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS Page 3 of 6
NABORS INDUSTRIES LTD. AND SUBSIDIARIES SEGMENT REPORTING The following table sets forth certain information with respect to our reportable segments and rig activity: Page 4 of 6
(1) This segment includes our drilling, workover and well-servicing operations, on land and offshore. (2) U.S. Land Drilling is comprised of our Alaska and U.S. Lower 48 drilling operating units. (3) Includes Earnings from unconsolidated affiliates, accounted for by the equity method, of $.8 million, $.9 million and $1.1 million for the three months ended December 31, 2002, March 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. (4) This segment includes our marine transportation and supply services, top drive manufacturing, directional drilling, rig instrumentation and software, and construction and logistics operating units. (5) Includes Earnings from unconsolidated affiliates, accounted for by the equity method, of $2.0 million, $5.0 million and $4.5 million for the three months ended December 31, 2002, March 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. (6) Includes the elimination of inter-segment manufacturing and logistics sales. (7) Adjusted cash flows derived from operating activities is computed by: subtracting direct costs and general and administrative expenses from Operating revenues and then adding Earnings from unconsolidated affiliates. Such amounts should not be used as a substitute to those amounts reported under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP). However, management evaluates the performance of our business units based on several criteria, including adjusted cash flows derived from operating activities, because it believes that this financial measure is an accurate reflection of the ongoing performance of our business units. The following is a reconciliation of net cash provided by operating activities from our consolidated statements of cash flows, which is a GAAP measure, to this non-GAAP measure: (8) Includes the elimination of inter-segment transactions and unallocated corporate expenses. (9) Adjusted income derived from operating activities is computed by: subtracting direct costs, general and administrative expenses, and depreciation and amortization expense from Operating revenues and then adding Earnings from unconsolidated affiliates. Such amounts should not be used as a substitute to those amounts reported under GAAP. However, management evaluates the performance of its business units and the consolidated company based on several criteria, including adjusted income derived from operating activities, because it believes that this financial measure is an accurate reflection of the ongoing profitability of our company. A reconciliation of this non-GAAP measure to consolidated income before income taxes, which is a GAAP measure, is provided herein. (10) Excludes well-servicing rigs. Includes our percentage ownership of rigs from unconsolidated affiliates. Rig years represents a measure of the number of equivalent rigs operating during a given period. For example, one rig operating 182.5 days during a 365-day period represents 0.5 rig years. (11) Rig hours represents the number of hours that our well-servicing rig fleet operated during the period. (12) The Canada well-servicing operation was acquired during April 2002 as part of our acquisition of Enserco Energy Service Company Inc. Page 5 of 6
NABORS INDUSTRIES LTD. AND SUBSIDIARIES COMPUTATION OF PER SHARE EARNINGS A reconciliation of the numerators and denominators of the basic and diluted earnings per share computations is as follows: (1) Diluted earnings per share for the three months ended December 31, 2002, does not reflect the assumed conversion of our $825 million zero coupon convertible senior debentures due 2020, as the conversion in that period would have been anti-dilutive. Diluted earnings per share for the three months ended March 31, 2003 and 2002 reflects the assumed conversion of our $825 million zero coupon convertible senior debentures due 2020, as the conversion in those periods would have been dilutive. (2) Diluted earnings per share for the three months ended December 31, 2002, March 31, 2003 and 2002 excludes 8.5 million potentially dilutive shares issuable upon the conversion of our $1.381 billion zero coupon convertible senior debentures due 2021 because the inclusion of such shares would have been anti-dilutive. (3) Includes the weighted average number of common shares of Nabors and the weighted average number of exchangeable shares of Nabors Exchangeco. Page 6 of 6


