FILE:NBR/NBR-8K-20030811155406.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549 FORM 8-K/A (Amendment No. 1) CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): August 11, 2003 NABORS INDUSTRIES LTD. (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) Bermuda 000-49887 980363970 (State or Other Jurisdiction (Commission (IRS Employer of Incorporation) File Number) Identification No.) 2nd Fl. International Trading Centre Warrens PO Box 905E St. Michael, Barbados N/A (Address of Principal Executive Offices) (Zip Code) Registrant's telephone number, including area code (246) 421-9471 N/A (Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
EXPLANATORY NOTE Nabors Industries Ltd. (the "Company") is furnishing this Current Report on Form 8-K/A to include certain supplemental historical financial information in segment reporting format previously furnished in the Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 29, 2003 (the "Original 8-K"). The Company presented its adjusted cash flow derived from operating activities and adjusted income derived from operating activities for all quarterly and annual periods presented in the Original 8-K. The components of adjusted cash flow derived from operating activities and adjusted income derived from operating activities are computed using amounts determined in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP"). Adjusted cash flow derived from operating activities is computed by: subtracting direct costs and general and administrative expenses from Operating revenues and then adding Earnings from unconsolidated affiliates. Adjusted income derived from operating activities is computed by: subtracting direct costs, general and administrative expenses, and depreciation and amortization expense from Operating revenues and then adding Earnings from unconsolidated affiliates. As part of this Current Report on Form 8-K/A, we have provided a reconciliation, for all quarterly and annual periods presented in the Original 8-K, of adjusted cash flow derived from operating activities and adjusted income derived from operating activities, which are "non-GAAP" financial measures under Regulation G, to net cash provided by operating activities from our consolidated statements of cash flows and consolidated income before income taxes, respectively, which are the most comparable GAAP financial measures. This Current Report on Form 8-K/A amends, restates and supercedes the Original 8-K in its entirety. The Company included its adjusted cash flow derived from operating activities and adjusted income derived from operating activities in the Original 8-K because management evaluates the performance of its business units and the consolidated Company based on several criteria, including adjusted cash flow derived from operating activities and adjusted income derived from operating activities, and because it believes these financial measures are an accurate reflection of the ongoing profitability of the Company. ITEM 7. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, PRO FORMA FINANCIAL INFORMATION AND EXHIBITS. (c) Exhibits Exhibit No. Description ----------- ----------- 99.1 Supplemental historical financial information of Nabors Industries Ltd. in segment reporting format to be posted on the website of Nabors Industries Ltd. on August 11, 2003. ITEM 9. REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE. On August 11, 2003, the Company will post certain supplemental historical financial information in segment reporting format on its website at "http://www.nabors.com" under the heading "Investor Information." A copy of such supplemental historical financial information in segment reporting format is attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K/A as Exhibit No. 99.1. The information contained in or referred to in this report, including the attached supplemental historical financial information in segment reporting format to be provided on the
Company's website, is furnished or referred to by the Company pursuant to Regulation FD promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") and pursuant to Item 9 of Current Report on Form 8-K/A, and shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, unless the Company specifically incorporates it by reference in a document filed under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. By furnishing this Current Report on Form 8-K/A, the Company makes no admission as to the materiality of any information in this report that is required to be disclosed solely by reason of Regulation FD or that the information includes material investor information which was not previously publicly available. The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K/A, including the exhibit, includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties, as disclosed by Nabors from time to time in its filings with the SEC. As a result of these factors, Nabors' actual results may differ materially from those indicated or implied by such forward-looking statements.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. NABORS INDUSTRIES LTD. Date: August 11, 2003 By: /s/ Bruce P. Koch ------------------------------------------ Bruce P. Koch Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
EXHIBIT INDEX Exhibit No. Description - ----------- ----------- 99.1 Supplemental historical financial information of Nabors Industries Ltd. in segment reporting format to be posted on the website of Nabors Industries Ltd. on August 11, 2003.

NABORS INDUSTRIES LTD. AND SUBSIDIARIES SEGMENT REPORTING 2003, 2002 AND 2001 (IN THOUSANDS) The following table sets forth certain information with respect to our reportable segments, rig and well-servicing activity:
(1) This segment includes our drilling, workover and well-servicing operations, on land and offshore. (2) Includes Earnings from unconsolidated affiliates, accounted for by the equity method, of $.9 million and $1.0 million for the three months ended March 31 and June 30, 2003, respectively. Includes Earnings from unconsolidated affiliates, accounted for by the equity method, of $1.1 million, $1.0 million, $.9 million and $.8 million for the three months ended March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31, 2002, respectively, and $3.9 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2002. Includes Earnings from unconsolidated affiliates, accounted for by the equity method, of $2.1 million, $1.9 million, $2.3 million and $2.8 million for the three months ended March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31, 2001, respectively, and $9.0 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2001. (3) This segment includes our marine transportation and supply services, top drive manufacturing, directional drilling, rig instrumentation and software, and construction and logistics operating units. (4) Includes Earnings from unconsolidated affiliates, accounted for by the equity method, of $5.0 million and $1.4 million for the three months ended March 31 and June 30, 2003, respectively. Includes Earnings from unconsolidated affiliates, accounted for by the equity method, of $4.5 million, $3.4 million, $1.0 million and $2.0 million for the three months ended March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31, 2002, respectively, and $10.9 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2002. Includes Earnings from unconsolidated affiliates, accounted for by the equity method, of $5.9 million, $5.8 million, $3.8 million and $1.7 million for the three months ended March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31, 2001, respectively, and $17.3 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2001. (5) Includes the elimination of inter-segment manufacturing and logistics sales. (6) Adjusted cash flow derived from operating activities is computed by: subtracting direct costs and general and administrative expenses from Operating revenues and then adding Earnings from unconsolidated affiliates. Such amounts should not be used as a substitute to those amounts reported under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP). However, management evaluates the performance of our business units based on several criteria, including adjusted cash flow derived from operating activities, because it believes that this financial measure is an accurate reflection of the ongoing performance of our business units. The following is a reconciliation of net cash provided by operating activities from our consolidated statements of cash flows, which is a GAAP measure, to this non-GAAP measure: (7) Includes the elimination of inter-segment transactions and unallocated corporate expenses. (8) Adjusted income derived from operating activities is computed by: subtracting direct costs, general and administrative expenses, and depreciation and amortization expense from Operating revenues and then adding Earnings from unconsolidated affiliates. Such amounts should not be used as a substitute to those amounts reported under GAAP. However, management evaluates the performance of its business units and the consolidated company based on several criteria, including adjusted income derived from operating activities, because it believes that this financial measure is an accurate reflection of the ongoing profitability of our company. A reconciliation of this non-GAAP measure to income before income taxes, which is a GAAP measure, is provided in the table above.


