FILE:NBR/NBR-8K-20050201103113.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 DATE OF REPORT (DATE OF EARLIEST EVENT REPORTED) JANUARY 31, 2005 NABORS INDUSTRIES LTD. (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
BERMUDA 000-49887 980363970 (State or Other Jurisdiction of (Commission File Number) (I.R.S. Employer Incorporation or Organization) Identification No.) 2ND FL. INTERNATIONAL TRADING CENTRE WARRENS PO BOX 905E ST. MICHAEL, BARBADOS N/A (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code)
(246) 421-9471 (Registrant's telephone number, including area code) N/A (Former name or former address, if changed since last report.) Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions: [ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
ITEM 2.02 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION. On January 31, 2005, the Company issued a press release announcing its results of operations for the three and twelve month periods ending December 31, 2004. A copy of that release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 in accordance with General Instruction B.6 to Form 8-K. The press release furnished as an exhibit to this report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties, as disclosed by the Company from time to time in its filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. As a result of these factors, the Company's actual results may differ materially from those indicated or implied by such forward-looking statements. The Company also presented in the press release its adjusted income (loss) derived from operating activities for all periods presented in the release, which is a "non-GAAP" financial measure under Regulation G. The components of adjusted (loss) income derived from operating activities are computed by using amounts which are determined in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP). Adjusted income (loss) derived from operating activities is computed by subtracting direct costs, general and administrative expenses, depreciation and amortization, and depletion expense from Operating revenues and then adding Earnings from unconsolidated affiliates. As part of our press release information we have provided a reconciliation of adjusted income (loss) derived from operating activities to income before income taxes, which is its nearest comparable GAAP financial measure. The Company included its adjusted income (loss) derived from operating activities in the release because management evaluates the performance of our business units and the consolidated company based on several criteria, including adjusted income (loss) derived from operating activities, and because it believes this financial measure is an accurate reflection of the ongoing profitability of our Company. ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS. (c) Exhibits Exhibit No. Description - ----------- ----------- 99.1 Press Release issued by Nabors Industries Ltd. on January 31, 2005.
SIGNATURE Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. NABORS INDUSTRIES LTD. Date: February 1, 2005 By: /s/ Daniel McLachlin ------------------------------- Daniel McLachlin Vice President-Administration & Secretary
EXHIBIT INDEX Exhibit No. Description - ----------- ----------- 99.1 Press Release issued by Nabors Industries Ltd. on January 31, 2005.

EXHIBIT 99.1 - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- [NABORS INDUSTRIES LOGO] NEWS RELEASE - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- NABORS NET $0.68 ON STRONG NORTH AMERICAN RESULTS ST. MICHAEL, BARBADOS, JANUARY 31, 2005, NABORS INDUSTRIES LTD. (AMEX: NBR), today announced its results for the fourth quarter and full year ended December 31, 2004. Adjusted income derived from operating activities(1) increased 73% to $113.8 million for the fourth quarter compared to $65.8 million in the fourth quarter of 2003 and $84.1 million in the third quarter of this year. Net income was $108.8 million ($0.68 per diluted share) for the fourth quarter compared to $64.9 million ($0.42 per diluted share) in the fourth quarter of 2003 and $75.6 million ($0.48 per diluted share) in the third quarter of this year. For the full year ended December 31, 2004, adjusted income derived from operating activities rose by 55% to $329.7 million, compared to $212.7 million in 2003. Net income for the full year 2004 was $302.5 million ($1.92 per diluted share) compared to $192.2 million ($1.25 per diluted share) in the full year 2003. The fourth quarter results included a net positive adjustment to deferred income tax expense of $0.03 per share (non-cash) as a result of the release of tax reserves no longer required. Gene Isenberg, Nabors' Chairman and CEO commented on the Company's results, "Income from virtually all of our operating units increased substantially over the prior year and prior quarter with the fourth quarter equaling our previous record quarter set in the third quarter of 2001. For the full year our U.S. Lower 48 Land Drilling group demonstrated the largest year-to-year increment followed by our Canadian, U.S. Offshore, International, U.S. Land Well-servicing and oil and gas units. Only Alaska posted lower results in both periods with the aggregate results of our manufacturing and logistics businesses lower for the year but showing a good recovery in the fourth quarter. "Compared to the third quarter of 2004, every unit posted improvement except for our U.S. Land Well-servicing business where strong pricing trends substantially offset seasonally weak activity arising from shorter daylight hours and the numerous holidays. The largest sequential improvement came from Canada where results set a new record for any fourth quarter on higher pricing and rig count. This performance was followed closely by our U.S. Lower 48 Drilling operation which continued a modest improvement in rig count propelled by a larger than expected improvement in margins as rig demand exceeded the readily available supply. Our International operations benefited from a broad based increase in activity with significant incremental contribution coming from numerous countries. Because four of the incremental ten new rigs for Saudi Arabia commenced late in the quarter any meaningful impact will not begin until the first quarter. Significant sequential improvement was also realized by our U.S. Gulf of Mexico offshore business with long-anticipated although modest increases in workover jack-up activity and pricing coupled with ongoing strength among our larger platform rigs. Our manufacturing and logistics businesses in aggregate posted a large sequential improvement over their third quarter loss, largely resulting from higher activity in our marine transportation - ---------------- (1) Adjusted income derived from operating activities is computed by: subtracting direct costs, general and administrative expenses, depreciation and amortization, and depletion expense from Operating revenues and then adding Earnings from unconsolidated affiliates. Such amounts should not be used as a substitute to those amounts reported under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP). However, management evaluates the performance of our business units and the consolidated company based on several criteria, including adjusted income derived from operating activities, because it believes that this financial measure is an accurate reflection of the ongoing profitability of our company. A reconciliation of this non-GAAP measure to income before income taxes, which is a GAAP measure, is provided within the table set forth immediately following the heading "Segment Reporting."
operations following the hurricane. Oil and gas operations also posted a slight improvement in the fourth quarter. "The outlook for our businesses is better than I have ever seen it in my 18 years with Nabors. We expect higher results in the first quarter from every one of our units led by our Canadian operations, as it enters its seasonally strongest quarter, with improved pricing and activity currently running at a rate of 70 rigs. Our U.S. Lower 48 Land Drilling unit should post the next largest increase with results driven by roll-thru of significantly higher pricing and a continued but more modest increase in rig count. The improved performance of our U.S. Offshore unit is expected to increase further in the subsequent quarters with substantially higher pricing and slightly higher utilization of the workover jack-ups appearing to be sustainable. Alaska should be a meaningful component of sequential improvement with the first quarter exploration season underway, although we still expect the full year to be modestly below 2004. Our International operations will continue to have significant sequential increases as the new rigs in Saudi Arabia commence and numerous other prospects materialize. The manufacturing and logistics companies are forecasting similar incremental results with more top drive shipments expected and generally healthier activity in all other components of this reporting operations. "Nabors has seen a steady improvement in its market share over the last two years as we have been able to benefit disproportionately from the near doubling of rig activity in the Rocky Mountain Region and the increasing use of new bits and horizontal drilling technologies. We were able to reposition underutilized rigs at relatively low capital costs to take advantage of the strong Rocky Mountain Market while the investments we have made to facilitate meaningful reductions in average rig moving times and larger pump capacities have yielded competitive advantages and good returns with the increased emphasis on horizontal drilling. Similarly, our large asset base has allowed us to accomplish short delivery times with high specification rigs wherever needed (such as the ten we are furnishing to Saudi Aramco on an expedited schedule). Nabors' focus on and investments in quality and efficiency were recognized by Royal Dutch Shell in December when they selected Nabors Drilling USA's rig 784 as its "Land Rig of the Year." This rig operates for Shell on the Pinedale Anticline in Wyoming and was deemed the best among the 58 land rigs that operated for Shell worldwide in 2004. The evaluation factors were excellence in safety and environmental performance, operating efficiency, and joint engagement and teamwork. "The results of our North American gas-driven markets are well in excess of our expectations and we see no reason to believe the fundamentals indicate anything but a continuation of this trend. Our conviction regarding the long-term more enduring nature of this cycle continues to be reinforced by not only the fundamental supply challenges of both North American natural gas and global crude oil, but also the feedback we receive from our customers regarding future activity plans and more importantly, the beneficial impact rig efficiency gains are having on their well cost." The Nabors companies own and operate almost 600 land drilling and approximately 900 land workover and well-servicing rigs worldwide. Offshore, Nabors operates 44 platform rigs, 19 jack-up units, and three barge rigs in the United States and multiple international markets. Nabors markets 31 marine transportation and support vessels, primarily in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. In addition, Nabors manufactures top drives and drilling instrumentation systems and provides comprehensive oilfield hauling, engineering, civil construction, logistics and facilities maintenance, and project management services. Nabors participates in most of the significant oil, gas and geothermal markets in the world. The information above includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties, as disclosed by Nabors from time to time in its filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. As a result of these factors, Nabors' actual results may differ materially from those indicated or implied by such forward-looking statements.
For further information, please contact Dennis A. Smith, Director of Corporate Development of Nabors Corporate Services, Inc. at (281) 775-8038. To request Investor Materials, call our corporate headquarters in St. Michael, Barbados at (246) 421-9471 or via email at dan.mclachlin@nabors.com. Nabors will conduct a conference call to discuss the quarter's results and the near-term outlook, tomorrow February 1, 2005, at 11:00 a.m. Eastern Standard Time. The call can be accessed on our website at www.nabors.com, or through First Call at www.firstcallevents.com.
NABORS INDUSTRIES LTD. AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME (UNAUDITED) (1) See "Computation of Earnings Per Share" included herein as a separate schedule. (2) Adjusted income derived from operating activities is computed by: subtracting direct costs, general and administrative expenses, depreciation and amortization, and depletion expense from Operating revenues and then adding Earnings from unconsolidated affiliates. Such amounts should not be used as a substitute to those amounts reported under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP). However, management evaluates the performance of our business units and the consolidated company based on several criteria, including adjusted income derived from operating activities, because it believes that this financial measure is an accurate reflection of the ongoing profitability of our company. A reconciliation of this non-GAAP measure to income before income taxes, which is a GAAP measure, is provided within the table set forth immediately following the heading "Segment Reporting".
NABORS INDUSTRIES LTD. AND SUBSIDIARIES CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (UNAUDITED)
NABORS INDUSTRIES LTD. AND SUBSIDIARIES SEGMENT REPORTING (UNAUDITED) The following tables set forth certain information with respect to our reportable segments and rig activity: (1) These segments include our drilling, workover and well-servicing operations, on land and offshore. (2) Includes Earnings from unconsolidated affiliates, accounted for by the equity method, of ($.37) million, $.03 million and ($.26) million for the three months ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 and September 30, 2004, respectively, and $1.6 million and $2.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. (3) Represents our oil and gas exploration, development and production operations. (4) Includes our marine transportation and supply services, drilling technology and top drive manufacturing, directional drilling, rig instrumentation and software, and construction and logistics operations. (5) Includes Earnings (losses) from unconsolidated affiliates, accounted for by the equity method, of ($.26) million, $.4 million and ($.03) million for the three months ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 and September 30, 2004, respectively, and $2.5 million and $7.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. (6) Represents the elimination of inter-segment transactions. (7) Represents the elimination of inter-segment transactions and unallocated corporate expenses. (8) Excludes well-servicing rigs, which are measured in rig hours. Includes our equivalent percentage ownership of rigs owned by unconsolidated affiliates. Rig years represents a measure of the number of equivalent rigs operating during a given period. For example, one rig operating 182.5 days during a 365-day period represents 0.5 rig years. (9) International rig years include our equivalent percentage ownership of rigs owned by unconsolidated affiliates which totaled 4.0, 3.5 and 4.0 years during the three month periods ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, and September 30, 2004, respectively, and 4.0 and 3.8 years for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. (10) Rig hours represents the number of hours that our well-servicing rig fleet operated during the period.
NABORS INDUSTRIES LTD. AND SUBSIDIARIES COMPUTATION OF EARNINGS PER SHARE (UNAUDITED) A reconciliation of the numerators and denominators of the basic and diluted earnings per share computations is as follows: (1) Diluted earnings per share for the year ended December 31, 2003 reflects the assumed conversion of our $825 million zero coupon convertible senior debentures, as the conversion in the period would have been dilutive. We redeemed for cash the remaining outstanding principal amount of our $825 million zero coupon convertible senior debentures on June 20, 2003 and therefore these debentures did not impact the calculation of diluted earnings per share for the three months ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 and September 30, 2004 and the year ended December 31, 2004. (2) Diluted earnings per share for the three months ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 and September 30, 2004 and the year ended December 31, 2004 reflects the assumed conversion of our $1.381 billion zero coupon convertible senior debentures, as the conversion in those periods would have been dilutive. For the year ended December 31, 2003, the weighted-average number of shares outstanding-diluted excluded 8.5 million potentially dilutive shares issuable upon the conversion of our $1.381 billion zero coupon convertible senior debentures because the inclusion of such shares would have been anti-dilutive, given the level of net income for that year. Net income for the year ended December 31, 2003 excluded the related add-back of interest expense, net of tax, of $12.1 million for these debentures. These shares would have been dilutive and therefore included in the calculation of the weighted-average number of shares outstanding-diluted had diluted earnings per share been at or above $1.43 for the year ended December 31, 2003.
(3) Diluted earnings per share for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 and the three months ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 and September 30, 2004 excludes approximately 10.0 million potentially dilutive shares initially issuable upon the exchange of our $700 million zero coupon senior exchangeable notes due 2023 and our Series B zero coupon senior exchangeable notes due 2023. Such shares did not impact our calculation of diluted earnings per share for these periods as we are required to pay cash up to the principal amount of any notes exchanged. We would only issue an incremental number of shares upon exchange of these notes, and such shares would only be included in the calculation of the weighted-average number of shares outstanding in our diluted earnings per share calculation, if the price of our shares exceeded $70.10. (4) Includes the following weighted-average number of common shares of Nabors and weighted-average number of exchangeable shares of Nabors Exchangeco, respectively: 149.6 million and .2 million shares for the three months ended December 31, 2004; 146.6 million and .4 million shares for the three months ended December 31, 2003; 148.8 million and .3 million shares for the three months ended September 30, 2004; 148.7 million and .3 million shares for the year ended December 31, 2004; and 146.0 million and .5 million shares for the year ended December 31, 2003. The exchangeable shares of Nabors Exchangeco are exchangeable for Nabors common shares on a one-for-one basis, and have essentially identical rights as Nabors Industries Ltd. common shares, including but not limited to voting rights and the right to receive dividends, if any.


