FILE:NBR/NBR-8K-20061228171854.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 8.01 Other Events.
Attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 is a copy of the press release dated December 28, 2006 issued by Nabors Industries Ltd.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
. today announced that it has mutually agreed with the Moncla Companies to discontinue efforts to complete the acquisition of Moncla by one of Nabors' principle subsidiaries. Nabors had previously announced on September 21, 2006 the signing of a letter of intent by the respective parties. While the current effort has been terminated, through the process the two companies have developed a mutual respect and healthy relationship which leaves open future possibilities.
HAMILTON, Bermuda(BUSINESS WIRE)December 28, 2006 Nabors Industries Ltd
(NYSE: NBR)
The Nabors companies own and operate approximately 600 land drilling and approximately 800 land workover and well-servicing rigs in North America. Offshore, Nabors operates 46 platform rigs, 22 jack-up units and 5 barge rigs in the United States and multiple international markets. Nabors markets 29 marine transportation and supply vessels, primarily in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. In addition, Nabors manufactures top drives and drilling instrumentation systems and provides comprehensive oilfield hauling, engineering, civil construction, logistics and facilities maintenance, and project management services. Nabors participates in most of the significant oil, gas and geothermal markets in the world.
The information above includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties, as disclosed by Nabors from time to time in its filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. As a result of these factors, Nabors' actual results may differ materially from those indicated or implied by such forward-looking statements.
For further information, please contact Dennis A. Smith, Director of Corporate Development of Nabors Corporate Services, Inc. at 281-775-8038. To request Investor Materials, call our corporate headquarters in Hamilton, Bermuda at 441-292-1510 or via email at dan.mclachlin@nabors.com.


