FILE:NBR/NBR-8K-20060330172802.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 8.01 Other Events.
     Attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 is a copy of the press release dated March 30, 2006 issued by Nabors Industries Ltd.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
HAMILTON, Bermuda, March 30, 2006 (BUSINESS WIRE)  Nabors Industries Ltd. (NYSE:NBR) today announced that at a Special General Meeting of Shareholders held today the company's shareholders approved a proposal to amend the company's Amended and Restated Bye-Laws to increase the authorized share capital of the company by the creation of additional common shares. The additional shares will accommodate the previously announced two-for-one stock split (to be effected in the form of a stock dividend), which was approved by the company's board of directors subject to shareholder approval of the bye-law amendment.
As previously announced, the stock dividend will be distributed on Monday, April 17, 2006 to shareholders of record on Friday, March 31, 2006. Whole shares will be issued and any partial shares will be paid in cash in lieu of shares.
The Nabors companies own and operate almost 600 land drilling and approximately 875 land workover and well-servicing rigs worldwide. Offshore, Nabors operates 43 platform rigs, 19 jack-up units and three barge rigs in the United States and multiple international markets. Nabors markets 28 marine transportation and supply vessels, primarily in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. In addition, Nabors manufactures top drives and drilling instrumentation systems and provides comprehensive oilfield hauling, engineering, civil construction, logistics and facilities maintenance, and project management services. Nabors participates in most of the significant oil, gas and geothermal markets in the world.
FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS
The information above includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties, as disclosed by Nabors from time to time in its filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. As a result of these factors, Nabors' actual results may differ materially from those indicated or implied by such forward-looking statements. For further information, please contact Dennis A. Smith, Director of Corporate Development of Nabors Corporate Services, Inc. at 281-775-8038. To request Investor Materials, call our corporate headquarters in Hamilton, Bermuda at 441-292-1510 or via email at dan.mclachlin@nabors.com.


