FILE:NBR/NBR-8K-20060508103505.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     On May 8, 2006, Nabors Industries Ltd. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing its results of operations for the three month period ending March 31, 2006. The full text of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and incorporated by reference into this Item 2.02.
     The press release furnished as an exhibit to this report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties, as disclosed by the Company from time to time in its filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. As a result of these factors, the Company's actual results may differ materially from those indicated or implied by such forward-looking statements.
     The Company also presented in the press release its adjusted income (loss) derived from operating activities for all periods presented in the release, which is a "non-GAAP" financial measure under Regulation G. The components of adjusted income (loss) derived from operating activities are computed by using amounts which are determined in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP"). Adjusted income (loss) derived from operating activities is computed by subtracting direct costs, general and administrative expenses, depreciation and amortization, and depletion expense from Operating revenues and then adding Earnings from unconsolidated affiliates. As part of our press release information we have provided a reconciliation of adjusted net income and adjusted income (loss) derived from operating activities to income before income taxes, which is its nearest comparable GAAP financial measure.
     The Company included its adjusted income (loss) derived from operating activities in the release because management evaluates the performance of our business units and the consolidated company based on several criteria, including adjusted income (loss) derived from operating activities, and because it believes this financial measure is an accurate reflection of the ongoing profitability of the Company. The Company included the adjusted net income number because management believes the non-GAAP financial measure to be more indicative of the Company's on-going operating results and financial condition.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
today reported its financial results for the first quarter of 2006. Adjusted income derived from operating activities more than doubled to $370.5 million from $171.9 million in the same quarter last year and $292.2 million in the prior quarter ended December 31, 2005. Net income was $256.8 million or $0.79 per diluted share. This net income result compares to $127.4 million or $0.40 per diluted share in the same period of 2005 and $210.6 million or $0.64 per diluted share in the fourth quarter of 2005. Operating Revenues and Earnings from unconsolidated affiliates for this quarter were $1.17 billion compared to $785.7 million in the prior year comparable quarter and $1.02 billion in the fourth quarter of 2005. The quarter's results included an increase in Canadian tax reserves of $4.3 million, which increased our effective tax rate for the quarter to 31%. The results also reflect approximately $15 million ($0.04 per share) in increased SG&A expenses from modifications in our compensation programs precipitated by the change in accounting rules relating to stock-based compensation.
HAMILTON, Bermuda, May 8, 2006 (BUSINESS WIRE)  Nabors Industries Ltd. (NYSE:NBR),
2
Commenting on these results, Gene Isenberg, Nabors' Chairman and Chief Executive Officer said, "This quarter's results represent another record for Nabors in all of our important financial metrics: operating income, cash flow, earnings per share and return on average capital employed. This puts us well on our way to handily exceeding our expectations for the balance of this year and beyond. Our operational metrics are equally good, with the most significant development being 104 three-year term commitments for new PACE rigs from quality customers. This exceeds our previously stated expectation of 100 by mid-2007. Most of these term deals actually average four years of assured work, taking into account the provision of an existing rig until the new rig arrives. This underwritten growth in our fleet not only serves to enhance future income and returns on capital, but also provides an unprecedented degree of visibility. It further speaks to our customer's acceptance of the capabilities of these rigs, as well as their confidence in the long-term nature of the current cycle. The opportunities for additional rigs continue to be abundant, with many small and large-scale projects under discussion both domestically and internationally.
On a sequential basis our operating results increased by 27% over the quarter ending December 31, 2005. The largest improvement once again came from our US Lower 48 drilling operations, followed closely by our Canadian and US Land well service units, while International increased modestly. All of our other operating
 
 
segments posted large percentage improvements, ranging from 25 to 40%, on smaller but still meaningful numbers.
Our US Lower 48 Land drilling business benefited from a substantial increase in pricing, with a significant portion of the contracted fleet yet to reprice at current market rates. Leading edge margins continue to increase and currently exceed those achieved in the first quarter by approximately 50%, indicating the potential of this unit's forward profitability. Nineteen incremental new rig awards were received during the quarter, bringing total new rig commitments to 76, only three of which are reflected in the first quarter's results. We expect to average 13 rig years from these new rigs in 2006, with 35 new rigs in operation at the end of the year. The majority of the remaining 41 new rigs should commence operations during the first half of next year, which should result in another 50 rig years in 2007. In addition, we plan to refurbish eight rigs during 2006, five of which already have term commitments. Incremental contributions will also come from investments in existing rigs, including 43 top drives and automatic pipe handling equipment. We are also expanding our rig moving fleet by 50%.
In Canada, the first quarter set another quarterly record by a wide margin on the strength of new highs in rig utilization and pricing, as well as an extended winter drilling season. As a result, expectations for the full year have increased proportionately. Seven of the new rigs are destined for this unit, with four currently working and the balance to commence during 2006. In addition, delivery of the 20 new coiled tubing / stem drilling rigs is under way with the expectation of 12 in service by the end of the year.
Our US well servicing unit also posted a large improvement sequentially on the strength of an early-quarter price increase and slightly higher rig hours. We now have 12 of our new 500 HP Millennium workover rigs in service performing very satisfactorily. Customer acceptance of these new rigs has been very positive, as evidenced by the premium rate they are receiving. We expect to have over 45 of these rigs in service by the end of this year. We have also received the first of 20 new 200 HP truck-mounted service rigs ordered for the California shallow well market, with all units expected to be in service by year-end. This unit has multiple other income producing investments, the most significant of which is a relatively large expansion of its fluid hauling and disposal business.
Our US Offshore business improved steadily throughout the quarter as rigs returned to service following hurricane damage repairs. The full-year outlook is much greater than the first quarter implies as these rigs return to full utilization bolstered by extraordinarily large pricing improvements in all classes of rigs. The second half of this year will also reflect the contribution of three new rigs, which should deploy during the second half and will be additive to the 104 new rigs mentioned previously.
Our International operations improved modestly in line with our commentary last quarter as extended dry-dock time for some of our Arabian Gulf jackups continued to dampen this unit's results. The outlook for this unit over the balance of the year is exceptionally strong as a significant number of existing rigs are beginning to renew at much higher rates, and 25 incremental rigs are on schedule to commence operations throughout the year. This unit has 21 of the 104 new rig commitments with the contribution of approximately four of these rigs reflected in the first quarter's results.
Our Other operating segments, which consist primarily of our Sea Mar marine transport vessels and our technology and manufacturing businesses: Canrig, EPOCH and Ryan, also experienced higher volumes and pricing yielding a large increase in their quarterly results. The outlook for these businesses remains surprisingly favorable. Our oil and gas results reflected the property sale we mentioned last quarter. The overall results are essentially in line with our ongoing expectations for this entity as an adjustment to depletion expenses offset a substantial portion of the sale proceeds and we expect to do realize such sales in the future. SG&A increased significantly, as we found it necessary to align our cash compensation more closely with the market as a result of the dramatic reduction in equity based compensation we implemented in light of the new accounting rules.
 
We are very cognizant of the market concerns regarding short-term natural gas supply / demand and the magnitude of the expansion in capacity planned for the US land rig market over the next couple of years. Based upon our discussions with customers regarding their current and future plans, and even more importantly their willingness to commit capital to long-term projects and pay for upgraded and new rigs, we believe these concerns are overblown. Furthermore, recent and prospective developments across all of our operating entities suggest that our expectations for the future are in all likelihood conservative."
The Nabors companies own and operate approximately 600 land drilling and approximately 790 land workover and well-servicing rigs in North America. Offshore, Nabors operates 43 platform rigs, 20 jack-up units and three barge rigs in the United States and multiple international markets. Nabors markets 29 marine transportation and supply vessels, primarily in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. In addition, Nabors manufactures top drives and drilling instrumentation systems and provides comprehensive oilfield hauling, engineering, civil construction, logistics and facilities maintenance, and project management services. Nabors participates in most of the significant oil, gas and geothermal markets in the world.
The Company will post a group of slides on its website at least one hour prior to it conference call for interested investors to utilize in following the review of our business results and outlook during a conference call it will conduct, today Monday, May 8, 2006, at 11:00 a.m. Eastern Time (10:00 a.m. Central Time). The call can be accessed on our website at , or through First Call at . The slides will be available on the Nabors website and can be viewed or downloaded by going to "Investor Information" and then to "Events Calendar".
www.nabors.com
www.firstcallevents.com
The information above includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties, as disclosed by Nabors from time to time in its filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. As a result of these factors, Nabors' actual results may differ materially from those indicated or implied by such forward-looking statements.
     For further information, please contact Dennis A. Smith, Director of Corporate Development of Nabors Corporate Services, Inc. at 281-775-8038. To request Investor Materials, call our corporate headquarters in Hamilton, Bermuda at 441-292-1510 or via email at dan.mclachlin@nabors.com.
 
 
 
 
 
The following tables set forth certain information with respect to our reportable segments and rig activity:
 
 
A reconciliation of the numerators and denominators of the basic and diluted earnings per share computations is as follows:
 


