FILE:NBR/NBR-8K-20071024110528.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02     Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     On October 23, 2007, Nabors Industries Ltd. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing its results of operations for the three month period ending September 30, 2007. A copy of that release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 in accordance with General Instruction B.2 to Form 8-K.
     The press release furnished as an exhibit to this report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties, as disclosed by the Company from time to time in its filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. As a result of these factors, the Company's actual results may differ materially from those indicated or implied by such forward-looking statements.
     The Company also presented in the press release "non-GAAP" financial measures under Regulation G. The Company presented its adjusted income (loss) derived from operating activities for all periods presented in the release. The components of adjusted income (loss) derived from operating activities are computed by using amounts which are determined in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP"). Adjusted income (loss) derived from operating activities is computed by subtracting direct costs, general and administrative expenses, depreciation and amortization, and depletion expense from Operating revenues and then adding Earnings from unconsolidated affiliates. As part of our press release information we have provided a reconciliation of adjusted net income and adjusted income (loss) derived from operating activities to income before income taxes, which is its nearest comparable GAAP financial measure.
     The Company included its adjusted income (loss) derived from operating activities in the release because management evaluates the performance of our business units and the consolidated company based on several criteria, including adjusted income (loss) derived from operating activities, and because it believes this financial measure is an accurate reflection of the ongoing profitability of the Company. The Company included the adjusted net income number because management believes the non-GAAP financial measure to be more indicative of the Company's on-going operating results and financial condition.
Item 9.01     Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
Hamilton, Bermuda, October 23, 2007. Nabors Industries Ltd. (NYSE: NBR) today announced its results for the third quarter and nine months ended September 30, 2007. Adjusted income derived from operating activities was $287.3 million for the third quarter compared to $368.2 million in the third quarter of 2006 and $280.5 million in the second quarter of this year. Net income was $218.0 million ($0.76 per diluted share) for the third quarter compared to $292.8 million ($1.02 per diluted share) in the third quarter of 2006 and $228.3 million ($0.79 per diluted share) in the second quarter of this year. The quarter's results include $22.3 million ($0.08 per diluted share) in income from discontinued operations derived from the sale of our Sea Mar unit, which was completed in early August. Previous periods have been adjusted to reflect Sea Mar as a discontinued operation.
For the nine months ended September 30, 2007, adjusted income derived from operating activities was $907.9 million compared to $1.07 billion in 2006. Net income for the first nine months of 2007 was $708.5 million ($2.47 per diluted share) compared to $782.9 million ($2.57 per diluted share) in the first nine months of 2006.
Gene Isenberg, Nabors' Chairman and CEO, commented, "Our third quarter results reflect the persistent challenges in our North American gas centric and U.S. Offshore operations, as well as our land well-servicing markets. Our International business again was impacted by timing and unusual cost issues which masked the early stages of the powerful upside that is emerging. Various other below the line income elements, including the gain on the sale of our Sea Mar entity and a reduction in tax reserves, more than offset the after tax impact of another net loss in investment income and a non-cash asset impairment charge.
Year-over-year quarterly results significantly improved in our International, Oil and Gas, Alaskan and Other Operating Segments. Other than Alaska these units posted sequential improvements over those of the second quarter, albeit most were below our previous expectations. Canada also improved over the seasonally low second quarter. The largest sequential decline came from our U.S. Lower 48 Land drilling operations, followed by our U.S. Offshore and Alaskan units.
The sequential improvement of our International operations does not yet reflect the strong potential that we expect to realize over the next two years. Although it is the nature of this business to experience delays in the short-term, we still expect an improvement of over 50% for the full year 2007 and again next year. The high degree of visibility of this unit's long-term potential emanates from the fact that nearly all of the 2008 increase is expected to be derived from a combination of the renewal of a large number of contracts at current market prices, and the realization of a full year's contribution from the 26 incremental rigs commencing operations throughout 2007. It should also be noted that while our growth expectations do not reflect it, there is great potential for incremental rigs.
 
Alaska also enjoys a strong but smaller oil driven outlook and is characterized by occasional delays and interruptions, as evidenced by the sequential decline in the quarter's results due to higher than usual summer maintenance work and the seasonal stacking of one rig. The results for the quarter and the full year remain on track to increase substantially compared to the prior year, with higher average rates and incremental rig activity late in the year. Additional upside exists over the longer term as more of our fleet renews at market rates early in 2008 and we realize a full year's contribution from two new built heli-portable rigs which are deploying late this year. Longer term results will benefit from the recent award of a contract for a 15,000 ft. capacity coiled tubing drilling rig and will be further improved if we are successful on recent bids for additional new drilling rigs in this market.
Our Other Operating Segments improved slightly despite the loss of contribution following the sale of our marine transportation business early in the quarter. The improvement in this business resulted primarily from higher third party sales in Canrig and solid performance by Ryan Energy Technologies, our directional drilling operation. Income from this segment should continue to be upwardly biased but subject to seasonal fluctuations with improving prospects in our Alaskan logistics and construction joint ventures and the timing of top drive shipments.
Our Oil and Gas operations posted improved results with the early quarter sale of properties in the Fayetteville Shale, which resulted in a pre-tax gain of approximately $15 million. We also completed a larger sale of properties in the Barnett Shale in early October, which will result in a pre-tax gain of approximately $70 million which will be reflected in our fourth quarter results.
The significantly reduced results in our US Lower 48 Land drilling business stems from the sequential decline in average rig margins of $767 per rig day and a decline of seven rigs to an average of 222 rigs operating. We deployed 16 new rigs in the third quarter but saw another 16 existing rigs idled, bringing to 84 the total number of idle rigs at the end of the quarter. We expect the next several quarters to show much more modest declines in income despite the likelihood of an even more difficult industry environment well into 2008. This resiliency in our results is attributable to the positive effects on our average margins and rig count exerted by the deployment of 57 new rigs in 2007 and early 2008 at average margins that are roughly 40% higher than this quarter's full fleet average margin. These effects coupled with diminishing costs limits further downside in this unit's income, which is contrary to industry trends.
Our Canadian operations rebounded sharply from the dismal second quarter but remain at less than one-half of the level of income we achieved last year, reflecting the ongoing weakness in this market. We expect further improvement in the fourth quarter with the onset of the winter activity ramp-up, leading to a full year result that is also less than one-half the prior year. The outlook for 2008 is essentially the same with no visible reasons to expect a recovery before the 2008-2009 winter drilling season.
Our U.S. Well-servicing business experienced a 6% reduction in hours worked compared to the second quarter, reflecting weaker market conditions primarily in the lower price and more competitive markets such as West Texas. Despite the lower hours, sequential income actually increased slightly but is more than 20% below last year. The increased income on reduced hours was due to the number of our new 500 hp Millennium and 200 hp rigs deployed into higher revenue markets and strong results in the trucking and fluid handling portion of this business. We expect the fourth quarter to show a reduction in income as we enter the seasonally slowest period of the year due to the holidays and short daylight hours. The possibility of further
 
deterioration in this largely oil driven business has been the most significant adverse surprise, leading us to significantly reduce our 2008 expectations to essentially flat.
Results in our U.S. Offshore operations were significantly below the second quarter as softening gas prices and the threat of hurricanes led to many project deferrals, especially for our jackup and barge rigs which contribute meaningfully when working and incur significant costs when stacked for short periods. Income from our barge rigs was further dampened when we experienced an engine room fire early in the quarter which will keep a rig out of service until early next year. We expect a much improved fourth quarter as seven rigs have returned or will soon return to work. Next year should reflect a modest increase despite moderating jackup and barge rig pricing as we achieve a full year's contribution from the two new barge rigs that deployed in mid-year, one of which only worked two months as a result of the aforementioned fire.
In other income we experienced two losses and two gains, the net result of which was a modest positive effect on net income. We recorded a pre-tax loss of $30.5 million primarily related to the non-cash reduction in the book value of our non-marketed inventory of rigs and components across several units. We again incurred a net cash loss in our investment portfolio of approximately $27.5 million, the majority of which occurred in August as the debt markets experienced significant turmoil. We have substantially reduced the risk in this portion of our portfolio and continue to redeem fixed income and high beta funds as fast as possible.
Offsetting these losses were the gain on the sale of Sea Mar and a reversal of certain tax reserves. The Sea Mar sale closed in early August and resulted in a pre-tax gain of $50 million. This gain and the income from operations during part of the quarter are included in the $0.08 in earnings per share from discontinued operations. Our historical results, including our Other Operating Segments breakout, are restated to reflect the Sea Mar results as discontinued operations. The reduction in tax reserves amounted to $38 million and occurred as a result of certain issues which were resolved in our favor.
In summary, the quarter contained an inordinate number of moving parts, with a series of short-term, negative developments obscuring the potential of our businesses. 2007 earnings per share will likely be the second best in the company's history, partly due to a lower effective tax rate and reduced share count, and operating income should approximate last year's record level. We expect 2008 also to achieve near record results in spite of continuing and significant weakness in our North American gas directed and US land well servicing units. These accomplishments are largely due to the strength of our International operations and the limited downside in our U.S. Land Drilling business.
The longer term outlook for our international business is even stronger and we expect it to be the primary driver of our future growth. We expect this growth to compound with the eventual self-correction in our North American gas and U.S. Well servicing businesses. Nabors is in an excellent position to capitalize on strengthening markets because of the strategic investments we have made in new rig capacity over the last three years, which have been substantially underwritten by long-term contracts yielding good returns. By mid-2008 our expanded fleet will have over 140 new state-of-theart drilling rigs and 200 new generation workover/well-servicing rigs. This gives Nabors the largest fleet of enhanced capability rigs and positions us to achieve much higher returns in the future."
The Nabors companies own and operate approximately 670 land drilling and approximately 825 land workover and well-servicing rigs in North America. Nabors' actively marketed offshore fleet consists of; 41 platform rigs, 14 jack-up units and 4 barge rigs in the United States and multiple
 
international markets. In addition, Nabors manufactures top drives and drilling instrumentation systems and provides comprehensive oilfield hauling, engineering, civil construction, logistics and facilities maintenance, and project management services. Nabors participates in most of the significant oil, gas and geothermal markets in the world.
The information above includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties, as disclosed by Nabors from time to time in its filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. As a result of these factors, Nabors' actual results may differ materially from those indicated or implied by such forward-looking statements.
For further information, please contact Dennis A. Smith, Director of Corporate Development of Nabors Corporate Services, Inc. at 281-775-8038. To request Investor Materials, call our corporate headquarters in Hamilton, Bermuda at 441-292-1510 or via email at mark.andrews@nabors.com.
 
 
 
The following tables set forth certain information with respect to our reportable segments and rig activity:
 
     A reconciliation of the numerators and denominators of the basic and diluted earnings per share computations is as follows:
     For all periods presented, the computation of diluted earnings per share excludes outstanding stock options and warrants with exercise prices greater than the average market price of Nabors' common shares, because the inclusion of such options and warrants would be anti-dilutive. The average number of options and warrants that were excluded from diluted earnings per share that would potentially dilute earnings per share in the future were 4,601,925, 4,327,513 and 4,322,513 shares during the three months ended September 30, 2007 and 2006 and June 30, 2007, respectively, and 4,629,158 and 2,443,254 shares during the nine months ended September 30, 2007 and 2006, respectively. In any period during which the average market price of Nabors' common shares exceeds the exercise prices of these stock options and warrants, such stock options and warrants will be included in our diluted earnings per share computation using the treasury stock method of accounting. Restricted stock will similarly be included in our diluted earnings per share computation using the treasury stock method of accounting in any period where the amount of restricted stock exceeds the number of shares assumed repurchased in those periods based upon future unearned compensation.


