FILE:NBR/NBR-8K-20070207103356.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     On February 6, 2007, Nabors Industries Ltd. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing its preliminary results of operations for the three and twelve month periods ending December 31, 2006. A copy of that release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 in accordance with General Instruction B.2 to Form 8-K. As previously announced, the Company is conducting a voluntary further review of its historical stock option award practices. The results are preliminary and subject to change based upon the outcome of the review.
     The press release furnished as an exhibit to this report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties, as disclosed by the Company from time to time in its filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including uncertainties associated with the outcome of the review of historical stock option award practices described above. As a result of these factors, the Company's actual results may differ materially from those indicated or implied by such forward-looking statements.
     The Company also presented in the press release "non-GAAP" financial measures under Regulation G. The Company presented its adjusted income (loss) derived from operating activities for all periods presented in the release. The components of adjusted income (loss) derived from operating activities are computed by using amounts which are determined in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP"). Adjusted income (loss) derived from operating activities is computed by subtracting direct costs, general and administrative expenses, depreciation and amortization, and depletion expense from Operating revenues and then adding Earnings from unconsolidated affiliates. As part of our press release information we have provided a reconciliation of adjusted net income and adjusted income (loss) derived from operating activities to income before income taxes, which is its nearest comparable GAAP financial measure.
     The Company included its adjusted income (loss) derived from operating activities in the release because management evaluates the performance of our business units and the consolidated company based on several criteria, including adjusted income (loss) derived from operating activities, and because it believes this financial measure is an accurate reflection of the ongoing profitability of the Company. The Company included the adjusted net income number because management believes the non-GAAP financial measure to be more indicative of the Company's on-going operating results and financial condition.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
. today announced its preliminary results for the fourth quarter and full year ended December 31, 2006. Adjusted income derived from operating activities increased 34% to $391.1 million for the fourth quarter of 2006 compared to $292.2 million in the fourth quarter of 2005 and $380.8 million in the third quarter of this year. Net income was $276.1 million ($0.97 per diluted share) for the fourth quarter of 2006 compared to $210.6 million ($0.64 per diluted share) in the fourth quarter of 2005 and $292.8 million ($1.02 per diluted share) in the third quarter of 2006. Fourth quarter net income included a $12.3 million pre-tax charge relating to the retirement of various assets, primarily in the Company's Canadian workover and US Lower 48 land drilling operations, partially offset by $4 million gain from insurance proceeds resulting from damage caused by Hurricane Rita. For the full year ended December 31, 2006, adjusted income derived from operating activities rose by 70% to approximately $1.5 billion, compared to $879.8 million in 2005. Net income for the full year 2006 was $1.1 billion ($3.53 per diluted share) compared to $648.7 million ($2.00 per diluted share) in 2005. As previously announced, the Company is conducting a voluntary further review of its historical stock option award practices. The results today are preliminary and subject to change based upon the outcome of the review.
Hamilton, Bermuda, February 6, 2007, Nabors Industries Ltd
(NYSE: NBR),
1
Gene Isenberg, Nabors' Chairman and CEO, commented on the Company's results. "Our results for 2006 set all-time records in virtually every financial and operational metric. All six of our rig operating units achieved record levels of performance except Alaska, driving the Company's achievements. When combined with the record results of our Other Operating Segments, we achieved aggregate operating income of $1.5 billion, which for the first time delivered net income in excess of $1 billion. Most importantly, Nabors generated opportunities to increase its average capital employed by $1.75 billion during the year, maintaining a 22% return which should underpin future growth.
Our US Lower 48 land drilling business showed the largest increase in results, followed by our US Well Servicing and International units. Canada and our US Offshore businesses both posted very sizable annual increases even though Canada was dampened considerably by a disappointing fourth quarter. All but one of the various logistics, manufacturing and technology businesses that comprise our Other Operating Segments also contributed significantly with large increases over the prior year. Alaska posted a very modest increase, although this is just the beginning of what promises to be a very strong 2007 and beyond.
 
 
Our fourth quarter results were satisfactory, especially considering the dismal market in Canada where rapidly weakening market conditions during the quarter were compounded by the weather induced delays that inhibited the start of the winter drilling season. This unit actually experienced a small decrease sequentially in what should have otherwise been a sharp seasonal increase as fourth quarter results were well below our expectations. Our International and Alaskan operations posted sizable improvements over the third quarter on the strength of higher average activity and pricing, both of which should continue for the foreseeable future. Our US Offshore unit also achieved a sequential increase, but more modest than anticipated as certain projects were deferred into the new year. Our US Lower 48 land drilling unit was down slightly, averaging one less rig year on modestly higher average margins. US Well Servicing saw slightly lower results as we experienced the customary fourth quarter market softness as a result of the holiday season and shorter daylight hours. We continue to see interest in our multiple new rig designs with awards for eight new built for purpose rigs obtained during the quarter, four in the US Lower 48, two internationally and two helicopter transportable rigs in Alaska.
Our International operations are beginning to demonstrate the extraordinary upside we have been anticipating as existing contracts roll-over at much higher current market rates and a large volume of contracted and prospective new rig requirements materialize. Fourth quarter operating income for this unit increased by over 91% when compared to the fourth quarter of 2005, and improved approximately 14% over the sequential quarter. We expect future quarters to show even larger increases, culminating in a near doubling of this unit's results in 2007. While impressive, this still only represents a portion of this unit's longer-term potential. Rate increases are expected to account for approximately 40% of the year's planned incremental income, with the remaining 60% coming from incremental rig deployments. While the rate increase component is sizable, it represents less than one-third of the differential between current contracts and market rates, the balance of which should be realized in subsequent years as long-term contracts renew. The increased volume is a result of a full year's contribution from the 25 rigs that started-up during the year, netting only 12.6 rig years in 2006, combined with the 10 contracted rigs deploying in 2007, which should yield 7.4 rig years. Included in these 2007 deployments are two new rig awards from two different operators received during the fourth quarter. We expect these rigs to deploy during the second quarter, one to Central Siberia and the other to Argentina. The growth prospects for this unit beyond 2007 are equally impressive given the remaining pricing differential yet to be realized and the potential for additional new built rigs from the strong bid flow we continue to receive.
Another bright spot in our outlook is our Alaskan drilling subsidiary and our Alaskan joint venture companies, where we expect to see a doubling of our combined year-over-year results, albeit from a relatively small 2006 number. Activity is finally picking up sharply with the commencement of several new projects by major operators in existing fields, and an influx of multiple independent operators embarking on both additional exploratory prospects and development of recent new discoveries. Nabors recently secured term contracts from two operators for two new built heli-transportable rigs which will be conducting exploratory drilling in remote areas of the North Slope.
Our US Well Servicing business continues to post solid results based on high fleet utilization, a full year's realization of last July's price increase, and incremental contribution from the steady pace of new rig deployments through 2008. These effects indicate a solid improvement in 2007 absent any further price increase. However, we expect the first quarter to be relatively flat compared to the sequential quarter as recent ice storms in the mid-continent and California have hampered activity.
Our US Offshore unit also posted a strong year-over-year increase in its results, largely on the strength of much higher average rates and a small increase in activity. These results were achieved even though this unit exported five of its rigs to international projects during 2006. We anticipate this business to achieve a more than 30% increase in its results for 2007, primarily derived from a continued strong pricing environment and a full year's contribution from three new SuperSundowner rigs that were deployed in the second half of 2006, and two new very high end barge rigs that will commence in the first and third quarters.
 
In our US Lower 48 Land Drilling unit we secured four additional new rig commitments from a key customer in the fourth quarter, bringing the total number of new rigs for this unit to 80 since early 2005. New rig deliveries continued to be delayed, with only 22 rigs deploying since late 2005, contributing less than 8 rig years during 2006 compared to our beginning of the year expectation of 33 rigs and 24 rig years. We expect the remaining 58 new rigs to commence before the end of 2007 contributing 31 rig years along with 14 incremental rig years from the 2006 deployments totaling 53 rig years attributable to new rigs in 2007 with the remaining 27 rig years to be realized in 2008.
We recently began to see a weakening in market conditions in several of our US Lower 48 operating areas and we are uncertain as to what extent industry rig counts and rig rates will be affected. To date we have seen the number of idle rigs in our fleet increase from 11 at the end of the third quarter to 41 at the end of January 2007. Nearly half of these rigs are located in Oklahoma and Western Arkansas, with the balance spread across our other ten operating districts. Our East Texas, North Texas and Rocky Mountain districts are currently the least affected. Leading edge pricing has been contracting, but is generally still yielding margins that are above this quarter's average. However, based upon recent actions by certain competitors, especially in the lower end of the rig market, we anticipate that a more significant reduction in spot market rates is likely in some areas. Regardless of the extent to which this develops, any downside effects on Nabors should be substantially mitigated by the extent of term contracts covering our existing operating fleet, which currently represents nearly 60% of this year's forecasted gross margin.
As previously announced, the Company is conducting a voluntary further review of its historical stock option award practices. The review is being overseen by the Company's outside directors, who have retained outside counsel to assist in the review. The review is not yet complete. Accordingly, the Company has not yet determined whether it will be required to record additional noncash stock based compensation expense related to historical stock option awards and associated tax expenses. These preliminary financial results, related financial statements and guidance set forth above do not include any additional charges and are subject to adjustment based upon the results of the internal review. The Company voluntarily contacted the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") immediately following publication of a media article concerning the Company's historical compensation practices. The Company has received an informal inquiry letter from the SEC and intends to cooperate fully with any SEC review.
Despite the muted results of the fourth quarter and a more tempered outlook for 2007, we still expect to achieve another record year, generally in-line with the more than 20% increase implied by consensus estimates. This healthy outlook stems from the limited downside in our US Land Drilling unit, new rig deployments, and the magnitude of price increases yet to be realized throughout our International, US Offshore and Alaskan rig operations. Any contraction in North American gas drilling will in all likelihood be shallow and brief given the rapid self-correcting mechanisms present in today's marketplace."
The Company will post a group of slides on its website coincident with this release for interested investors to utilize in following the review of our business results and outlook during a conference call to be conducted, tomorrow Wednesday, February 7, 2006, at 11:00 a.m. Eastern Time (10:00 a.m. Central Time). The call can be accessed on our website at , or through First Call at . The slides can be viewed or downloaded by going to "Investor Information" and then to "Events Calendar".
www.nabors.com
www.firstcallevents.com
The Nabors companies own and operate over 600 land drilling and approximately 800 land workover and well-servicing rigs worldwide. Offshore, Nabors operates 48 platform rigs, 22 jack-up units and five barge rigs in the United States, Canada and multiple international markets. Nabors markets 29 marine transportation and supply vessels, primarily in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. In addition, Nabors manufactures top drives and drilling instrumentation systems and provides comprehensive oilfield hauling, engineering, civil construction, logistics and facilities maintenance, and project management services. Nabors participates in most of the significant oil, gas and geothermal markets in the world.
 
The information above includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties, as disclosed by Nabors from time to time in its filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and including uncertainties associated with the outcome of the review of historical stock option award practices described above. As a result of these factors, Nabors actual results may differ materially from those indicated or implied by such forward-looking statements.
For further information, please contact Dennis A. Smith, Director of Corporate Development of Nabors Corporate Services, Inc. at (281) 775-8038. To request Investor Materials, call our corporate headquarters in Hamilton, Bermuda at (441) 292-1510 or via email at
dan.mclachlin@nabors.com.
 
 
 
 
 
The following tables set forth certain information with respect to our reportable segments and rig activity:
 
 
A reconciliation of the numerators and denominators of the basic and diluted earnings per share computations is as follows:
 
 


