FILE:NBR/NBR-8K-20080206093713.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
     On February 5, 2008, Nabors Industries Ltd. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing its results of operations for the three and twelve month periods ending December 31, 2007. A copy of that release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 in accordance with General Instruction B.2 to Form 8-K.
     The press release furnished as an exhibit to this report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties, as disclosed by the Company from time to time in its filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. As a result of these factors, the Company's actual results may differ materially from those indicated or implied by such forward-looking statements.
     The Company also presented in the press release "non-GAAP" financial measures under Regulation G. The Company presented its adjusted income (loss) derived from operating activities for all periods presented in the release. The components of adjusted income (loss) derived from operating activities are computed by using amounts which are determined in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP"). Adjusted income (loss) derived from operating activities is computed by subtracting direct costs, general and administrative expenses, depreciation and amortization, and depletion expense from Operating revenues and then adding Earnings from unconsolidated affiliates. As part of our press release information we have provided a reconciliation of adjusted net income and adjusted income (loss) derived from operating activities to income before income taxes, which is its nearest comparable GAAP financial measure.
     The Company included its adjusted income (loss) derived from operating activities in the release because management evaluates the performance of our business units and the consolidated company based on several criteria, including adjusted income (loss) derived from operating activities, and because it believes this financial measure is an accurate reflection of the ongoing profitability of the Company. The Company included the adjusted net income number because management believes the non-GAAP financial measure to be more indicative of the Company's on-going operating results and financial condition.
(d) Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
today announced its results for the fourth quarter and full year 2007. Adjusted income derived from operating activities was $307.9 million for the fourth quarter compared to $331.1 million in the fourth quarter of 2006 and $287.3 million in the third quarter of 2007. Net income from continuing operations was $222.2 million ($0.78 per diluted share) for the fourth quarter compared to $232.4 million ($.82 per diluted share) in the fourth quarter of 2006 and $195.8 million ($0.68 per diluted share) in the third quarter of 2007. The results of all of the above referenced quarters reflect income from continuing operations which excludes Sea Mar which was sold in the third quarter of 2007. The quarter's results include the previously disclosed gain on the sale of a portion of the company's Oil and Gas holdings which, when netted against the write off of some other assets, recorded as depletion expense, resulted in an after tax gain of approximately $0.08 per diluted share. The quarter's results also reflect a smaller loss in certain investments which losses the company believes are over. During the quarter the Canadian statutory federal tax rate was reduced, resulting in a reduction in Canadian deferred taxes. The results also partially reflect the company's repurchase of 3.93 million shares during the fourth quarter at an average cost of $27.12 per share.
Hamilton, Bermuda, February 5, 2008. Nabors Industries Ltd. (NYSE: NBR)
For the full year 2007 adjusted income derived from operating activities was $1.22 billion compared to $1.40 billion in 2006. Income from continuing operations for the full year 2007 was $895.7 million ($3.13 per diluted share), compared to $993.0 million ($3.31 per diluted share) in 2006. The year's net income, inclusive of discontinued operations, was $930.7 million or $3.25 per diluted share which compares to $1.0 billion or $3.40 per diluted share in 2006.
Our 2007 results represent the second best year in our company's history, with earnings per share from continuing operations just 5% below 2006's record level, despite a decline of $381 million or 30% in the operating income contribution of our North American rig operations, excluding Alaska. This minimal impact is attributable primarily to offsetting growth of nearly $200 million in several units, including International, Alaska, Oil and Gas, and Other Operating Segments. It is bolstered further by a lower share count and effective tax rate. The year's $3.13 diluted result, while down slightly, still represents an increase of $1.16 per diluted share from continuing operations over the $1.97 per diluted share achieved in 2005, which was previously the second best year. The results of the fourth quarter again reflect a mix of positive developments and some delays and disappointments, but I expect that future quarters will see diminishing potential for the adverse. Since we last reported new builds we have received 19 additional commitments for new rigs, bringing the total number of new rig commitments since early 2005 to 140 drilling rigs and 13 coiled tubing/stem drilling rigs. The 19 new rigs are all for our International operations, bringing to 40 the number of new rigs in that unit.
Gene Isenberg, Nabors' Chairman and CEO, commented, "
 
"Our international operating income for the quarter increased from $63 million in the prior year to $92 million setting its eighth consecutive quarterly record. Operating income for the full year increased from $209 million in 2006 to $332 million in 2007, also setting a new record for the seventh year in a row. We expect 2008 will also show substantial increases since the majority of the prospective improvement is defined by the deployment of additional rigs already under term contracts and the renewal of existing contracts at current market prices.
"In 2007 this operation started-up 19 additional rigs under term-contracts which yielded 13.2 rig years. Included in this number were 17 incremental rigs and two existing offshore platform rigs. The incremental rigs consisted of nine new built rigs and eight underutilized rigs that were relocated from our North American land rig operations. During 2007 this unit also secured term contract commitments for another 13 rigs, including 11 new rigs, most of which will commence before the end of 2008. The most significant of these are two recently awarded jack-ups that should commence operations in The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia no later than early second quarter. One of these rigs, Nabors Rig 660, is nearing completion at a Dubai shipyard while the other, Nabors Rig 657, is currently enroute from Trinidad to the same shipyard where it will undergo modification and upgrades. The 13 rig commitments also include the securing of eight additional rig commitments for the Russian market meaning we will have at least nine rigs working there under term contracts by the end of 2008. We anticipate securing term commitments for at least another eight land rigs in the first half of 2008, with likely start ups in late 2008 and early 2009.
"All of this incremental activity combined with contract renewals and the continuing strong level of bid flow gives us a high degree of visibility for several years, although customer induced project delays can cause the timing to be uncertain.
"The operating income from our Alaskan drilling operations more than doubled in 2007, earning $37 million on the strength of increased pricing and activity. This unit also possesses good visibility, but on a much smaller scale than our international business. As this market has become more active, we are seeing significant rate increases on available rigs and we have three new built rigs commencing term contracts. Two of these rigs deployed in late 2007 and the third will commence operations around the end of 2008.
"Our Oil and Gas segment also achieved a large increase in year-over-year income as we monetized a portion of our portfolio. The fourth quarter results reflect a gain on the sale of some of our oil and gas holdings which, when combined with a smaller sale in the third quarter, aggregates to over $88 million in gains for the year which was partially offset by the aforementioned write-off of other assets. This still leaves a large amount of unrealized value in this increasingly significant business particularly when NFR's recent successes are included.
"Our Other Operating Segments achieved a record year, excluding Sea Mar. While the fourth quarter was slightly lower sequentially, the longer term outlook for these businesses is very strong, driven primarily by the increasing proportion of third-party sales in our manufacturing and technology businesses, continuing market penetration by our directional drilling operation, and a healthy outlook in our Alaskan construction and logistics joint ventures.
"Our US Lower 48 land drilling operations posted sequentially higher operating income in the fourth quarter increasing from $131 million to $138 million, primarily attributable to new rig deployments at higher margins and reduced cost and downtime as new rig start-up difficulties are being rectified expeditiously. We expect a significant number of expiring term contracts for older rigs to roll over in 2008 at lower margins causing a further drop in average margins in the first quarter. However, we
 
expect that the higher margins associated with the remaining new rig deployments and improving margins of the previously deployed new rigs will substantially offset any further deterioration.
"This unit deployed another seven new built rigs during the quarter and expects to deploy the remaining 12 in the first half of 2008. Our new PACE rigs are performing well, setting over 20 new drilling records for multiple customers in high growth areas, including the Barnett Shale, East Texas and the Rocky Mountains.
"Operating income from our US Offshore operations was down to $52 million in 2007 from the $65 million we achieved in 2006. The quarter's results were also down slightly to $8.0 million from the $9.2 million we posted in the third quarter, despite a very promising start to the quarter. The reduced results of both periods were attributable primarily to significantly lower utilization of our small workover jackups and the loss of one of our high-margin barge rigs to a fire shortly after start-up, which left it out of service for the balance of the year. Fortunately, 2008 is off to a strong start with some jackups and the damaged barge rig returning to work and a full year's availability from our other new deep capacity barge rig, which was commissioned last June. We are seeing improved prospects for platform workover rigs for the first time in nearly five years, with certain operators contemplating significant projects. Our platform drilling rigs, especially the deep water portion, continued to provide a solid foundation for this unit's income with high demand and the resulting strong pricing environment.
"Our Canadian operations reported operating income of $87 million for the full year 2007 compared to $185 million compared to 2006 and illustrated the dismal state of this market. The ramp-up to the seasonally high first quarter yielded a meaningful sequential improvement in the fourth quarter and we expect the same in the first quarter, although both are substantially below the level recorded last year. This leads us to set our nearterm expectations for this market very low, anticipating 2008 to represent another 50% decrease compared to 2007. We have recently reallocated certain rigs from this business to our international operations and we shall continue to focus on costs until a recovery is apparent.
"Our US Well servicing's operating income was $30 million in the fourth quarter, down sequentially from $42 million in the third quarter. This led to full year income of $156 million, which was also down significantly from last year's $200 million result. While the fourth quarter is always the seasonally low quarter of the year, it seemed to be exacerbated by excess capacity which weighed heavily on the most competitive market regions, primarily Oklahoma, West Texas and South Texas. Rig activity has improved significantly early in the new year, but we continue to expect another challenging year with results essentially flat to slightly lower for 2008.
"Obviously the performance of our North American gas related and well servicing businesses was very disappointing, however, we believe the potential for further adverse effects is significantly diminished going forward. We also expect 2008 will provide indications of an impending recovery in our North American gas related businesses, and more fully demonstrate the emerging prominence of our international and non-gas related businesses. The rapidly growing contribution from these businesses, combined with the large number of underutilized rigs in our US Land, US Offshore, and Canadian drilling and workover fleets, provides disproportionate leverage to a prospective recovery."
The Nabors companies own, operate and actively market a fleet of approximately 535 land drilling and approximately 737 land workover and well-servicing rigs in North America. Nabors' actively marketed offshore fleet consists of 35 platform rigs, 12 jack-up units and 4 barge rigs in the United States and multiple international markets. In addition, Nabors manufactures top drives and drilling instrumentation systems and provides comprehensive oilfield hauling, engineering, civil construction, logistics and
 
facilities maintenance, and project management services. Nabors participates in most of the significant oil, gas and geothermal markets in the world.
The information above includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties, as disclosed by Nabors from time to time in its filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. As a result of these factors, Nabors' actual results may differ materially from those indicated or implied by such forward-looking statements.
The Company has posted a group of slides on its website , under "Investor Information", "Events Calendar", which provide more detailed current and historical information. For further information, please contact Dennis A. Smith, Director of Corporate Development of Nabors Corporate Services, Inc. at 281-775-8038. To request Investor Materials, call our corporate headquarters in Hamilton, Bermuda at 441-292-1510 or via email at mark.andrews@nabors.com.
www.nabors.com
 
 
 
 
 
The following tables set forth certain information with respect to our reportable segments and rig activity:
 
 
A reconciliation of the numerators and denominators of the basic and diluted earnings per share computations is as follows:
 
 
     For all periods presented, the computation of diluted earnings per share excludes outstanding stock options and warrants with exercise prices greater than the average market price of Nabors' common shares, because the inclusion of such options and warrants would be anti-dilutive. The average number of options and warrants that were excluded from diluted earnings per share that would potentially dilute earnings per share in the future were 5,923,720, 4,652,025 and 4,601,925 shares during the three months ended December 31, 2007 and 2006 and September 30, 2007, respectively, and 4,952,799 and 2,995,447 shares during the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. In any period during which the average market price of Nabors' common shares exceeds the exercise prices of these stock options and warrants, such stock options and warrants will be included in our diluted earnings per share computation using the treasury stock method of accounting. Restricted stock will similarly be included in our diluted earnings per share computation using the treasury stock method of accounting in any period where the amount of restricted stock exceeds the number of shares assumed repurchased in those periods based upon future unearned compensation.


