FILE:NBR/NBR-8K-20081021105721.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     On October 20, 2008, Nabors Industries Ltd. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing its results of operations for the nine month period ending September 30, 2008. A copy of that release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 in accordance with General Instruction B.2 to Form 8-K.
     The press release furnished as an exhibit to this report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties, as disclosed by the Company from time to time in its filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. As a result of these factors, the Company's actual results may differ materially from those indicated or implied by such forward-looking statements.
     The Company also presented in the press release "non-GAAP" financial measures under Regulation G. The Company presented its adjusted income (loss) derived from operating activities for all periods presented in the release. The components of adjusted income (loss) derived from operating activities are computed by using amounts which are determined in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP"). Adjusted income (loss) derived from operating activities is computed by subtracting direct costs, general and administrative expenses, depreciation and amortization, and depletion expense from Operating revenues and then adding Earnings from unconsolidated affiliates. As part of our press release information we have provided a reconciliation of adjusted net income and adjusted income (loss) derived from operating activities to income before income taxes, which is its nearest comparable GAAP financial measure.
     The Company included its adjusted income (loss) derived from operating activities in the release because management evaluates the performance of our business units and the consolidated company based on several criteria, including adjusted income (loss) derived from operating activities, and because it believes this financial measure is an accurate reflection of the ongoing profitability of the Company. The Company included the adjusted net income number because management believes the non-GAAP financial measure to be more indicative of the Company's on-going operating results and financial condition.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

EXHIBIT 99.1
. today announced its results for the third quarter and nine months ended September 30, 2008. Adjusted income derived from operating activities was $365.3 million for the third quarter compared to $287.3 million in the third quarter of 2007 and $265.9 million in the second quarter of this year. Net income was $210.3 million ($0.73 per diluted share) for the third quarter compared to $218.0 million ($0.76 per diluted share) in the third quarter of 2007 and $194.4 million ($0.67 per diluted share) in the second quarter of this year.
Hamilton, Bermuda, October 20, 2008 /PRNewswire-FirstCall/ Nabors Industries Ltd
(NYSE: NBR)
For the nine months ended September 30, 2008, adjusted income derived from operating activities was $918.4 million compared to $907.9 million in 2007. Net income for the first nine months of 2008 was $635.2 million ($2.21 per diluted share) compared to $708.5 million ($2.47 per diluted share) in the first nine months of 2007.
Gene Isenberg, Nabors' Chairman and CEO, commented, "Our better than previously indicated earnings were solely attributable to higher results in all of our operating units. Virtually all of our significant businesses increased compared to both the prior year and the second quarter of 2008. The only exceptions were Alaska, which was down quarter-to-quarter due to seasonality, and Canada, which was down year-to-year in spite of a sharp rebound from its seasonally low second quarter. Our operational results were essentially equal to the record level achieved in the third quarter of 2006, but non-operating items reduced our Net Income and Earnings per Share. These previously announced non-operating items were the quarterly mark-to-market of a portion of our holdings in Honghua, a Chinese rig manufacturer, the estimated damages to Gulf of Mexico assets from the two recent hurricanes, and a higher effective tax rate associated with increased North American income.
"I am pleased with the quarter's results and especially with the performance of our new rigs. The value produced by our PACE rig technology is becoming more widely recognized by customers, as demonstrated by the 11 additional new-build commitments we received during the quarter. This brings our year to date total of new rig commitments to 36 and the total number of new rig deployments and forward commitments secured over the last three and one-half years to 190 worldwide. We expect the construction and start-up of these new rigs to be seamless as both Nabors and our key vendors are better staffed to handle the higher volume and the rigid quality assurance measures we require.
"Our US Lower 48 Land Drilling unit posted an excellent quarter and contributed both the largest sequential and year-over-year increases in operating income. Compared to the prior quarter, rig activity increased by 21 rigs and average margins improved by $1,174 to $10,065 per rig day. Since the end of the quarter our rig count has averaged ten rigs higher than the third quarter average of 263, with today's count at an all-time high of 273. All of this quarter's new-build rig commitments
 
and the 21 received in the second quarter are expected to deploy between July 2009 and mid-2010 with average margins that should be nearly 50 percent higher than those generated by the 81 new rigs already working. Much of the sequential activity and margin improvement stems from the ramp up we have seen in the prominent shale plays where we have been able to supply the largest quantity of rigs in the required sizes and capabilities.
"While it is likely that the US land drilling industry's rig count will decrease meaningfully as we move into next year, we expect to see a much smaller impact on our results than we experienced during the flat rig market that characterized the latter part of 2006 and continued into early 2008. This reduced vulnerability stems from the large presence we enjoy in most of the prominent shale plays and from prospective contributions from 32 new rigs. These new rig contributions should partially offset any income losses associated with lower utilization of our more vulnerable legacy rigs. In contrast to 2007 we expect minimal new rig delivery slippage or start-up problems.
"Our US Land well-servicing unit achieved a large improvement in its results over the prior quarter due to a 7% sequential increase in quarterly rig hours and a more modest impact from recent price increases in several markets, some of which were offset by higher costs. The higher rig hours were attributable to a stronger market and some gains in market share, particularly in South Texas where we had previously experienced some erosion. The fourth quarter should see the customary seasonal reduction in work hours as well as lower industry activity resulting from the current economic environment.
"Our US Offshore operations also had an excellent quarter despite the impact of Hurricanes Gustav and Ike. The average number of rigs working increased by 2.1 to 19.2, leading to a small increase in operating income. Several smaller platform workover rigs returned to work following five years of lackluster activity in this rig class. This unit continues to see strong demand and is constructing two new MODS deepwater platform rigs in the 2,000 HP and 3,000 HP classes, both with customer commitments. There is strong interest in additional rigs in these sizes, as well as in the 1,000 HP capacity, but we will defer construction until prospective contract commitments are finalized. We incurred extensive damage to our Barge Rig 100 during Hurricane Gustav when it was displaced from its anchorage and capsized. The rig will be repaired and is covered by both property and business interruption insurance. We anticipate insurance deductibles and other costs associated with this rig and minor damage to other rigs to approximate $14 million, which is reflected in this quarter's Other Expense category.
"Third quarter results in Alaska were lower sequentially but more than doubled last year's performance, foreshadowing the prospective growth we anticipate in this unit over the next two years. This quarter marks the seasonal low point with concurrent higher than normal maintenance costs for work that must be performed when weather permits. We are currently preparing three rigs for term contracts that will commence between October and February. In addition, our new 15,000 foot coiled tubing / stem drilling rig should commence late in the first quarter of next year.
"Our International operations posted a sequential increase in operating income of $9.3 million to reach $111 million for the third quarter, which was significantly better than we indicated previously since most of the adverse items have been rectified. The fourth quarter should see a significant increase as costs and downtime abates and some new rigs commence operations. The first two quarters of 2009 should also see significant improvement on the strength of 12 incremental rig start-ups and the realization of full contributions from fourth quarter deployments. We still expect 2008 results to exceed $420 million compared to $332 million in 2007. When added to the performance
 
of the previous three years this aggregates to growth of approximately 375%. We believe similar growth rates are attainable going forward as the outlook for this business remains strong even with the recent reduction in crude oil prices. In contrast to North America, our international prospects are generally longer-term in nature, less subject to producer cash flow constraints, and capable of generating sufficient economic returns even at oil prices that are lower than those we see today.
"Canada experienced a sequential increase of nearly $28 million as it emerged from its seasonally driven worst quarter ever. The near-term outlook is relatively good through the first quarter as we head into the winter drilling season, with robust activity shaping up in the northeast British Columbia shales and strong activity in the more oil prone province of Saskatchewan, particularly the Bakken Shale. We don't expect to obtain clarity as to 2009 full year prospects until the first quarter, but there are numerous opportunities emerging for further new rig commitments in this market and we will commence the industry's first year-round drilling operation this winter with a newly commissioned Heli-portable rig in the Horn River Shale.
"The businesses that comprise our Other Segments, Canrig, Ryan and EPOCH, all posted solid results. Our Alaskan joint ventures were profitable but at their seasonal lows and our Canadian non-rig entities returned to profitability following the second quarter spring thaw. The outlook for all of these entities is good and we believe collectively they will be less susceptible to any impending downturn.
"Our Oil and Gas operations had an excellent quarter, improving sequentially by more than $19 million including non-cash hedging gains of $4.5 million whereas the second quarter included a $7.8 million non-cash hedging loss. We expect this unit to show steadily increasing contributions through 2009 as production levels increase.
"Our financial position and liquidity remain strong as our cash and investments equaled $1.1 billion at the end of the third quarter after cash outlays of $451 million in Capital expenditures and investments in affiliates, $200 million net reduction in debt, and $121 million in stock repurchases. Obviously the recent retraction in oil and gas prices and the current state of the credit markets will have an adverse effect on our customers' spending plans. As a result we believe it is prudent to anticipate a protracted period of lower rig demand combined with constrained availability and higher costs of capital. Consequently, we are preemptively taking steps to maintain our strong financial position and free cash flow regardless of future market conditions. To this end we are curtailing prospective capital expenditures which are not underpinned by term contract commitments or contain other assurances of good and relatively rapid returns.
"Our 2009 earnings per diluted share will also be impacted by newly promulgated accounting rules effective January 1, 2009 that will apply to our 0.94% coupon convertible debt issue. These new rules require us to record additional non-cash interest expense, net of capitalized interest, in an amount equal to the extent that the actual coupon represents a discount to our estimated borrowing rate for conventional debt at the time of the notes issuance. This will result in an increase in equity through a reduction in the carrying value of the debt as if it were an Original Issue Discount. The rule will also require that we restate three years of historical results for the current issue and for any issues that were outstanding during the restatement period. We estimate the impact to be approximately $0.25 per diluted share in 2009, solely attributable to non-cash charges.
"I continue to believe the long-term challenges associated with production decline rates in North American gas and the world's more significant oilfields augur for a strong outlook for our business
 
in spite of short-term volatility. Whatever the extent of the current demand diminution, it is simply a matter of time until these decline rates rebalance the supply. We continue to position ourselves to prosper regardless of market conditions and I believe we are well prepared to weather any vagaries in the business cycle."
The Nabors companies own and operate approximately 525 land drilling and approximately 700 land workover and well-servicing rigs in North America. Nabors' actively marketed offshore fleet consists of; 37 platform rigs, 13 jackup units and 3 barge rigs in the United States and multiple international markets. In addition, Nabors manufactures top drives and drilling instrumentation systems and provides comprehensive oilfield hauling, engineering, civil construction, logistics and facilities maintenance, and project management services. Nabors participates in most of the significant oil, gas and geothermal markets in the world.
The information above includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties, as disclosed by Nabors from time to time in its filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. As a result of these factors, Nabors' actual results may differ materially from those indicated or implied by such forward-looking statements.
For further information, please contact Dennis A. Smith, Director of Corporate Development of Nabors Corporate Services, Inc. at 281-775-8038. To request Investor Materials, call our corporate headquarters in Hamilton, Bermuda at 441-292-1510 or via email at .
mark.andrews@nabors.com
 
 
 
 
 
The following tables set forth certain information with respect to our reportable segments and rig activity:
 
 
A reconciliation of the numerators and denominators of the basic and diluted earnings per share computations is as follows:
 
 


