FILE:NBR/NBR-8K-20090421185107.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
     On April 21, 2009, Nabors Industries Ltd. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing its results of operations for the three month period ending March 31, 2009. A copy of that release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 in accordance with General Instruction B.2 to Form 8-K.
     The press release furnished as an exhibit to this report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties, as disclosed by the Company from time to time in its filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. As a result of these factors, the Company's actual results may differ materially from those indicated or implied by such forward-looking statements.
     The Company also presented in the press release "non-GAAP" financial measures under Regulation G. The Company presented its adjusted income (loss) derived from operating activities for all periods presented in the release. The components of adjusted income (loss) derived from operating activities are computed by using amounts which are determined in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP"). Adjusted income (loss) derived from operating activities is computed by subtracting direct costs, general and administrative expenses, depreciation and amortization, and depletion expense from Operating revenues and then adding Earnings from unconsolidated affiliates. As part of our press release information we have provided a reconciliation of adjusted net income and adjusted income (loss) derived from operating activities to income before income taxes, which is its nearest comparable GAAP financial measure.
     The Company included its adjusted income (loss) derived from operating activities in the release because management evaluates the performance of our business units and the consolidated company based on several criteria, including adjusted income (loss) derived from operating activities, and because it believes this financial measure is an accurate reflection of the ongoing profitability of the Company. The Company included the adjusted net income number because management believes the non-GAAP financial measure to be more indicative of the Company's on-going operating results and financial condition.
(d) Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
today reported its financial results for the first quarter of 2009. The Company's results were again impacted by a non-cash, pre-tax adjustment of $75 million related to the ceiling test applied to the value of the reserves of one its oil and gas joint ventures using commodity prices on March 31, 2009. When these charges are excluded adjusted income derived from operating activities was $274.1 million compared to $286.4 million in the first quarter of last year and $364.2 million in the sequential quarter ended December 31, 2008. Likewise, net income was $184.4 million or $0.65 per diluted share compared to $212.0 million or $0.74 per diluted share in the first quarter of last year, and $208.0 million or $0.73 per diluted share in the fourth quarter of 2008, the latter also excluding a goodwill impairment in Canada. Similarly, Operating Revenues and Earnings from unconsolidated affiliates for this quarter totaled $1.13 billion compared to $1.30 billion in the comparable quarter of the prior year and $1.47 billion in the fourth quarter of 2008.
HAMILTON, Bermuda, April 21, 2009  Nabors Industries Ltd. (NYSE:NBR)
Gene Isenberg, Nabors Chairman and CEO, commentedOur first quarter results were better than expected led by a strong International showing and solid performance from Alaska, US Offshore and our Other Operating Segments. Our US Land business performed relatively well due to the high number of term contracts covering not only our new PACE rigs, but also other premium rigs which constitute two-thirds of our fleet.
, "
"The largest increase in year-over-year quarterly operating income came from our International business which was up 14% to $103.0 million. Our US Offshore business was up $10.4 million, posting $16.8 million in the quarter. Our Other Operating Segments, our Alaska business and even our US Lower 48 land drilling unit all posted smaller but meaningful increases over their respective prior year quarterly results. Conversely, our Canadian operations declined by nearly $29.0 million over the prior year and finished at $13.2 million, followed closely by US Well Servicing operations which declined to $13.7 million from 2008 first quarter results of more than $30.0 million.
"Our US Lower 48 land drilling business posted operating income of $129.2 million in the first quarter with 193 rigs employed. Average margins were $11,200 per rig day, or $9,725 excluding that portion of the lump-sum payments that would have been earned in future quarters. Today the number of rigs employed is 137, including 31 rigs which are not currently crewed or working but are receiving revenue. During the first quarter we recognized $31.3 million in lump-sum contract settlements and we anticipate to recognize another $11.5 million in the second quarter, including approximately $5.4 million in income that would have been earned in each quarter of 2009 anyway. In addition, for a number of rigs we are receiving daily standby payments or lump-sum early contract termination payments which are being amortized over the original duration of the contracts. In the aggregate, these amount to approximately $70 million with $48 million allocated to 2009. Meanwhile our market positions remain strong, especially in the most active areas such as the Haynesville Shale where Nabors enjoys the dominant position with an average of 35 rigs operating during the first quarter. The decline in our rig count is slowing and we are optimistic we will see it stabilize in the near future.
 
"Our International business continues to anticipate more than a 20% increase in year-over-year income with the only weakness confined to lower contributing markets and asset classes. These are more than offset by deployments of incremental higher specification rigs during the year. In January one of our new offshore rigs commenced operations on a high-profile project in the Congo. We expect to start up three more rigs in the second quarter followed by another three in the second half, with potential for several more in 2009 pending the outcome of current discussions. We have recently seen significant decreases in activity in some areas, most notably Argentina and Colombia. However, these are having minimal effect since our margins in the Latin American markets are significantly lower than in other areas, particularly Argentina where operations primarily consist of workover and small drilling rigs. This is reflected in the quarter's lower rig count and the corresponding sizeable increase in average per rig day margins. These higher average margins in the face of a flat rig count will generally characterize this unit's performance for the balance of the year.
"As indicated, our US Well Servicing unit has experienced a large decrease in quarterly income primarily attributable to a more than 30% decrease in rig hours and a rapidly deteriorating pricing environment. While rig hours are beginning to show signs of stabilization, rig rates continue to decrease, most notably in the Mid Continent area and the West and South Texas regions. This has tempered our outlook for the full year, although the impact on Nabors should be muted by our performance in less susceptible markets.
"Our US Offshore operations are faring relatively well at more than double last year's first quarter results. Significantly weaker activity among our barge and SuperSundowner platform rigs is essentially offset by ongoing high utilization of our MASE and MODS platform drilling rigs, which has recently been augmented by the January deployment of newly constructed MODS Rig 202 on a term contract. We currently expect the full year to be essentially flat to the prior year.
"The outlook in Canada continues to deteriorate as this unit posted a very weak first quarter during the period that historically accounts for 40% of the year's income. Our Canadian management team is taking aggressive steps to reduce costs while preserving our ability to react to the inevitable recovery. The emergence of the British Columbia shales is shifting the rig market in Canada in favor of Nabors. This development along with our strategic customer alliances puts us in a position to recover quickly when this market corrects.
"Alaska posted its best quarter ever but the full year outlook has been muted by weakening market conditions and now appears flat. This dampened outlook results from the winding down of a very busy winter exploration season and the prospective release of one of our core rigs and several other competitive rigs. A full year's contributions from two rigs which deployed in 2008 and the current start-up of our new state-of-the-art coiled tubing / stem drilling rig should offset these losses in activity and pricing.
"Our Other Operating Segments posted its best quarter ever on seasonally high and record contributions from our Peak Oilfield Services joint venture. The outlook for the balance of the year is lower with slowing activity in our Canrig and directional drilling businesses and seasonally lower contributions from our Alaskan joint ventures. New products in Canrig and essentially flat results in our Alaskan joint ventures will limit the downside.
"As previously noted our Oil and Gas Operations again incurred a significant non-cash impairment in the value of reserves related to the ceiling test. The impairment amounted to $75 million in the first quarter based upon a quarter ending gas price of $3.59 per MCF. Despite these impairments the long-term potential of this business is very good given the portfolio of properties it has in multiple producing and rapidly emerging areas. We also continue to pursue attractive investment opportunities.
"Our financial position is strong and we took additional steps during the quarter to assure that it remains healthy should our markets deteriorate further than expected. On January 7, 2009 we placed $1.125 billion in 10-year Senior Unsecured Notes due 2019 at a rate of 9.25%. A sizeable portion of these funds was used to affect open
 
market purchases of our shorter term debt. To date we have purchased $771 million face value of our 0.94% convertible notes due May 2011 at a weighted average price of $85.55, and $57 million of our 4-7/8% notes due August 2009. We continue to aggressively reduce both operating and capital expenditures and anticipate free cash flow to increase as the year progresses. Our cash and investments stood at $1.4 billion at the end of the quarter and are currently projected to be higher by year end assuming no additional debt purchases.
"There are increasing signs that our business may well be bottoming out in the seasonally low second quarter, but the timing of the inevitable recovery remains difficult to predict. The strength of our International business and our smaller Alaskan and US Offshore operations should serve to mitigate the loss of income from our US and Canadian drilling and well servicing operations. Our investments in new and upgraded rigs over the last four years have substantially been returned through term contracts in force in our US land drilling unit. These rigs should support our results through 2010 and will enhance our leverage when market conditions improve."
The Nabors companies own and operate approximately 534 land drilling and approximately 763 land workover and well-servicing rigs in North America. Nabors' actively marketed offshore fleet consists of; 39 platform rigs, 13 jackup units and 3 barge rigs in the United States and multiple international markets. In addition, Nabors manufactures top drives and drilling instrumentation systems and provides comprehensive oilfield hauling, engineering, civil construction, logistics and facilities maintenance, and project management services. Nabors participates in most of the significant oil, gas and geothermal markets in the world.
The information above includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties, as disclosed by Nabors from time to time in its filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. As a result of these factors, Nabors' actual results may differ materially from those indicated or implied by such forward-looking statements.
For further information, please contact Dennis A. Smith, Director of Corporate Development of Nabors Corporate Services, Inc. at 281-775-8038. To request Investor Materials, call our corporate headquarters in Hamilton, Bermuda at 441-292-1510 or via email at mark.andrews@nabors.com.
 
 
 
 
 
The following tables set forth certain information with respect to our reportable segments and rig activity:
 
 
A reconciliation of the numerators and denominators of the basic and diluted earnings (losses) per share computations is as follows:
 
 
For all periods presented, the computation of diluted earnings (losses) per share excludes outstanding stock options and warrants with exercise prices greater than the average market price of Nabors' common shares, because the inclusion of such options and warrants would be anti-dilutive and such options and warrants are not considered participating securities. The average number of options and warrants that were excluded from diluted earnings (losses) per share that would potentially dilute earnings (losses) per share in the future were 31,023,161 shares during the three months ended March 31, 2009; 5,433,755 shares during the three months ended March 31, 2008; and 20,830,947 shares during the three months ended December 31, 2008. In any period during which the average market price of Nabors' common shares exceeds the exercise prices of these stock options and warrants, such stock options and warrants will be included in our diluted earnings per share computation using the if converted method of accounting. Restricted stock will be included in our basic and diluted earnings (losses) per share computation using the two class method of accounting in all periods because such stock is considered participating securities.
 
 


