FILE:NBR/NBR-8K-20090701162459.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On June 30, 2009, Mr. Hans W. Schmidt retired from his position as a member of the Company's Board of Directors and submitted his resignation accordingly.
On June 29, 2009, the Company and Nabors Industries, Inc. ("Nabors") entered into an amendment to that certain executive employment agreement, dated April 29, 2009, with Eugene M. Isenberg, the Company's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (the "Isenberg Employment Agreement"). The amendment provides for a reduction of the annual rate of base salary payable under the Isenberg Employment Agreement from $1.3 million per year to $1.17 million per year for the period from June 29, 2009 to December 27, 2009.
On June 29, 2009, the Company and Nabors entered into an amendment to that certain executive employment agreement, dated April 29, 2009, with Anthony G. Petrello, the Company's Deputy Chairman, President and Chief Operating Officer (the "Petrello Employment Agreement"). The amendment provides for a reduction of the annual rate of base salary payable under the Petrello Employment Agreement from $1.1 million per year to $990,000 per year for the period from June 29, 2009 to December 27, 2009.
The reductions in the base salaries of Messrs. Isenberg and Petrello are commensurate with reductions implemented both in salaries throughout the Company's subsidiaries and in cash retainers paid to nonemployee directors, as part of an initiative to reduce costs in light of the current economic downturn. The salary reductions do not affect the calculation or payment of any ancillary benefits.
The Isenberg Employment Agreement and the Petrello Employment Agreement are filed as Exhibits 10.1 and 10.2 respectively to our Form 8-K, dated April 29, 2009.
The foregoing descriptions of the amendments are qualified in their entirety by reference to the amendments thereof, which are attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1 for Mr. Isenberg and Exhibit 10.2 for Mr. Petrello, and incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 10.1
     WHEREAS, Nabors Industries Ltd. and Nabors Industries, Inc. (collectively, "the Company") and Eugene M. Isenberg ("Employee"), entered into an Executive Employment Agreement (the "Agreement") effective as of April 1, 2009; and
     WHEREAS, in consideration of the current economic conditions and in lieu of other cost reductions, Employee and the Company desire to decrease temporarily the compensation payable to Employee under the Agreement;
     NOW, THEREFORE, for and in consideration of the mutual promises, covenants and obligations contained herein, the Company and Employee agree to amend the Agreement as follows, effective June 29, 2009:
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties hereto have executed this amendment on the 29 day of June, 2009.
 

Exhibit 10.2
     WHEREAS, Nabors Industries Ltd. and Nabors Industries, Inc. (collectively, "the Company") and Anthony G. Petrello ("Employee"), entered into an Executive Employment Agreement (the "Agreement") effective as of April 1, 2009; and
     WHEREAS, in consideration of the current economic conditions and in lieu of other cost reductions, Employee and the Company desire to decrease temporarily the compensation payable to Employee under the Agreement;
     NOW, THEREFORE, for and in consideration of the mutual promises, covenants and obligations contained herein, the Company and Employee agree to amend the Agreement as follows, effective June 29, 2009:
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties hereto have executed this amendment on the 29 day of June, 2009.
 


