FILE:NBR/NBR-8K-20090406145501.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
On April 1, 2009, Nabors Industries Ltd. (the "Company") and Nabors Corporate Services, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, entered into a Departure Agreement (the "Departure Agreement") with Bruce P. Koch, who was Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company until February 28, 2009. Under the terms of the Departure Agreement, among other things, Mr. Koch will be paid a termination payment of $150,000.00. Mr. Koch agreed to release the Company from claims in connection with his employment and termination of employment from the Company. Mr. Koch also agreed to certain restrictive covenants, including a covenant not to hire, solicit or recruit any employee of the Company for a period of one year from the date of the Departure Agreement.
A copy of the Departure Agreement is filed as an exhibit to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
This Departure Agreement (this "Agreement") is made as of this 28 day of February, 2009, by and between Bruce P. Koch ("Employee") and Nabors Industries Ltd. and Nabors Corporate Services, Inc. (each referred to individually as the "Company" and collectively as "Nabors"). In consideration of the terms, covenants and conditions set forth in this Agreement, the parties agree as follows:
th
 
 
 
 
 
 
SIGNED AND ACCEPTED this 1st day of April, 2009.
 
     I acknowledge that, on the 28th day of February, 2009, I received the attached Departure Agreement to review.


