FILE:NBR/NBR-8K-20090324104645.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On March 19, 2009, the board of directors of Nabors Industries, Inc. appointed Clark Wood as Controller of Nabors Industries, Inc. In connection with this new appointment, Mr. Wood will also act as the principal accounting officer and principal financial officer of each of Nabors Industries, Inc. and Nabors Industries Ltd.
Mr. Wood is currently the Controller of Nabors Corporate Services, Inc. and has been an employee of Nabors since 2003. Prior to joining Nabors, Mr. Wood worked for seven years at Arthur Andersen LLP and KPMG LLP and rose to the rank of Senior Audit Manager. Mr. Wood obtained a Masters in Professional Accounting at the University of Texas in Austin.
Mr. Wood joined Nabors in 2003 as an Assistant Controller and has been serving in his current capacity as Controller of Nabors Corporate Services, Inc. since April 2007. As an Assistant Controller, Mr. Wood assisted in the preparation and review of consolidated financial reporting and technical accounting matters, as well as evaluation and compliance of internal control over financial reporting. As Controller of Nabors Corporate Services, Inc., Mr. Wood has reported directly to the Chief Financial Officer and has been responsible for the preparation and review of consolidated financial reporting and accounting related matters, including internal controls and financial reporting.
This Form 8-K is being filed in order to satisfy the filing requirements of Form 8-K which requires a filing upon the appointment of a new principal accounting officer or principal financial officer.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.


