FILE:NBR/NBR-8K-20090225104205.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
    Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
    Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
          On February 24, 2009, Nabors Industries Ltd. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing its results of operations for the fourth quarter and full year 2008. A copy of that release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 in accordance with General Instruction B.2 to Form 8-K.
          The press release furnished as an exhibit to this report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties, as disclosed by the Company from time to time in its filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. As a result of these factors, the Company's actual results may differ materially from those indicated or implied by such forward-looking statements.
          The Company also presented in the press release "non-GAAP" financial measures under Regulation G. The Company presented its adjusted net income and adjusted income (loss) derived from operating activities for all periods presented in the release. The components of adjusted net income and adjusted income (loss) derived from operating activities are computed by using amounts which are determined in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP"). Adjusted net income is computed by adding the adjustments of goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges, all related to the Company's Canadian business units; full cost ceiling test writedowns from its U.S., international and Canadian oil and gas joint ventures; and impairment charges to oil and gas properties from its wholly owned Ramshorn business unit; and then subtracting the tax benefit related to these adjustments. Adjusted income (loss) derived from operating activities is computed by subtracting direct costs, general and administrative expenses, depreciation and amortization, and depletion expense from Operating revenues and then adding Earnings from unconsolidated affiliates. As part of the Company's press release information, it provided a reconciliation of adjusted net income and adjusted income (loss) derived from operating activities to income before income taxes, which is its nearest comparable GAAP financial measure.
          The Company included its adjusted income (loss) derived from operating activities in the release because management evaluates the performance of its business units and the consolidated company based on several criteria, including adjusted income (loss) derived from operating activities, and because it believes this financial measure is an accurate reflection of the ongoing profitability of the Company. The Company included adjusted net income because management believes the non-GAAP financial measure to be more indicative of the Company's on-going operating results and financial condition.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
Table of Contents
          Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
today announced its results for the fourth quarter and full year 2008. The Company's results were impacted by the previously disclosed non-cash, pre-tax charges of $405 million ($1.13 per share) in the fourth quarter, with $250 million related to oil and gas ceiling test adjustments, predominantly in the Company's joint ventures, and $155 million in goodwill and intangible asset impairments in its Canadian operations. When these charges are excluded the quarter's adjusted income derived from operating activities is $365.1 million, bringing the total for the full year to $1.28 billion. Excluding these charges adjusted net income would be $230.7 million ($0.83 per diluted share) in the fourth quarter and $865.9 million for the full year ($3.03 per diluted share). Revenues for the Company reached an all-time high for both the quarter and the full year at $1.48 billion and $5.5 billion, respectively.
Hamilton, Bermuda, February 24, 2009. Nabors Industries Ltd. (NYSE: NBR)
"Our fourth quarter and full year results were severely impacted by the previously disclosed non-cash charges. These items obscure what operationally was a solid performance despite the abrupt and severe reversal we saw in our Lower 48 land drilling and well servicing businesses late in the year.
Gene Isenberg, Nabors' Chairman and CEO, commented,
"The largest increase in year-over-year performance came from our International business where operating income was up 23%, to $408 million. Our Other Operating Segments recorded approximately $70 million in operating income, a near doubling of last year's results, while our US Lower 48 land drilling operation managed a 5% improvement and finished a very challenging year at $629 million. Our Alaskan drilling operations posted results of $53 million, a 40% increase, while our US Offshore business finished slightly higher at $59 million as a result of higher platform activity and rates and in spite of hurricane interruptions and lower workover jackup utilization. Our US Well servicing business declined modestly to $149 million while Canada recorded its second consecutive year of lower results while finishing at $61 million, down from $87 million in 2007.
"Our US Lower 48 land drilling business improved during the quarter although the outlook is for substantially lower operating income over the next two quarters. The number of rigs working has fallen rapidly from a high of 273 in October and, after averaging 260 for the quarter, stands at 181 today. Dayrates are less relevant now as customers are more focused on reducing total costs to be in line with cash flow. Our new rigs are continuing to set records and our customers are honoring their contractual commitments. We are unable to predict when or at what level the US rig count will bottom out, but we are fortunate to have a large number of our new PACE rigs in service and a significant number of term contracts for legacy rigs. Collectively these contracts will mitigate what will still be a large drop in results in 2009.
 
"Our International operations experienced a sequential decline which was primarily attributable to excess costs associated with protracted downtime on our Jackup Rig 657 in Saudi Arabia. We also experienced unusually high expenses associated with an increase in spare parts inventory which expanded to serve the increasing number of rigs in this market, and we also had a few rigs released earlier than expected due to current market conditions. Despite these short term effects and the postponement of several prospective projects, we still believe we will achieve an increase in 2009 operating income of approximately $100 million.
"Although the fourth quarter represented an improvement for our US Land Well servicing operation, it also brought the beginning of what we expect to be a precipitous decline in activity and pricing across every region as customers abruptly adjust spending. We expect the brunt of this decline to occur in the first quarter since there are inherent delays in curtailing costs in this operation. We expect the majority of the decrease will be realized in California and West Texas, with more modest effects in other areas.
"Our U.S. Offshore operations posted a slight decrease as activity for our workover jackups was weaker than expected. A further decrease in the customarily weak first quarter is likely as a result of slightly lower utilization of several of our platform rigs, higher miscellaneous expenses and lower revenue from auxiliary services. Despite our expectation of lower results in the first quarter, we still anticipate 2009 to be essentially flat to modestly down compared with 2008. Results should be bolstered by of higher jackup rig utilization, albeit at lower rates, plus the recent deployment of our new MASE Rig 202 on a long-term contract in deep water, as well as higher year-over-year utilization of our Sundowner platform workover rigs.
"In Canada the fourth quarter reflected the beginning of the normal seasonal upswing in activity which will culminate next quarter, although it will likely be approximately 25% below last year's first quarter results. We expect only a small year-over-year decrease due to a number of developments that favor Nabors in this market and which will likely lead to higher market penetration. These include the emergence of the deeper British Columbia shale plays which require more capable rigs, the majority of our fleet. We expect to have up to 10 rigs in this area working for various key customers including our joint venture and wholly owned entities. Results will be further bolstered by the alliances we have with certain customers who are increasing activity in these areas, some of which is via an acquisition which will result in Nabors rigs replacing competitive rigs.
"Alaska saw a slight improvement as higher than expected summer maintenance work dampened results. While this unit is also experiencing a slowdown we expect the first quarter and full year to be up significantly. This increase is attributable to higher winter operating dayrates compared to lower summer standby rates for three rigs. Results will also benefit from a full year's contributions from two 2008 startups and from the second quarter commencement of our new coiled tubing / stem drilling rig. Our expectations are lower than previously anticipated as we have seen some projects postponed, a more competitive environment on contract renewals, and the recent loss of the only ice reinforced workboat in Cook Inlet, which is resulting in a temporary suspension of platform work.
 
"Income from our Other Operating Segments has increased significantly over the last two years driven by increased third-party sales in Canrig, especially to foreign entities, a large increase in income from our directional drilling business, and solid contributions from our Peak joint venture in Alaska. However, we expect activity and sales to be much lower in 2009 across most of our entities and the drop in income from these businesses could approach 50%.
"Fourth quarter results in our oil and gas operations reflected a large loss primarily as a result of the application of the current methodology for the ceiling test in valuing the reserves of our unconsolidated oil and gas joint ventures. This impairment obscures the long-term potential of this business' portfolio of properties in multiple producing and rapidly emerging areas.
"We have taken a number of strategic steps to assure our financial position remains strong and free cash flow generation is maximized going forward. We continue to reduce 2009 capital requirements and anticipate significantly lower expenditures in 2010 as new rig deliveries abate. In January we placed $1.125 billion in 10-year Senior Unsecured Notes due 2019 at a rate of 9.25%. This provides additional funds which are available for repayment of our shorter maturity issues.
"In summary, the fourth quarter was not as bad as it could have been and the future is probably going to be better than the price of our stock seems to indicate. Our North American land drilling markets are adjusting to a new paradigm in natural gas drilling with the commercialization of abundant shale deposits. Over time this will benefit Nabors since much of the investments we have made over the last few years were in assets that give us disproportionate exposure and distinct competitive advantages in these areas that are increasingly strategic to the US energy supply. Our international markets are also slowing, but our dominant position in high specification rigs provides competitive advantages and this business is likely poised to grow in spite of current conditions."
The Nabors companies own and operate approximately 528 land drilling and approximately 763 land workover and well-servicing rigs in North America. Nabors' actively marketed offshore fleet consists of; 37 platform rigs, 13 jackup units and 3 barge rigs in the United States and multiple international markets. In addition, Nabors manufactures top drives and drilling instrumentation systems and provides comprehensive oilfield hauling, engineering, civil construction, logistics and facilities maintenance, and project management services. Nabors participates in most of the significant oil, gas and geothermal markets in the world.
The information above includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties, as disclosed by Nabors from time to time in its filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. As a result of these factors, Nabors' actual results may differ materially from those indicated or implied by such forward-looking statements.
For further information, please contact Dennis A. Smith, Director of Corporate Development of Nabors Corporate Services, Inc. at 281-775-8038. To request Investor Materials, call our corporate headquarters in Hamilton, Bermuda at 441-292-1510 or via email at mark.andrews@nabors.com.
 
 
 
 
 
The following tables set forth certain information with respect to our reportable segments and rig activity:
 
 
A reconciliation of the numerators and denominators of the basic and diluted earnings (losses) per share computations is as follows:
 
 
 
 


