FILE:NBR/NBR-8K-20100217100004.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     On February 16, 2010, Nabors Industries Ltd. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing our results of operations for the fourth quarter and full year 2009. A copy of that release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 in accordance with General Instruction B.2 to Form 8-K.
     The press release furnished as an exhibit to this report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties, as disclosed by the Company from time to time in its filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. As a result of these factors, the Company's actual results may differ materially from those indicated or implied by such forward-looking statements.
     The Company also presented in the press release "non-GAAP" financial measures under Regulation G. The Company presented its adjusted net income and adjusted income (loss) derived from operating activities for all periods presented in the release. The components of adjusted net income and adjusted income (loss) derived from operating activities are computed by using amounts which are determined in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP"). Adjusted net income is computed by adding the adjustments of goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges, all related to the Company's Canadian business units; full cost ceiling test writedowns from its U.S., international and Canadian oil and gas joint ventures; and impairment charges to oil and gas properties from its wholly owned Ramshorn business unit; impairment charges to long-lived assets across multiple business units; other than temporary impairments to available-for-sale securities; a noncash stock compensation charge, and then subtracting the tax benefit related to these adjustments. Adjusted income (loss) derived from operating activities is computed by subtracting direct costs, general and administrative expenses, depreciation and amortization, and depletion expense from Operating revenues and then adding Earnings (losses) from unconsolidated affiliates. As part of the Company's press release information, it provided a reconciliation of adjusted net income and adjusted income (loss) derived from operating activities to income before income taxes, which is its nearest comparable GAAP financial measure.
     The Company included its adjusted income (loss) derived from operating activities in the release because management evaluates the performance of its business units and the consolidated company based on several criteria, including adjusted income (loss) derived from operating activities, and because it believes this financial measure is an accurate reflection of the ongoing profitability of the Company. The Company included adjusted net income because management believes the non-GAAP financial measure to be more indicative of the Company's on-going operating results and financial condition.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
NEWS RELEASE
today announced its results for the fourth quarter and full year 2009. The Company's net income, excluding previously disclosed non-cash charges, was $51.5 million ($0.18 per diluted share) in the fourth quarter and $369.4 million ($1.29 per diluted share) for the full year. On the same basis the quarter's adjusted income derived from operating activities was $133 million, bringing the total for the full year to $664 million. Revenues for the Company were $841 million for the quarter and $3.7 billion for the full year.
Hamilton, Bermuda, February 16, 2010. Nabors Industries Ltd. (NYSE: NBR)
Gene Isenberg, Nabors' Chairman and CEO, commented, "The quarter's sequential improvement was fueled by higher activity in our US Offshore, US Lower 48 Land Drilling and Well Servicing operations, bolstered by seasonal ramp-ups in Alaska and Canada. These increases more than offset the predicted decrease in our International business. We are confident the third quarter marked the bottom in our consolidated quarterly results, and we expect continuous sequential improvement from here, although we remain cautious as to the pace and magnitude.
"As we predicted, the full year's results excluding non-cash charges proved to be relatively resilient considering the sharp contraction in industry activity. Despite nearly 100 fewer rigs operating, our US Lower 48 Land Drilling business still managed to generate $295 million in operating income and $522 million in operating cash flow, much of which was attributable to the high number of term contracts in force. Our International operations were impacted more than we previously anticipated, but still managed to post a respectable year at $366 million in operating income and $575 million in operating cash flow despite challenging market conditions. These results make International our most profitable unit, a position it will likely retain for the foreseeable future. In the aggregate, our other businesses contributed another $138 million in operating income and $385 million in operating cash flow, resulting in nearly $1.5 billion in operating cash flow before corporate expenses.
"This strong operating cash flow, along with reduced working capital and the early January placement of $1.125 billion in ten-year notes, allowed us to fund nearly $1.0 billion in capital expenditures, repurchase $1.07 billion in shorter-term convertible debt at a savings of $126 million, and retire $225 million in term debt. We still generated free cash flow of $370 million and ended the year with $1.2 billion in cash and marketable securities. With this healthy balance, ongoing strong cash generation and continuing good access to the capital markets, we expect to be able to fund growth opportunities as they arise and comfortably redeem the remaining balance of our $1.68 billion in convertible debt due May 2011.
"In our US Lower 48 Land Drilling business, we started-up 20 rigs during the quarter, bringing our average rig count to 139, compared to 124 in the third quarter. The average number of rigs idle but
 
generating revenue declined from 24 to 19. Today we have a total of 160 rigs employed with 147 rigs working and 13 idle. Our average rig margin of $9,136 per day reflected a sequential decrease of $537. We have deployed an additional eight new built PACE rigs since the end of the third quarter and have another eight yet to deploy, including four incremental five-year contract awards from a key customer for use in the Bakken Shale. Our PACE rigs continue to perform exceptionally well and regularly achieve new performance records. Today virtually all of our PACE fleet is committed and we are seeing pricing improvement in the spot market, although renewal rates are still significantly below those of expiring contracts. This has the effect of dampening the financial benefit of the fourth quarter increase in rig activity. Over the next several months we have 20 long-term rig contracts renewing at lower rates, producing a drop in first quarter average margins of approximately $1,200 per day, but stabilizing thereafter. Consequently, while we expect improving quarterly performance going forward, operating income and cash flow for this segment in 2010 will be well below the level we achieved in 2009, although this unit's timely efforts to reduce overhead, internal and third party operating costs are mitigating this decline. The full utilization of our PACE rigs has improved the market for our SCR rigs proportionately as these rigs are particularly well suited to the deeper, longer duration wells in areas such as Eagle Ford and Haynesville. Similarly, the increase in high-end rig utilization is benefitting our more capable mechanical rigs, albeit at much lower margins and in smaller increments.
"Internationally, we believe the first quarter will mark the bottom for this segment with results moderately below the $74 million in operating income achieved in the fourth quarter. We see the rig count increasing in the later stages of the first quarter, but the precise timing of these projects is always difficult to estimate, and there are unique circumstances leading to delayed contract awards and renewals in certain areas. We recently received an award for eight rigs in Colombia, six of which are incremental, and we have other awards pending in multiple venues. In Mexico, the last three of our six deep land rigs are slated to restart during the second quarter with our three idle platform rigs scheduled for the third quarter, although customer funding priorities may impact the timing of these deployments. We were also recently awarded a project in Papua New Guinea for two new, seismically rated land drilling rigs patterned after our proprietary MODS dynamic offshore design. These and numerous other prospective projects all reinforce our belief that our International segment will achieve continuous sequential increases in income starting in the second quarter and return to a healthy growth rate over the next few years.
"Our US Land Well-servicing business posted a significant sequential increase as work hours for both rigs and trucks increased in each month of the fourth quarter. We have increased our expectations for this year, but they remain well below the level achieved in previous years. We expect that oil prices are likely to improve over time and, given the quality and performance of our Millennium rigs, a more robust outlook for the second half of 2010 and especially 2011 is all but certain. We are reinforcing our management in this unit and continue to take additional measures to reduce costs and expand the markets we serve.
"Our US Offshore business posted a solid quarter as activity rebounded sharply from the third quarter. We continue to have high utilization in the deepwater platform rig market where we enjoy virtually 100% market share. While the first quarter has gotten off to a slower than expected start due to numerous weather-related delays, we are seeing our more conventional platform and workover jackup rig activity improve, although most of these projects are short term in duration. Still, contracted income for 2010 is expected to be 30% greater than our full year results in 2009, up from 20% just last quarter. We have also received a tentative award for a new rig as a result of one
 
of two FEED studies for new deepwater platform rigs that we conducted and are cautiously optimistic regarding our success with the second project.
"Our Canadian unit improved to breakeven in the fourth quarter, partially attributable to extensive cost reductions. We expect the first quarter to show a large increase during the peak winter drilling season, approximating last year's first quarter results. While these results are good for the current market conditions, they are still well below recent years. Visibility regarding timing of an eventual turnaround in this market remains limited; however, we remain optimistic about our long-term future in Canada. We believe our assets are particularly well suited to the changing market there, particularly the northeast British Columbia shale plays which require more sophisticated rigs and in which we have a strong market share.
"In Alaska, we achieved a modest increase in the quarter, bringing the full-year results to the best in that unit's history. The outlook is challenging, however, as we expect to have at least three fewer rigs under contract in 2010. As a result, our expectation is that the year will likely be approximately 40% below 2009 and represent the bottom in this market. Over the longer term, there are several strategic projects that could significantly bolster results in subsequent years. Sustained high oil prices and the realization of contemplated tax incentives by the State of Alaska should also improve the outlook.
"Our Other Operating Segments also posted a modest increase as third-party sales in Canrig increased materially, while Ryan Technologies, our directional drilling entity, ramped up for Canada's winter drilling season. We expect the first quarter to show additional improvement for the same reasons and further benefit from higher seasonal activity in our Alaskan joint ventures. New technology rollouts in Canrig should be increasingly reflected in this segment's bottom line longer term.
"Our Oil and Gas interests again incurred significant non-cash charges which obscure the inherent value we see in these holdings, as indicated in our pre-release. We expect over time that this value will become more apparent as contributions to income increase and we prove up more of the core acreage holdings we possess.
"The effective tax rate for 2009, exclusive of non-cash items, was 10%, yielding an 8% effective tax rate for the fourth quarter which is in line with our expectations. This favorable tax rate arises from the fact that our international blended tax rate approximates 15%, while our US and Canadian taxes are minimal due to diminished income, actual losses incurred in some of these entities, and the additional interest expense associated with the 9.25 percent notes we issued in January 2009.
"In summary, it was a very challenging year both financially and operationally, although we fared relatively well in the face of the most abrupt decline in rig activity we have ever experienced, and considering the uncertainty that permeated the early part of the year. It is my belief that our oil-directed markets are in a secular growth phase due to long-term demand trends and the need for more sophisticated and intense drilling to sustain production from legacy fields. Our position in North American gas is solid due to our large share of the premium rig market, our concentration in the best markets and the unrecognized value of our oil and gas interests. The inherent benefit of our premium rigs, particularly our PACE rigs, was manifested in the higher utilization and margins we maintained throughout the trough and their rapid rebound as our US land rig count began to recover in the latter part of the year. We are quite bullish over the longer term for all of our businesses, but
 
remain uncertain as to the precise timing of a meaningful inflection, although I anticipate it may well be as soon as the second half of this year."
The Nabors companies own and operate approximately 542 land drilling and approximately 730 land workover and well-servicing rigs in North America. Nabors' actively marketed offshore fleet consists of; 40 platform rigs, 13 jackup units and 3 barge rigs in the United States and multiple international markets. In addition, Nabors manufactures top drives and drilling instrumentation systems and provides comprehensive oilfield hauling, engineering, civil construction, logistics and facilities maintenance, and project management services. Nabors participates in most of the significant oil and gas markets in the world.
The information above includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties, as disclosed by Nabors from time to time in its filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. As a result of these factors, Nabors' actual results may differ materially from those indicated or implied by such forward-looking statements.
For further information, please contact Dennis A. Smith, Director of Corporate Development for Nabors Corporate Services, Inc. at 281-775-8038. To request Investor Materials, contact our corporate headquarters in Hamilton, Bermuda at 441-292-1510 or via email at
mark.andrews@nabors.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following tables set forth certain information with respect to our reportable segments and rig activity:
 
 
A reconciliation of the numerators and denominators of the basic and diluted earnings (losses) per share computations is as follows:
 
 
For all periods presented, the computation of diluted earnings (losses) per Nabors' share excludes outstanding stock options and warrants with exercise prices greater than the average market price of Nabors' common shares, because their inclusion would be anti-dilutive and because they are not considered participating securities. The average number of options and warrants that were excluded from diluted earnings (losses) per share that would potentially dilute earnings (losses) per share in the future were 34,197,583 and 26,102,054 shares during the three months ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively; 16,595,790 shares during the three months ended September 30, 2009; and 34,113,887 and 7,416,865 shares during the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. In any period during which the average market price of Nabors' common shares exceeds the exercise prices of these stock options and warrants, such stock options and warrants will be included in our diluted earnings (losses) per share computation using the if-converted method of accounting. Restricted stock will be included in our basic and diluted earnings (losses) per share computation using the two-class method of accounting in all periods because such stock is considered participating securities.
 
 


