FILE:NBR/NBR-8K-20100728095557.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
     Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     On July 27, 2010, Nabors Industries Ltd. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing its financial results for the second quarter and first six months of 2010. A copy of that release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 in accordance with General Instruction B.2 to Form 8-K.
     The press release includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, as disclosed by the Company from time to time in its filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. As a result of these factors, the Company's actual results may differ materially from those indicated or implied by the forward-looking statements.
     The Company also presented in the press release "non-GAAP" financial measures under Regulation G. The Company presented its adjusted income (loss) derived from operating activities for all periods presented in the release. The components of adjusted income (loss) derived from operating activities are computed by using amounts that are determined in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP"). Adjusted income (loss) derived from operating activities is computed by subtracting direct costs, general and administrative expenses, depreciation and amortization, and depletion expense from Operating revenues and then adding Earnings from unconsolidated affiliates. As part of the press release information, we have provided a reconciliation of adjusted income (loss) derived from operating activities to income before income taxes, which is its nearest comparable GAAP financial measure. In addition, we provided a summary of the non-cash charges recorded during each of the periods presented and their impact in calculating each of the non-GAAP financial measures.
     The Company included its adjusted income (loss) derived from operating activities in the release because management evaluates the performance of our business units and the consolidated company based on several criteria, including adjusted income (loss) derived from operating activities, and because it believes this financial measure is an accurate reflection of the ongoing profitability of the Company. The Company included the adjusted net income number because management believes the non-GAAP financial measure to be more indicative of the Company's on-going operating results and financial condition.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
NEWS RELEASE
, July 27, 2010 /PRNewswire  FirstCall  Nabors Industries Ltd. (NYSE: NBR) today announced its financial results for the second quarter and first six months of 2010. The Company posted adjusted income derived from operating activities of $124.9 million for the current quarter, which compares to $143.9 million in the second quarter of last year when certain non-cash items are excluded, and $138.5 million in the first quarter of this year. Net Income was $43.6 million or $0.15 per diluted share, but when adjusted to exclude $12.2 million in non-operational items, net income was $55.9 million ($0.19 per diluted share). This compares to $90.9 million ($0.32 per diluted share) in the second quarter of last year and $40.2 million ($0.14 per diluted share) in the first quarter of this year. Operating revenues and earnings from unconsolidated affiliates totaled $915.3 million in the current quarter compared to $868.0 million in the second quarter of last year and $905.7 million in the first quarter of this year. For the six months ended June 30, 2010 adjusted income derived from operating activities was $263.4 million compared to $417.9 million in the first six months of 2009. Net income for the first six months of 2010 was $83.8 million ($0.29 per diluted share) which included $33.4 million, or $0.11 in similar non-operational items as previously discussed. Operating revenues and earnings from unconsolidated affiliates for the first six months of 2010 totaled $1.82 billion, compared to $2.1 billion for the first six months of 2009.
Hamilton, Bermuda
Gene Isenberg, Nabors' Chairman and CEO, commented, "I believe the second quarter marks the start of a steady upward progression in our business. Operating income was slightly lower than the first quarter as improving rig activity in our International and US Land Drilling units along with strong third-party sales in Canrig essentially offset seasonal downturns in Canada and Alaska and $2 million in lost income in our US Offshore business due to the suspended operations in the Gulf of Mexico.
"Net income was impacted by certain non-operational items amounting to approximately $12.2 million, or $0.04 per share. These items consisted of $4.8 million in foreign exchange losses; $3.6 million in book losses on $171 million in additional purchases of our convertible notes due May 2011; $2.2 million in tax adjustments internationally; a net reduction of $0.5 million in the carrying value of various equity holdings; and the elimination of $1.1 million in rig income derived from our oil and gas joint venture operations.
"Our US Lower 48 Land Drilling unit posted good results driven by a 14 rig increase in our quarterly average rig count. Our second quarter average rig count was 172.3 with a current count of 179 that includes four idle rigs receiving termination revenue. Despite this sharp increase in activity operating income was essentially flat, primarily attributable to the $14.1 million ($988 per rig day) reduction in contract termination income
 
compared to the first quarter. This reduction, combined with higher labor and other operating costs, more than offsets the higher rig count as well as an increase in average dayrates of approximately $1,100 per rig day. We expect the balance of the year will still achieve increases in rig count and rates, but at a more modest pace. Leading edge rates for our PACE and SCR rigs continue to improve significantly across all of our markets, with the less capable rigs improving only modestly.
"During the quarter we received additional long-term awards for five new PACE rigs and three substantially upgraded SCR rigs. We now have 12 committed rigs under construction, including the four secured last quarter. We expect to secure at least five more new rig commitments in the near future, and we continue to receive inquiries regarding incremental PACE and upgraded SCR rigs. Market demand continues to validate the benefits of AC rig technology, which can be approximated on our SCR rigs when we incorporate our proprietary K-BOX and ROCKITsystems. Virtually all of these rigs are deploying into the shale plays where we continue to enjoy the largest market share. Of our 179 rigs working today, 82 are working on oil or liquids-rich wells, a market where we also enjoy the largest market share. Fewer than 20 of the remaining rigs are deployed on conventional gas projects, which are generally subject to term contracts, with the balance working in shale gas plays. We continue to expand in key areas, including the Bakken and Eagle Ford and most recently the Marcellus where we have commitments for 10 additional rigs to be deployed over the next year.
"Internationally, operating income increased to $65 million from the first quarter low point of $53.6 million as our rig count increased to 98 rigs compared to the 88 rigs working in the first quarter and the low of 84 rigs last November. Our rig count now stands at 100 rigs, and we expect continual quarterly increases through 2011. The ongoing deferrals of rig startups in Mexico and the more competitive environment in the Middle East have tempered our expectations as to the pace of recovery in the second half of this year. Consequently, we now expect this unit's full-year operating income to be on the order of $260 million, with virtually the entire decrease from last year attributable to lower results in our Mexican and Saudi Arabian operations. Despite progressing slower than we previously indicated, we believe there is good visibility of steady growth, with unexpected rig shutdowns abating and more than 20 rig start-ups scheduled through late 2011. Eight of these rigs commenced in the second quarter and will contribute more fully throughout the balance of the year.
"In our US Land Well Servicing unit, results declined to $3.2 million as increased rig hours were more than offset by extraordinary expenses specific to this quarter. To meet rising demand we incurred significant costs refurbishing additional rigs, along with the higher overtime and wage increases necessary to staff increasing levels of activity in a tight market for experienced labor. Compared to the first quarter, activity increased from 148,000 to 157,000 hours at flat rates, with similar increases in trucking activity although with improving rates. In July, we implemented price increases of up to 10 percent in certain markets. Industry pricing is improving as we lead in implementing price increases in some areas and follow in others. With rig hours continuing to increase, we
 
anticipate further rate progression, which should serve to more than offset the recent cost variances and return this unit to robust sequential growth.
"Our US Offshore unit's growth trajectory was curtailed by the lingering effects of the recent events in the Gulf of Mexico. We estimate the impact on our business reduced second quarter operating income by approximately $2 million, limiting it to $8.1 million for the quarter. Operations on all but two of our six deepwater rigs were suspended and the remaining two rigs will likely cease operations soon. Another five shallower water operations are also being affected sporadically due to permitting delays and uncertainty which, along with the onset of hurricane season, is also inhibiting the commencement of numerous other projects, although political pressure is building to ease some of the obstacles. Consequently, we expect operating income for the second half to be reduced by over $25 million, with the potential for a modest loss in the third quarter. We are optimistic that the majority of these issues will begin to resolve in the fourth quarter and lead to an improved 2011 outlook.
"Our Canadian operations posted a loss of $9.5 million during the seasonally weak second quarter. This result was slightly better than we anticipated due to improved rig activity with an average of 18 drilling and 50 well-servicing rigs operating during the quarter. We expect this trend to continue with significant increases in rig activity in the second half leading to a full-year result on the order of $12 million. This improvement compares favorably to last year's net loss, but is still well below the $180 million historical peak in this unit. This unit also has three new built PACE rigs under construction that will deploy next winter and further improve prospective 2011 results.
"Alaskan results were down only slightly at $12.4 million as the winding down of the winter exploration season resulted in less rig activity. The full-year outlook continues to be 40% lower than last year, and our outlook for 2011 has also diminished with a softening market exacerbated by the introduction of three new competitor rigs that will deliver in late 2010 and 2011 to begin long-term contracts. BP constitutes well over 50% of the rig demand in Alaska and their curtailment of discretionary spending is further reducing rig requirements. Other short-term prospects have emerged, but won't be quantifiable until later in the year. We believe our coiled tubing rig is still the best rig in the market and we expect to secure commitments for additional units next year.
"Our Other Operating Segments posted $8.3 million in operating income representing a 21 percent sequential increase primarily attributable to increased third-party sales in Canrig, which more than offset the second quarter seasonal slowdown in our Alaskan joint venture trucking operations and Ryan's Canadian business. The second-half outlook for Canrig remains very promising with further increases in its third-party top drive and other equipment sales and the increasing acceptance of its Rockit directional drilling technology. New innovative products like the SUREGRIP casing running tool are expected to contribute meaningfully in 2011.
"Oil and Gas results were modestly positive although weak gas prices persist. We continue to focus on monetizing certain assets with the sale of our Colombian properties
 
most likely to occur first, potentially later this year. We continue to explore the possibility of an initial public offering of our NFR joint venture, perhaps as early as the first half of 2011, and we recently engaged an investment banking firm with intimate knowledge of the Horn River region and the highest familiarity with interested Asian buyers to evaluate alternatives for our holdings there.
"Our financial position remains solid, with $987 million in cash and other long-term investments. We still plan to establish a revolving credit facility before the end of this year, and we continue to opportunistically buy our convertible debt due May 2011. As of June 30, 2010, the outstanding face value of these notes was $1.4 billion reflecting $171 million in purchases in the second quarter at an average yield to maturity of over 2.5% compared to the 20 basis points we are earning on our short-term portfolio. Following redemption we expect our debt-to-EBITDA ratio to approach 2.0. Opportunities to deploy capital at good returns continue to emerge and we have sufficient resources and access to low-cost capital if needed to fund new rigs and any attractive acquisitions that may arise.
"In summary, we are confident we have turned the corner and we are increasingly optimistic regarding steady and meaningful progress in our consolidated income throughout the balance of this year and in 2011. However, predicting the precise pace of this growth is more problematic. The last two years have been fraught with challenges including the weak gas price environment, the financial crisis, the economic downturn and most recently the events in the Gulf of Mexico, with all of them exerting adverse effects on our businesses. Nonetheless, we not only fared better than we expected internally, but we have been able to seize opportunities to enhance our business."
The Nabors companies own and operate approximately 550 land drilling and approximately 728 land workover and well-servicing rigs in North America. Nabors' actively marketed offshore fleet consists of 39 platform rigs, 13 jackup units and 3 barge rigs in the United States and multiple international markets. In addition, Nabors manufactures top drives and drilling instrumentation systems and provides comprehensive oilfield hauling, engineering, civil construction, logistics and facilities maintenance, and project management services. Nabors participates in most of the significant oil and gas markets in the world.
The information above includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties, as disclosed by Nabors from time to time in its filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. As a result of these factors, Nabors' actual results may differ materially from those indicated or implied by such forward-looking statements.
For further information, please contact Dennis A. Smith, Director of Corporate Development for Nabors Corporate Services, Inc., at To request Investor Materials, contact our corporate headquarters in Hamilton, Bermuda at 441-292-1510 or via email at .
281-775-8038.
mark.andrews@nabors.com
 
 
 
 
 
The following tables set forth certain information with respect to our reportable segments and rig activity:
 
 
 
A reconciliation of the numerators and denominators of the basic and diluted earnings (losses) per share computations is as follows:
 
For all periods presented, the computation of diluted earnings (losses) per share excluded outstanding stock options and warrants with exercise prices greater than the average market price of Nabors' common shares, because their inclusion would have been anti-dilutive and because they were not considered participating securities. The average number of options and warrants that were excluded from diluted earnings (losses) per share that would have potentially diluted earnings (losses) per share in the future were 14,894,841 and 35,783,476 shares during the three months ended June 30, 2010 and 2009, respectively; and 10,055,869 shares during the three months ended March 31, 2010; and 12,475,355 and 33,403,319 shares during the six months ended June 30, 2010 and 2009, respectively. In any period during which the average market price of Nabors' common shares exceeds the exercise prices of these stock options and warrants, such stock options and warrants are included in our diluted earnings (losses) per share computation using the if-converted method of accounting. Restricted stock is included in our basic and diluted earnings (losses) per share computation using the two-class method of accounting in all periods because it is considered a participating security.
 


