FILE:NBR/NBR-8K-20101123160252.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
This Current Report on Form 8-K/A amends the Form 8-K filed by Nabors Industries Ltd. ("Nabors") on September 14, 2010 to include the information required by Item 9.01 of the Form 8-K in connection with Nabors' acquisition of Superior Well Services, Inc.
(a) Financial Statements of Business Acquired
(b) Pro Forma Financial Information
 
(d) Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 23.1
We consent to the incorporation by reference on Form 8-K of Nabors Industries Ltd. of our report dated March 9, 2010, with respect to the consolidated financial statements of Superior Well Services, Inc. as of December 31, 2009 and 2008 and for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2009 and the financial statement schedule listed in Item 15(b) and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting of Superior Well Services, Inc. which were included in Superior Well Services, Inc.'s Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009, which report appears in Exhibit No. 99.2 of this Form 8-K of Nabors Industries Ltd.
/s/ SCHNEIDER DOWNS & CO., INC.
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania November 23, 2010

Exhibit 99.3
     On September 10, 2010, Nabors Industries Ltd., a Bermuda exempt company ("Nabors"), completed the acquisition of Superior Well Services, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Superior"). As a result of the acquisition, Superior became a wholly owned subsidiary of Nabors. Nabors and Superior began joint operations on September 10, 2010. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of income (loss) for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009 and for the nine months ended September 30, 2010 combine the historical consolidated statements of income (loss) of Nabors and Superior, giving effect to the acquisition as if it had occurred on January 1, 2009. Additionally in September 2010, Nabors and Nabors Industries, Inc., a Delaware corporation wholly owned by Nabors ("Nabors Delaware"), completed a private placement of $700 million aggregate principal amount of 5.0% senior notes due 2020. Nabors and Nabors Delaware used a portion of the proceeds to repay a borrowing under a revolving credit facility incurred to fund the acquisition. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of income (loss) for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009 and for the nine months ended September 30, 2010 present the interest expense related to this borrowing as if the borrowing had occurred on January 1, 2009.
     The historical consolidated financial information has been adjusted in the unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of income (loss) to give effect to pro forma events that are (1) directly attributable to the acquisition, (2) factually supportable, and (3) with respect to the statements of income (loss), expected to have a continuing impact on the combined results. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of income (loss) should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes to the unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of income (loss). In addition, the unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of income (loss) were based on and should be read in conjunction with the:
     The unaudited consolidated balance sheet as of September 30, 2010, included in Nabors' historical financial statements in its quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2010, reflects the acquisition in its financial position. Accordingly, the consolidated balance sheet is not presented herein. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of income (loss) have been presented for informational purposes only. The pro forma information is not necessarily indicative of what the combined company's results of operations actually would have been had the acquisition been completed as of the dates indicated. In addition, the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information does not purport to project the future financial position or operating results of the combined company. There were no material transactions between Nabors and Superior during the periods presented in the unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of income (loss) that would need to be eliminated.
 
     The unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of income (loss) have been prepared using the acquisition method of accounting under existing U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"), which are subject to change and interpretation. Nabors has been treated as the acquirer for accounting purposes. The acquisition accounting is dependent upon certain valuations and other studies that have yet to commence or progress to a stage where there is sufficient information for a definitive measurement. Accordingly, the pro forma adjustments included herein are preliminary and have been made solely for the purpose of providing unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of income (loss), and may be revised as additional information becomes available and as additional analyses are performed. Differences between the preliminary estimates reflected in these unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of income (loss) and the final acquisition accounting may occur, and these differences could have a material impact on the accompanying unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of income (loss) and the combined company's future results of operations and financial position.
     Also, the unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of income (loss) do not reflect any cost savings, operating synergies or revenue enhancements that the combined company may achieve as a result of the acquisition, the costs to integrate the operations of Nabors and Superior or the costs necessary to achieve these cost savings, operating synergies and revenue enhancements.
 
 
 
NOTES TO UNAUDITED PRO FORMA CONDENSED COMBINED STATEMENTS OF INCOME (LOSS)
Note 1 Basis of Presentation
     The unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of income (loss) were prepared under GAAP, using the acquisition method of accounting, and were based on the historical financial statements of Nabors and Superior. The acquisition method of accounting under GAAP requires, among other things, that most assets acquired and liabilities assumed be recognized at their fair values as of the acquisition date. In addition, the consideration transferred is measured at the closing date of the acquisition at the then-current market price. Certain reclassifications have been made to Superior's historical financial statements to conform with Nabors' presentation, primarily related to the presentation of direct costs, depreciation expense of property, plant and equipment, amortization expense of intangible assets and investment income.
     Fair value is defined under GAAP as "the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date." This is an exit price concept for the valuation of the asset or liability. In addition, market participants are assumed to be buyers and sellers in the principal (or the most advantageous) market for the asset or liability. Fair value measurements for an asset assume the highest and best use by these market participants. Many of these fair value measurements can be highly subjective, and it is also possible that other professionals, applying reasonable judgment to the same facts and circumstances, could develop and support a range of alternative estimated amounts.
     Accordingly, the assets acquired and liabilities assumed were recorded as of the completion of the acquisition, primarily at their respective fair values and added to those of Nabors. Financial statements and reported results of operations of Nabors issued after completion of the acquisition will reflect these values, but will not be retroactively restated to reflect the historical financial position or results of operations of Superior.
     Acquisition-related transaction costs (i.e., advisory, legal, other professional fees) impacting the acquired company are not included as a component of consideration transferred, but are accounted for as expenses in the periods in which the costs are incurred. Total advisory, legal, regulatory and other professional costs were approximately $18.5 million, which was recorded during the nine months ended September 30, 2010.
 
Note 2 Preliminary Purchase Price Allocation
     The purchase price for Superior was allocated to the net tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their preliminary fair value estimates as of September 10, 2010. The excess of the purchase price over the fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed was recorded as goodwill. Our estimates and assumptions are subject to change within the measurement period (up to one year from the acquisition date). The following table provides the preliminary estimates for allocation of the purchase price as of the acquisition date. This allocation was based on the significant use of estimates and on information that was available to management at the time these unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements were prepared.
 
 
 
Note 3 Pro Forma Adjustments to Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Statements of Income (Loss)
     This note should be read in conjunction with other notes in the unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of income (loss). Adjustments included in the columns under the heading "Pro Forma Adjustments" represent the following:
 
Note 4 Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Earnings (Losses) Per Share
     This note should be read in conjunction with other notes in the unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of income (loss). The following table provides the computational data used to determine the unaudited pro forma combined basic and diluted earnings (losses) per share for each period.
 


