FILE:NBR/NBR-8K-20101213154854.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
ITEM 8.01 OTHER EVENTS
We are filing this current report on Form 8-K to update the historical financial statements included in our 2009 annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") on February 26, 2010 (the "Annual Report"), to reflect that our oil and gas assets in the Horn River basin in Canada and in the Llanos basin in Colombia, previously reported as continuing operations and included in the Oil and Gas Operating Segment, are now being reported as a discontinued operation in accordance with the ASC Topic relating to the Presentation of Financial Statements for Assets Sold or Held for Sale Statement. We recently began actively marketing these assets as well as our 49.7% and 50.0% ownership interests in our investments of Remora Energy International, LP ("Remora") and Stone Mountain Ventures Partnership ("SMVP"), respectively, which we account for using the equity method of accounting. We presented these assets as assets held for sale at September 30, 2010, and the related operating results were classified as discontinued operations in our quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2010 filed with the SEC on November 5, 2010 (the "10-Q").
We are filing this report to show the impact of the reclassification as discontinued operations on previously issued financial statements. This reclassification has no effect on our total net income as reported in our financial statements included in the Annual Report and has no effect on total assets, liabilities and shareholders' equity or the statements of cash flows. This permits us to incorporate these financial statements by reference in SEC filings and other offering documents not filed with the SEC.
The reclassification of these oil and gas assets from continuing operations to discontinued operations is set forth below in the various sections of the Annual Report. These sections have not otherwise been updated for events occurring after the filing date of the Annual Report.
     Part II, Item 6. Selected Financial Data;
     Part II, Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations;
     Part II, Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data;and
     Exhibit 12. Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges.
This report is being filed solely for the purpose described above. No attempt has been made in this filing to reflect subsequent information or events, or to modify or update disclosures in the 2009 Annual Report, except as described above. More current information is contained in the 10-Q and in other filings with the SEC. Accordingly, this report should be read in conjunction with the Annual Report, the 10-Q and our other filings.
 
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 

We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements on Form S-8 (Registration Numbers 333-87069-99, 333-11313-99, 333-121908, 333-155291 and 333-166598) and on Form S-3 (Registration Number 333-159601) of Nabors Industries Ltd. and on Form S-3 (Registration Number 333-136797-01 and 333-169013-01) of Nabors Industries Ltd. and Nabors Industries, Inc. of our report dated February 26, 2010, except with respect to our opinion on the consolidated financial statements insofar as it relates to discontinued operations described in Note 20 which is as of December 13, 2010, relating to the consolidated financial statements, financial statement schedule and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting of Nabors Industries Ltd., which appears in this Current Report on Form 8-K dated December 13, 2010.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP Houston, Texas December 13, 2010

EXHIBIT 99.1
ITEM 6.
SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.2
ITEM 7.
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
Management Overview
     The following Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations is intended to help the reader understand the results of our operations and our financial condition. This information is provided as a supplement to, and should be read in conjunction with, our consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes thereto.
     Nabors is the largest land drilling contractor in the world, with approximately 542 actively marketed land drilling rigs. We conduct oil, gas and geothermal land drilling operations in the U.S. Lower 48 states, Alaska, Canada, South America, Mexico, the Caribbean, the Middle East, the Far East, Russia and Africa. We are also one of the largest land well-servicing and workover contractors in the United States and Canada. We actively market approximately 558 rigs for land workover and well-servicing work in the United States, primarily in the southwestern and western United States, and approximately 172 rigs for land workover and well-servicing work in Canada. Nabors is a leading provider of offshore platform workover and drilling rigs, and actively markets 40 platform, 13 jack-up and 3 barge rigs in the United States and multiple international markets. These rigs provide well-servicing, workover and drilling services. We have a 51% ownership interest in a joint venture in Saudi Arabia, which owns and actively markets 9 rigs in addition to the rigs we lease to the joint venture. We also offer a wide range of ancillary well-site services, including engineering, transportation, construction, maintenance, well logging, directional drilling, rig instrumentation, data collection and other support services in select domestic and international markets. We provide logistics services for onshore drilling in Canada using helicopters and fixed-wing aircraft. We manufacture and lease or sell top drives for a broad range of drilling applications, directional drilling systems, rig instrumentation and data collection equipment, pipeline handling equipment and rig reporting software. We also invest in oil and gas exploration, development and production activities in the U.S., Canada and international areas through both our wholly owned subsidiaries and our separate joint venture entities. We hold a 50% ownership interest in our Canadian entity and 49.7% ownership interests in our U.S. and International entities. Each joint venture pursues development and exploration projects with our existing customers and with other operators in a variety of forms, including operated and non-operated working interests, joint ventures, farm-outs and acquisitions.
     The majority of our business is conducted through our various Contract Drilling operating segments, which include our drilling, workover and well-servicing operations, on land and offshore. Our oil and gas exploration, development and production operations are included in our Oil and Gas operating segment. Our operating segments engaged in drilling technology and top drive manufacturing, directional drilling, rig instrumentation and software, and construction and logistics operations are aggregated in our Other Operating Segments.
     Our businesses depend, to a large degree, on the level of spending by oil and gas companies for exploration, development and production activities. Therefore, a sustained increase or decrease in the price of natural gas or oil, which could have a material impact on exploration, development and production activities, could also materially affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.
     The magnitude of customer spending on new and existing wells is the primary driver of our business. The primary determinate of customer spending is their cash flow and earnings which are largely driven by natural gas prices in our U.S. Lower 48 Land Drilling and Canadian Drilling operations, while oil prices are the primary determinate in our Alaskan, International, U.S. Offshore (Gulf of Mexico), Canadian Well-servicing and U.S. Land Well-servicing operations. The following table sets forth natural gas and oil price data per Bloomberg for the last three years:
 
     Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2008, there was a significant reduction in the demand for natural gas and oil that was caused, at least in part, by the significant deterioration of the global economic environment including the extreme volatility in the capital and credit markets. Weaker demand throughout 2009 has resulted in sustained lower natural gas and oil prices. The price of natural gas reached a low for 2009 of $1.83 per mcf during September and while showing improvement remains depressed, having averaged $3.77 per mcf during the second half of 2009. The significant drop in the price of oil reached a low for 2009 of $33.98 per barrel in February with continuous recovery throughout 2009, averaging $72.08 per barrel during the second half of 2009. These reduced prices for natural gas and oil have led to a sharp decline in the demand for drilling and workover services. Continued fluctuations in the demand for gas and oil, among other factors including supply, could contribute to continued price volatility which may continue to affect demand for our services and could materially affect our future financial results.
     Operating revenues and Earnings (losses) from unconsolidated affiliates for the year ended December 31, 2009 totaled $3.5 billion, representing a decrease of $1.8 billion, or 34% as compared to the year ended December 31, 2008. Adjusted income derived from operating activities and net income (loss) attributable to Nabors for the year ended December 31, 2009 totaled $421.9 million and $(85.5) million ($(.30) per diluted share), respectively, representing decreases of 62% and 118%, respectively, compared to the year ended December 31, 2008. Operating revenues and Earnings (losses) from unconsolidated affiliates for the year ended December 31, 2008 totaled $5.3 billion, representing an increase of $355.3 million, or 7% as compared to the year ended December 31, 2007. Adjusted income derived from operating activities and net income (loss) attributable to Nabors for the year ended December 31, 2008 totaled $1.1 billion and $475.7 million ($1.65 per diluted share), respectively, representing decreases of 13% and 45%, respectively, compared to the year ended December 31, 2007.
     During 2009 and 2008, our operating results were negatively impacted as a result of charges arising from oil and gas full-cost ceiling test writedowns and other impairments. Earnings (losses) from unconsolidated affiliates includes $(189.3) million and $(207.3) million, respectively, for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, representing our proportionate share of full-cost ceiling test writedowns from our unconsolidated oil and gas joint ventures which utilize the full-cost method of accounting. During 2009, our joint ventures used a 12-month average price in the ceiling test calculation as required by the revised SEC rules whereas during 2008, the ceiling test calculation used the single-day, year-end commodity price that, at December 31, 2008, was near its low point for that year. The full-cost ceiling test writedowns are included in our Oil and Gas operating segment results.
     During 2009 and 2008, our operating results were also negatively impacted as a result of our impairments and other charges of $331.0 million and $176.1 million, respectively. During 2009, impairments and other charges included recognition of other-than-temporary impairments of $54.3 million relating to our available-for-sale securities, and impairments of $64.2 million to long-lived assets that were retired from our U.S. Offshore, Alaska, Canada and International contract drilling segments. Additionally, we recorded impairment charges of $197.7 million and $21.5 million, respectively, to our wholly owned Ramshorn business unit under application of the successful-efforts method of accounting for some of our oil and gas-related assets during the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008. During 2008, impairments and other charges included goodwill and intangible asset impairments totaling $154.6 million recorded by our Canada Well-servicing and Drilling operating segment and Nabors Blue Sky Ltd., one of our Canadian subsidiaries reported in Other Operating Segments. We recognized these goodwill and intangible asset impairments to reduce the carrying value of these assets to their estimated fair value. We consider these writedowns necessary because of the duration of the industry downturn in Canada and the lack of certainty regarding eventual recovery. These impairments and other charges are reflected separately as impairments and other charges in our consolidated statements of income (loss) for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008.
     Excluding these charges, our operating results were lower than the previous year results primarily due to the continuing weak environment in our U.S. Lower 48 Land Drilling, U.S. Land Well-servicing, Canada and U.S. Offshore operations where activity levels and demand for our drilling rigs have decreased substantially in response to uncertainty in the financial markets and commodity price deterioration. Operating results have been further negatively impacted by higher levels of depreciation expense due to our increased capital expenditures in recent years.
 
     Our operating results for 2010 are expected to approximate levels realized during 2009 given our current expectation of the continuation of lower commodity prices during 2010 and the related impact on drilling and well-servicing activity and dayrates. We expect the decrease in drilling activity and dayrates to continue to adversely impact our U.S. Lower 48 Land Drilling and our U.S. Land Well-servicing operations for 2010, as compared to 2009, because the number of working rigs and average dayrates have declined. We expect our International operations to decrease slightly during 2010 as a result of lower drilling activity and utilization partially offset by the deployment of new and incremental rigs under long-term contracts and the renewal of multi-year contracts. Although rig count is expected to be lower overall, the reductions are primarily comprised of lower yielding assets, leaving higher margin contracts in place partially offset by certain contracts rolling over at lower current market rates. Our investments in new and upgraded rigs over the past five years have resulted in long-term contracts which we expect will enhance our competitive position when market conditions improve.
The following tables set forth certain information with respect to our reportable segments and rig activity:
 
 
 
 
Segment Results of Operations
Contract Drilling
     Our Contract Drilling operating segments contain one or more of the following operations: drilling, workover and well-servicing, on land and offshore.
     The results of operations for this reportable segment are as follows:
U.S. Lower 48 Land Drilling.
     Operating results decreased from 2008 to 2009 primarily due to a decline in drilling activity, driven by lower natural gas prices beginning in the fourth quarter of 2008 and diminished demand as customers released rigs and delayed drilling projects in response to the significant drop in natural gas prices and the tightening of the credit markets. Operating results were further negatively impacted by higher depreciation expense related to capital expansion projects completed in recent years.
     The increase in operating results from 2007 to 2008 was due to overall year-over-year increases in rig activity and increases in average dayrates, driven by higher natural gas prices throughout 2007 and most of 2008. This increase was only partially offset by higher operating costs and an increase in depreciation expense related to capital expansion projects.
     The results of operations for this reportable segment are as follows:
U.S. Land Well-servicing.
     Operating results decreased from 2008 to 2009 primarily due to lower rig utilization and price erosion, driven by lower customer demand for our services due to relatively lower oil prices caused by the U.S. economic recession and reduced end product demand. Operating results were further negatively impacted by higher depreciation expense related to capital expansion projects completed in recent years.
     Operating revenues and Earnings from unconsolidated affiliates increased from 2007 to 2008 primarily as a result of higher average dayrates year-over-year, driven by high oil prices during 2007 and the majority of 2008 as well as market expansion. Higher average dayrates were partially offset by lower rig utilization. Adjusted income derived from operating activities decreased from 2007 to 2008 despite higher revenues due primarily to higher depreciation expense related to capital expansion projects and, to a lesser extent, higher operating costs.
 
     The results of operations for this reportable segment are as follows:
U.S. Offshore.
     The decrease in operating results from 2008 to 2009 primarily resulted from lower average dayrates and utilization for the SuperSundowner platform rigs, workover jack-up rigs, barge drilling and workover rigs, and Sundowner platform rigs, partially offset by higher utilization of our MODS rigs inclusive of a significant term contract for a MODS rig deployed in January 2009.
TM
     The increase in operating results from 2007 to 2008 primarily resulted from higher average dayrates and increased drilling activity driven by high oil prices during the majority of 2008, especially in the Sundowner and Super Sundowner platform workover and re-drilling rigs and the MASE platform drilling rigs. The increase in 2008 was partially offset by higher operating costs and increased depreciation expense relating to new rigs added to the fleet in early 2007.
     The results of operations for this reportable segment are as follows:
Alaska.
     The increases in operating results from 2008 to 2009 and from 2007 to 2008 were primarily due to increases in average dayrates and drilling activity. Although drilling activity levels decreased slightly during 2009, operating results reflect the higher average margins as a result of the addition of some high specification rig work. Drilling activity levels increased in 2008 as a result of the deployment and utilization of rigs added to the fleet in late 2007 under long-term contracts. The increases during 2009 and 2008 have been partially offset by higher operating costs and increased depreciation expense as well as increased labor and repairs and maintenance costs in 2009 and 2008 as compared to prior years.
     The results of operations for this reportable segment are as follows:
Canada.
     Operating results decreased from 2008 to 2009 primarily as a result of an overall decrease in drilling and well-servicing activity due to lower natural gas prices driving a significant decline of customer demand for drilling and well-servicing operations. Our operating results for 2009 were further negatively impacted by the economic uncertainty in the Canadian drilling market and financial market instability. The Canadian dollar began 2009 in a
 
weak position versus the U.S. dollar, during a period of time when drilling and well-servicing activity was typically at its seasonal peak, which also had an overall negative impact on operating results. These decreases in operating results were partially offset by cost reductions in direct costs, general and administrative expenses and depreciation.
     The decrease in operating results from 2007 to 2008 resulted from year-over-year decreases in drilling and well-servicing activity and decreases in average dayrates for drilling and well-servicing operations as a result of economic uncertainty and Alberta's tight labor market which led to a number of projects being delayed. Our operating results were further negatively impacted by proposed changes to the Alberta royalty and tax regime causing customers to assess the impact of such changes. The strengthening of the Canadian dollar versus the U.S. dollar during 2007 and throughout the majority of 2008 positively impacted operating results, but negatively impacted demand for our services as much of our customers' revenue is denominated in U.S. dollars while their costs are denominated in Canadian dollars. Additionally, operating results were negatively impacted by increased operating expenses, including depreciation expense related to capital expansion projects.
     The results of operations for this reportable segment are as follows:
International.
     The decrease in operating results from 2008 to 2009 resulted primarily from year-over-year decreases in average dayrates and lower utilization of rigs in Mexico, Libya, Argentina and Colombia, driven by weakening customer demand for drilling services stemming from the drop in oil prices in the fourth quarter of 2008 which continued throughout 2009. Operating results were further negatively impacted by higher depreciation expense related to capital expansion projects completed in recent years. These decreases were partially offset by higher average dayrates from two jack-up rigs deployed in Saudi Arabia, increases in average dayrates for our new and incremental rigs added and deployed during 2008 and a start-up floating, drilling, production, storage and offloading vessel off the coast of the Republic of the Congo.
     The increase in operating results from 2007 to 2008 primarily resulted from year-over-year increases in average dayrates and drilling activities, reflecting strong customer demand for drilling services, stemming from sustained higher oil prices throughout 2007. Operating results during 2007 and most of 2008 were also positively impacted by an expansion of our rig fleet and continuing renewal of existing multi-year contracts at higher average dayrates. These increases were partially offset by increased operating expenses, including depreciation expense related to capital expenditures for new and refurbished rigs deployed throughout 2007 and 2008.
     The results of operations for this reportable segment are as follows:
Oil and Gas.
     Our operating results decreased from 2008 to 2009 primarily as a result of full-cost ceiling test writedowns recorded during 2009 by our unconsolidated joint ventures. During 2009, our U.S. oil and gas joint venture recorded a full-cost ceiling test writedown, of which our proportionate share totaled $189.3 million. The writedown resulted from the application of the full-cost method of accounting for costs related to oil and natural gas properties. The full-cost ceiling test limits the carrying value of the capitalized cost of the properties to the present value of future net revenues attributable to proved oil and natural gas reserves, discounted at 10%, plus the lower of cost or
 
market value of unproved properties. The full-cost ceiling test was evaluated using the 12-month average commodity price as required by the revised SEC rules.
     Operating results further decreased from 2008 to 2009 due to declines in natural gas prices and production volumes from our Ramshorn and joint venture operations. Additionally, operating results for 2008 included a $12.3 million gain recorded on the sale of leasehold interests.
     Our operating results decreased from 2007 to 2008 as a result of a full-cost ceiling test writedown recorded during 2008 by our unconsolidated U.S. oil and gas joint venture. During 2008, our U.S. oil and gas joint venture recorded a full-cost ceiling test writedown, of which our proportionate share totaled $207.3 million. The full-cost ceiling test was determined using the single-day, year-end price as required by SEC rules at the time.
     Additionally during 2008, our proportionate share of losses from our unconsolidated oil and gas joint ventures included $10.0 million of depletion charges from lower-than-expected performance of certain oil and gas developmental wells and $5.8 million of mark-to-market unrealized losses from derivative instruments representing forward gas sales through swaps and price floor guarantees utilizing puts. Beginning in May 2008 our U.S. joint venture began to apply hedge accounting to its forward contracts to minimize the volatility in reported earnings caused by market price fluctuations of the underlying hedged commodities. These losses were partially offset by income from our production volumes and oil and gas production sales as a result of higher oil and natural gas prices throughout most of 2008 and a $12.3 million gain on the sale of leasehold interests in 2008.
Other Operating Segments
     These operations include our drilling technology and top-drive manufacturing, directional drilling, rig instrumentation and software, and construction and logistics operations. The results of operations for these operating segments are as follows:
     The decreases in operating results from 2008 to 2009 primarily resulted from (i) lower demand in the U.S. and Canadian drilling markets for rig instrumentation and data collection services from oil and gas exploration companies, (ii) decreases in customer demand for our construction and logistics services in Alaska and (iii) decreased capital equipment unit volumes and lower service and rental activity as a result of the slowdown in the oil and gas industry.
     The increase in operating results from 2007 to 2008 primarily resulted from year-over-year increases in third-party sales and higher margins on top drives occasioned by the strengthening of the oil drilling market, increased equipment sales, increased market share in Canada and increased demand in the U.S. directional drilling market. Results were also improved in 2008 due to increases in customer demand for our construction and logistics services in Alaska.
 
Discontinued Operations
     During 2010, we began actively marketing our oil and gas assets in the Horn River basin in Canada and in the Llanos basin in Colombia. These assets also include our 49.7% and 50.0% ownership interests in our investments of Remora and SMVP, respectively, which we account for using the equity method of accounting. All of these assets are included in our oil and gas operating segment. We determined that the plan of sale criteria in the ASC Topic relating to the Presentation of Financial Statements for Assets Sold or Held for Sale had been met during the third quarter of 2010. Accordingly, we reclassified these wholly owned oil and gas assets from our property, plant and equipment, net, as well as our investment balances for Remora and SMVP from investments in unconsolidated affiliates to assets held for sale in our consolidated balance sheet at September 30, 2010.
     During the third quarter of 2007 we sold our Sea Mar business which had previously been included in Other Operating Segments to an unrelated third party. The assets included 20 offshore supply vessels and certain related assets, including a right under a vessel construction contract. The operating results for the year ended December 31, 2007 include a gain, net of tax of $19.6 million, related to the sale of the Sea Mar business. We have not had any continuing involvement subsequent to the sale of this business
.
     The operating results from these assets for all periods presented are retroactively presented and accounted for as discontinued operations in the accompanying audited consolidated statements of incomeOur condensed statements of income from discontinued operations related to the oil and gas assets as well as our Sea Mar business for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 were as follows:
.
 
 
OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION
General and administrative expenses
     General and administrative expenses decreased from 2008 to 2009 primarily as a result of significant decreases in wage-related expenses and other cost-reduction efforts across all business units, partially offset by an increase of approximately $61.2 million in stock compensation expense. During 2009, share-based compensation expense included $72.1 million of compensation expense related to previously granted restricted stock and option awards held by Messrs. Isenberg and Petrello that was unrecognized as of April 1, 2009. The recognition of this expense resulted from provisions of their respective new employment agreements that effectively eliminated the risk of forfeiture of such awards. There is no remaining unrecognized expense related to their outstanding restricted stock and option awards. General and administrative expenses as a percentage of operating revenues increased primarily due to lower revenues.
     General and administrative expenses increased from 2007 to 2008 primarily as a result of increases in wages and wage-related expenses for a majority of our operating segments compared to each prior year, which resulted from an increase in the number of employees required to support higher activity levels. The increase was also driven by higher compensation expense, primarily resulting from higher bonuses and non-cash compensation expenses recorded for restricted stock awards during 2007 and 2008.
Depreciation and amortization, and depletion expense
     Depreciation and amortization expense increased from 2008 to 2009 and from 2007 to 2008 primarily as a result of projects completed in recent years under our expanded capital expenditure program that commenced in early 2005.
Depreciation and amortization expense.
     Depletion expense decreased from 2008 to 2009 and from 2007 to 2008 primarily as a result of decreased natural gas production volumes during each year.
Depletion expense.
Interest expense
     Interest expense increased from 2008 to 2009 as a result of the interest expense related to our January 2009 issuance of 9.25% senior notes due January 2019. The increase was partially offset by a reduction to interest expense due to our repurchases of approximately $1.1 billion par value of 0.94% senior exchangeable notes during 2008 and 2009.
 
     Interest expense increased from 2007 to 2008 as a result of the additional interest expense related to our February 2008 and July 2008 issuances of 6.15% senior notes due February 2018 in the amounts of $575 million and $400 million, respectively.
Investment income (loss)
     Investment income during 2009 was $25.6 million compared to $21.4 million during the prior year. Investment income in 2009 included net unrealized gains of $9.8 million from our trading securities and interest and dividend income of $15.9 million from our cash, other short-term and long-term investments.
     Investment income during 2008 was $21.4 million compared to a net investment loss of $15.9 million during the prior year. Investment income in 2008 included net unrealized gains of $8.5 million from our trading securities and interest and dividend income of $40.5 million from our short-term and long-term investments, partially offset by losses of $27.4 million from our actively managed funds classified as long-term investments.
     Investment income (loss) during 2007 included a net loss of $61.4 million from our actively managed funds classified as long-term investments inclusive of substantial gains from sales of our marketable equity securities. This net loss was offset by interest and dividend income of $45.5 million from our short-term investments.
Gains (losses) on sales and retirements of long-lived assets and other income (expense), net
     The amount of gains (losses) on sales and retirements of long-lived assets and other income (expense), net for 2009 represents a net loss of $12.6 million and includes: (i) foreign currency exchange losses of approximately $8.4 million, (ii) increases of litigation expenses of $11.5 million, and (iii) net losses on sales and retirements of long-lived assets of approximately $5.9 million. These losses were partially offset by pre-tax gains of $11.5 million recognized on purchases of $964.8 million par value of our 0.94% senior exchangeable notes due 2011.
     The amount of gains (losses) on sales and retirements of long-lived assets and other income (expense), net for 2008 represents a net loss of $15.8 million and includes: (i) losses on derivative instruments of approximately $14.6 million, including a $9.9 million loss on a three-month written put option and a $4.7 million loss on the fair value of our range-cap-and-floor derivative, (ii) losses on retirements on long-lived assets of approximately $13.2 million, inclusive of involuntary conversion losses on long-lived assets of approximately $12.0 million, net of insurance recoveries, related to damage sustained from Hurricanes Gustav and Ike during 2008, and (iii) increases of litigation expenses of $3.5 million. These losses were partially offset by a $12.2 million pre-tax gain recognized on our purchase of $100 million par value of 0.94% senior exchangeable notes due 2011.
     The amount of gains (losses) on sales and retirements of long-lived assets and other income (expense), net for 2007 represents a net loss of $11.8 million and includes: (i) losses on retirements and impairment charges on long-lived assets of approximately $40.0 million and (ii) increases of litigation expenses of $9.6 million. These losses were partially offset by the $38.6 million gain on the sale of three accommodation jack-up rigs in the second quarter of 2007.
 
Impairments and Other Charges
     During the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, we recognized goodwill impairments of approximately $14.7 million and $150.0 million, respectively, related to our Canadian operations. During 2008, we impaired the entire goodwill balance of $145.4 million of our Canada Well-servicing and Drilling operating segment and recorded an impairment of $4.6 million to Nabors Blue Sky Ltd., one of our Canadian subsidiaries reported in our Other Operating segments. During 2009, we impaired the remaining goodwill balance of $14.7 million of Nabors Blue Sky Ltd. The impairment charges resulted from of our annual impairment tests on goodwill which compared the estimated fair value of each of our reporting units to its carrying value. The estimated fair value of these business units was determined using discounted cash flow models involving assumptions based on our utilization of rigs or aircraft, revenues and earnings from affiliates, as well as direct costs, general and administrative costs, depreciation, applicable income taxes, capital expenditures and working capital requirements. The impairment charges were deemed necessary due to the continued downturn in the oil and gas industry in Canada and the lack of certainty regarding eventual recovery in the value of these operations. This downturn has led to reduced capital spending by some of our customers and has diminished demand for our drilling services and for immediate access to remote drilling sites. A significantly prolonged period of lower oil and natural gas prices could adversely affect the demand for and prices of our services, which could result in future goodwill impairment charges for other reporting units due to the potential impact on our estimate of our future operating results. See Critical Accounting Policies below and Note 2  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (included under the caption "Goodwill") in Part II, Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.
     During the year ended December 31, 2009, we retired some rigs and rig components in our U.S. Offshore, Alaska, Canada and International Contract Drilling segments and reduced their aggregate carrying value from $69.0 million to their estimated aggregate salvage value, resulting in impairment charges of approximately $64.2 million. The retirements included inactive workover jack-up rigs in our U.S. Offshore and International operations, the structural frames of some incomplete coiled tubing rigs in our Canada operations and miscellaneous rig components in our Alaska operations. The impairment charges resulted from the continued deterioration and longer than expected downturn in the demand for oil and gas drilling activities. A prolonged period of lower natural gas and oil prices and its potential impact on our utilization and dayrates could result in the recognition of future impairment charges to additional assets if future cash flow estimates, based upon information then available to management, indicate that the carrying value of those assets may not be recoverable.
     Also in 2009, we recorded impairments totaling $197.7 million to some of the oil and gas-related assets of our wholly owned Ramshorn business unit. We recorded an impairment of $149.1 million to one of our oil and gas financing receivables, which reduced the carrying value of our oil and gas financing receivables recorded as long-term investments to $92.5 million. The impairment resulted primarily from commodity price deterioration and the lower price environment lasting longer than expected. This prolonged period of lower prices has significantly reduced demand for future gas production and development in the Barnett Shale area of north central Texas, which has influenced our decision not to expend capital to develop on some of the undeveloped acreage. The impairment was determined using discounted cash flow models involving assumptions based on estimated cash flows for proved and probable reserves, undeveloped acreage value, and current and expected natural gas prices. We believe the estimates used provide a reasonable estimate of current fair value. A further protraction or continued period of lower commodity prices could result in recognition of future impairment charges. During the years ended December
 
31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, our impairment tests on the oil and gas properties of our wholly owned Ramshorn business unit resulted in impairment charges of $48.6 million, $21.5 million and $41.0 million, respectively. The impairments recognized during 2009 were primarily the result of a write down of the carrying value of some acreage in the U.S. and Canada because we do not have future plans to develop. The impairments recognized during 2008 were primarily due to the significant decline in oil and natural gas prices at the end of 2008. The impairments recognized during 2007 were necessary from lower than expected performance of some oil and gas development wells. Additional discussion of our policy pertaining to the calculations of these impairments is set forth in "Oil and Gas Properties" under Critical Accounting Estimates below in this section or in Note 2  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in Part II Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.
     In 2009, we recorded other-than-temporary impairments to our available-for-sale securities totaling $54.3 million. Of this, $35.6 million was related to an investment in a corporate bond that was downgraded to non-investment grade level by Standard and Poor's and Moody's Investors Service during the year. Our determination that the impairment was other than temporary was based on a variety of factors, including the length of time and extent to which the market value had been less than cost, the financial condition of the issuer of the security, and the credit ratings and recent reorganization of the issuer. The remaining $18.7 million related to an equity security of a public company whose operations are driven in large measure by the price of oil and in which we invested approximately $46 million during the second and third quarters of 2008. During late 2008, demand for oil and gas began to diminish significantly as part of the general deterioration of the global economic environment, causing a broad decline in value of nearly all oil and gas-related equity securities. Because the trading price per share of this security remained below our cost basis for an extended period, we determined the investment was other than temporarily impaired and it was appropriate to write down the investment's carrying value to its current estimated fair value of approximately $27.0 million at December 31, 2009.
Income tax rate
     Our effective income tax rate for 2009 reflects the disparity between losses in our U.S. operations (attributable primarily to impairments) and income in our other operations primarily in lower tax jurisdictions. Because the U.S. income tax rate is higher than that of other jurisdictions, the tax benefit from our U.S. losses was not proportionately reduced by the tax expense from our other operations. The result is a net tax benefit that represents a significant percentage (82.5%) of our consolidated loss from continuing operations before income taxes. Because of the manner in which this number is derived, we do not believe it presents a meaningful basis for comparing our 2009 effective income tax rate to our 2008 effective income tax rate.
     The increase in our effective income tax rate from 2007 to 2008 resulted from (1) our goodwill impairments which had no associated tax benefit, (2) the reversal of certain tax reserves during 2007 in the amount of $25.5 million, (3) a decrease in 2007 tax expense of approximately $16.0 million resulting from a reduction in Canada's tax rate, and (4) a higher proportion of our 2008 taxable income being generated in the United States, which generally imposes a higher tax rate than the other jurisdictions in which we operate.
     We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and numerous other jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. One of the most volatile factors in this determination is the relative proportion of our income or loss being recognized in high versus low tax jurisdictions. In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We are regularly under audit by tax authorities. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final outcome of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different than what is reflected in our income tax provisions and accruals. The results of an audit or litigation could materially affect our financial position, income tax provision, net income, or cash flows.
     Various bills have been introduced in Congress that could reduce or eliminate the tax benefits associated with our reorganization as a Bermuda company. Legislation enacted by Congress in 2004 provides that a corporation that reorganized in a foreign jurisdiction on or after March 4, 2003 be treated as a domestic corporation for United States
 
federal income tax purposes. Nabors' reorganization was completed June 24, 2002. There have been and we expect that there may continue to be legislation proposed by Congress from time to time which, if enacted, could limit or eliminate the tax benefits associated with our reorganization.
     Because we cannot predict whether legislation will ultimately be adopted, no assurance can be given that the tax benefits associated with our reorganization will ultimately accrue to the benefit of the Company and its shareholders. It is possible that future changes to the tax laws (including tax treaties) could impact on our ability to realize the tax savings recorded to date as well as future tax savings resulting from our reorganization.
Liquidity and Capital Resources
Cash Flows
     Our cash flows depend, to a large degree, on the level of spending by oil and gas companies for exploration, development and production activities. Sustained increases or decreases in the price of natural gas or oil could have a material impact on these activities, and could also materially affect our cash flows. Certain sources and uses of cash, such as the level of discretionary capital expenditures, purchases and sales of investments, issuances and repurchases of debt and of our common shares are within our control and are adjusted as necessary based on market conditions. The following is a discussion of our cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008.
     Net cash provided by operating activities totaled $1.6 billion during 2009 compared to net cash provided by operating activities of $1.5 billion during 2008. Net cash provided by operating activities ("operating cash flows") is our primary source of capital and liquidity. Factors affecting changes in operating cash flows are largely the same as those that affect net earnings, with the exception of non-cash expenses such as depreciation and amortization, depletion, impairments, share-based compensation, deferred income taxes and our proportionate share of earnings or losses from unconsolidated affiliates. Net income (loss) adjusted for non-cash components was approximately $1.1 billion and $1.7 billion for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Additionally, changes in working capital items such as collection of receivables can be a significant component of operating cash flows. Changes in working capital items provided $471.9 million in cash flows for the year ended December 31, 2009 and required $278.6 million in cash flows for the year ended December 31, 2008.
Operating Activities
.
     Net cash used for investing activities totaled $1.2 billion during 2009 compared to net cash used for investing activities of $1.5 billion during 2008. During 2009 and 2008, cash was used primarily for capital expenditures totaling $1.1 billion and $1.5 billion, respectively, and investments in unconsolidated affiliates totaling $125.1 million and $271.3 million, respectively. During 2009 and 2008, cash was derived from sales of investments, net of purchases, totaling $24.4 million and $251.6 million, respectively.
Investing Activities
.
     Net cash provided by financing activities totaled $19.4 million during 2009 compared to net cash used for financing activities of $89.2 million during 2008. During 2009, cash was derived from the receipt of $1.1 billion in proceeds, net of debt issuance costs, from the January 2009 issuance of 9.25% senior notes due 2019. Also during 2009, cash totaling $862.6 million was used to purchase $964.8 million par value of 0.94% senior exchangeable notes due 2011 and cash totaling $225.2 million was used to redeem the 4.875% senior notes. During 2008, cash totaling $836.5 million was used to redeem Nabors Delaware's zero coupon senior exchangeable notes due 2023 and zero coupon senior convertible debentures due 2021 and for the purchase of $100 million par value of 0.94% senior exchangeable notes due 2011 in the open market. During 2008, cash was used to repurchase our common shares in the open market for $281.1 million. Also during 2008, cash was provided by the receipt of $955.6 million in net proceeds from the February and July 2008 issuances of the 6.15% senior notes due 2018, net of debt issuance costs. During 2009 and 2008, cash was provided by our receipt of proceeds totaling $11.2 million and $56.6 million, respectively, from the exercise by our employees of options to acquire our common shares.
Financing Activities
.
Future Cash Requirements
     As of December 31, 2009, we had long-term debt, including current maturities, of $3.9 billion and cash and investments of $1.2 billion, including $100.9 million of long-term investments and other receivables. Long-term investments and other receivables include $92.5 million in oil and gas financing receivables.
 
     Our 0.94% senior exchangeable notes mature in May 2011. During 2008 and 2009 collectively, we purchased $1.1 billion par value of these notes in the open market for cash totaling $938.4 million, leaving approximately $1.7 billion par value outstanding. The balance of these notes will be reclassified to current debt in the second quarter of 2010. We believe our positive cash flow from operations in combination with our ability to access the capital markets will be sufficient to enable us to satisfy the payment obligation due in May 2011.
     Our 0.94% senior exchangeable notes due 2011 provide that upon an exchange of these notes, we will be required to pay holders of the notes cash up to the principal amount of the notes and our common shares for any amount that the exchange value of the notes exceeds the principal amount of the notes. The notes cannot be exchanged until the price of our shares exceeds approximately $59.57 for at least 20 trading days during the period of 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the previous calendar quarter; or during the five business days immediately following any ten consecutive trading day period in which the trading price per note for each day of that period was less than 95% of the product of the sale price of Nabors' common shares and the then applicable exchange rate for the notes; or upon the occurrence of specified corporate transactions set forth in the indenture. On February 24, 2010, the closing market price for our common stock was $21.92 per share. If any of the events described above were to occur and the notes were exchanged at a purchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the notes before maturity in May 2011, the required cash payment could have a significant impact on our level of cash and cash equivalents and investments available to meet our other cash obligations. Management believes that in the event the price of our shares were to exceed $59.57 for the required period of time, the holders of these notes would not be likely to exchange the notes as it would be more economically beneficial to them if they sold the notes to other investors on the open market. However, there can be no assurance that the holders would not exchange the notes.
     As of December 31, 2009, we had outstanding purchase commitments of approximately $152.4 million, primarily for rig-related enhancements, construction and sustaining capital expenditures and other operating expenses. Capital expenditures over the next twelve months, including these outstanding purchase commitments, are currently expected to total approximately $.6  $.8 billion, including currently planned rig-related enhancements, construction and sustaining capital expenditures. This amount could change significantly based on market conditions and new business opportunities. The level of our outstanding purchase commitments and our expected level of capital expenditures over the next twelve months represent a number of capital programs that are currently underway. These programs, which are nearing an end, have resulted in an expansion in the number of drilling and well-servicing rigs that we own and operate and consist primarily of land drilling and well-servicing rigs. The expansion of our capital expenditure programs to build new state-of-the-art drilling rigs has impacted a majority of our operating segments, most significantly within our U.S. Lower 48 Land Drilling, U.S. Land Well-servicing, Alaska, Canada and International operations.
     We have historically completed a number of acquisitions and will continue to evaluate opportunities to acquire assets or businesses to enhance our operations. Several of our previous acquisitions were funded through issuances of our common shares. Future acquisitions may be paid for using existing cash or issuing debt or Nabors shares. Such capital expenditures and acquisitions will depend on our view of market conditions and other factors.
     See our discussion of guarantees issued by Nabors that could have a potential impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows in future periods included below under Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements (Including Guarantees).
 
     The following table summarizes our contractual cash obligations as of December 31, 2009:
     The table above excludes liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits totaling $107.5 million as of December 31, 2009 because we are unable to make reasonably reliable estimates of the timing of cash settlements with the respective taxing authorities. Further details on the unrecognized tax benefits can be found in Note 12  Income Taxes in Part II, Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.
     We may from time to time seek to retire or purchase our outstanding debt through cash purchases and/or exchanges for equity securities, both in open-market purchases, privately negotiated transactions or otherwise. Such repurchases or exchanges, if any, will depend on prevailing market conditions, our liquidity requirements, contractual restrictions and other factors. The amounts involved may be material.
     In July 2006 our Board of Directors authorized a share repurchase program under which we may repurchase up to $500 million of our common shares in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions. Through December 31, 2009, $464.5 million of our common shares had been repurchased under this program. As of December 31, 2009, we had the capacity to repurchase up to an additional $35.5 million of our common shares under the July 2006 share repurchase program.
     See Note 16  Commitments and Contingencies in Part II, Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for discussion of commitments and contingencies relating to (i) new employment agreements, effective April 1, 2009, that could result in significant cash payments of $100 million and $50 million to Messrs. Isenberg and Petrello, respectively, by the Company if their employment is terminated in the event of death or disability or cash payments of $100 million and $45 million to Messrs. Isenberg and Petrello, respectively, by the Company if their employment is terminated without cause or in the event of a change in control and (ii) off-balance sheet arrangements (including guarantees).
 
Financial Condition and Sources of Liquidity
     Our primary sources of liquidity are cash and cash equivalents, short-term and long-term investments and cash generated from operations. As of December 31, 2009, we had cash and investments of $1.2 billion (including $100.9 million of long-term investments and other receivables, inclusive of $92.5 million in oil and gas financing receivables) and working capital of $1.6 billion. Oil and gas financing receivables are classified as long-term investments. These receivables represent our financing agreements for certain production payment contracts in our Oil and Gas segment. This compares to cash and investments of $824.2 million (including $240.0 million of long-term investments and other receivables, inclusive of $224.2 million in oil and gas financing receivables) and working capital of $1.0 billion as of December 31, 2008.
     Our gross funded debt to capital ratio was 0.41:1 as of each December 31, 2009 and 2008. Our net funded debt to capital ratio was 0.33:1 as of December 31, 2009 and 0.35:1 as of December 31, 2008.
     The gross funded debt to capital ratio is calculated by dividing (x) funded debt by (y) funded debt deferred tax liabilities (net of deferred tax assets) capital. Funded debt is the sum of (1) short-term borrowings, (2) the current portion of long-term debt and (3) long-term debt. Capital is shareholders' equity.
plus
plus
     The net funded debt to capital ratio is calculated by dividing (x) net funded debt by (y) net funded debt deferred tax liabilities (net of deferred tax assets) capital. Net funded debt is funded debt the sum of cash and cash equivalents and short-term and long-term investments and other receivables. Both of these ratios are used to calculate a company's leverage in relation to its capital. Neither ratio measures operating performance or liquidity as defined by GAAP and, therefore, may not be comparable to similarly titled measures presented by other companies.
plus
plus
minus
     Our interest coverage ratio was 6.3:1 as of December 31, 2009 and 21.0:1 as of December 31, 2008. The interest coverage ratio is a trailing 12-month quotient of the sum of income (loss) from continuing operations, net of tax, net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interest, interest expense, depreciation and amortization, depletion expense, impairments and other charges, income tax expense (benefit) and our proportionate share of writedowns from our unconsolidated oil and gas joint ventures investment income (loss) divided by cash interest expense. This ratio is a method for calculating the amount of operating cash flows available to cover cash interest expense. The interest coverage ratio is not a measure of operating performance or liquidity defined by GAAP and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures presented by other companies.
less
     We had four letter of credit facilities with various banks as of December 31, 2009. Availability under our credit facilities as of December 31, 2009 was as follows:
     Our ability to access capital markets or to otherwise obtain sufficient financing is enhanced by our senior unsecured debt ratings as provided by Fitch Ratings, Moody's Investors Service and Standard & Poor's, which are currently "BBB+", "Baa1" and "BBB+", respectively, and our historical ability to access those markets as needed. While there can be no assurances that we will be able to access these markets in the future, we believe that we will be able to access capital markets or otherwise obtain financing in order to satisfy any payment obligation that might arise upon exchange or purchase of our notes and that any cash payment due of this magnitude, in addition to our other cash obligations, would not ultimately have a material adverse impact on our liquidity or financial position. In addition, Standard & Poor's recently affirmed its BBB+ credit rating, but revised its outlook to negative from stable in early 2009 due primarily to worsening industry conditions. A credit downgrade may impact our ability to access credit markets.
     Our current cash and investments and projected cash flows from operations are expected to adequately finance our purchase commitments, our scheduled debt service requirements, and all other expected cash requirements for the next twelve months.
     See our discussion of the impact of changes in market conditions on our derivative financial instruments discussed under Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.
 
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements (Including Guarantees)
     We are a party to some transactions, agreements or other contractual arrangements defined as "off-balance sheet arrangements" that could have a material future effect on our financial position, results of operations, liquidity and capital resources. The most significant of these off-balance sheet arrangements involve agreements and obligations under which we provide financial or performance assurance to third parties. Certain of these agreements serve as guarantees, including standby letters of credit issued on behalf of insurance carriers in conjunction with our workers' compensation insurance program and other financial surety instruments such as bonds. We have also guaranteed payment of contingent consideration in conjunction with an acquisition in 2005. Potential contingent consideration is based on future operating results of the acquired business. In addition, we have provided indemnifications, which serve as guarantees, to some third parties. These guarantees include indemnification provided by Nabors to our share transfer agent and our insurance carriers. We are not able to estimate the potential future maximum payments that might be due under our indemnification guarantees.
     Management believes the likelihood that we would be required to perform or otherwise incur any material losses associated with any of these guarantees is remote. The following table summarizes the total maximum amount of financial guarantees issued by Nabors and guarantees representing contingent consideration in connection with a business combination:
Other Matters
     
Recent Legislation and Actions
     In February 2009, Congress enacted the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (the "Stimulus Act"). The Stimulus Act is intended to provide a stimulus to the U.S. economy, including relief to companies related to income on debt repurchases and exchanges at a discount, expansion of unemployment benefits to former employees and other social welfare provisions. The Stimulus Act has not had a significant impact on our consolidated financial statements.
     A court in Algeria entered a judgment of approximately $19.7 million against us related to alleged customs infractions in 2009. We believe we did not receive proper notice of the judicial proceedings, and that the amount of the judgment is excessive. We have asserted the lack of legally required notice as a basis for challenging the judgment on appeal to the Algeria Supreme Court. Based upon our understanding of applicable law and precedent, we believe that this challenge will be successful. We do not believe that a loss is probable and have not accrued any amounts related to this matter. However, the ultimate resolution and the timing thereof are uncertain. If the Company is ultimately required to pay a fine or judgment related to this matter, the amount of the loss could range from approximately $140,000 to $19.7 million.
     
Recent Accounting Pronouncements
     On July 1, 2009, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") released the Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC"). The ASC became the single source of authoritative nongovernmental GAAP. Rules and interpretive releases of the SEC under authority of federal securities laws are also sources of authoritative GAAP for SEC registrants. The ASC is not intended to change GAAP, but changes the approach by referencing authoritative literature by topic (each, a "Topic") rather than by type of standard. Accordingly, references in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements to former FASB positions, statements, interpretations, opinions, bulletins or other pronouncements are now presented as references to the corresponding Topic in the ASC.
 
     Effective January 1, 2009, Nabors changed its method of accounting for certain of its convertible debt instruments in accordance with the revised provisions of the Debt with Conversions and Other Options Topic of the ASC. Additionally, Nabors changed its method for calculating its basic and diluted earnings per share using the two-class method in accordance with the revised provisions of the Earnings Per Share Topic of the ASC. As required by the Accounting Changes and Error Corrections Topic of the ASC, financial information and earnings per share calculations for prior periods have been adjusted to reflect retrospective application.
     The revised provisions of the Debt with Conversions and Other Options Topic clarify that convertible debt instruments that may be settled in cash upon conversion are accounted for with a liability component based on the fair value of a similar nonconvertible debt instrument and an equity component based on the excess of the initial proceeds from the convertible debt instrument over the liability component. Such excess represents proceeds related to the conversion option and is recorded as capital in excess of par value. The liability is recorded at a discount, which is then amortized as additional non-cash interest expense over the convertible debt instrument's expected life. The retrospective application and impact of these provisions on our consolidated financial statements is described in Note 11  Debt in Part II Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.
     The revised provisions relating to use of the two-class method for calculating earnings per share within the Earnings Per Share Topic provide that securities which are granted in share-based transactions are "participating securities" prior to vesting if they have a nonforfeitable right to participate in any dividends, and such securities therefore should be included in computing basic earnings per share. Our awards of restricted stock are considered participating securities under this definition. The retrospective application and impact of these provisions on our consolidated financial statements is set forth in Note 17  Earnings (Losses) Per Share in Part II Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.
     Effective January 1, 2008, we adopted and applied the provisions of the Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures Topic of the ASC to our financial assets and liabilities and on January 1, 2009 applied the same provisions to our nonfinancial assets and liabilities. Effective April 1, 2009, we adopted the provisions of this Topic relating to fair value measures in inactive markets. The provisions provide additional guidance for determining whether a market for a financial asset is not active and a transaction is not distressed for fair value measurements. The application of these provisions did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. Our fair value disclosures are provided in Note 5  Fair Value Measurements in Part II Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.
     Effective January 1, 2009, we adopted the revised provisions of the Business Combinations Topic of the ASC and will apply those provisions on a prospective basis to acquisitions. The revised provisions retain the fundamental requirement that the acquisition method of accounting be used for all business combinations and expands the use of the acquisition method to all transactions and other events in which one entity obtains control over one or more other businesses or assets at the acquisition date and in subsequent periods. The revised provisions require measurement at the acquisition date of the fair value of assets acquired, liabilities assumed and any noncontrolling interests. Additionally, acquisition-related costs, including restructuring costs, are recognized as expense separately from the acquisition.
     Effective January 1, 2009, new provisions relating to noncontrolling interests of a subsidiary within the Identifiable Assets and Liabilities, and Any Noncontrolling Interest Topic of the ASC were released. The provisions establish the accounting and reporting standards for a noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary and for the deconsolidation of a subsidiary. The provisions clarify that a noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary is an ownership interest in the consolidated entity that should be reported as equity in the consolidated financial statements. Our consolidated financial statements reflect the adoption and have been adjusted to reflect retrospective application. The application of these provisions did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
     Effective January 1, 2009, we adopted the revised provisions relating to expanded disclosures of derivatives within the Derivatives and Hedging Topic of the ASC. The revised provisions are intended to improve financial reporting about derivative instruments and hedging activities by requiring enhanced qualitative and quantitative disclosures regarding such instruments, gains and losses thereon and their effects on an entity's financial position, financial performance and cash flows. The application of these provisions did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
 
     In December 2008, the SEC issued a Final Rule, "Modernization of Oil and Gas Reporting." This rule revises some of the oil and gas reporting disclosures in Regulation S-K and Regulation S-X under the Securities Act and the Exchange Act, as well as Industry Guide 2. Effective December 31, 2009, the FASB issued revised guidance that substantially aligned the oil and gas accounting disclosures with the SEC's Final Rule. The amendments are designed to modernize and update oil and gas disclosure requirements to align them with current practices and changes in technology. Additionally, this new accounting standard requires that entities use 12-month average natural gas and oil prices when calculating the quantities of proved reserves and performing the full-cost ceiling test calculation. The new standard also clarified that an entity's equity method investments must be considered in determining whether it has significant oil and gas activities. The disclosure requirements are effective for registration statements filed on or after January 1, 2010 and for annual financial statements filed on or after January 1, 2010. The FASB provided a one-year deferral of the disclosure requirements if an entity became subject to the requirements because of a change to the definition of significant oil and gas activities. When operating results from our wholly owned oil and gas activities are considered with operating results from our unconsolidated oil and gas joint ventures, which we account for under the equity method of accounting, we have significant oil and gas activities under the new definition. In line with the one-year deferral, we will provide the oil and gas disclosures in annual periods beginning after December 31, 2009.
     Effective April 1, 2009, we adopted the provisions in the Investments of Debt and Equity Securities Topic of the ASC relating to recognition and presentation of other-than-temporary impairments to debt securities. The impact of these provisions is provided in Notes 3  Impairments and Other Charges and 4  Cash, Cash Equivalents and Investments in Part II Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.
     Effective June 30, 2009, we adopted the provisions in the Financial Instruments Topic of the ASC relating to quarterly disclosure of the fair value of financial instruments. The disclosures required by this Topic are provided in Note 5  Fair Value Measurements in Part II Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.
     Effective June 30, 2009, we adopted the revised provisions in the Subsequent Events Topic of the ASC and evaluated subsequent events through the date of the release of our financial statements. The adoption of the Subsequent Events Topic of the ASC did not have any impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
Related-Party Transactions
     Nabors and its Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, its Deputy Chairman, President and Chief Operating Officer, and certain other key employees entered into split-dollar life insurance agreements, pursuant to which we paid a portion of the premiums under life insurance policies with respect to these individuals and, in some instances, members of their families. These agreements provide that we are reimbursed the premium payments upon the occurrence of specified events, including the death of an insured individual. Any recovery of premiums paid by Nabors could be limited to the cash surrender value of the policies under certain circumstances. As such, the values of these policies are recorded at their respective cash surrender values in our consolidated balance sheets. We have made premium payments to date totaling $11.7 million related to these policies. The cash surrender value of these policies of approximately $9.3 million and $8.4 million is included in other long-term assets in our consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.
     Under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the payment of premiums by Nabors under the agreements with our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and with our Deputy Chairman, President and Chief Operating Officer could be deemed to be prohibited loans by us to these individuals. Consequently, we have paid no premiums related to our agreements with these individuals since the adoption of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
     In the ordinary course of business, we enter into various rig leases, rig transportation and related oilfield services agreements with our unconsolidated affiliates at market prices. Revenues from business transactions with these affiliated entities totaled $327.3 million, $285.3 million and $153.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Expenses from business transactions with these affiliated entities totaled $9.8 million, $9.6 million and $6.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Additionally, we had accounts receivable from these affiliated entities of $104.2 million and $107.5 million as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. We had accounts payable to these affiliated entities of $14.8 million and $10.0 million as of
 
December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, and long-term payables with these affiliated entities of $.8 million and $7.8 million as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, which is included in other long-term liabilities.
     We own an interest in Shona Energy Company, LLC ("Shona"), a company of which Mr. Payne, an independent member of our Board of Directors, is the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. During the fourth quarter of 2008, we purchased 1.8 million common shares of Shona for $.9 million. During the first quarter of 2010, we purchased shares of Shona's preferred stock and warrants to purchase additional common shares for $.9 million. After these transactions, we hold a minority interest of approximately 11% of the issued and outstanding shares of Shona.
     
Critical Accounting Estimates
     The preparation of our financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make certain estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date and the amounts of revenues and expenses recognized during the reporting period. We analyze our estimates based on our historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. However, actual results could differ from our estimates. The following is a discussion of our critical accounting estimates. Management considers an accounting estimate to be critical if:
     For a summary of all of our significant accounting policies, see Note 2  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in Part II, Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.
     As defined in the ASC, fair value is the price that would be received upon a sale of an asset or paid upon a transfer of a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date (exit price). We utilize market data or assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability, including assumptions about risk and the risks inherent in the inputs to the valuation technique. These inputs can be readily observable, market-corroborated, or generally unobservable. We primarily apply the market approach for recurring fair value measurements and endeavor to utilize the best information available. Accordingly, we employ valuation techniques that maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs. The use of unobservable inputs is intended to allow for fair value determinations in situations where there is little, if any, market activity for the asset or liability at the measurement date. We are able to classify fair value balances utilizing a fair-value hierarchy based on the observability of those inputs. Under the fair-value hierarchy
Financial Instruments.
     As part of adopting fair value measurement reporting on January 1, 2008, we did not have a transition adjustment to our retained earnings. Our enhanced disclosures are included in Note 5  Fair Value Measurements in Part II, Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.
     The drilling, workover and well-servicing industries are very capital intensive. Property, plant and equipment represented 72% of our total assets as of December 31, 2009, and depreciation constituted 18% of our total costs and other deductions for the year ended December 31, 2009.
Depreciation of Property, Plant and Equipment.
     Depreciation for our primary operating assets, drilling and workover rigs, is calculated based on the units-of-production method. For each day a rig is operating, we depreciate it over an approximate 4,900-day period, with the exception of our jack-up rigs which are depreciated over an 8,030-day period, after provision for salvage value. For
 
each day a rig asset is not operating, it is depreciated over an assumed depreciable life of 20 years, with the exception of our jack-up rigs, where a 30-year depreciable life is typically used, after provision for salvage value.
     Depreciation on our buildings, well-servicing rigs, oilfield hauling and mobile equipment, marine transportation and supply vessels, aircraft equipment, and other machinery and equipment is computed using the straight-line method over the estimated useful life of the asset after provision for salvage value (buildings  10 to 30 years; well-servicing rigs  3 to 15 years; marine transportation and supply vessels  10 to 25 years; aircraft equipment  5 to 20 years; oilfield hauling and mobile equipment and other machinery and equipment  3 to 10 years).
     These depreciation periods and the salvage values of our property, plant and equipment were determined through an analysis of the useful lives of our assets and based on our experience with the salvage values of these assets. Periodically, we review our depreciation periods and salvage values for reasonableness given current conditions. Depreciation of property, plant and equipment is therefore based upon estimates of the useful lives and salvage value of those assets. Estimation of these items requires significant management judgment. Accordingly, management believes that accounting estimates related to depreciation expense recorded on property, plant and equipment are critical.
     There have been no factors related to the performance of our portfolio of assets, changes in technology or other factors that indicate that these estimates do not continue to be appropriate. Accordingly, for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, no significant changes have been made to the depreciation rates applied to property, plant and equipment, the underlying assumptions related to estimates of depreciation, or the methodology applied. However, certain events could occur that would materially affect our estimates and assumptions related to depreciation. Unforeseen changes in operations or technology could substantially alter management's assumptions regarding our ability to realize the return on our investment in operating assets and therefore affect the useful lives and salvage values of our assets.
     As discussed above, the drilling, workover and well-servicing industry is very capital intensive. We review our assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts of property, plant and equipment may not be recoverable. An impairment loss is recorded in the period in which it is determined that the sum of estimated future cash flows, on an undiscounted basis, is less than the carrying amount of the long-lived asset. Such determination requires us to make judgments regarding long-term forecasts of future revenues and costs related to the assets subject to review in order to determine the future cash flows associated with the assets. These long-term forecasts are uncertain because they require assumptions about demand for our products and services, future market conditions, technological advances in the industry, and changes in regulations governing the industry. Significant and unanticipated changes to the assumptions could result in future impairments. As the determination of whether impairment charges should be recorded on our long-lived assets is subject to significant management judgment and an impairment of these assets could result in a material charge on our consolidated statements of income (loss), management believes that accounting estimates related to impairment of long-lived assets are critical.
Impairment of Long-Lived Assets.
     Assumptions made in the determination of future cash flows are made with the involvement of management personnel at the operational level where the most specific knowledge of market conditions and other operating factors exists. For the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, no significant changes have been made to the methodology utilized to determine future cash flows.
     Given the nature of the evaluation of future cash flows and the application to specific assets and specific times, it is not possible to reasonably quantify the impact of changes in these assumptions. A significantly prolonged period of lower oil and natural gas prices could continue to adversely affect the demand for and prices of our services, which could result in future impairment charges.
     Goodwill represented 1.5% of our total assets as of December 31, 2009. We review goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of such goodwill and intangible assets exceed their fair value. We perform our impairment tests of goodwill and intangible assets for ten reporting units within our operating segments. These reporting units consist of our six contract drilling segments: U.S. Lower 48 Land Drilling, U.S. Land Well-servicing, U.S. Offshore, Alaska, Canada and International; our oil and gas segment; and three of our other operating segments: Canrig Drilling Technology Ltd., Ryan Energy Technologies
Impairment of Goodwill and Intangible Assets.
 
and Nabors Blue Sky Ltd. The impairment test involves comparing the estimated fair value of the reporting unit to its carrying amount. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value, a second step is required to measure the goodwill impairment loss. This second step compares the implied fair value of the reporting unit's goodwill to the carrying amount of that goodwill. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit's goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of the goodwill, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to the excess. Our impairment test results required the second step measurement for one of our ten reporting units during 2009 and two of our ten reporting units during 2008.
     The fair values calculated in these impairment tests are determined using discounted cash flow models involving assumptions based on our utilization of rigs or aircraft, revenues and earnings from affiliates, as well as direct costs, general and administrative costs, depreciation, applicable income taxes, capital expenditures and working capital requirements. Our discounted cash flow projections for each reporting unit were based on financial forecasts. The future cash flows were discounted to present value using discount rates that are determined to be appropriate for each reporting unit. Terminal values for each reporting unit were calculated using a Gordon Growth methodology with a long-term growth rate of 3%. We believe the fair value estimated for purposes of these tests represent a Level 3 fair value measurement.
     During the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, we recognized goodwill impairments of approximately $14.7 million and $150.0 million, respectively, both related to our Canadian operations. During 2008, we impaired the entire goodwill balance of $145.4 million of our Canada Well-servicing and Drilling operating segment and recorded an impairment of $4.6 million to Nabors Blue Sky Ltd., one of our Canadian subsidiaries reported in our Other Operating segments. During 2009, we impaired the remaining goodwill balance of $14.7 million of Nabors Blue Sky Ltd. The impairment charges were deemed necessary due to the continued downturn in the oil and gas industry in Canada and the lack of certainty regarding eventual recovery in the value of these operations. This downturn has led to reduced capital spending by our customers and diminished demand for our drilling services and for immediate access to remote drilling sites. A significantly prolonged period of lower oil and natural gas prices could continue to adversely affect the demand for and prices of our services, which could result in future goodwill impairment charges for other reporting units due to the potential impact on our estimate of our future operating results.
     For the year ended December 31, 2007, our annual impairment test indicated the fair value of our reporting unit's goodwill and intangible assets exceeded carrying amounts.
     We follow the successful-efforts method of accounting for our consolidated subsidiaries' oil and gas activities. Under the successful-efforts method, lease acquisition costs and all development costs are capitalized. Our provision for depletion is based on these capitalized costs and is determined on a property-by-property basis using the units-of-production method. Proved property acquisition costs are amortized over total proved reserves. Costs of wells and related equipment and facilities are amortized over the life of proved developed reserves. Estimated fair value of proved and unproved properties includes the estimated present value of all reasonably expected future production, prices, and costs. Proved oil and gas properties are reviewed when circumstances suggest the need for such a review and, are written down to their estimated fair value, if required. Unproved properties are reviewed to determine if there has been impairment of the carrying value and when circumstances suggest an impairment has occurred, are written down to their estimated fair value in that period. The estimated fair value of our proved reserves generally declines when there is a significant and sustained decline in oil and natural gas prices. For the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, our impairment tests on the oil and gas-related assets of our wholly owned Ramshorn business unit resulted in impairment charges of $197.7 million, $21.5 million and $41.0 million, respectively. As discussed above in , we adopted new guidance relating to the manner in which our oil and gas reserves are estimated as of December 31, 2009.
Oil and Gas Properties.
Recent Accounting Pronouncements
     Exploratory drilling costs are capitalized until the results are determined. If proved reserves are not discovered, the exploratory drilling costs are expensed. Interest costs related to financing major oil and gas projects in progress are capitalized until the projects are evaluated or until the projects are substantially complete and ready for their intended use if the projects are evaluated as successful. Other exploratory costs are expensed as incurred.
     Our unconsolidated oil and gas joint ventures, which we account for under the equity method of accounting, utilize the full-cost method of accounting for costs related to oil and natural gas properties. Under this method, all
 
such costs (for both productive and nonproductive properties) are capitalized and amortized on an aggregate basis over the estimated lives of the properties using the units-of-production method. However, these capitalized costs are subject to a ceiling test which limits such pooled costs to the aggregate of the present value of future net revenues attributable to proved oil and natural gas reserves, discounted at 10%, plus the lower of cost or market value of unproved properties. As discussed above in and in relation to the full-cost ceiling test, our unconsolidated oil and gas joint ventures changed the manner in which their oil and gas reserves are estimated and the manner in which they calculate the ceiling limit on capitalized oil and gas costs as of December 31, 2009. Under the new guidance, future revenues for purposes of the ceiling test are valued using a 12-month average price, adjusted for the impact of derivatives accounted for as cash flow hedges as prescribed by the SEC rules. For the year ended December 31, 2009, our unconsolidated oil and gas joint ventures' application of the full-cost ceiling test resulted in impairment charges, of which $189.3 million represented our proportionate share.
Recent Accounting Pronouncements
     For the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, our unconsolidated oil and gas joint ventures evaluated the full-cost ceiling using then-current prices for oil and natural gas, adjusted for the impact of derivatives accounted for as cash flow hedges. Our U.S., international and Canadian joint ventures' application of the full-cost ceiling test resulted in impairment charges during 2008, of which $207.3 million represented our proportionate share. There were no ceiling test impairment charges recorded by our unconsolidated oil and gas joint ventures during 2007.
     A significantly prolonged period of lower oil and natural gas prices or reserve quantities could continue to adversely affect the demand for and prices of our services, which could result in future impairment charges due to the potential impact on our estimate of our future operating results.
     Deferred taxes represent a substantial liability for Nabors. For financial reporting purposes, management determines our current tax liability as well as those taxes incurred as a result of current operations yet deferred until future periods. In accordance with the liability method of accounting for income taxes as specified in the Income Taxes Topic of the ASC, the provision for income taxes is the sum of income taxes both currently payable and deferred. Currently payable taxes represent the liability related to our income tax return for the current year while the net deferred tax expense or benefit represents the change in the balance of deferred tax assets or liabilities reported on our consolidated balance sheets. The tax effects of unrealized gains and losses on investments and derivative financial instruments are recorded through accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) within equity. The changes in deferred tax assets or liabilities are determined based upon changes in differences between the basis of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the basis of assets and liabilities for tax purposes as measured by the enacted tax rates that management estimates will be in effect when these differences reverse. Management must make certain assumptions regarding whether tax differences are permanent or temporary and must estimate the timing of their reversal, and whether taxable operating income in future periods will be sufficient to fully recognize any gross deferred tax assets. Valuation allowances are established to reduce deferred tax assets when it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. In determining the need for valuation allowances, management has considered and made judgments and estimates regarding estimated future taxable income and ongoing prudent and feasible tax planning strategies. These judgments and estimates are made for each tax jurisdiction in which we operate as the calculation of deferred taxes is completed at that level. Further, under U.S. federal tax law, the amount and availability of loss carryforwards (and certain other tax attributes) are subject to a variety of interpretations and restrictive tests applicable to Nabors and our subsidiaries. The utilization of such carryforwards could be limited or effectively lost upon certain changes in ownership. Accordingly, although we believe substantial loss carryforwards are available to us, no assurance can be given concerning the realization of such loss carryforwards, or whether or not such loss carryforwards will be available in the future. These loss carryforwards are also considered in our calculation of taxes for each jurisdiction in which we operate. Additionally, we record reserves for uncertain tax positions that are subject to a significant level of management judgment related to the ultimate resolution of those tax positions. Accordingly, management believes that the estimate related to the provision for income taxes is critical to our results of operations. See Part I, Item 1A.  Risk Factors  and Note 12  Income Taxes in Part II, Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for additional discussion.
Income Taxes.
We may have additional tax liabilities
     Effective January 1, 2007, we adopted the revised provisions of the Income Taxes Topic in the ASC relating to uncertain tax positions. In connection with that adoption, we recognized increases to our tax reserves for uncertain tax positions along with interest and penalties as an increase to other long-term liabilities and as a reduction to retained earnings at January 1, 2007. See Note 12  Income Taxes in Part II, Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for additional discussion.
 
     We are subject to income taxes in both the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We are regularly under audit by tax authorities. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different than that reflected in historical income tax provisions and accruals. An audit or litigation could materially affect our financial position, income tax provision, net income, or cash flows in the period or periods challenged. However, certain events could occur that would materially affect management's estimates and assumptions regarding the deferred portion of our income tax provision, including estimates of future tax rates applicable to the reversal of tax differences, the classification of timing differences as temporary or permanent, reserves recorded for uncertain tax positions, and any valuation allowance recorded as a reduction to our deferred tax assets. Management's assumptions related to the preparation of our income tax provision have historically proved to be reasonable in light of the ultimate amount of tax liability due in all taxing jurisdictions.
     For the year ended December 31, 2009, our provision for income taxes from continuing operations was $(133.8) million, consisting of $69.5 million of current tax expense and $(203.3) million of deferred tax expense. Changes in management's estimates and assumptions regarding the tax rate applied to deferred tax assets and liabilities, the ability to realize the value of deferred tax assets, or the timing of the reversal of tax basis differences could potentially impact the provision for income taxes and could potentially change the effective tax rate. A 1% change in the effective tax rate from 82.5% to 81.5% would increase the current year income tax provision by approximately $1.6 million.
     Our operations are subject to many hazards inherent in the drilling, workover and well-servicing industries, including blowouts, cratering, explosions, fires, loss of well control, loss of hole, damaged or lost drilling equipment and damage or loss from inclement weather or natural disasters. Any of these hazards could result in personal injury or death, damage to or destruction of equipment and facilities, suspension of operations, environmental damage and damage to the property of others. Generally, drilling contracts provide for the division of responsibilities between a drilling company and its customer, and we seek to obtain indemnification from our customers by contract for certain of these risks. To the extent that we are unable to transfer such risks to customers by contract or indemnification agreements, we seek protection through insurance. However, there is no assurance that such insurance or indemnification agreements will adequately protect us against liability from all of the consequences of the hazards described above. Moreover, our insurance coverage generally provides that we assume a portion of the risk in the form of a deductible or self-insured retention.
Self-Insurance Reserves.
     Based on the risks discussed above, it is necessary for us to estimate the level of our liability related to insurance and record reserves for these amounts in our consolidated financial statements. Reserves related to self-insurance are based on the facts and circumstances specific to the claims and our past experience with similar claims. The actual outcome of self-insured claims could differ significantly from estimated amounts. We maintain actuarially determined accruals in our consolidated balance sheets to cover self-insurance retentions for workers' compensation, employers' liability, general liability and automobile liability claims. These accruals are based on certain assumptions developed utilizing historical data to project future losses. Loss estimates in the calculation of these accruals are adjusted based upon actual claim settlements and reported claims. These loss estimates and accruals recorded in our financial statements for claims have historically been reasonable in light of the actual amount of claims paid.
     Because the determination of our liability for self-insured claims is subject to significant management judgment and in certain instances is based on actuarially estimated and calculated amounts, and because such liabilities could be material in nature, management believes that accounting estimates related to self-insurance reserves are critical.
     For the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, no significant changes have been made to the methodology utilized to estimate insurance reserves. For purposes of earnings sensitivity analysis, if the December 31, 2009 reserves for insurance were adjusted (increased or decreased) by 10%, total costs and other deductions would change by $13.9 million, or .4%.
     We have completed a number of acquisitions in recent years as discussed in Note 5  Fair Value Measurements in Part II, Item 8.  Financial Statements and
Fair Value of Assets Acquired and Liabilities Assumed.
 
Supplementary Data. In conjunction with our accounting for these acquisitions, it was necessary for us to estimate the values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed in the various business combinations using various assumptions. These estimates may be affected by such factors as changing market conditions, technological advances in the industry or changes in regulations governing the industry. The most significant assumptions, and the ones requiring the most judgment, involve the estimated fair values of property, plant and equipment, and the resulting amount of goodwill, if any. Unforeseen changes in operations or technology could substantially alter management's assumptions and could result in lower estimates of values of acquired assets or of future cash flows. This could result in impairment charges being recorded in our consolidated statements of income (loss). As the determination of the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed is subject to significant management judgment and a change in purchase price allocations could result in a material difference in amounts recorded in our consolidated financial statements, management believes that accounting estimates related to the valuation of assets acquired and liabilities assumed are critical.
     The determination of the fair value of assets and liabilities is based on the market for the assets and the settlement value of the liabilities. These estimates are made by management based on our experience with similar assets and liabilities. For the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, no significant changes have been made to the methodology utilized to value assets acquired or liabilities assumed. Our estimates of the fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed have proved to be reliable in the past.
     Given the nature of the evaluation of the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed and the application to specific assets and liabilities, it is not possible to reasonably quantify the impact of changes in these assumptions.
     We have historically compensated our executives and employees, in part, with stock options and restricted stock. Based on the requirements of the Stock Compensation Topic of the ASC, we accounted for stock option and restricted stock awards in 2007, 2008 and 2009 using a fair-value based method, resulting in compensation expense for stock-based awards being recorded in our consolidated statements of income (loss). Determining the fair value of stock-based awards at the grant date requires judgment, including estimating the expected term of stock options, the expected volatility of our stock and expected dividends. In addition, judgment is required in estimating the amount of stock-based awards that are expected to be forfeited. Because the determination of these various assumptions is subject to significant management judgment and different assumptions could result in material differences in amounts recorded in our consolidated financial statements, management believes that accounting estimates related to the valuation of stock-based awards are critical.
Share-Based Compensation.
     The assumptions used to estimate the fair market value of our stock options are based on historical and expected performance of our common shares in the open market, expectations with regard to the pattern with which our employees will exercise their options and the likelihood that dividends will be paid to holders of our common shares. For the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, no significant changes have been made to the methodology utilized to determine the assumptions used in these calculations.

EXHIBIT 99.3
ITEM 8.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
 
To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Nabors Industries Ltd.:
     In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and the related consolidated statements of income (loss), changes in equity and cash flows present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Nabors Industries Ltd. and its subsidiaries at December 31, 2009 and 2008, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2009 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. In addition, in our opinion, the financial statement schedule listed in the index appearing under Item 15(a)(2) presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein when read in conjunction with the related consolidated financial statements. Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009, based on criteria established in issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The Company's management is responsible for these financial statements and financial statement schedule, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in Management's Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting appearing under Item 9A. Our responsibility is to express opinions on these financial statements, on the financial statement schedule, and on the Company's internal control over financial reporting based on our integrated audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.
Internal ControlIntegrated Framework
     As discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company changed the manner in which it accounts for convertible debt instruments and participating securities included in the computation of earnings per share as of January 1, 2009. Additionally, as discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company changed the manner in which its oil and gas reserves are estimated, and its unconsolidated oil and gas joint ventures changed the manner in which their oil and gas reserves are estimated as well as the manner in which prices are determined to calculate the ceiling limit on capitalized oil and gas costs as of December 31, 2009.
     A company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
     Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Houston, Texas February 26, 2010, except for Note 20, as to which the date is December 13, 2010
 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
 
 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
 
     
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
 
     
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
 
     
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
 
Note 1 Nature of Operations
     Nabors is the largest land drilling contractor in the world, with approximately 542 actively marketed land drilling rigs. We conduct oil, gas and geothermal land drilling operations in the U.S. Lower 48 states, Alaska, Canada, South America, Mexico, the Caribbean, the Middle East, the Far East, Russia and Africa. We are also one of the largest land well-servicing and workover contractors in the United States and Canada. We actively market approximately 558 rigs for land workover and well-servicing work in the United States, primarily in the southwestern and western United States, and approximately 172 rigs for land workover and well-servicing work in Canada. Nabors is a leading provider of offshore platform workover and drilling rigs, and actively markets 40 platform, 13 jack-up and 3 barge rigs in the United States and multiple international markets. These rigs provide well-servicing, workover and drilling services. We have a 51% ownership interest in a joint venture in Saudi Arabia, which owns and actively markets 9 rigs in addition to the rigs we lease to the joint venture. We also offer a wide range of ancillary well-site services, including engineering, transportation, construction, maintenance, well logging, directional drilling, rig instrumentation, data collection and other support services in select domestic and international markets. We provide logistics services for onshore drilling in Canada using helicopters and fixed-wing aircraft. We manufacture and lease or sell top drives for a broad range of drilling applications, directional drilling systems, rig instrumentation and data collection equipment, pipeline handling equipment and rig reporting software. We also invest in oil and gas exploration, development and production activities in the U.S., Canada and international areas through both our wholly owned subsidiaries and our separate joint venture entities. We hold a 50% ownership interest in our Canadian entity and 49.7% ownership interests in our U.S. and International entities. Each joint venture pursues development and exploration projects with our existing customers and with other operators in a variety of forms, including operated and non-operated working interests, joint ventures, farm-outs and acquisitions.
     The majority of our business is conducted through our various Contract Drilling operating segments, which include our drilling, workover and well-servicing operations, on land and offshore. Our oil and gas exploration, development and production operations are included in our Oil and Gas operating segment. Our operating segments engaged in drilling technology and top drive manufacturing, directional drilling, rig instrumentation and software, and construction and logistics operations are aggregated in our Other Operating Segments.
     During 2010, we began actively marketing our oil and gas assets in the Horn River basin in Canada and in the Llanos basin in Colombia. These assets also include our 49.7% and 50.0% ownership interests in our investments of Remora and SMVP, respectively, which we account for using the equity method of accounting. We determined that the plan of sale criteria in the ASC Topic relating to the Presentation of Financial Statements for Assets Sold or Held for Sale had been met during the third quarter of 2010. During the third quarter of 2007 we sold our Sea Mar business, previously included in Other Operating Segments, to an unrelated third party. Accordingly, the accompanying consolidated statements of income (loss), and certain accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements, have been updated to retroactively reclassify the operating results of these assets, as discontinued operations for all periods presented. See Note 20  Discontinued Operations for additional discussion.
     The accompanying consolidated financial statements and related footnotes are presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP"). Certain reclassifications have been made to prior periods to conform to the current period presentation, with no effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
     As used in the Report, "we," "us," "our," "the Company" and "Nabors" means Nabors Industries Ltd. and, where the context requires, includes our subsidiaries and "Nabors Delaware" means Nabors Industries, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and our subsidiaries.
Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
Principles of Consolidation
     Our consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Nabors, as well as all majority owned and non-majority owned subsidiaries required to be consolidated under GAAP. Our consolidated financial statements
 
exclude majority owned entities for which we do not have either (1) the ability to control the operating and financial decisions and policies of that entity or (2) a controlling financial interest in a variable interest entity. All significant intercompany accounts and transactions are eliminated in consolidation.
     Investments in operating entities where we have the ability to exert significant influence, but where we do not control operating and financial policies, are accounted for using the equity method. Our share of the net income (loss) of these entities is recorded as earnings (losses) from unconsolidated affiliates in our consolidated statements of income (loss), and our investment in these entities is included as a single amount in our consolidated balance sheets. Investments in unconsolidated affiliates accounted for using the equity method totaled $305.7 million and $410.8 million and investments in unconsolidated affiliates accounted for using the cost method totaled $.9 million as of each December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Similarly, investments in certain offshore funds classified as non-marketable are accounted for using the equity method of accounting based on our ownership interest in each fund.
Cash and Cash Equivalents
     Cash and cash equivalents include demand deposits and various other short-term investments with original maturities of three months or less.
Investments
Short-term investments
     Short-term investments consist of equity securities, certificates of deposit, corporate debt securities, U.S.- government debt securities, foreign-government debt securities, mortgage-backed debt securities and asset-backed debt securities. Securities classified as available-for-sale or trading are stated at fair value. Unrealized holding gains and temporary losses for available-for-sale securities are excluded from earnings and, until realized, are reported net of taxes in a separate component of equity. Unrealized holding losses are included in earnings during the period for which the loss is determined to be other-than-temporary. Gains and losses from changes in the market value of securities classified as trading are reported in earnings currently.
     In computing realized gains and losses on the sale of equity securities, the specific-identification method is used. In accordance with this method, the cost of the equity securities sold is determined using the specific cost of the security when originally purchased.
Long-term investments and other receivables
     Our oil and gas financing receivables are classified as long-term investments. These receivables represent our financing agreements for certain production payment contracts in our Oil and Gas segment. We have also invested in overseas funds that invest primarily in a variety of public and private U.S. and non-U.S. securities (including asset-backed and mortgage-backed securities, global structured-asset securitizations, whole-loan mortgages, and participations in whole loans and whole-loan mortgages). These investments are classified as non-marketable, because they do not have published fair values. We account for these funds under the equity method of accounting based on our percentage ownership interest and recognize gains or losses, as investment income (loss), currently based on changes in the net asset value of our investment during the current period.
Inventory
     Inventory is stated at the lower of cost or market. Cost is determined using the first-in, first-out method and includes the cost of materials, labor and manufacturing overhead.
Property, Plant and Equipment
     Property, plant and equipment, including renewals and betterments, are stated at cost, while maintenance and repairs are expensed currently. Interest costs applicable to the construction of qualifying assets are capitalized as a component of the cost of such assets. We provide for the depreciation of our drilling and workover rigs using the units-of-production method. For each day a rig is operating, we depreciate it over an approximate 4,900-day period, with the exception of our jack-up rigs which are depreciated over an 8,030-day period, after provision for salvage value. For each day a rig asset is not operating, it is depreciated over an assumed depreciable life of 20 years, with the exception of our jack-up rigs, where a 30-year depreciable life is used, after provision for salvage value.
 
     Depreciation on our buildings, well-servicing rigs, oilfield hauling and mobile equipment, marine transportation and supply vessels, aircraft equipment, and other machinery and equipment is computed using the straight-line method over the estimated useful life of the asset after provision for salvage value (buildings  10 to 30 years; well-servicing rigs  3 to 15 years; marine transportation and supply vessels  10 to 25 years; aircraft equipment  5 to 20 years; oilfield hauling and mobile equipment and other machinery and equipment  3 to 10 years). Amortization of capitalized leases is included in depreciation and amortization expense. Upon retirement or other disposal of fixed assets, the cost and related accumulated depreciation are removed from the respective accounts and any gains or losses are included in our results of operations.
     We review our assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts of property, plant and equipment may not be recoverable. An impairment loss is recorded in the period in which it is determined that the sum of estimated future cash flows, on an undiscounted basis, is less than the carrying amount of the long-lived asset. Impairment charges are recorded using discounted cash flows which requires the estimation of dayrates and utilization, and such estimates can change based on market conditions, technological advances in the industry or changes in regulations governing the industry. Significant and unanticipated changes to the assumptions could result in future impairments. A significantly prolonged period of lower oil and natural gas prices could continue to adversely affect the demand for and prices of our services, which could result in future impairment charges. As the determination of whether impairment charges should be recorded on our long-lived assets is subject to significant management judgment and an impairment of these assets could result in a material charge on our consolidated statements of income (loss), management believes that accounting estimates related to impairment of long-lived assets are critical.
Oil and Gas Properties
     We follow the successful-efforts method of accounting for our consolidated subsidiaries' oil and gas activities. Under the successful-efforts method, lease acquisition costs and all development costs are capitalized. Our provision for depletion is based on these capitalized costs and is determined on a property-by-property basis using the units-of-production method. Proved property acquisition costs are amortized over total proved reserves. Costs of wells and related equipment and facilities are amortized over the life of proved developed reserves. Estimated fair value of proved and unproved properties includes the estimated present value of all reasonably expected future production, prices, and costs. Proved oil and gas properties are reviewed when circumstances suggest the need for such a review and, are written down to their estimated fair value, if required. Unproved properties are reviewed to determine if there has been impairment of the carrying value and when circumstances suggest an impairment has occurred, are written down to their estimated fair value in that period. We consider the fair value estimates a Level 3 fair value measurement. The estimated fair value of our proved reserves generally declines when there is a significant and sustained decline in oil and natural gas prices. For the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, our impairment tests on the oil and gas-related assets of our wholly owned Ramshorn business unit resulted in impairment charges of $197.7 million, $21.5 million and $41.0 million, respectively. As further discussed below in , we adopted new guidance relating to the manner in which our oil and gas reserves are estimated as of December 31, 2009.
Recent Accounting Pronouncements
     Exploratory drilling costs are capitalized until the results are determined. If proved reserves are not discovered, the exploratory drilling costs are expensed. Interest costs related to financing major oil and gas projects in progress are capitalized until the projects are evaluated or until the projects are substantially complete and ready for their intended use if the projects are evaluated as successful. Other exploratory costs are expensed as incurred.
     Our unconsolidated oil and gas joint ventures, which we account for under the equity method of accounting, utilize the full-cost method of accounting for costs related to oil and natural gas properties. Under this method, all such costs (for both productive and nonproductive properties) are capitalized and amortized on an aggregate basis over the estimated lives of the properties using the units-of-production method. However, these capitalized costs are subject to a ceiling test which limits pooled costs to the aggregate of the present value of future net revenues attributable to proved oil and natural gas reserves, discounted at 10%, plus the lower of cost or market value of unproved properties. As further discussed below in and in relation to the full-cost ceiling test, our unconsolidated oil and gas joint ventures changed the manner in which their oil and gas reserves are estimated and the manner in which they calculate the ceiling limit on capitalized oil and gas costs as of December 31, 2009. Under the new guidance, future revenues for purposes of the ceiling test are valued using a 12-month
Recent Accounting Pronouncements
 
average price, adjusted for the impact of derivatives accounted for as cash flow hedges as prescribed by the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") rules. For the year ended December 31, 2009, our unconsolidated oil and gas joint ventures' application of the full-cost ceiling test resulted in impairment charges, of which $189.3 million represented our proportionate share.
     For the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, our unconsolidated oil and gas joint ventures evaluated the full-cost ceiling using then-current prices for oil and natural gas, adjusted for the impact of derivatives accounted for as cash flow hedges. Our unconsolidated oil and gas joint ventures' application of the full-cost ceiling test resulted in impairment charges during 2008, of which $207.3 million represented our proportionate share. There were no ceiling test impairment charges recorded by our unconsolidated oil and gas joint ventures during 2007.
     A significantly prolonged period of lower oil and natural gas prices or a reduction to the estimation of reserve quantities could continue to result in future impairment charges to our oil and gas properties.
Goodwill
     Goodwill represents the cost in excess of fair value of the net assets of companies acquired. We review goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value. A significantly prolonged period of lower oil and natural gas prices could continue to adversely affect the demand for and prices of our services, which could result in future goodwill impairment charges for other reporting units due to the potential impact on our estimate of our future operating results. See Note 3  Impairments and Other Charges for discussion of goodwill impairments.
     The change in the carrying amount of goodwill for our various Contract Drilling segments and our Other Operating Segments for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 was as follows:
 
 
     Our Oil and Gas segment does not have any goodwill. Goodwill for the consolidated company, totaling approximately $6.2 million, is expected to be deductible for tax purposes.
Derivative Financial Instruments
     We record derivative financial instruments (including certain derivative instruments embedded in other contracts) in our consolidated balance sheets at fair value as either assets or liabilities. The accounting for changes in the fair value of a derivative instrument depends on the intended use of the derivative and the resulting designation, which is established at the inception of a derivative. Accounting for derivatives qualifying as fair value hedges allows a derivative's gains and losses to offset related results on the hedged item in the statement of income. For derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges, changes in fair value, to the extent the hedge is effective, are recognized in other comprehensive income until the hedged item is recognized in earnings. Hedge effectiveness is measured quarterly based on the relative cumulative changes in fair value between the derivative contract and the hedged item over time. Any change in fair value resulting from ineffectiveness is recognized immediately in earnings. Any change in fair value of derivative financial instruments that are speculative in nature and do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment is also recognized immediately in earnings. Proceeds received upon termination of derivative financial instruments qualifying as fair value hedges are deferred and amortized into income over the remaining life of the hedged item using the effective interest rate method.
Litigation and Insurance Reserves
     We estimate our reserves related to litigation and insurance based on the facts and circumstances specific to the litigation and insurance claims and our past experience with similar claims. We maintain actuarially determined accruals in our consolidated balance sheets to cover self-insurance retentions. See Note 16  Commitments and Contingencies regarding self-insurance accruals. We estimate the range of our liability related to pending litigation when we believe the amount and range of loss can be estimated. We record our best estimate of a loss when the loss is considered probable. When a liability is probable and there is a range of estimated loss with no best estimate in the range, we record the minimum estimated liability related to the lawsuits or claims. As additional information becomes available, we assess the potential liability related to our pending litigation and claims and revise our estimates.
Revenue Recognition
     We recognize revenues and costs on daywork contracts daily as the work progresses. For certain contracts, we receive lump-sum payments for the mobilization of rigs and other drilling equipment. We defer revenue related to mobilization periods and recognize the revenue over the term of the related drilling contract. Costs incurred related to a mobilization period for which a contract is secured are deferred and recognized over the term of the related drilling contract. Costs incurred to relocate rigs and other drilling equipment to areas in which a contract has not been secured are expensed as incurred. We defer recognition of revenue on amounts received from customers for prepayment of services until those services are provided.
     We recognize revenue for top drives and instrumentation systems we manufacture when the earnings process is complete. This generally occurs when products have been shipped, title and risk of loss have been transferred, collectibility is probable, and pricing is fixed and determinable.
     We recognize, as operating revenue, proceeds from business interruption insurance claims in the period that the applicable proof of loss documentation is received. Proceeds from casualty insurance settlements in excess of the carrying value of damaged assets are recognized in losses (gains) on sales and retirements of long-lived assets and other expense (income), net in the period that the applicable proof of loss documentation is received. Proceeds from casualty insurance settlements that are expected to be less than the carrying value of damaged assets are recognized
 
at the time the loss is incurred and recorded in losses (gains) on sales and retirements of long-lived assets and other expense (income), net.
     We recognize reimbursements received for out-of-pocket expenses incurred as revenues and account for out-of-pocket expenses as direct costs.
     We recognize revenue on our interests in oil and gas properties as production occurs and title passes. We also recognize, as operating revenues, gains on sales of our interests in oil and gas properties when title passes and on our earnings associated with production contracts when realized.
Share-Based Compensation
     We record compensation expense for all share-based awards granted. The amount of compensation expense recognized is based on the grant-date fair value. Note 6  Share-Based Compensation for additional discussion.
Income Taxes
     We are a Bermuda exempt company and are not subject to income taxes in Bermuda. Consequently, income taxes have been provided based on the tax laws and rates in effect in the countries in which our operations are conducted and income is earned. The income taxes in these jurisdictions vary substantially. Our effective tax rate for financial statement purposes will continue to fluctuate from year to year because our operations are conducted in different taxing jurisdictions.
     Effective January 1, 2007, we adopted the revised provisions of the Income Taxes Topic in the ASC relating to uncertain tax positions. In connection with that adoption, we recognized increases to our tax reserves for uncertain tax positions along with interest and penalties as an increase to other long-term liabilities and as a reduction to retained earnings at January 1, 2007.
     For U.S. and other jurisdictional income tax purposes, we have net operating and other loss carryforwards that we are required to assess quarterly for potential valuation allowances. We consider the sufficiency of existing temporary differences and expected future earnings levels in determining the amount, if any, of valuation allowance required against such carryforwards and against deferred tax assets.
     We do not provide for U.S. or foreign income or withholding taxes on unremitted earnings of all U.S. and certain foreign entities, as these earnings are considered permanently reinvested. Unremitted earnings, represented by tax basis accumulated earnings and profits, totaled approximately $105.0 million, $537.7 million and $477.6 million as of December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. It is not practicable to estimate the amount of deferred income taxes associated with these unremitted earnings.
     Nabors realizes an income tax benefit associated with certain awards issued under our stock plans. We recognize the benefits related to tax deductions up to the amount of the compensation expense recorded for the award in the consolidated statements of income (loss). Any excess tax benefit (i.e., tax deduction in excess of compensation expense) is reflected as an increase in capital in excess of par. Any shortfall is recorded as a reduction to capital in excess of par to the extent of our aggregate accumulated pool of windfall benefits, beyond which the shortfall would be recognized in the consolidated statements of income (loss).
Foreign Currency Translation
     For certain of our foreign subsidiaries, such as those in Canada and Argentina, the local currency is the functional currency, and therefore translation gains or losses associated with foreign-denominated monetary accounts are accumulated in a separate section of the consolidated statements of changes in equity. For our other international subsidiaries, the U.S. dollar is the functional currency, and therefore local currency transaction gains and losses, arising from remeasurement of payables and receivables denominated in local currency, are included in our consolidated statements of income (loss).
 
Cash Flows
     We treat the redemption price, including accrued original issue discount, on our convertible debt instruments as a financing activity for purposes of reporting cash flows in our consolidated statements of cash flows.
Use of Estimates
     The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make certain estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date and the amounts of revenues and expenses recognized during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from such estimates. Areas where critical accounting estimates are made by management include:
Recent Accounting Pronouncements
     On July 1, 2009, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") released the Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC"). The ASC became the single source of authoritative nongovernmental GAAP. Rules and interpretive releases of the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") under authority of federal securities laws are also sources of authoritative GAAP for SEC registrants. The ASC is not intended to change GAAP, but changes the approach by referencing authoritative literature by topic (each, a "Topic") rather than by type of standard. Accordingly, references in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements to former FASB positions, statements, interpretations, opinions, bulletins or other pronouncements are now presented as references to the corresponding Topic in the ASC.
     Effective January 1, 2009, Nabors changed its method of accounting for certain of its convertible debt instruments in accordance with the revised provisions of the Debt with Conversions and Other Options Topic of the ASC. Additionally, Nabors changed its method for calculating its basic and diluted earnings per share using the two-class method in accordance with the revised provisions of the Earnings Per Share Topic of the ASC. As required by the Accounting Changes and Error Corrections Topic of the ASC, financial information and earnings per share calculations for prior periods have been adjusted to reflect retrospective application.
     The revised provisions of the Debt with Conversions and Other Options Topic clarify that convertible debt instruments that may be settled in cash upon conversion are accounted for with a liability component based on the fair value of a similar nonconvertible debt instrument and an equity component based on the excess of the initial proceeds from the convertible debt instrument over the liability component. Such excess represents proceeds related to the conversion option and is recorded as capital in excess of par value. The liability is recorded at a discount, which is then amortized as additional non-cash interest expense over the convertible debt instrument's expected life. The retrospective application and impact of these provisions on our consolidated financial statements is described in Note 11  Debt.
 
     The revised provisions relating to use of the two-class method for calculating earnings per share within the Earnings Per Share Topic provide that securities that are granted in share-based transactions are "participating securities" prior to vesting if they have a nonforfeitable right to participate in any dividends, and such securities therefore should be included in computing basic earnings per share. Our awards of restricted stock are considered participating securities under this definition. The retrospective application and impact of these provisions on our consolidated financial statements is set forth in Note 17  Earnings (Losses) Per Share.
     Effective January 1, 2008, we adopted and applied the provisions of the Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures Topic of the ASC to our financial assets and liabilities and on January 1, 2009 applied the same provisions to our nonfinancial assets and liabilities. Effective April 1, 2009, we adopted the provisions of this Topic relating to fair value measures in inactive markets. These provisions provide additional guidance for determining whether a market for a financial asset is not active and a transaction is not distressed for fair value measurements. The application of these provisions did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. Our fair value disclosures are provided in Note 5  Fair Value Measurements.
     Effective January 1, 2009, we adopted the revised provisions of the Business Combinations Topic of the ASC and will apply those provisions on a prospective basis to acquisitions. The revised provisions retain the fundamental requirement that the acquisition method of accounting be used for all business combinations and expands the use of the acquisition method to all transactions and other events in which one entity obtains control over one or more other businesses or assets at the acquisition date and in subsequent periods. The revised provisions require measurement at the acquisition date of the fair value of assets acquired, liabilities assumed and any noncontrolling interests. Additionally, acquisition-related costs, including restructuring costs, are recognized as expense separately from the acquisition.
     Effective January 1, 2009, new provisions relating to noncontrolling interests of a subsidiary within the Identifiable Assets and Liabilities, and Any Noncontrolling Interest Topic of the ASC were released. The provisions establish the accounting and reporting standards for a noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary and for the deconsolidation of a subsidiary. The provisions clarify that a noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary is an ownership interest in the consolidated entity that should be reported as equity in the consolidated financial statements. Our consolidated financial statements reflect the adoption and have been adjusted to reflect retrospective application. The application of these provisions did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
     Effective January 1, 2009, we adopted the revised provisions relating to expanded disclosures of derivatives within the Derivatives and Hedging Topic of the ASC. The revised provisions are intended to improve financial reporting about derivative instruments and hedging activities by requiring enhanced qualitative and quantitative disclosures regarding such instruments, gains and losses thereon and their effects on an entity's financial position, financial performance and cash flows. The application of these provisions did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
     In December 2008, the SEC issued a Final Rule, "Modernization of Oil and Gas Reporting." This rule revises some of the oil and gas reporting disclosures in Regulation S-K and Regulation S-X under the Securities Act and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act"), as well as Industry Guide 2. Effective December 31, 2009, the FASB issued revised guidance that substantially aligned the oil and gas accounting disclosures with the SEC's Final Rule. The amendments are designed to modernize and update oil and gas disclosure requirements to align them with current practices and changes in technology. Additionally, this new accounting standard requires that entities use 12-month average natural gas and oil prices when calculating the quantities of proved reserves and performing the full-cost ceiling test calculation. The new standard also clarified that an entity's equity method investments must be considered in determining whether it has significant oil and gas activities. The disclosure requirements are effective for registration statements filed on or after January 1, 2010 and for annual financial statements filed on or after December 31, 2009. The FASB provided a one-year deferral of the disclosure requirements if an entity became subject to the requirements because of a change to the definition of significant oil and gas activities. When operating results from our wholly owned oil and gas activities are considered with operating results from our unconsolidated oil and gas joint ventures, which we account for under the equity method of accounting, we have significant oil and gas activities under the new definition. In line with the one-year deferral, we will provide the oil and gas disclosures in annual periods beginning after December 31, 2009.
 
     Effective April 1, 2009, we adopted the provisions in the Investments of Debt and Equity Securities Topic of the ASC relating to recognition and presentation of other-than-temporary impairments to debt securities. The impact of these provisions is set forth in Notes 3  Impairments and Other Charges and 4  Cash and Cash Equivalents and Investments.
     Effective June 30, 2009, we adopted the provisions in the Financial Instruments Topic of the ASC relating to quarterly disclosure of the fair value of financial instruments. The disclosures required by this Topic are provided in Note 5  Fair Value Measurements.
     Effective June 30, 2009, we adopted the revised provisions in the Subsequent Events Topic of the ASC and evaluated subsequent events through the date of the release of our financial statements. The adoption of the Subsequent Events Topic of the ASC did not have any impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
Note 3 Impairments and Other Charges
The following table provides the components of impairments and other charges recorded during the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007:
     During the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, we recognized goodwill impairments of approximately $14.7 million and $150.0 million, respectively, related to our Canadian operations. During 2008, we impaired the entire goodwill balance of $145.4 million of our Canada Well-servicing and Drilling operating segment and recorded an impairment of $4.6 million to Nabors Blue Sky Ltd., one of our Canadian subsidiaries reported in our Other Operating segments. During 2009, we impaired the remaining goodwill balance of $14.7 million of Nabors Blue Sky Ltd. The impairment charges resulted from our annual impairment tests on goodwill which compared the estimated fair value of each of our reporting units to its carrying value. The estimated fair value of these business units was determined using discounted cash flow models involving assumptions based on our utilization of rigs or aircraft, revenues and earnings from affiliates, as well as direct costs, general and administrative costs, depreciation, applicable income taxes, capital expenditures and working capital requirements. We determined that the fair value estimated for purposes of this test represented a Level 3 fair value measurement. The impairment charges were
 
deemed necessary due to the continued downturn in the oil and gas industry in Canada and the lack of certainty regarding eventual recovery in the value of these operations. This downturn has led to reduced capital spending by some of our customers and has diminished demand for our drilling services and for immediate access to remote drilling sites. A significantly prolonged period of lower oil and natural gas prices could adversely affect the demand for and prices of our services, which could result in future goodwill impairment charges for other reporting units due to the potential impact on our estimate of our future operating results. See Note 2  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (included under the caption "Goodwill") for amounts of goodwill related to each of our reporting units.
     During the year ended December 31, 2009, we retired some rigs and rig components in our U.S. Offshore, Alaska, Canada and International Contract Drilling segments and reduced their aggregate carrying value from $69.0 million to their estimated aggregate salvage value, resulting in impairment charges of approximately $64.2 million. The retirements included inactive workover jack-up rigs in our U.S. Offshore and International operations, the structural frames of some incomplete coiled tubing rigs in our Canada operations and miscellaneous rig components in our Alaska operations. The impairment charges resulted from the continued deterioration and longer than expected downturn in the demand for oil and gas drilling activities. A prolonged period of lower natural gas and oil prices and its potential impact on our utilization and dayrates could result in the recognition of future impairment charges to additional assets if future cash flow estimates, based upon information then available to management, indicate that the carrying value of those assets may not be recoverable.
     Also in 2009, we recorded impairments totaling $197.7 million to some of the oil and gas-related assets of our wholly owned Ramshorn business unit. We recorded an impairment of $149.1 million to one of our oil and gas financing receivables, which reduced the carrying value of our oil and gas financing receivables recorded as long-term investments to $92.5 million. The impairment resulted primarily from commodity price deterioration and the lower price environment lasting longer than expected. This prolonged period of lower prices has significantly reduced demand for future gas production and development in the Barnett Shale area of north central Texas, which has influenced our decision not to expend capital to develop on some of the undeveloped acreage. The impairment was determined using discounted cash flow models involving assumptions based on estimated cash flows for proved and probable reserves, undeveloped acreage value, and current and expected natural gas prices. We believe the estimates used provide a reasonable estimate of current fair value. We determined that this represented a Level 3 fair value measurement. A further protraction or continued period of lower commodity prices could result in recognition of future impairment charges. During the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, our impairment tests on the oil and gas properties of our wholly owned Ramshorn business unit resulted in impairment charges of $48.6 million, $21.5 million and $41.0 million, respectively. The impairments recognized during 2009 were primarily the result of a write down of the carrying value of some acreage in the U.S. and Canada because we do not have future plans to develop. The impairments recognized during 2008 were primarily due to the significant decline in oil and natural gas prices at the end of 2008. The impairments recognized during 2007 were necessary from lower than expected performance of some oil and gas development wells. Additional discussion of our policy pertaining to the calculations of these impairments is set forth in Note 2  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies.
     In 2009, we recorded other-than-temporary impairments to our available-for-sale securities totaling $54.3 million. Of this, $35.6 million was related to an investment in a corporate bond that was downgraded to non-investment grade level by Standard and Poor's and Moody's Investors Service during the year. Our determination that the impairment was other than temporary was based on a variety of factors, including the length of time and extent to which the market value had been less than cost, the financial condition of the issuer of the security, and the credit ratings and recent reorganization of the issuer. The remaining $18.7 million related to an equity security of a public company whose operations are driven in large measure by the price of oil and in which we invested approximately $46 million during the second and third quarters of 2008. During late 2008, demand for oil and gas began to diminish significantly as part of the general deterioration of the global economic environment, causing a broad decline in value of nearly all oil and gas-related equity securities. Because the trading price per share of this security remained below our cost basis for an extended period of time, we determined the investment was other than temporarily impaired and it was appropriate to write down the investment's carrying value to its current estimated fair value of approximately $27.0 million at December 31, 2009.
 
Note 4 Cash and Cash Equivalents and Investments
     Our cash and cash equivalents, short-term and long-term investments and other receivables consisted of the following:
     Certain information related to our cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments follows:
 
     Certain information related to the gross unrealized losses of our cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments follows:
 
     The estimated fair values of our corporate, mortgage-backed, mortgage-CMO and asset-backed debt securities at December 31, 2009, classified by time to contractual maturity, are shown below. Expected maturities differ from contractual maturities because the issuers of the securities may have the right to repay obligations without prepayment penalties and we may elect to sell the securities prior to the contractual maturity date.
     Certain information regarding our debt and equity securities is presented below:
 
Note 5 Fair Value Measurements
     Effective January 1, 2008, we provided enhanced disclosures about our assets and liabilities carried at fair value as required by the provisions of the Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures Topic of the ASC.
     As defined in the ASC, fair value is the price that would be received upon sale of an asset or paid upon transfer of a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date (exit price). We utilize
 
market data or assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability, including assumptions about risk and the risks inherent in the inputs to the valuation technique. These inputs can be readily observable, market-corroborated, or generally unobservable. We primarily apply the market approach for recurring fair value measurements and endeavor to utilize the best information available. Accordingly, we employ valuation techniques that maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs. The use of unobservable inputs is intended to allow for fair value determinations in situations where there is little, if any, market activity for the asset or liability at the measurement date. We are able to classify fair value balances utilizing a fair value hierarchy based on the observability of those inputs. Under the fair value hierarchy
     The following table sets forth, by level within the fair value hierarchy, our financial assets and liabilities that are accounted for at fair value on a recurring basis as of December 31, 2009. Our financial assets and liabilities are classified in their entirety based on the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement.
Recurring Fair Value Measurements
Nonrecurring Fair Value Measurements
     Effective January 1, 2009, fair value measurements were applied with respect to our nonfinancial assets and liabilities measured on a nonrecurring basis, which consists primarily of goodwill, oil and gas financing receivables, intangible assets and other long-lived assets, assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination, and asset retirement obligations. Refer to Note 3  Impairments and Other Charges for additional discussion.
Fair Value of Financial Instruments
     The fair value of our financial instruments has been estimated in accordance with GAAP. The fair value of our fixed rate long-term debt is estimated based on quoted market prices or prices quoted from third-party financial institutions. The carrying and fair values of our long-term debt, including the current portion, are as follows:
 
 
     The fair values of our cash equivalents, trade receivables and trade payables approximate their carrying values due to the short-term nature of these instruments.
     As of December 31, 2009, our short-term investments were carried at fair market value and included $139.0 million and $24.0 million in securities classified as available-for-sale and trading, respectively. As of December 31, 2008, our short-term investments were carried at fair market value and included $127.9 million and $14.3 million in securities classified as available-for-sale and trading, respectively. The carrying values of our long-term investments that are accounted for using the equity method of accounting approximate fair value. The fair value of these long-term investments totaled $8.3 million and $15.7 million as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The carrying value of our oil and gas financing receivables included in long-term investments approximate fair value. The fair value of our oil and gas financing receivables totaled $92.5 million and $224.2 million as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Income and gains associated with our oil and gas financing receivables are recognized as operating revenues.
Note 6 Share-Based Compensation
     Total share-based compensation expense, which includes both stock options and restricted stock, totaled $106.7 million, $45.4 million and $33.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Compensation expense related to awards of restricted stock totaled $88.9 million, $44.6 million and $26.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, and is included in direct costs and general and administrative expenses in our consolidated statements of income (loss). Share-based compensation expense has been allocated to our various operating segments. See Note 21  Segment Information. Total share-based compensation expense for 2009 includes the recognition of $72.1 million of compensation expense related to previously granted restricted stock and option awards held by Messrs. Isenberg and Petrello that was unrecognized as of April 1, 2009. The recognition of this expense resulted from provisions of their respective new employment agreements which effectively eliminated the risk of forfeiture of such awards. See Note 16  Commitments and Contingencies for additional information.
     The cash flows resulting from tax deductions in excess of the compensation cost recognized for share-based awards (excess tax benefits) are classified as financing cash flows. The actual tax benefit realized from share-based awards during the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 was $.3 million, $7.6 million and $3.3 million, respectively.
Stock Option Plans
     As of December 31, 2009, we had several stock plans under which options to purchase our common shares could be granted to key officers, directors and managerial employees of Nabors and its subsidiaries. Options granted under the plans generally are at prices equal to the fair market value of the shares on the date of the grant. Options granted under the plans generally are exercisable in varying cumulative periodic installments after one year. In the case of certain key executives, options granted under the plans are subject to accelerated vesting related to targeted common share prices, or may vest immediately on the grant date. Options granted under the plans cannot be exercised more than ten years from the date of grant. Options to purchase 12.0 million and 15.6 million Nabors common shares remained available for grant as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Of the common shares available for
 
grant as of December 31, 2009, approximately 11.1 million of these shares are also available for issuance in the form of restricted shares.
     The fair value of each option award is estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model which uses assumptions for the risk-free interest rate, volatility, dividend yield and the expected term of the options. The risk-free interest rate is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant for a period equal to the expected term of the option. Expected volatilities are based on implied volatilities from traded options on Nabors' common shares, historical volatility of Nabors' common shares, and other factors. We do not assume any dividend yield, since we do not pay dividends. We use historical data to estimate the expected term of the options and employee terminations within the option-pricing model; separate groups of employees that have similar historical exercise behavior are considered separately for valuation purposes. The expected term of the options represents the period of time that the options granted are expected to be outstanding.
     We also consider an estimated forfeiture rate for these option awards, and we recognize compensation cost only for those shares that are expected to vest, on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period of the award, which is generally the vesting term of three to five years. The forfeiture rate is based on historical experience. Estimated forfeitures have been adjusted to reflect actual forfeitures during 2009.
     Stock option transactions under our various stock-based employee compensation plans are presented below:
     Of the options outstanding, 27.2 million, 25.9 million and 27.8 million were exercisable at weighted-average exercise prices of $21.04, $21.99 and $22.03, as of December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. There were no options granted during the years ended December 31, 2008 or 2007.
     During the year ended December 31, 2009, we awarded options vesting over periods up to four years to purchase 10,015,883 of our common shares to our employees, executive officers and directors. This included options to purchase 3,000,000 and 1,698,427 shares, with grant date fair values of $8.8 million and $5.0 million, granted to Messrs. Isenberg and Petrello, respectively, in February 2009, and an option to purchase 1,726 shares, with a grant date fair value of $.01 million, to Mr. Petrello in September 2009 in lieu of certain portions of their cash compensation.
     The fair value of stock options granted during 2009 was calculated using the Black-Scholes option pricing model and the following weighted-average assumptions:
 
 
     A summary of our unvested stock options as of December 31, 2009, and the changes during the year then ended is presented below:
     The total intrinsic value of options exercised during the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 was $19.7 million, $43.6 million and $76.2 million, respectively. The total fair value of options that vested during the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 was $10.8 million, $4.3 million and $11.9 million, respectively.
     As of December 31, 2009, there was $9.5 million of total future compensation cost related to unvested options which are expected to vest. That cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 1.6 years.
Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units
     Our stock plans allow grants of restricted stock. Restricted stock is issued on the grant date, but cannot be sold or transferred. Restricted stock vests in varying periodic installments ranging from three to five years.
     A summary of our restricted stock as of December 31, 2009, and the changes during the year then ended, is presented below:
     During 2009, we awarded 84,000 shares of restricted stock to our directors. These awards had an aggregate value at their date of grant of $1.0 million and were scheduled to vest over a period of three years. The fair value of restricted stock that vested during the year ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 was $23.9 million, $39.6 million and $13.2 million, respectively.
     As of December 31, 2009, there was $14.6 million of total future compensation cost related to unvested restricted stock awards which are expected to vest. That cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of approximately one year.
Note 7 Acquisitions and Divestitures
     On August 8, 2007, we sold our Sea Mar business which had previously been included in Other Operating Segments. The assets included 20 offshore supply vessels and certain related assets, including a right under a vessel construction contract. See Note 20  Discontinued Operations for operating results which have been accounted for as a discontinued operation.
     From time to time, we may sell a subsidiary or group of assets outside of our core markets or business if it is economically advantageous for us to do so.
 
Note 8 Property, Plant and Equipment
     The major components of our property, plant and equipment are as follows:
 
     Repair and maintenance expense included in direct costs in our consolidated statements of income (loss) totaled $282.1 million, $476.6 million and $438.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.
     Interest costs of $29.9 million, $29.8 million and $34.6 million were capitalized during the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.
Note 9 Investments in Unconsolidated Affiliates
     Our principal investments in unconsolidated affiliates accounted for using the equity method include a construction and logistics operation in Alaska (50% ownership), drilling and workover operations located in Saudi Arabia (51% ownership) and oil and gas exploration, development and production joint ventures in the U.S. and international (49.7% ownership) and Canada (50% ownership). These unconsolidated affiliates are integral to our operations in those locations. During 2008, our U.S. oil and gas joint venture was deemed a significant subsidiary. See Part IV  Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules for Schedule III  Financial Statements and Notes for NFR Energy LLC and see Note 15  Related-Party Transactions for a discussion of transactions with all of these related parties.
     As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, our investments in unconsolidated affiliates accounted for using the equity method totaled $305.7 million and $410.8 million, respectively, and our investments in unconsolidated affiliates accounted for using the cost method totaled $.9 million. Combined condensed financial data for investments in unconsolidated affiliates is summarized as follows:
 
     Cumulative undistributed (losses) earnings of our unconsolidated affiliates included in our retained earnings as of December 31, 2009 and 2008 totaled approximately $(387.5) million and $(157.7) million, respectively. Our Earnings (losses) from unconsolidated affiliates line in our consolidated statements of income (loss) for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 includes our proportionate share of full-cost ceiling test writedowns of $189.3 million and $207.3 million, respectively, from our unconsolidated oil and gas joint ventures. These writedowns are included in our Oil and Gas operating segment results.
Note 10 Financial Instruments and Risk Concentration
     We may be exposed to certain market risks arising from the use of financial instruments in the ordinary course of business. These risks arise primarily as a result of potential changes in the fair market value of financial instruments that would result from adverse fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, credit risk, interest rates, and marketable and non-marketable security prices as discussed below.
Foreign Currency Risk
     We operate in a number of international areas and are involved in transactions denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollars, which exposes us to foreign exchange rate risk or foreign currency devaluation risk. The most significant exposures arise in connection with our operations in Venezuela and Canada, which usually are substantially unhedged.
     At various times, we utilize local currency borrowings (foreign currency-denominated debt), the payment structure of customer contracts and foreign exchange contracts to selectively hedge our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations in connection with monetary assets, liabilities, cash flows and commitments denominated in certain foreign currencies. A foreign exchange contract is a foreign currency transaction, defined as an agreement to exchange different currencies at a given future date and at a specified rate.
Credit Risk
     Our financial instruments that potentially subject us to concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of cash equivalents, investments in marketable and non-marketable securities, oil and gas financing receivables, accounts receivable and our range-cap-and-floor derivative instrument. Cash equivalents such as deposits and temporary cash investments are held by major banks or investment firms. Our investments in marketable and non-marketable securities are managed within established guidelines which limit the amounts that may be invested with any one issuer and provide guidance as to issuer credit quality. We believe that the credit risk in our cash and investment portfolio is minimized as a result of the mix of our investments. In addition, our trade receivables are with a variety of U.S., international and foreign-country national oil and gas companies. Management considers this credit risk to be limited due to the financial resources of these companies. We perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers and we generally do not require material collateral. We do occasionally require prepayment of amounts from customers whose creditworthiness is in question prior to providing services to them. We maintain reserves for potential credit losses, and these losses historically have been within management's expectations.
Interest Rate and Marketable and Non-marketable Security Price Risk
     Our financial instruments that are potentially sensitive to changes in interest rates include our 0.94% senior exchangeable notes, our 5.375%, 6.15% and 9.25% senior notes, our range-cap-and-floor derivative instrument, our investments in debt securities (including corporate, asset-backed, U.S.-government, foreign government, mortgage-backed debt and mortgage-CMO debt securities) and our investments in overseas funds that invest primarily in a variety of public and private U.S. and non-U.S. securities (including asset-backed and mortgage-backed securities, global structured-asset securitizations, whole-loan mortgages, and participations in whole loans and whole-loan mortgages), which are classified as non-marketable securities.
     We may utilize derivative financial instruments that are intended to manage our exposure to interest rate risks. The use of derivative financial instruments could expose us to further credit risk and market risk. Credit risk in this context is the failure of a counterparty to perform under the terms of the derivative contract. When the fair value of a derivative contract is positive, the counterparty would owe us, which can create credit risk for us. When the fair value of a derivative contract is negative, we would owe the counterparty, and therefore, we would not be exposed to credit risk. We attempt to minimize credit risk in derivative instruments by entering into transactions with major
 
financial institutions that have a significant asset base. Market risk related to derivatives is the adverse effect on the value of a financial instrument that results from changes in interest rates. We try to manage market risk associated with interest-rate contracts by establishing and monitoring parameters that limit the type and degree of market risk that we undertake.
     On October 21, 2002, we entered into an interest rate swap transaction with a third-party financial institution to hedge our exposure to changes in the fair value of $200 million of our fixed rate 5.375% senior notes due 2012, which has been designated as a fair value hedge. Additionally on that date, we purchased a LIBOR range-cap and sold a LIBOR floor, in the form of a cashless collar, with the same third-party financial institution with the intention of mitigating and managing our exposure to changes in the three-month U.S. dollar LIBOR rate. This transaction does not qualify for hedge accounting treatment, and any change in the cumulative fair value of this transaction will be reflected as a gain or loss in our consolidated statements of income (loss). In June 2004, we unwound $100 million of the $200 million range-cap-and-floor derivative instrument. During the fourth quarter of 2005, we unwound the interest rate swap resulting in a loss of $2.7 million, which has been deferred and will be recognized as an increase to interest expense over the remaining life of our 5.375% senior notes due 2012. During the year ended December 31, 2005, we recorded interest savings of $2.7 million related to our interest rate swap agreement accounted for as a fair value hedge, which served to reduce interest expense.
     The fair value of our range-cap-and-floor transaction is recorded as a derivative liability and included in other long-term liabilities. It totaled approximately $3.3 million and $4.7 million as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. We recorded a gain of approximately $1.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 and losses of approximately $4.7 million and $1.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, related to this derivative instrument; these amounts are included in losses (gains) on sales and retirements of long-lived assets and other expense (income), net in our consolidated statements of income (loss).
     In September 2008 we entered into a three-month written put option for one million of our common shares with a strike price of $25 per share. We settled this contract during the fourth quarter of 2008 and paid cash of $22.6 million, net of the premium received on this contract, and recognized a loss of $9.9 million which is included in losses (gains) on sales and retirements of long-lived assets and other expense (income), net in our consolidated statements of income (loss).
Note 11 Debt
     Long-term debt consists of the following:
     As of December 31, 2009, the maturities of our primary debt for each of the five years after 2009 and thereafter are as follows:
 
 
0.94% Senior Exchangeable Notes Due May 2011
     On May 23, 2006, Nabors Delaware completed a private placement of $2.5 billion aggregate principal amount of 0.94% senior exchangeable notes due 2011 that are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by Nabors. On June 8, 2006, the initial purchasers exercised their option to purchase an additional $250 million par value of the 0.94% senior exchangeable notes due 2011, increasing the aggregate issuance of such notes to $2.75 billion. Nabors Delaware sold the notes to the initial purchasers in reliance on the exemption from registration provided by Section 4(2) of the Securities Act. The notes were reoffered by the initial purchasers of the notes to qualified institutional buyers under Rule 144A of the Securities Act. Nabors and Nabors Delaware filed a registration statement on Form S-3 pursuant to the Securities Act with respect to resale of the notes and shares received in exchange for the notes on August 21, 2006. The notes bear interest at a rate of 0.94% per year payable semi-annually on May 15 and November 15, beginning on November 15, 2006. Debt issuance costs of $28.7 million were capitalized in connection with the issuance of the notes in other long-term assets in our consolidated balance sheet and are being amortized through May 2011.
     During 2009 and 2008 collectively, we purchased $1.1 billion par value of Nabors Delaware's 0.94% senior exchangeable notes due 2011 in the open market for cash of $938.4 million and recognized pre-tax gains of $11.5 million and $12.2 million which are included in losses (gains) on sales and retirements of long-lived assets and other expense (income), net in our consolidated statements of income (loss) for the year ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.
     The notes are exchangeable into cash and, if applicable, Nabors' common shares based on an exchange rate of the equivalent value of 21.8221 our common shares per $1,000 principal amount of notes (which is equal to an initial exchange price of approximately $45.83 per share), subject to adjustment during the 30 calendar days ending at the close of business on the business day immediately preceding the maturity date and prior thereto only under the following circumstances: (1) during any calendar quarter (and only during such calendar quarter), if the closing price of Nabors' common shares for at least 20 trading days in the 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the immediately preceding calendar quarter is more than 130% of the applicable exchange rate; (2) during the five business day period after any ten consecutive trading day period in which the trading price per note for each day of that period was less than 95% of the product of the closing sale price of Nabors' common shares and the exchange rate of the note; or (3) upon the occurrence of specified corporate transactions set forth in the indenture.
     The notes are unsecured and are effectively junior in right of payment to any of Nabors Delaware's future secured debt. The notes rank equally with any of Nabors Delaware's other existing and future unsubordinated debt and are senior in right of payment to any of Nabors Delaware's future subordinated debt. Our guarantee of the notes is unsecured and ranks equal in right of payment to all of our unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness from time to time outstanding. Holders of the notes who exchange their notes in connection with a change in control, as defined in the indenture, may be entitled to a make-whole premium in the form of an increase in the exchange rate. Additionally, in the event of a change in control, noteholders may require Nabors Delaware to purchase all or a portion of their notes at a purchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any. Upon exchange of the notes, a holder will receive for each note exchanged an amount in cash equal to the lesser of (i) $1,000 or (ii) the exchange value, determined in the manner set forth in the indenture. In addition, if the exchange value exceeds $1,000 on the exchange date, a holder will also receive a number of Nabors' common shares for the exchange value in excess of $1,000 equal to such excess divided by the exchange price.
     In connection with the sale of the notes in May 2006, Nabors Delaware entered into exchangeable note hedge transactions with respect to our common shares. The call options are designed to cover, subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments, the net number of our common shares that would be deliverable to exchanging noteholders in the event of an exchange of the notes. Nabors Delaware paid an aggregate amount of approximately $583.6 million of the proceeds from the sale of the notes to acquire the call options.
     Nabors also entered into separate warrant transactions at the time of the sale of the notes whereby we sold warrants that give the holders the right to acquire approximately 60.0 million of our common shares at a strike price
 
of $54.64 per share. On exercise of the warrants, we have the option to deliver cash or our common shares equal to the difference between the then market price and strike price. All of the warrants will be exercisable and will expire on August 15, 2011. We received aggregate proceeds of approximately $421.2 million from the sale of the warrants and used $353.4 million of the proceeds to purchase 10.0 million of our common shares.
     The purchased call options and sold warrants are separate contracts entered into by Nabors and Nabors Delaware with two financial institutions and are not part of the terms of the notes and do not affect the holders' rights under the notes. The purchased call options are expected to offset the potential dilution upon exchange of the notes in the event the market value of a share of our common shares at the time of exercise is greater than the strike price of the purchased call options, which corresponds to the initial exchange price of the notes, subject to customary adjustments. The warrants effectively increase the exchange price of the notes to $54.64 per common share from the perspective of Nabors, representing a 55% premium over the last reported bid price of $35.25 per share on May 17, 2006. We recorded the exchangeable note hedge and warrants in capital in excess of par value as of the transaction date, and do not recognize subsequent changes in fair value. We also recognized a deferred tax asset of $215.9 million in the second quarter of 2006 for the effect of the future tax benefits related to the exchangeable note hedge. See Convertible Debt Accounting below for impact to our deferred tax asset in the 2009 adoption of accounting rules relating to convertible debt.
6.15% Senior Notes Due February 2018
     On February 20, 2008, Nabors Delaware completed a private placement of $575 million aggregate principal amount of 6.15% senior notes due 2018 with registration rights, which are unsecured and are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by us. On July 22, 2008, Nabors Delaware completed a private placement of $400 million aggregate principal amount of 6.15% senior notes due 2018 with registration rights, which are unsecured and are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by us. These new senior notes were an additional issuance under the indenture pursuant to which Nabors Delaware issued $575 million 6.15% senior notes due 2018 on February 20, 2008 described above and are subject to the same rates, terms and conditions and together will be treated as a single class of debt securities under the indenture (together $975 million 6.15% senior notes due 2018). The issue of senior notes was resold by the initial purchasers to qualified institutional buyers under Rule 144A of the Securities Act and to certain investors outside of the United States under Regulation S of the Securities Act. The senior notes bear interest at a rate of 6.15% per year, payable semi-annually on February 15 and August 15 of each year, beginning August 15, 2008. The senior notes will mature on February 15, 2018.
     The senior notes are unsecured and are effectively junior in right of payment to any of Nabors Delaware's future secured debt. The senior notes rank equally with any of Nabors Delaware's other existing and future unsubordinated debt and are senior in right of payment to any of Nabors Delaware's future senior subordinated debt. Our guarantee of the senior notes is unsecured and ranks equal in right of payment to all of our unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness from time to time outstanding. The senior notes are subject to redemption by Nabors Delaware, in whole or in part, at any time at a redemption price equal to the greater of (i) 100% of the principal amount of the senior notes then outstanding to be redeemed; or (ii) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest, determined in the manner set forth in the indenture. In the event of a change in control triggering event, as defined in the indenture, the holders of senior notes may require Nabors Delaware to purchase all or any part of each senior note in cash equal to 101% of the principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the date of purchase, except to the extent Nabors Delaware has exercised its right to redeem the senior notes. Nabors Delaware used the proceeds of the offering of the senior notes for general corporate purposes, including the repayment of debt.
     On August 20, 2008, we and Nabors Delaware filed a registration statement on Amendment No. 1 to Form S-4 with the SEC with respect to an offer to exchange the combined $975 million aggregate principal amount of 6.15% senior notes due 2018 for other notes that would be registered and have terms substantially identical in all material respects to these notes pursuant to the applicable registration rights agreement, including being fully and unconditionally guaranteed by us. On September 2, 2008, the registration statement was declared effective by the SEC and the exchange offer expired on October 9, 2008. On October 16, 2008, Nabors Delaware issued $974,965,000 of notes pursuant to the registration statement in exchange for an equal amount of the original notes due 2018 that were properly tendered.
 
9.25% Senior Notes Due January 2019
     On January 12, 2009, Nabors Delaware completed a private placement of $1.125 billion aggregate principal amount of 9.25% senior notes due 2019 with registration rights, which are unsecured and are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by us. The issue of senior notes was resold by the initial purchasers to qualified institutional buyers under Rule 144A and to certain investors outside of the United States under Regulation S of the Securities Act. The senior notes bear interest at a rate of 9.25% per year, payable semi-annually on January 15 and July 15 of each year, beginning July 15, 2009. The senior notes will mature on January 15, 2019.
     The senior notes are unsecured and are junior in right of payment to any of Nabors Delaware's future secured debt. The senior notes rank equally with any of Nabors Delaware's other existing and future unsubordinated debt and are senior in right of payment to any of Nabors Delaware's future senior subordinated debt. Our guarantee of the senior notes is unsecured and ranks equal in right of payment to all of our unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness from time to time outstanding. The senior notes are subject to redemption by Nabors Delaware, in whole or in part, at any time at a redemption price equal to the greater of (i) 100% of the principal amount of the senior notes then outstanding to be redeemed; or (ii) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest, determined in the manner set forth in the applicable indenture. In the event of a change in control triggering event, as defined in the indenture, the holders of senior notes may require Nabors Delaware to purchase all or any part of each senior note in cash equal to 101% of the principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the date of purchase, except to the extent Nabors Delaware has exercised its right to redeem the senior notes. Nabors Delaware is using the proceeds of the offering of the senior notes for the repayment or repurchase of indebtedness and general corporate purposes.
     On March 30, 2009, we and Nabors Delaware filed a registration statement on Form S-4 under the Securities Act. The registration statement related to the exchange offer to noteholders required under the registration rights agreement related to the 9.25% senior notes. On May 11, 2009 the registration statement was declared effective by the SEC. On July 23, 2009 Nabors Delaware issued $1,069,392,000 of notes pursuant to the registration statement in exchange for an equal amount of the original notes due 2019 that were properly tendered.
5.375% Senior Notes Due August 2012
     On August 22, 2002, Nabors Delaware issued $275 million aggregate principal amount of 5.375% senior notes due 2012, which are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by Nabors. The senior notes were resold by a placement agent to qualified institutional buyers under Rule 144A of the Securities Act of 1933. Interest on the senior notes is payable semi-annually on February 15 and August 15 of each year.
     The notes are unsecured and are effectively junior in right of payment to any of Nabors Delaware's future secured debt. The notes rank equal in right of payment with any of Nabors Delaware's future unsubordinated debt and are senior in right of payment to any of Nabors Delaware's subordinated debt. The guarantee of Nabors with respect to the senior notes issued by Nabors Delaware, is similarly unsecured and has a similar ranking to the series of senior notes so guaranteed.
     Subject to certain qualifications and limitations, the indentures governing the senior notes issued by Nabors Delaware limit the ability of Nabors and its subsidiaries to incur liens and to enter into sale and lease-back transactions. In addition, the indentures limit our ability to enter into mergers, consolidations or transfers of all or substantially all of our assets unless the successor company assumes their obligations under the applicable indenture.
Other Debt Transactions
     In January and February 2009, Nabors Holdings 1, ULC, one of our wholly owned subsidiaries ("Nabors Holdings"), repurchased $56.6 million par value of the $225 million principal amount of its 4.875% senior notes due August 2009 in the open market for cash totaling $56.8 million. In August 2009, Nabors Holdings paid $168.4 million to redeem the remaining notes. The redemption resulted in no gain or loss as the notes were redeemed at a price equal to their carrying value.
     In July 2008, Nabors Delaware paid $60.6 million in cash to redeem its zero coupon senior convertible debentures due 2021 which equaled the issue price of $50.4 million plus accrued original issue discount of $10.2
 
million. The redemption of the debentures did not result in any gain or loss since they were redeemed at a price equal to their carrying value on July 7, 2008.
     In June and July 2008, Nabors Delaware paid cash of $171.8 million and $528.2 million to redeem all of its zero coupon senior exchangeable notes due 2023. In addition to $700 million in cash, we issued approximately 5.25 million of our common shares, with a fair value of $249.8 million, the price equal to the principal amount of the notes plus the excess of the exchange value of the notes over their principal amount. Nabors Delaware was required to pay noteholders cash up to the principal amount of the notes and at its option, either cash or common shares for any amount above the principal amount of the notes. The number of common shares issued equaled the amount in excess of the principal of the notes divided by the average of the volume-weighted average price of our common shares for the five or ten trading day period beginning on the second business day following the day the notes were surrendered for exchange. The notes were exchangeable into the equivalent value of 28.5306 common shares per $1,000 principal amount of the notes. The redemption of the notes did not result in any gain or loss since the amount of cash paid for redemption of the notes was equal to their carrying amount. The excess of the exchange value of the notes over the carrying amount was recorded as a reduction to capital in excess of par value in our consolidated statement of changes in equity. A deferred tax liability of $81.8 million recorded during the five-year period that the notes were outstanding was reclassified to and increased our capital in excess of par value account. This reclassification reflects the permanent income tax savings to the Company relating to the notes.
Short-Term Borrowings
     We had four letter-of-credit facilities with various banks as of December 31, 2009. We did not have any short-term borrowings outstanding at December 31, 2009 or 2008. Availability and borrowings under our credit facilities are as follows:
Convertible Debt Accounting
     Prior to January 1, 2009, separate accounting for the embedded conversion option in our convertible long-term debt was not required when the conversion spread feature did not qualify for accounting as a derivative instrument.
     Effective January 1, 2009, we account for our convertible debt instruments with a liability component based on the fair value of a similar nonconvertible debt instrument and an equity component based on the excess of the initial proceeds from the convertible debt instrument over the liability component. Such excess represents proceeds related to the conversion option and is recorded as capital in excess of par value. The liability is recorded at a discount, which is then amortized as additional non-cash interest expense over the convertible debt instrument's expected life. We have accounted for our convertible debt instruments on a retrospective basis in all past periods presented for all convertible debt instruments required to be accounted for in this manner. Both our 0.94% senior exchangeable notes issued May 2006 and our zero coupon senior exchangeable notes issued June 2003 have been presented in this manner.
 
     The following assumptions were made in our accounting change:
     The effect of the accounting change on our previously reported consolidated balance sheet is as follows:
     The increase to deferred income tax liabilities related partially to the reduction of a deferred tax asset of $215.9 million (which was recorded during the second quarter of 2006) for the effect of the future tax benefits related to the exchangeable note hedge.
 
     The effect of the accounting change on our previously reported consolidated statements of income (loss) is as follows:
 
     The following information illustrates the effect of the accounting change on our convertible debt instruments. The balances of the liability and equity components as of December 31, 2009 and 2008 are as follows:
     The remaining debt discount is being amortized into interest expense over the expected remaining life of the convertible debt instruments using the effective interest rate. Interest expense related to the convertible debt instruments was recognized as follows:
 
Note 12 Income Taxes
     Effective January 1, 2007, we adopted the revised provisions of the Income Taxes Topic in the ASC relating to uncertain tax positions. We recognized increases of $24 million and $21 million to our tax reserves for uncertain tax positions and interest and penalties, respectively. These increases were accounted for as an increase to other long-term liabilities and as a reduction to retained earnings at January 1, 2007. The change in our unrecognized tax benefits for years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 are as follows:
     The balance also represents the amount of unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized, would favorably impact the effective income tax rate in future periods. As of December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, we had approximately $38.5 million, $18.6 million and $28.4 million, respectively, of interest and penalties related to our total gross unrecognized tax benefits. During the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, we accrued and recognized estimated interest related to unrecognized tax benefits and penalties of approximately $5.2 million, $5.3 million and $6.9 million, respectively. We recognize interest and penalties related to income tax matters in the income tax expense line item in our consolidated statements of income (loss).
     We are subject to income taxes in the United States and numerous other jurisdictions. Internationally, a number of our income tax returns from 1995 through 2007 are currently under audit examination. We anticipate that several of these audits could be finalized within 12 months. It is possible that the benefit that relates to our unrecognized tax positions could significantly increase or decrease within 12 months. However, based on the current status of examinations, and the protocol for finalizing audits with the relevant tax authorities, which could include formal legal proceedings, it is not possible to estimate the future impact of the amount of changes, if any, to recorded uncertain tax positions at December 31, 2009.
     Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes was comprised of the following:
     Income taxes have been provided based upon the tax laws and rates in the countries in which operations are conducted and income is earned. We are a Bermuda-exempt company. Bermuda does not impose corporate income taxes. Our U.S. subsidiaries are subject to a U.S. federal tax rate of 35%.
 
     Income tax expense (benefit) from continuing operations consisted of the following:
     Nabors is not subject to tax in Bermuda. A reconciliation of the differences between taxes on income (loss) before income taxes computed at the appropriate statutory rate and our reported provision for income taxes follows:
     Our effective income tax rate for 2009 reflects the disparity between losses in our U.S. operations (attributable primarily to impairments) and income in our other operations primarily in lower tax jurisdictions. Because the U.S. income tax rate is higher than that of other jurisdictions, the tax benefit from our U.S. losses was not proportionately reduced by the tax expense from our other operations. The result is a net tax benefit that represents a significant percentage (82.5%) of our consolidated loss from continuing operations before income taxes.
     The increase in our effective income tax rate from 2007 to 2008 resulted from (1) our goodwill impairments which had no associated tax benefit, (2) the reversal of certain tax reserves during 2007 in the amount of $25.5 million, (3) a decrease in 2007 tax expense of approximately $16.0 million resulting from a reduction in Canada's tax rate, and (4) a higher proportion of our 2008 taxable income being generated in the United States, which generally imposes a higher tax rate than the other jurisdictions in which we operate.
 
     The significant components of our deferred tax assets and liabilities were as follows:
 
     For U.S. federal income tax purposes, we have net operating loss ("NOL") carryforwards of approximately $715.7 million that, if not utilized, will expire during 2017 to 2018. The NOL carryforwards for alternative minimum tax purposes are approximately $12.8 million. Additionally, we have NOL carryforwards in other jurisdictions of approximately $5.8 billion of which $219.9 million that, if not utilized, will expire at various times from 2010 to 2029. We provide a valuation allowance against NOL carryforwards in various tax jurisdictions based on our consideration of existing temporary differences and expected future earning levels in those jurisdictions. We have recorded a deferred tax asset of approximately $1.53 billion as of December 31, 2009 relating to NOL carryforwards that have an indefinite life in several non-U.S. jurisdictions. A valuation allowance of approximately $1.52 billion has been recognized because we believe it is more likely than not that substantially all of the deferred tax asset will not be realized.
 
     The NOL carryforwards by year of expiration:
     In addition, for state income tax purposes, we have net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $280 million that, if not utilized, will expire at various times from 2010 to 2029.
     Under U.S. federal tax law, the amount and availability of loss carryforwards (and certain other tax attributes) are subject to a variety of interpretations and restrictive tests applicable to Nabors and our subsidiaries. The utilization of these carryforwards could be limited or effectively lost upon certain changes in our shareholder base. Accordingly, although we believe substantial loss carryforwards are available to us, no assurance can be given concerning these loss carryforwards, or whether or not they will be available in the future.
     Various bills have been introduced in Congress that could reduce or eliminate the tax benefits associated with our reorganization as a Bermuda company. Legislation enacted by Congress in 2004 provides that a corporation that reorganized in a foreign jurisdiction on or after March 4, 2003 be treated as a domestic corporation for United States federal income tax purposes. Nabors' reorganization was completed June 24, 2002. There has been and we expect that there may continue to be legislation proposed in Congress from time to time which, if enacted, could limit or eliminate the tax benefits associated with our reorganization.
     Because we cannot predict whether legislation will ultimately be adopted, no assurance can be given that the tax benefits associated with our reorganization will ultimately accrue to the benefit of the Company and its shareholders. It is possible that future changes to tax laws (including tax treaties) could impact our ability to realize the tax savings recorded to date as well as future tax savings resulting from our reorganization.
Note 13 Common Shares
     Our authorized share capital consists of 800 million common shares, par value $.001 per share, and 25 million preferred shares, par value $.001 per share. Common shares issued were 313,915,220 and 312,343,407 at $.001 par value as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.
     For the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, we repurchased 8.5 million and 3.8 million, respectively, of our common shares in the open market for $281.1 million and $102.5 million, respectively, all of which are held in treasury. No shares were purchased in the open market during 2009. From time to time, treasury shares may be reissued. When shares are reissued, we use the weighted-average-cost method for determining cost. The difference between the cost of the shares and the issuance price is added to or deducted from our capital in excess of par value account.
 
     During 2008 we entered into a three-month written put option for 1 million of our common shares with a strike price of $25 per common share. We settled this contract during the fourth quarter of 2008 and paid cash of $22.6 million, net of the premium, and recognized a loss of $9.9 million which is included in losses (gains) on sales and retirements of long-lived assets and other expense (income), net in our consolidated statements of income (loss).
     During 2009 our outstanding shares increased by 218,835 pursuant to a share settlement of stock options exercised by Nabors' Deputy Chairman, President and Chief Operating Officer, Anthony G. Petrello. As part of the transaction, Mr. Petrello surrendered 531,165 unexercised vested stock options to the Company with a value of approximately $5.6 million to satisfy the option exercise price and related income taxes. During 2007 our outstanding shares increased by 729,866 pursuant to a share settlement of stock options exercised by Nabors' Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Eugene M. Isenberg. As part of the transaction, Mr. Isenberg surrendered 4,142,812 unexercised vested stock options to the Company with a value of approximately $29.7 million to satisfy the option exercise price and related income taxes.
     For the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 the Compensation Committee of our Board of Directors granted restricted stock awards to some of our executive officers, other key employees, and independent directors. We awarded 85,000, 4,982,536 and 1,744,627 restricted shares at an average market price of $11.55, $20.68 and $30.18 to these individuals for 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. See Note 6  Share-Based Compensation for a summary of our restricted stock and option awards as of December 31, 2009.
     For the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 our employees exercised vested options to acquire 1.5 million, 2.5 million and 4.5 million of our common shares, respectively, resulting in proceeds of $11.2 million, $56.6 million and $61.6 million, respectively.
     During 2008 in connection with the redemption of the zero coupon senior exchangeable notes due 2023, we issued 5.25 million of our treasury shares with a fair value of $249.8 million to satisfy the obligation to the noteholders to pay the excess over the principal amount of the notes that were exchanged. The treasury shares issued in connection with the redemption of the zero coupon senior exchangeable notes had a cost basis of $181.2 million. See Note 11  Debt for additional discussion.
     In conjunction with our acquisition of Ryan Energy Technologies Inc. in October 2002 and our acquisition of Enserco Energy Services Company Inc. in April 2002, we issued 760,528 and 7,098,164 exchangeable shares of Nabors Exchangeco (Canada) Inc., one of our wholly owned Canadian subsidiaries ("Nabors Exchangeco"), respectively. During 2009 we redeemed the exchangeable shares of Nabors Exchangeco for Nabors' common shares on a one-for-one basis.
Note 14 Pension, Postretirement and Postemployment Benefits
Pension Plans
     In conjunction with our acquisition of Pool Energy Services Co. ("Pool") in November 1999, we acquired the assets and liabilities of a defined benefit pension plan, the Pool Company Retirement Income Plan (the "Pool Pension Plan"). Benefits under the Pool Pension Plan are frozen and participants were fully vested in their accrued retirement benefit on December 31, 1998.
     Summarized information on the Pool Pension Plan is as follows:
 
 
     For the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, the net actuarial loss amounts included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in the consolidated statements of changes in equity were approximately $(6.3) million, $(7.4) million and $(2.6) million, respectively. There were no other components, such as prior service costs or transition obligations relating to pension costs recorded within accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) during 2009, 2008 and 2007.
     The amount included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in the consolidated statements of changes in equity that is expected to be recognized as a component of net periodic benefit cost during 2010 is approximately $.4 million.
     We analyze the historical performance of investments in equity and debt securities, together with current market factors such as inflation and interest rates to help us make assumptions necessary to estimate a long-term rate of return on plan assets. Once this estimate is made, we review the portfolio of plan assets and make adjustments thereto that we believe are necessary to reflect a diversified blend of investments in equity and debt securities that is capable of achieving the estimated long-term rate of return without assuming an unreasonable level of investment risk.
     The following table sets forth, by level within the fair value hierarchy, the investments in the Pool Pension Plan as of December 31, 2009. The investments' fair value measurement level within the fair value hierarchy is classified in its entirety based on the lowest level of input that is significant to the measurement.
 
 
     The measurement date used to determine pension measurements for the plan is December 31.
     Our weighted-average asset allocations as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, by asset category are as follows:
     We invest plan assets based on a total return on investment approach, pursuant to which the plan assets include a diversified blend of investments in equity and debt securities toward a goal of maximizing the long-term rate of return without assuming an unreasonable level of investment risk. We determine the level of risk based on an analysis of plan liabilities, the extent to which the value of the plan assets satisfies the plan liabilities and our financial condition. Our investment policy includes target allocations approximating 55% investment in equity securities and 45% investment in debt securities. The equity portion of the plan assets represents growth and value stocks of small, medium and large companies. We measure and monitor the investment risk of the plan assets both on a quarterly basis and annually when we assess plan liabilities.
     We expect to contribute approximately $.5 million to the Pool Pension Plan in 2010. This is based on the sum of (1) the minimum contribution for the 2009 plan year that will be made in 2010 and (2) the estimated minimum required quarterly contributions for the 2010 plan year. We made contributions to the Pool Pension Plan in 2009 and 2008 totaling $.6 million, respectively.
     As of December 31, 2009, we expect that benefits to be paid in each of the next five years after 2009 and in the aggregate for the five years thereafter will be as follows:
     Some of our employees are covered by defined contribution plans. Our contributions to the plans totaled $19.8 million and $17.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Nabors does not provide postemployment benefits to its employees.
Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions
     Prior to the date of our acquisition, Pool provided certain postretirement healthcare and life insurance benefits to eligible retirees who had attained specific age and years of service requirements. Nabors terminated this plan at the date of acquisition (November 24, 1999). A liability of approximately $.2 million is recorded in our consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, to cover the estimated costs of beneficiaries covered by the plan at the date of acquisition.
Note 15 Related-Party Transactions
     Nabors and its Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, its Deputy Chairman, President and Chief Operating Officer, and certain other key employees entered into split-dollar life insurance agreements, pursuant to which we pay a portion of the premiums under life insurance policies with respect to these individuals and, in some instances, members of their families. These agreements provide that we are reimbursed for the premium payments upon the occurrence of specified events, including the death of an insured individual. Any recovery of premiums paid by Nabors could be limited to the cash surrender value of the policies under certain circumstances. As such, the values of these policies are recorded at their respective cash surrender values in our consolidated balance sheets. We have made premium payments to date totaling $11.7 million related to these policies. The cash surrender value of these policies of approximately $9.3 million and $8.4 million is included in other long-term assets in our consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.
 
     Under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the payment of premiums by Nabors under the agreements with our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and with our Deputy Chairman, President and Chief Operating Officer could be deemed to be prohibited loans by us to these individuals. Consequently, we have paid no premiums related to our agreements with these individuals since the adoption of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
     In the ordinary course of business, we enter into various rig leases, rig transportation and related oilfield services agreements with our unconsolidated affiliates at market prices. Revenues from business transactions with these affiliated entities totaled $327.3 million, $285.3 million and $153.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Expenses from business transactions with these affiliated entities totaled $9.8 million, $9.6 million and $6.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Additionally, we had accounts receivable from these affiliated entities of $104.2 million and $107.5 million as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. We had accounts payable to these affiliated entities of $14.8 million and $10.0 million as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, and long-term payables with these affiliated entities of $.8 million and $7.8 million as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, which are included in other long-term liabilities.
     We own an interest in Shona Energy Company, LLC ("Shona"), a company of which Mr. Payne, an independent member of our Board of Directors, is the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. During the fourth quarter of 2008, we purchased 1.8 million common shares of Shona for $.9 million. During the first quarter of 2010, we purchased shares of Shona's preferred stock and warrants to purchase additional common shares for $.9 million. After these transactions, we hold a minority interest of approximately 11% of the issued and outstanding shares of Shona.
Note 16 Commitments and Contingencies
Commitments
Operating Leases
     Nabors and its subsidiaries occupy various facilities and lease certain equipment under various lease agreements. The minimum rental commitments under non-cancelable operating leases, with lease terms in excess of one year subsequent to December 31, 2009, are as follows:
     The above amounts do not include property taxes, insurance or normal maintenance that the lessees are required to pay. Rental expense relating to operating leases with terms greater than 30 days amounted to $25.5 million, $29.4 million and $25.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.
Employment Contracts
     We have entered into employment contracts with certain of our employees. Our minimum salary and bonus obligations under these contracts as of December 31, 2009 are as follows:
     Nabors' Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Eugene M. Isenberg, and its Deputy Chairman, President and Chief Operating Officer, Anthony G. Petrello, had employment agreements ("prior employment agreements") in effect through the first quarter of 2009. Effective April 1, 2009, the Company entered into amended and restated employment agreements ("new employment agreements") with them which extended the terms through March 30, 2013.
 
     For the three months ended March 31, 2009, the prior employment agreements provided for annual cash bonuses in an amount equal to 6% and 2%, for Messrs. Isenberg and Petrello, respectively, of Nabors' net cash flow (as defined in the respective employment agreements) in excess of 15% of the average shareholders' equity for each fiscal year. Mr. Petrello's bonus was subject to a minimum of $700,000 per year.
     Effective April 1, 2009, the new employment agreements for Messrs. Isenberg and Petrello amend and restate the prior employment agreements. The new employment agreements provide for an extension of the employment term through March 30, 2013, with automatic one-year extensions beginning April 1, 2011, unless either party gives notice of non-renewal. The base salaries for Messrs. Isenberg and Petrello were increased to $1.3 million and $1.1 million, respectively. Mr. Isenberg has agreed to donate the after-tax proceeds of his base salary to an educational fund intended to benefit Company employees or other worthy candidates.
     On June 29, 2009, the new employment agreements for Messrs. Isenberg and Petrello were amended to provide for a reduction in the annual rate of base salary payable to each of Messrs. Isenberg and Petrello to $1.17 million per year and $990,000 per year, respectively, for the period from June 29, 2009 to December 27, 2009. On December 28, 2009, the agreements were further amended to extend through June 27, 2010 the previously agreed salary reduction.
     In addition to a base salary, the new employment agreements provide for annual cash bonuses in an amount equal to 2.25% and 1.5%, for Messrs. Isenberg and Petrello, respectively, of Nabors' net cash flow (as defined in the respective employment agreements) in excess of 15% of the average shareholders' equity for each fiscal year. The new employment agreements also provide a quarterly deferred bonus of $.6 million and $.25 million, respectively, to the accounts of Messrs. Isenberg and Petrello under Nabors' executive deferred compensation plan for each quarter they are employed beginning June 30, 2009 and, in Mr. Petrello's case, ending March 30, 2019.
     For 2009, the annual cash bonuses for Messrs. Isenberg and Petrello pursuant to the formulas described in their employment agreements were $15.4 million and $4.9 million, respectively, for the first quarter of 2009 in accordance with the prior employment agreement provisions and $4.5 million and $3.0 million, respectively, for the second through fourth quarter of 2009 in accordance with the new employment agreement provisions.
     Messrs. Isenberg and Petrello also are eligible for awards under Nabors' equity plans, may participate in annual long-term incentive programs and pension and welfare plans on the same basis as other executives, and may receive special bonuses from time to time as determined by the Board of Directors. The new employment agreements effectively eliminated the risk of forfeiture of outstanding stock awards. Accordingly, we recognized compensation expense during the second quarter with respect to all previously granted unvested awards to Messrs. Isenberg and Petrello. As a result, as of December 31, 2009, there was no unrecognized compensation expense related to restricted stock and stock option awards for either Mr. Isenberg or Mr. Petrello.
     The new employment agreements provide for severance payments in the event that either Mr. Isenberg's or Mr. Petrello's employment agreement is terminated (i) upon death or disability, (ii) by Nabors prior to the expiration date of the employment agreement for any reason other than for Cause (as defined in the respective employment agreements), or (iii) by either individual for Constructive Termination Without Cause, each as defined in the respective employment agreements. Termination in the event of a Change in Control (as defined in the respective employment agreements) is considered a Constructive Termination Without Cause. Mr. Isenberg would be entitled to receive within 30 days of any such triggering event a payment of $100 million. Mr. Petrello would be entitled to receive within 30 days of his death or disability a payment of $50 million or in the event of Termination Without Cause or Constructive Termination Without Cause, a payment based on a formula of three times the average of his base salary and annual bonus (calculated as though the bonus formula under the new employment agreement had been in effect) paid during the three fiscal years preceding the termination. If, by way of example, Mr. Petrello were Terminated Without Cause subsequent to December 31, 2009, his payment would be approximately $45 million. The formula will be further reduced to two times the average stated above effective April 1, 2015.
Termination in the event of death, disability, or termination without cause (including in the event of a Change in Control)
.
 
     The Company does not have insurance to cover its obligations in the event of death, disability, or termination without cause for either Messrs. Isenberg or Petrello and the Company has not recorded an expense or accrued a liability relating to these potential obligations.
     In addition, under the new employment agreements, the affected individual would be entitled to receive (a) any unvested restricted stock or stock options outstanding, which would immediately and fully vest; (b) any amounts earned, accrued or owing to the executive but not yet paid (including executive benefits, life insurance, disability benefits and reimbursement of expenses and perquisites), which would be continued through the later of the expiration date or three years after the termination date; (c) continued participation in medical, dental and life insurance coverage until the executive received equivalent benefits or coverage through a subsequent employer or until the death of the executive or his spouse, whichever were later; and (d) any other or additional benefits in accordance with applicable plans and programs of Nabors. The vesting of unvested equity awards would not result in the recognition of any additional compensation expense, as all compensation expense related to Messrs. Isenberg's and Petrello's outstanding awards has been recognized as of December 31, 2009. In addition, the new employment agreements eliminate all tax gross-ups, including without limitation tax gross-ups on golden parachute excise taxes, which applied under the prior employment agreements. Estimates of the cash value of Nabors' obligations to Messrs. Isenberg and Petrello under (b), (c) and (d) above are included in the payment amounts above.
     . In addition to salary and bonus, each of Messrs. Isenberg and Petrello receive group life insurance at an amount at least equal to three times their respective base salaries, various split-dollar life insurance policies, reimbursement of expenses, various perquisites and a personal umbrella insurance policy in the amount of $5 million. Premiums payable under the split-dollar life insurance policies were suspended as a result of the adoption of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
Other Obligations
Contingencies
Income Tax Contingencies
     We are subject to income taxes in the United States and numerous other jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We are regularly under audit by tax authorities. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different than what is reflected in income tax provisions and accruals. An audit or litigation could materially affect our financial position, income tax provision, net income, or cash flows in the period or periods challenged.
     It is possible that future changes to tax laws (including tax treaties) could impact our ability to realize the tax savings recorded to date as well as future tax savings, resulting from our 2002 corporate reorganization. See Note 11  Income Taxes for additional discussion.
     On September 14, 2006, Nabors Drilling International Limited, one of our wholly owned Bermuda subsidiaries ("NDIL"), received a Notice of Assessment (the "Notice") from Mexico's federal tax authorities in connection with the audit of NDIL's Mexican branch for 2003. The Notice proposes to deny depreciation expense deductions relating to drilling rigs operating in Mexico in 2003. The Notice also proposes to deny a deduction for payments made to an affiliated company for the procurement of labor services in Mexico. The amount assessed was approximately $19.8 million (including interest and penalties). Nabors and its tax advisors previously concluded that the deductions were appropriate and more recently that the government's position lacks merit. NDIL's Mexican branch took similar deductions for depreciation and labor expenses from 2004 to 2008. On June 30, 2009, the government proposed similar assessments against the Mexican branch of another wholly owned Bermuda subsidiary, Nabors Drilling International II Ltd. ("NDIL II") for 2006. We anticipate that a similar assessment will eventually be proposed against NDIL for 2004 through 2008 and against NDIL II for 2007 to 2009. We believe that the potential assessments will range from $6 million to $26 million per year for the period from 2004 to 2009, and in the aggregate, would be approximately $90 million to $95 million. Although we believe that any assessments relating to the 2004 to 2009 years would also lack merit, a reserve has been recorded in accordance with GAAP. If these additional assessments were made and we ultimately did not prevail, we would be required to recognize additional tax for the amount of the aggregate over the current reserve.
 
Self-Insurance
     We self-insure for certain losses relating to workers' compensation, employers' liability, general liability, automobile liability and property damage. Effective April 1, 2009 with our insurance renewal, changes have been made to our self-insured retentions. Some workers' compensation claims are subject to a minimum $1.0 million deductible liability, plus an additional $3.0 million corridor deductible. Some employers' liability and marine employers' liability claims are subject to a $2.0 million per-occurrence deductible. Some automobile liability is subject to a $.5 million per-occurrence deductible, plus an additional $1.0 million corridor deductible. General liability claims are subject to a $5.0 million per-occurrence deductible.
     In addition, we are subject to a $5.0 million deductible for all land rigs and a $10.0 million deductible for offshore rigs. This applies to all kinds of risks of physical damage except for named windstorms in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico for which we are self-insured.
     Political risk insurance is procured for select operations in South America, Africa, the Middle East and Asia. Losses are subject to a $.25 million deductible, except for Colombia, which is subject to a $.5 million deductible. There is no assurance that such coverage will adequately protect Nabors against liability from all potential consequences.
     As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, our self-insurance accruals totaled $139.0 million and $163.0 million, respectively, and our related insurance recoveries/receivables were $12.9 million and $9.7 million, respectively.
Litigation
     Nabors and its subsidiaries are defendants or otherwise involved in a number of lawsuits in the ordinary course of business. We estimate the range of our liability related to pending litigation when we believe the amount and range of loss can be estimated. We record our best estimate of a loss when the loss is considered probable. When a liability is probable and there is a range of estimated loss with no best estimate in the range, we record the minimum estimated liability related to the lawsuits or claims. As additional information becomes available, we assess the potential liability related to our pending litigation and claims and revise our estimates. Due to uncertainties related to the resolution of lawsuits and claims, the ultimate outcome may differ from our estimates. In the opinion of management and based on liability accruals provided, our ultimate exposure with respect to these pending lawsuits and claims is not expected to have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position or cash flows, although they could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for a particular reporting period.
     On July 5, 2007, we received an inquiry from the U.S. Department of Justice relating to its investigation of one of one of our vendors and compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. The inquiry relates to transactions with and involving Panalpina, which provides freight forwarding and customs clearance services to some of our affiliates. To date, the inquiry has focused on transactions in Kazakhstan, Saudi Arabia, Algeria and Nigeria. The Audit Committee of our Board of Directors has engaged outside counsel to review some of our transactions with this vendor. The Audit Committee has received periodic updates at its regularly scheduled meetings, and the Chairman of the Audit Committee has received updates between meetings as circumstances warrant. The investigation includes a review of certain amounts paid to and by Panalpina in connection with obtaining permits for the temporary importation of equipment and clearance of goods and materials through customs. Both the SEC and the Department of Justice have been advised of the Company's investigation. The ultimate outcome of this investigation or the effect of implementing any further measures that may be necessary to ensure full compliance with applicable laws cannot be determined at this time.
     A court in Algeria entered a judgment of approximately $19.7 million against us related to alleged customs infractions in 2009. We believe we did not receive proper notice of the judicial proceedings, and that the amount of the judgment is excessive. We have asserted the lack of legally required notice as a basis for challenging the judgment on appeal to the Algeria Supreme Court. Based upon our understanding of applicable law and precedent, we believe that this challenge will be successful. We do not believe that a loss is probable and have not accrued any amounts related to this matter. However, the ultimate resolution and the timing thereof are uncertain. If the Company is ultimately required to pay a fine or judgment related to this matter, the amount of the loss could range from approximately $140,000 to $19.7 million.
 
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements (Including Guarantees)
     We are a party to some transactions, agreements or other contractual arrangements defined as "off-balance sheet arrangements" that could have a material future effect on our financial position, results of operations, liquidity and capital resources. The most significant of these off-balance sheet arrangements involve agreements and obligations under which we provide financial or performance assurance to third parties. Certain of these agreements serve as guarantees, including standby letters of credit issued on behalf of insurance carriers in conjunction with our workers' compensation insurance program and other financial surety instruments such as bonds. We have also guaranteed payment of contingent consideration in conjunction with an acquisition in 2005. Potential contingent consideration is based on future operating results of the acquired business. In addition, we have provided indemnifications, which serve as guarantees, to some third parties. These guarantees include indemnification provided by Nabors to our share transfer agent and our insurance carriers. We are not able to estimate the potential future maximum payments that might be due under our indemnification guarantees.
     Management believes the likelihood that we would be required to perform or otherwise incur any material losses associated with any of these guarantees is remote. The following table summarizes the total maximum amount of financial guarantees issued by Nabors and guarantees representing contingent consideration in connection with a business combination:
Note 17 Earnings (Losses) Per Share
     Prior to January 1, 2009, we excluded unvested restricted stock awards in the calculation of basic earnings per share and applied the treasury stock method of accounting in calculating the effect on fully diluted shares of unvested restricted stock.
     Effective January 1, 2009, we include unvested restricted stock awards in the calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share using the two-class method as required by the Earnings Per Share Topic of the ASC. This accounting change resulted in reductions to our basic earnings per share calculations of $.02 and to our diluted earnings per share calculations of $.02 for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007.
 
     A reconciliation of the numerators and denominators of the basic and diluted earnings (losses) per share computations is as follows:
 
 
     For all periods presented, the computation of diluted earnings (losses) per Nabors' share excludes outstanding stock options and warrants with exercise prices greater than the average market price of Nabors' common shares, because their inclusion would be anti-dilutive and because they are not considered participating securities. The average number of options and warrants that were excluded from diluted earnings (losses) per share that would potentially dilute earnings per share in the future was 34,113,887, 7,416,865 and 5,083,510 shares during the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. In any period during which the average market price of Nabors' common shares exceeds the exercise prices of these stock options and warrants, such stock options and warrants will be included in our diluted earnings (losses) per share computation using the if-converted method of accounting. Restricted stock will be included in our basic and diluted earnings (losses) per share computation using the two-class method of accounting in all periods because such stock is considered participating securities.
Note 18 Supplemental Balance Sheet, Income Statement and Cash Flow Information
     At December 31, 2009, other long-term assets included a deposit of $40 million of restricted funds held at a financial institution to assure future credit availability for an unconsolidated affiliate. This cash is excluded from cash and cash equivalents in the Consolidated Balance Sheets and Statements of Cash Flows.
     Accrued liabilities include the following:
     Investment income (loss) includes the following:
 
 
     Losses (gains) on sales and retirements of long-lived assets and other expense (income), net includes the following:
 
     Supplemental cash flow information for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 is as follows:
          Comprehensive income (loss) for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 is as follows:
 
Note 19 Unaudited Quarterly Financial Information
 
 
Note 20 Discontinued Operation
     During 2010, we began actively marketing our oil and gas assets in the Horn River basin in Canada and in the Llanos basin in Colombia. These assets also include our 49.7% and 50.0% ownership interests in our investments of Remora and SMVP, respectively, which we account for using the equity method of accounting. All of these assets are included in our oil and gas operating segment. We determined that the plan of sale criteria in the ASC Topic relating to the Presentation of Financial Statements for Assets Sold or Held for Sale had been met during the third quarter of 2010. Accordingly, we reclassified these wholly owned oil and gas assets from our property, plant and equipment, net, as well as our investment balances for Remora and SMVP from investments in unconsolidated affiliates to assets held for sale in our consolidated balance sheet at September 30, 2010.
     In August 2007, we sold our Sea Mar business which had previously been included in Other Operating Segments to an unrelated third party for a cash purchase price of $194.3 million, resulting in a pre-tax gain of $49.5 million. The assets included 20 offshore supply vessels and some related assets, including its right under a vessel construction contract. We have not had any continuing involvement subsequent to the sale of this business
.
     The operating results from these assets for all periods presented are reported as discontinued operations in the accompanying audited consolidated statements of income (loss) and the respective accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements. Our condensed statements of income from discontinued operations related to the oil and gas assets and the Sea Mar business for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 were as follows:
Condensed Statements of Income
 
Note 21 Segment Information
     As of December 31, 2009, we operate our business out of 10 operating segments. Our six Contract Drilling operating segments are engaged in drilling, workover and well-servicing operations, on land and offshore, and represent reportable segments. These operating segments consist of our Alaska, U.S. Lower 48 Land Drilling, U.S. Land Well-servicing, U.S. Offshore, Canada and International business units. Our oil and gas operating segment includes Ramshorn Investments, Inc. and our unconsolidated oil and gas joint ventures with First Reserve Corporation. This segment is engaged in the exploration for, and the development of and production of oil and natural gas. Our Other Operating Segments, consisting of Canrig Drilling Technology Ltd., Ryan Energy Technologies, and Nabors Blue Sky Ltd., are engaged in the manufacturing of top drives, manufacturing of drilling instrumentation systems, construction and logistics services, trucking and logistics services, manufacturing and marketing of directional drilling and rig instrumentation systems, directional drilling, rig instrumentation and data collection services, and heliportable well services. These Other Operating Segments do not meet the criteria for disclosure, individually or in the aggregate, as reportable segments.
     The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described in Note 2  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies. Inter-segment sales are recorded at cost or cost plus a profit margin. We evaluate the performance of our segments based on several criteria, including adjusted income (loss) derived from operating activities.
     The following table sets forth financial information with respect to our reportable segments:
 
 
 
 
     The following table sets forth financial information with respect to Nabors' operations by geographic area:
 
Note 22 Condensed Consolidating Financial Information
     Nabors has fully and unconditionally guaranteed all of the issued public debt securities of Nabors Delaware, and Nabors and Nabors Delaware have fully and unconditionally guaranteed the 4.875% senior notes due August 2009 issued by Nabors Holdings 1, ULC, an unlimited liability company formed under the Companies Act of Nova Scotia, Canada and a subsidiary of Nabors ("Nabors Holdings"). On August 17, 2009, we paid $168.4 million to discharge the remaining balance of our 4.875% senior notes. Effective September 30, 2009, Nabors Holdings 1, ULC was amalgamated with Nabors Drilling Canada ULC, the successor company.
     The following condensed consolidating financial information is included so that separate financial statements of Nabors Delaware and Nabors Holdings are not required to be filed with the SEC. The condensed consolidating financial statements present investments in both consolidated and unconsolidated affiliates using the equity method of accounting.
     The following condensed consolidating financial information presents condensed consolidating balance sheets as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, statements of income (loss) for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 and the consolidating statements of cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 of (a) Nabors, parent/guarantor, (b) Nabors Delaware, issuer of public debt securities guaranteed by Nabors and guarantor of the 4.875% senior notes issued by Nabors Holdings, (c) Nabors Holdings, issuer of the 4.875% senior notes, (d) the non-guarantor subsidiaries, (e) consolidating adjustments necessary to consolidate Nabors and its subsidiaries and (f) Nabors on a consolidated basis.
 
Condensed Consolidating Balance Sheets
 
 
Condensed Consolidating Statements of Income (Loss)
 
 
 
Condensed Consolidating Statements of Cash Flows
 
 

EXHIBIT 12
 


