FILE:NBR/NBR-8K-20101027084152.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     On October 26, 2010, Nabors Industries Ltd. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing its results of operations for the third quarter and nine-month period ending September 30, 2010. A copy of that release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 in accordance with General Instruction B.2 to Form 8-K.
     The press release furnished as an exhibit to this report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties, as disclosed by the Company from time to time in its filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. As a result of these factors, the Company's actual results may differ materially from those indicated or implied by such forward-looking statements.
     The Company also presented in the press release "non-GAAP" financial measures under Regulation G. The Company presented its adjusted net income (loss) and adjusted income (loss) derived from operating activities for all periods presented in the release. The components of adjusted net income (loss) and adjusted income (loss) derived from operating activities are computed by using amounts that are determined in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP"). Adjusted net income is computed by adding the adjustments of goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges; full-cost ceiling-test writedowns from U.S., international and Canadian oil and gas joint ventures; impairment charges to oil and gas properties from the wholly owned Ramshorn business unit; impairment charges to long-lived assets across multiple business units; other-than-temporary impairments to available-for-sale securities; a noncash stock compensation charge; acquisition-related charges; and other non-operational items; and then subtracting the tax benefit related to these adjustments. Adjusted income (loss) derived from operating activities is computed by subtracting direct costs, general and administrative expenses, depreciation and amortization, and depletion expense from Operating revenues and then adding Earnings from unconsolidated affiliates. As part of our press release information, we have provided a reconciliation of adjusted net income and adjusted income (loss) derived from operating activities to income from continuing operations before income taxes, which is its nearest comparable GAAP financial measure. In addition, we provided a summary of the noncash charges recorded during each of the periods presented and their impact in calculating each of the non-GAAP financial measures.
     The Company included its adjusted income (loss) derived from operating activities in the release because management evaluates the performance of our business units and the consolidated company based on several criteria, including adjusted income (loss) derived from operating activities, and because it believes this financial measure is an accurate reflection of the ongoing profitability of the Company. The Company included the adjusted net income number because management believes the non-GAAP financial measure to be more indicative of the Company's ongoing operating results and financial condition.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
. today announced its results for the third quarter and nine months ended September 30, 2010. Adjusted income derived from operating activities was $164.4 million for the third quarter, compared to $117.2 million in the third quarter of 2009 and $126.8 million in the second quarter of this year. Excluding certain non-cash asset impairments and expenses related to the acquisition of Superior Well Services Inc., net income from continuing operations was $84.7 million ($0.29 per diluted share) for the third quarter, compared to $66.7 million ($0.23 per diluted share) in the third quarter of 2009 and $44.0 million ($0.15 per diluted share) in the second quarter of this year. Including these charges, income from continuing operations was a loss of $31.6 million ($0.11 per diluted share). For the nine months ended September 30, 2010, adjusted income derived from operating activities was $433.0 million, compared to $395.9 million in 2009. Net income from continuing operations, excluding the aforementioned items, was $172.2 million ($0.59 per diluted share) for the first nine months of 2010, compared to $349.3 million ($1.23 per diluted share) in the first nine months of 2009. The excluded items during the quarter amounted to $134 million, or $0.40 per share, the largest component of which was impairments to goodwill and various underutilized assets primarily in the Company's US Offshore operations. The drilling slowdown following the Gulf of Mexico blowout is likely to restrict utilization of these assets for some time. The impairments also included the writedown of an E&P investment. Because most of the Company's wholly owned and joint-venture interests in Canada and Colombia are being marketed for sale, their results have been classified as discontinued operations beginning this quarter.
Hamilton, Bermuda, October 26, 2010 /PRNewswire-FirstCall/ Nabors Industries Ltd
(NYSE: NBR)
Gene Isenberg, Nabors' Chairman and CEO, commented, "The quarter represented solid operational performance by most of our North American businesses. This is particularly notable considering the flat results in our International operations, a slight loss in our US Offshore unit and only 20 days of contribution from our recently acquired pressure pumping operations. GAAP net income reflected pre-tax charges of $7 million in acquisition transaction expenses and $127 million in non-cash asset impairment charges.
"The most significant sequential increase occurred in our US Lower 48 operations which posted $70.5 million in operating income, compared to the $58.2 million this unit realized in the second quarter. The improvement was primarily due to an $841 increase in average margins, bringing the quarterly average to $8,629 per rig day, augmented by a ten-rig increase during the third quarter, bringing the average rig count to 182.2 rig years. Today's rig count stands slightly higher at 187 rigs. An important achievement during the quarter was the entry into long-term contractual commitments for 11 more new-build rigs, bringing the total to 23 for the year, including three economically equivalent major refurbishments. Eleven of these rigs are destined for the Bakken Shale where we enjoy a dominant position. Three of the remaining rigs will deploy in the Eagle Ford Shale, one in the Haynesville, the other five rigs to the Marcellus Shale, where we have a small but growing presence. The performance of our PACE rigs, especially the new B Series, continues to lead to more inquiries and is supporting modest improvement in leading edge rates. The gap between these rates and our current average rates is significant but they continue to converge as contracts renew. Nevertheless, cost pressure still remains in the most active markets.
 
"Recent increases in this unit's rig count are the net result of higher activity in the oil and liquids-rich drilling plays, significantly offset by reduced dry gas drilling. We expect this trend to continue given the disparity between the forward strips for oil compared to natural gas. This is leading to a net modest improvement in our rig count through next year and keeps us cautiously optimistic regarding the 2011 outlook.
"International income was $64.4 million, essentially flat compared to the second quarter. The sequential rig count increased by five rigs, averaging 103 for the quarter. The incremental contribution from these rigs was largely offset by a $562 decrease in average rates. Along with most of the other larger oil service companies, we have further tempered our international outlook as the market continues to lag everyone's expectations. We now anticipate a sequential decrease on the order of 15% in the fourth quarter and foresee 2011 as essentially flat compared to 2010. We have a significant number of incremental rig deployments scheduled over the next five quarters, but the associated $50 million in additional income will be mostly offset by a large number of expiring contracts renewing at market rates. The largest negative impact is expected from three jackup rig renewals in the Arabian Gulf during the fourth, first and second quarters.
"Income in our US Land Well Servicing unit was $9.0 million, a significant increase over the $3.2 million recorded in the second quarter. Rig hours in the quarter grew to 169,000, up 13,000 from second quarter, while average rig rates increased by $25 per hour. This increased activity was enabled by the extraordinary overtime and rig reactivation expenses incurred last quarter. Today's level of activity represents a nearly 30% increase over last year, better than the industry average. The effective utilization of ready-to-run rigs and available crews combined with continuing strong oil prices augurs well for improved pricing industry wide. This pricing momentum, combined with further realization of synergistic opportunities through our newly acquired pressure pumping business, suggests solid results in the historically slow fourth quarter and a promising 2011, although still well below the peak levels this business achieved in 2006.
"As expected, we incurred a $1.1 million loss in our US Offshore business due to the lower levels of activity in the Gulf of Mexico following the Macondo blowout. We expect a similar result in the fourth quarter, although we are cautiously optimistic the outlook will improve in 2011 in spite of ongoing permitting delays. However, we still expect activity in this market to be inhibited over the next few years given the more onerous regulatory environment, which led us to impair the carrying value of some of this unit's goodwill and underutilized assets. On the positive side, we are proceeding with engineering and construction of two first-of-a-kind 4,500 horsepower deepwater platform rigs recently awarded by two major customers. Both projects are scheduled to deploy in late 2012 and entail five to ten-year drilling programs. It is also likely that regulatory authorities will require that some 3,500 wells in the Gulf of Mexico be plugged and abandoned. This holds significant promise for our Sundowner platform and workover jackup rigs.
"In Canada, we posted $1.0 million in operating income, a significant improvement over the $9.5 million loss in the seasonally low second quarter. We have significantly increased our income expectations for both this year and next as a result of higher activity and rigorous cost control. The higher activity is occurring in the British Columbia shale plays, the traditional oil areas of Alberta and Saskatchewan, and the emerging oil shale plays, particularly the Cardium Shale in south central Alberta. Another significant driver is drilling in support of potash development. This unit is building three new rigs, the first of which will deploy in our US Lower 48 operations. An award for the second rig is pending in Canada, and there is strong interest in the innovative design of the third rig, which is targeted at pad drilling applications and should deliver late next year.
"Quarterly results in our Alaskan unit were higher than expected at $14.3 million, with extra income derived from higher rig activity, demobilization fees and camp rentals in support of
 
various maintenance and construction projects. The quarter also benefited from the acceleration of deferred revenues triggered by the impending end of the primary term of a long-term contract. The end of this contract, the recent wind up of another 12-year contract and spending cuts by the largest operator in this market have caused us to lower our 2011 expectations considerably. Over time, we expect strong crude prices will result in a return to more robust spending and Nabors should be the largest beneficiary given the quality of our operations and rigs and our patented coiled technology.
"Our Other Operating Segments posted an excellent quarter, primarily on the strength of strong results in Canrig which were driven by strong third-party equipment sales and increasing income from our Rockit directional drilling technology. Results in our Alaskan joint ventures also contributed significantly. We expect results to be sustainable given Canrig's third-party backlog, the continuing success of the Rockit technology and the rollout of additional directional drilling technologies.
"Our Oil and Gas operations posted income of $1.0 million with the reclassification of our Colombian and Canadian entities as discontinued operations. The proposed sale of these two units is moving ahead expeditiously, with discussions underway with numerous interested parties regarding both regions. Two investment banks are marketing our Colombian properties, with one of them also representing us in Canada. Our expectations of realized value remain intact.
"The most notable development of the quarter was the acquisition of Superior Well Services in an all-cash transaction with an enterprise value of approximately $900 million. We were able to close and finance the transaction within five weeks of the announcement of a definitive agreement. Our consolidated results reflect only $12.0 million in operating income from the 20 days this unit was part of Nabors. In the short time we have owned Superior, the quality of their equipment and technology and the capability of their field personnel and management teams have exceeded our expectations. We have already realized significant economies in procurement, consolidated certain facilities, and integrated Superior's fluids management business into Nabors Well Services. We still see further synergies and significant investment opportunities facilitated by Nabors' ability to fund this previously capital-constrained business.
"Our financial position is strong with $810 million in cash and investments at the end of the quarter. This ending balance reflects the all-cash acquisition of Superior and the attendant issuance of $700 million in senior unsecured notes, due 2020, at an annual yield of 5%. In mid-September we also established a $700 million, four-year, committed revolving credit facility which allows us to borrow at LIBOR plus 1.50%. The availability of this credit facility, our expectation of significant free cash flow in subsequent quarters and the anticipated proceeds from the sale of certain E&P properties, leads us to conclude we can comfortably redeem the $1.4 billion in convertible notes due next May and fund anticipated capital expenditures. This should negate the need for issuance of equity in any form or additional borrowings, other than temporary draws on our revolver.
"In summary, we are quite optimistic regarding the direction of our business, notwithstanding a persistently low natural gas strip and the tempered outlook for our International segment."
The Nabors companies own and operate approximately 554 land drilling and approximately 728 land workover and well-servicing rigs in North America. Nabors' actively marketed offshore fleet consists of 38 platform rigs, 13 jackup units and 3 barge rigs in the United States and multiple international markets. In addition, Nabors manufactures top drives and drilling instrumentation systems and provides comprehensive oilfield hauling, engineering, civil construction, logistics and facilities maintenance, and project management services. Nabors participates in most of the significant oil and gas markets in the world.
 
The information above includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties, as disclosed by Nabors from time to time in its filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. As a result of these factors, Nabors' actual results may differ materially from those indicated or implied by such forward-looking statements.
For further information, please contact Dennis A. Smith, Director of Corporate Development for Nabors Corporate Services, Inc., at 281-775-8038. To request investor materials, contact our corporate headquarters in Hamilton, Bermuda at 441-292-1510 or via email at .
mark.andrews@nabors.com
 
 
 
 
 
The following tables set forth certain information with respect to our reportable segments and rig activity:
 
 
 
A reconciliation of the numerators and denominators of the basic and diluted earnings (losses) per share computations is as follows:
 
For all periods presented, the computation of diluted earnings (losses) per share excluded outstanding stock options and warrants with exercise prices greater than the average market price of Nabors' common shares, because their inclusion would have been anti-dilutive and because they were not considered participating securities. The average number of options and warrants that were excluded from diluted earnings (losses) per share that would have potentially diluted earnings (losses) per share in the future were 32,543,395 and 16,595,790 shares during the three months ended September 30, 2010 and 2009, respectively; and 14,894,841 shares during the three months ended June 30, 2010; and 14,108,644 and 34,085,988 shares during the nine months ended September 30, 2010 and 2009, respectively. In any period during which the average market price of Nabors' common shares exceeds the exercise prices of these stock options and warrants, such stock options and warrants are included in our diluted earnings (losses) per share computation using the if-converted method of accounting. Restricted stock is included in our basic and diluted earnings (losses) per share computation using the two-class method of accounting in all periods because it is considered a participating security.
 
 
 
 
 
 


