FILE:NBR/NBR-8K-20110426172402.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     On April 26, 2011, we issued a press release announcing our results of operations for the three-month period ending March 31, 2011. A copy of that release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
     The press release includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties, as disclosed from time to time in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. As a result of these factors, our actual results may differ materially from those indicated or implied by such forward-looking statements.
     We also presented in the press release "non-GAAP" financial measures under Regulation G. We presented our adjusted income (loss) derived from operating activities for all periods presented in the release. The components of adjusted income (loss) derived from operating activities are computed by using amounts which are determined in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP"). Adjusted income (loss) derived from operating activities is computed by subtracting direct costs, general and administrative expenses, depreciation and amortization, and depletion expense from Operating revenues and then adding Earnings from unconsolidated affiliates. As part of our press release information we provided a reconciliation of adjusted income (loss) derived from operating activities to income before income taxes from continuing operations, which is its nearest comparable GAAP financial measure.
     We included our adjusted income (loss) derived from operating activities in the release because management evaluates the performance of our business units and the consolidated company based on several criteria, including adjusted income (loss) derived from operating activities, and because we believe this financial measure is an accurate reflection of our ongoing profitability.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
today reported its financial results for the first quarter of 2011. Adjusted income derived from operating activities was $191 million, compared to $142 million in the first quarter of 2010 and $222 million in the quarter ended December 31, 2010. Net income from continuing operations was $84.3 million, or $0.29 per diluted share, compared to $43.5 million or $0.16 per diluted share in the first quarter of last year and $50.2 million or $0.17 per diluted share in the fourth quarter of 2010. Operating Revenues and Earnings from unconsolidated affiliates for this quarter totaled $1.4 billion compared to $899.0 million in the comparable quarter of the prior year and $1.3 billion in the fourth quarter of 2010. Income from continuing operations reflects an effective tax rate of 31%, significantly higher than the 24% rate in the Company's combined continuing and discontinued operations.
HAMILTON, Bermuda, April 26, 2011  Nabors Industries Ltd. (NYSE:NBR)
Gene Isenberg, Nabors' Chairman and CEO, commented, "Our first quarter operating results obscure the fact that virtually all of our businesses are experiencing significantly improving outlooks that will be more fully reflected in our results during the second half of the year. The first half will be negatively affected by the previously disclosed $90 million decrease in International income from the repricing of three jackups and scheduled downtime for multiple rigs. First quarter results reflect a portion of that element, along with another $24 million ($0.06 per share) in unusual costs and lost income, comprised of cost increases and weather-related delays in our Pressure Pumping and US Well-servicing businesses, top drive delivery deferrals due to supply chain interruptions in Canrig, and some interruptions in three international venues. We expect those costs to be confined to the first quarter and to recover approximately one-third of this amount over the balance of the year. Our second quarter will again reflect the aforementioned International items and will also be subject to the customary seasonal loss in Canada. Nonetheless, all indications point to a second half characterized by significantly improving results across all of our units other than US Offshore and Alaska, and improving visibility indicates a resumption of growth in these two units longer-term.
"An early indicator of this uptrend is the strong first quarter performance posted by our Canadian operation whose $39 million in operating income more than doubled the $16.6 million it posted in the fourth quarter. Activity was seasonally strong, with an average of 50 rigs operating for the quarter, and margins approximated the all-time high for this unit at $12,000 per rig day. As is the case in the US Lower 48, results have benefitted from a continuing shift from dry gas to oil and liquids-rich wells. This unit is completing two new well service rigs for use in the tar sands and has two more rigs in production. While we will likely see a seasonal loss in the second quarter, the balance of the year appears to be quite strong with 45 rigs already committed to work following the spring thaw.
"Results in our US Lower 48 land drilling operations were down slightly at $80 million as a $500 per day increase in average daily rig margins was more than offset by the absence of the favorable adjustment to worker's compensation accruals that once again benefited the fourth quarter, coupled with early year payroll taxes, and higher SG&A expenses, all of which are unique to the first quarter. Rig activity for the quarter averaged 187.9 rigs operating with average margins of $9,394 per rig day. We expect both our rig count and average margins to increase meaningfully throughout the balance of the year, evidenced by today's rig count of 196. During the quarter this unit was awarded four additional term contracts for new rigs, two for the Bakken and two to be deployed into the Rocky Mountain region. This gives this unit a total of 132 new build rig contracts with 33 of these secured in the last four quarters, including three economically equivalent SCR upgrades.
 
"As expected, our International income was down at $35.5 million as two high-margin jackups were demobilized to a Dubai shipyard in early February for regulatory inspections and upgrades pending contract renewals secured at the end of March. Two more jackups will also be idled for inspections, one of which will also be upgraded pending its expected contract renewal at the end of June. These inspections, the shutdown of six land rigs in preparation for long-term gas drilling contracts, and lower rates for the three renewing jackups are the primary components of the aforementioned $90 million in lost income. Additional negative impacts arose from three other rig shutdowns for long-term contract modifications and the interruption of rig operations due to civil unrest in Yemen and a labor strike in Oman. A customer-mandated special bonus payment to local workers in Saudi Arabia also impacted results, but should ultimately be recovered. We anticipate a healthy increase in second half income as these rigs return to work and another 17 incremental rigs commence operations. Among these are seven rigs that should commence operations in Iraq throughout the year, along with the late-year deployment of two additional platform rigs in India and two high-specification land rigs in Papua New Guinea. Five land rigs will also be reactivated in Saudi Arabia in the second half of the year. Various other projects are pending and we believe the fourth quarter could approximate the $72 million this unit achieved in the fourth quarter of 2010. This portends strong results in 2012 with a full year of contributions from these rig startups. By the end of 2011 it appears that land rig supply/demand in international markets may well be approaching balance.
"Our Pressure Pumping operations were down materially at $43.7 million reflecting the impact of weather delays and cost increases, primarily for materials, repair parts and fuel, during the first quarter. We are implementing price increases and surcharges that should cover most of these increases going forward. Labor and training costs were also higher than usual, primarily related to hiring and training incremental crews for new equipment. Deployment of these spreads is now delayed by as much as two months, but all are still expected to be in service by the end of this year. Despite these near-term issues rates continue to increase and we are having considerable success in securing term contracts for a good portion of our fleet. Our first incremental spread will soon commence operations and we expect to deploy the remaining equipment at the rate of one spread per month.
"Our US Well-servicing unit posted a respectable $11 million despite approximately $1.7 million in weather-related losses. Rig hours increased significantly and, when coupled with recent price increases, should lead to steady improvement throughout the balance of the year. Our optimism is further bolstered by increased activity in this unit's 24-hour rig operations and recent and prospective deliveries of 20 new 400 horsepower rigs in California. This unit will also take delivery of 150 new tanker trucks in the second half and has already received 400 of 1,000 additional frac tanks, all for use by its Fluids Management operations. We are also seeing market conditions that are more conducive to pricing improvement.
"Our US Offshore business posted a modest loss at $4 million compared to a more significant loss in the prior quarter. Two of our deepwater platform rigs have resumed operations and we remain cautiously optimistic regarding improving activity in the second half as additional customers have indicated that they expect to receive permits to resume operations in the not too distant future. In total we have had eight platform operations suspended for some time and a number of shallow-water projects postponed. Recently a few of our shallow-water rigs commenced operations, all on short-term commitments. We believe this situation will continue to improve slowly and by the end of this year we will have significantly improved visibility regarding the intermediate term outlook. Meanwhile we continue construction on two new 4,000 horsepower deepwater platform rigs. One of these will be sold to the customer and will be operated by Nabors under a long-term management contract. It will contribute slightly in 2011 and 2012, but the largest impact on our results will be in 2013 when both rigs should be operating for the full year.
 
"In Alaska we posted $11 million in operating income, somewhat lower than expected as a couple of key projects slipped into the second quarter. The outlook for this business remains challenging, but the prospects for a significantly improving market in 2012 and 2013 are becoming more tangible.
"Income in our Other Operating Segments was considerably lower than last quarter at $6.1 million despite seasonal highs in our Alaskan joint ventures. This was principally due to roughly $7 million in deferred income in Canrig due to delayed top drive shipments arising from a supply chain interruption. The issue has been resolved and we expect to complete the originally scheduled shipments in the next two quarters.
"In our Oil and Gas segment we have signed four separate agreements covering the sale of various portions of our Colombia holdings. All of these transactions either have closed or are expected to do so before the end of the second quarter. The combined proceeds to Nabors are expected to exceed $250 million. We still retain approximately 245,000 net acres in the Llanos Basin that will require further seismic activity and potentially some drilling to enhance its value.
"Our financial position remains strong and we have adequate resources to comfortably redeem the $1.4 billion in remaining convertible notes due on May 15, 2011 and still continue to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities. Last week we increased our revolving credit facilities to a total of $1.35 billion at very attractive rates giving us additional financial flexibility.
"It is becoming increasingly probable that the current uptick in nearly all of our businesses is sustainable. We believe that as the year progresses we will begin to demonstrate the powerful leverage that exists across all of our entities and that we will be in a position where each of our segments is improving simultaneously."
The Nabors companies own and operate approximately 551 land drilling and approximately 750 land workover and well-servicing rigs in North America. Nabors' actively marketed offshore fleet consists of 38 platform rigs, 13 jackup units and 3 barge rigs in the United States and multiple international markets. In addition, Nabors manufactures top drives and drilling instrumentation systems and provides comprehensive oilfield hauling, engineering, civil construction, logistics and facilities maintenance, and project management services. Nabors participates in most of the significant oil and gas markets in the world.
The information above includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties, as disclosed by Nabors from time to time in its filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. As a result of these factors, Nabors' actual results may differ materially from those indicated or implied by such forward-looking statements.
The Company will host a conference call Wednesday, April 27, 2011 at 10:00 a.m. Central Time to discuss the results and its outlook in more detail. You may access a webcast of the call through Nabors' website at > Investor Relations > Events Calendar or via . The Company will also post a set of slides on its website in advance of the call in order to provide additional detail on its operations. For further information, please contact Dennis A. Smith, Director of Corporate Development for Nabors Corporate Services, Inc., at 281-775-8038. To request investor materials, contact our corporate headquarters in Hamilton, Bermuda at 441-292-1510 or via email at .
www.nabors.com
www.streetevents.com
mark.andrews@nabors.com
 
 
 
 
 
The following tables set forth certain information with respect to our reportable segments and rig activity:
 
 
 
A reconciliation of the numerators and denominators of the basic and diluted earnings (losses) per share computations is as follows:
 
For all periods presented, the computation of diluted earnings (losses) per share excluded outstanding stock options and warrants with exercise prices greater than the average market price of Nabors' common shares, because their inclusion would have been anti-dilutive and because they were not considered participating securities. The average number of options and warrants that were excluded from diluted earnings (losses) per share that would have potentially diluted earnings (losses) per share in the future were 7,269,039 and 10,055,869 shares during the three months ended March 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively; and 13,693,063 shares during the three months ended December 31, 2010. In any period during which the average market price of Nabors' common shares exceeds the exercise prices of these stock options and warrants, such stock options and warrants are included in our diluted earnings (losses) per share computation using the if-converted method of accounting. Restricted stock will be included in our basic and diluted earnings (losses) per share computation using the two-class method of accounting in all periods because such stock is considered participating securities.


