FILE:NBR/NBR-8K-20111028172645.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
     On October 28, 2011, we issued a press release announcing that the Board of Directors has appointed Anthony G. Petrello as Chief Executive Officer of the company. Mr. Petrello has served as a Director and as President and Chief Operating Officer of Nabors since 1991 and as Deputy Chairman since 2003. He will serve as President and Chief Executive Officer, and will continue in his roles as a Director and Deputy Chairman.
     Eugene M. Isenberg, who served as Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer since 1987, will continue to serve as the Chairman of the Board of Directors. As a result of this change in responsibility, the Company intends to record a $100 million contingent liability, to be reflected in its fourth-quarter results and year-end financial statements, in light of provisions in Mr. Isenberg's employment agreement. The material terms of his employment agreement are described on pages 29-31 of the proxy statement relating to our annual general meeting of shareholders held on June 7, 2011 and filed with the SEC on April 29, 2011 (File no. 001-32657). That description is hereby incorporated by reference herein.
     Each of the changes was effective Friday, October 28, 2011. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
     Mr. Petrello, 57, also serves as a director of Stewart & Stevenson LLC and of Hilcorp Energy Company. Mr. Petrello has an employment agreement with the Company, the material terms of which are described on pages 29-31 of the proxy statement relating to our annual general meeting of shareholders held on June 7, 2011 and filed with the SEC on April 29, 2011 (File no. 001-32657). That description is hereby incorporated by reference herein.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

Exhibit 99.1
. today announced that its Board of Directors has appointed Anthony Petrello as Chief Executive Officer of the Company effective immediately. Eugene Isenberg will remain Chairman of the Board.
Hamilton, Bermuda, October 28, 2011 / PRNewswire  FirstCall / Nabors Industries Ltd
(NYSE: NBR)
"The Company and its shareholders are indebted to Mr. Isenberg for his many years of dedicated service," said John Yearwood, Lead Director. "Under his extraordinary leadership, the Company grew from its emergence from bankruptcy in 1987 into one of the most successful oil service companies in the world. Gene's knowledge of the capital markets, his in-depth industry experience, and his talent for identifying extraordinary investment opportunities were hallmarks of his successful 24-year tenure as Chairman and CEO."
Since 1987, the Company has grown from a small Alaska-based drilling contractor with 38 rigs and negative shareholder equity of $35 million to a multinational company with operations in over 24 countries and shareholder equity of more than $5.6 billion. The stock price was $0.37 per share in 1987 and increased 50-fold over Mr. Isenberg's tenure.
Mr. Isenberg commented, "I have complete confidence that Tony is the right person to take over as CEO. We have worked closely together for 20 years, and he has a deep knowledge of the Company's operations and strategy. He is well positioned to lead the Company as CEO moving forward. I believe the Company's brightest and most successful days are ahead of it."
The Nabors companies own and operate approximately 491 land drilling rigs and approximately 749 land workover and well-servicing rigs in North America. Nabors' actively marketed offshore fleet consists of 39 platform rigs, 12 jackup units and 4 barge rigs in the United States and multiple international markets. In addition, Nabors is one of the largest providers of hydraulic fracturing, cementing, nitrogen and acid pressure pumping services with over 780,000 hydraulic horsepower currently in service. Nabors also manufactures top drives and drilling instrumentation systems and provides comprehensive oilfield hauling, engineering, civil construction, logistics, and facilities maintenance and project management services. Nabors participates in most of the significant oil and gas markets in the world.
For further information, please contact Dennis A. Smith, Director of Corporate Development for Nabors Corporate Services, Inc., at 281-775-8038. To request investor materials, contact our corporate headquarters in Hamilton, Bermuda at 441-292-1510 or via email at .
mark.andrews@nabors.com
1


