FILE:NBR/NBR-8K-20110216093041.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
   Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
   Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     On February 15, 2011, we issued a press release announcing our results of operations for the fourth quarter and full year 2010. A copy of that release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 in accordance with General Instruction B.2 to Form 8-K.
     The press release furnished as an exhibit to this report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties, as disclosed from time to time in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. As a result of these factors, our actual results may differ materially from those indicated or implied by such forward-looking statements.
     We also presented in the press release "non-GAAP" financial measures under Regulation G. We presented our adjusted net income and adjusted income (loss) derived from operating activities for all periods presented in the release. The components of adjusted net income and adjusted income (loss) derived from operating activities are computed by using amounts which are determined in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP"). Adjusted net income is computed by adding the adjustments of goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges, all related to our Canadian business units; full cost ceiling test writedowns from our U.S. oil and gas joint venture; discontinued operations income, net of tax from our Canada and Colombia oil and gas joint ventures impairment charges to wholly owned oil and gas properties; impairment charges to long-lived assets across multiple business units; acquisition-related expenses and other non-operational items; other than temporary impairments to available-for-sale securities; and a noncash stock compensation charge, and then subtracting the tax benefit related to these adjustments. Adjusted income (loss) derived from operating activities is computed by subtracting direct costs, general and administrative expenses, depreciation and amortization, and depletion expense from Operating revenues and then adding Earnings (losses) from unconsolidated affiliates. As part of our press release information, we provided a reconciliation of adjusted net income and adjusted income (loss) derived from operating activities to income before income taxes, which is its nearest comparable GAAP financial measure.
     We included our adjusted income (loss) derived from operating activities in the release because management evaluates the performance of our business units and the consolidated company based on several criteria, including adjusted income (loss) derived from operating activities, and because we believe this financial measure is an accurate reflection of our ongoing profitability. We included adjusted net income because management believes the non-GAAP financial measure to be more indicative of our ongoing operating results and financial condition.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
today announced its results for the fourth quarter and full year 2010. The Company's non-GAAP net income from continuing operations was $127.7 million ($0.44 per diluted share) in the fourth quarter and $299.9 million ($1.03 per diluted share) for the full year. This compares to the Company's 2009 results which were $35.1 million ($0.12 per diluted share) and $384.4 million ($1.34 per diluted share), respectively, in net income from continuing operations. The quarter's adjusted income derived from operating activities was $222.4 million bringing the total for 2010 to $655.4 million. This compares to $140.4 million for the corresponding quarter of 2009 and $681.6 million for all of last year. This quarter's results do not include nearly $5 million or $0.02 per share of deferred income from work performed for the Company's NFR joint venture which have been eliminated for GAAP purposes and will be reflected in future periods through favorable adjustments to the Company's portion of their depletion. Revenues for the Company were $1.3 billion for the quarter and $4.2 billion for the full year. The quarter's GAAP income from continuing operations was $50.2 million ($0.17 per diluted share) and included non-cash impairments of certain E&P assets.
HAMILTON, Bermuda, February 15, 2011  Nabors Industries Ltd. (NYSE:NBR)
Gene Isenberg, Nabors' Chairman and CEO, commented, "Our fourth quarter results exceeded expectations in virtually all sectors of our business except the Gulf of Mexico where the permitting gridlock persists. Operating income rose sequentially by $58.0 million to $222.4 million. The addition of Superior Well Services generated the largest impact followed by Canada, US Lower 48 land drilling, International and US Well-servicing. Our Other Operating Segments income decreased sequentially as a result of lower activity in both our Alaska joint ventures and in our directional drilling entity, more than offsetting an increase in Canrig's results.
"We expect 2011 to show a 50-60 percent increase in non-GAAP earnings per share, even though the first and second quarters will be adversely impacted by several period-specific issues and the customary seasonal slowness in our US Pressure Pumping and US Well-servicing businesses. Among these issues are the usual first quarter payroll tax drag on our US businesses and approximately $90 million in International income reductions resulting from three events: lower market rates on three jackup renewals, scheduled downtime for regulatory inspections on four jackups, and approximately 360 days of downtime to accomplish upgrades on six land rigs in Saudi Arabia in preparation for long-term gas drilling contracts. Despite the magnitude of these items, we still expect International income in 2011 to approximate 90% of 2010 with a fourth quarter annualized run rate that far exceeds that result as rig activity increases. With the exception of Alaska, all of our units are expected to be up significantly and in the aggregate deliver a very strong year.
 
"Meanwhile, our financial position remains solid. Despite a significant increase in our 2011 investment opportunities, we plan to redeem our remaining $1.4 billion in convertible notes on May 15, 2011 from a combination of our cash on hand, interim cash generation, E&P sale proceeds and temporary use of our revolving lines of credit.
"Our US Pressure Pumping segment posted a very strong quarter at $54.7 million, a record performance that included a seasonally lower December. We expect the first quarter to be flat with the fourth quarter with seasonality in some areas, offsetting higher average volume and pricing in other areas. The first of nine incremental crews are expected to commence operations in March, with one deploying each month thereafter. We also expect to begin operating the first of our new coiled tubing units in June. We continue to see improvement in this business as increasing demand in oil and liquids-rich fields outstrips slowing activity in dry gas areas, with the notable exception being the Marcellus shale. The average number of stages per well continues to increase and we believe overcapacity will not be an issue for some time, particularly if commercial success is achieved in some of the numerous new oil shale plays. We anticipate 2011 will show significant further sequential increases in quarterly results.
"Results in our Canada operations increased substantially to $16.6 million as we ramped up into the seasonally strong first quarter. In addition to the normal improvement associated with the beginning of the winter drilling season, this market is seeing strong increases in oil and liquids-directed activity which more than offsets declining rig counts in gas areas such as Horn River and Montney. We expect 2011 to be a significantly better year than 2010.
"Our US Lower 48 land drilling unit also posted a large increase in operating income principally on higher average margins of $843 per rig day, with only $250 of that increase attributable to favorable end-of-year workers' compensation adjustments. Since our third quarter release, we have secured another six new build rig contracts bringing the total over the last four quarters to 29, including three economically equivalent SCR upgrades. Interest in additional new builds remains strong. The outlook for this business remains very good, although a sharper-than-anticipated decline in gas activity could partially offset the continuing ramp up in oil and liquids-directed work. In 2011, we expect that 68% of our operating cash flow in this unit will be derived from oil and liquids-directed drilling, as opposed to only 15% in 2006.
"Our International business exceeded our expectations with favorable costs and delayed repricing on the first of three jackups. The aforementioned $90 million reduction in income will largely be felt equally in the first and second quarters. However, a significant ramp-up in this unit's rig count during each quarter should result in sequential improvement as the year progresses, with the fourth quarter approximating this quarter's results. Prospects are improving in multiple markets and we are optimistic this unit will outperform our expectations over the next few years.
"Our US Well-servicing business achieved a significant improvement in results, with $12.1 million in operating income derived from improved rig rates and robust activity in its fluids management division. We expect this unit to achieve steady improvement subsequent to the seasonally weak first quarter leading to a possible doubling of the full-year results. There remains significant potential in this business with sustained oil prices and a large expansion of our fluids management fleet, facilitated by the synergies this unit is deriving from the Superior acquisition.
 
"Our Alaska operations were sequentially down slightly with the demobilization of two rigs following the completion of long-term projects. We expect 2011 results to be only 40% of those achieved in 2010 as another higher margin project winds up in May, adding to the effects of a significant decline in rig activity. There are early indications of improving activity later this year if proposed modifications to the progressive Alaska tax structure are enacted. Sustained high oil prices, additional demand for our proprietary coiled tubing technology and the eventual development of viscous oil deposits are promising longer term.
"Our US Offshore operations were down more than expected as the lack of permit issuance continued to severely curtail activity. We expect this situation to continue through mid-year, although increased workover and plug and abandonment work for our shallow water jackups and Sundowner rigs should somewhat lessen the adverse financial effects. The longer-term outlook is solid, particularly considering the two new build high-spec deepwater rigs we are constructing for deployment around the end of next year under long-term contracts.
"Our Other Operating Segments posted lower results as a decline in Ryan's US gas-related directional drilling operations combined with a drop off in activity in both of our Alaska joint ventures. These effects were partially offset by a small increase in Canrig's results, principally on the strength of third party capital equipment sales and increasing contributions from its ROCKIT technology. The outlook for this segment appears to be good with continued strength in Canrig and the commencement of the winter season in Ryan's Canada operations and in our Alaska joint ventures.
"In our Oil and Gas segment the quarter's GAAP results included dry-hole expense and impairment of certain gas properties, the development of which is unwarranted because of the current natural gas price environment. As we previously discussed, we are progressing toward the completion of the sale of a portion of our Colombian assets. We are evaluating a second stage of bid submissions and believe we will derive a value in line with the lower end of the range of our expectations.
"In summary, all of our units are poised to improve as 2011 progresses. Longer term, our global infrastructure, premium fleet and solid balance sheet position us to perform well in almost any market environment. Recovery in our International segment is commencing and we remain confident in the sustainability of growth in our North American markets even in the face of today's weak gas prices. The leverage we enjoy in the natural gas market positions us for even greater profitability when prices eventually improve."
The Nabors companies own and operate approximately 550 land drilling and approximately 727 land workover and well-servicing rigs in North America. Nabors' actively marketed offshore fleet consists of 37 platform rigs, 13 jackup units and 3 barge rigs in the United States and multiple international markets. In addition, Nabors manufactures top drives and drilling instrumentation systems and provides comprehensive oilfield hauling, engineering, civil construction, logistics and facilities maintenance, and project management services. Nabors participates in most of the significant oil and gas markets in the world.
The information above includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties, as disclosed by Nabors from time to time in its filings with the
 
Securities and Exchange Commission. As a result of these factors, Nabors' actual results may differ materially from those indicated or implied by such forward-looking statements.
The Company will host a conference call tomorrow, February 16, 2011 at 10:00 a.m. Central Time to discuss the results and its outlook in more detail. You may access a webcast of the call through Nabors' website at > Investor Relations > Events Calendar or via . The Company will also post a set of slides on its website in advance of the call in order to provide additional detail on its operations. For further information, please contact Dennis A. Smith, Director of Corporate Development for Nabors Corporate Services, Inc., at 281-775-8038. To request investor materials, contact our corporate headquarters in Hamilton, Bermuda at 441-292-1510 or via email at .
www.nabors.com
www.streetevents.com
mark.andrews@nabors.com
 
 
 
 
 
The following tables set forth certain information with respect to our reportable segments and rig activity:
 
 
 
A reconciliation of the numerators and denominators of the basic and diluted earnings (losses) per share computations is as follows:
 
For all periods presented, the computation of diluted earnings (losses) per share excluded outstanding stock options and warrants with exercise prices greater than the average market price of Nabors' common shares, because their inclusion would have been anti-dilutive and because they were not considered participating securities. The average number of options and warrants that were excluded from diluted earnings (losses) per share that would have potentially diluted earnings (losses) per share in the future were 13,693,063 and 34,197,583 shares during the three months ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively; and 32,543,395 shares during the three months ended September 30, 2010; and 14,004,749 and 34,113,887 shares during the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. In any period during which the average market price of Nabors' common shares exceeds the exercise prices of these stock options and warrants, such stock options and warrants are included in our diluted earnings (losses) per share computation using the if-converted method of accounting. Restricted stock is included in our basic and diluted earnings (losses) per share computation using the two-class method of accounting in all periods because it is considered a participating security.
 
 
 
 
 
 


