FILE:CSX/CSX-8K-20030430162700.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 5. OTHER EVENTS
 
CSX Corporation issued a press release and its quarterly Flash document on financial and operating results for the first quarter ended March 28, 2003. The press release is filed as Exhibit 99.1 and the quarterly Flash document is filed as Exhibit 99.2.
 
ITEM 7. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
 
The following exhibits are filed as part of this report.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: April 30, 2003
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
Dan Murphy    
Contact:
        
(904) 359-1469
            
 
 
CSX Corporation (NYSE: CSX) today reported first quarter net earnings of $99 million, or 46 cents per share, versus $25 million, or 12 cents per share, a year ago. Both quarters include the cumulative effect of a non-cash accounting change. In the 2003 quarter, earnings increased by an after-tax credit of $57 million, 26 cents per share, because of the adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standard (SFAS) No. 143, "Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations." In the previous year's first quarter, earnings were reduced by an after-tax charge of $43 million, 20 cents per share, due to the adoption of SFAS 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets."
JACKSONVILLE, Fla., April 30, 2003
 
Before the cumulative effects of these accounting changes, 2003 first quarter earnings were 20 cents per share compared to 32 cents per share in the 2002 first quarter. The 2002 results included a significant real estate transaction that was worth 11 cents per share.
 
Operating income at Surface Transportation, which includes CSX's rail and intermodal units, was $169 million compared to $194 million in the first quarter of 2002 despite strong revenue growth. This was due primarily to increased costs associated with sharp spikes in fuel prices and operating expenses from extraordinarily harsh winter weather.
 
"In a fairly stagnant economy, we were able to post solid revenue gains in the merchandise and intermodal segments, reflecting favorable mix and continued success in our pricing program and our
 
efforts to convert truck traffic to rail. We are excited by these revenue gains and the increased confidence that customers are placing in us," said Michael J. Ward, CSX chairman and chief executive officer.
 
"We were, however, challenged on the cost side. Fuel expenses were up $54 million year-over-year and the severe winter weather affected the fluidity of the network negatively and caused significant labor and equipment expense increases.
 
"Our service measurements are now moving in the right direction," Ward added. "I am optimistic that the fluidity of our network will be restored and that the first quarter hurdles are largely behind us. We have numerous productivity initiatives underway to reduce costs throughout this year and beyond. At the same time, we will continue to enhance our service and provide better products to our customers, keeping revenue initiatives as vibrant as they were in this past quarter."
 
On a consolidated basis, revenues were $2.02 billion versus $1.96 billion a year ago with operating income of $177 million compared to $212 million in first quarter of 2002. Operating income at the Company's international terminal business was $15 million, $4 million above 2002. First quarter consolidated operating income also included executive retirement expenses of $16 million.
 
On February 27, CSX completed the conveyance of its domestic shipping unit, CSX Lines, to the Carlyle Group. The pretax gain of $127 million will be recognized over 12 years which equals the duration of CSX's vessel subleases to the venture.
 
CSX Corporation, based in Jacksonville, Fla., owns the largest rail network in the eastern United States. CSX Transportation Inc. and its 34,000 employees provide rail transportation services over a 23,000 route-mile network in 23 states, the District of Columbia and two Canadian provinces. CSX Corporation also provides intermodal and global container terminal operations through other subsidiaries. More information is available at the company's website, .
www.csx.com
 
 
This press release and other statements by the Company contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act with respect to, among other items: projections and estimates of earnings, revenues, cost-savings, expenses, or other financial items; statements of management's plans, strategies and objectives for future operation, and management's expectations as to future performance and operations and the time by which objectives will be achieved; statements concerning proposed new products and services; and statements regarding future economic, industry or market conditions or performance. Forward-looking statements are typically identified by words or phrases such as "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "project," and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement. If the Company does update any forward-looking statement, no inference should be drawn that the Company will make additional updates with respect to that statement or any other forward-looking statements.
 
Forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, and actual performance or results could differ materially from that anticipated by these forward-looking statements. Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by these forward-looking statements include, among others: (i) the Company's success in implementing its financial and operational initiatives, (ii) changes in domestic or international economic or business conditions, including those affecting the rail industry (such as the impact of industry competition, conditions, performance and consolidation); (iii) legislative or regulatory changes; and (iv) the outcome of claims and litigation involving or affecting the Company. Other important assumptions and factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements are specified in the Company's SEC reports, accessible on the SEC's website at and the Company's website at .
www.sec.gov
www.csx.com

 
Quarterly
Flash
CSX CORPORATION
 
CSX REPORTS FIRST-QUARTER EARNINGS
 
CSX Corporation (NYSE: CSX) today reported first quarter net earnings of $99 million, or 46 cents per share, versus $25 million, or 12 cents per share, a year ago. Both quarters include the cumulative effect of a non-cash accounting change. In the 2003 quarter, earnings increased by an after-tax credit of $57 million, 26 cents per share, because of the adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standard (SFAS) No. 143, "Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations." In the previous year's first quarter, earnings were reduced by an after-tax charge of $43 million, 20 cents per share, due to the adoption of SFAS 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets."
JACKSONVILLE, Fla., April 30, 2003
 
Before the cumulative effects of these accounting changes, 2003 first quarter earnings were 20 cents per share compared to 32 cents per share in the 2002 first quarter. The 2002 results included a significant real estate transaction that was worth 11 cents per share.
 
Operating income at Surface Transportation, which includes CSX's rail and intermodal units, was $169 million compared to $194 million in the first quarter of 2002 despite strong revenue growth. This was due primarily to increased costs associated with sharp spikes in fuel prices and operating expenses from extraordinarily harsh winter weather.
 
"In a fairly stagnant economy, we were able to post solid revenue gains in the merchandise and intermodal segments, reflecting favorable mix and continued success in our pricing program and our efforts to convert truck traffic to rail. We are excited by these revenue gains and the increased confidence that customers are placing in us," said Michael J. Ward, CSX chairman and chief executive officer.
 
"We were, however, challenged on the cost side. Fuel expenses were up $54 million year-over-year and the severe winter weather affected the fluidity of the network negatively and caused significant labor and equipment expense increases.
 
"Our service measurements are now moving in the right direction," Ward added. "I am optimistic that the fluidity of our network will be restored and that the first quarter hurdles are largely behind us. We have numerous productivity initiatives underway to reduce costs throughout this year and beyond. At the same time, we will continue to enhance our service and provide better products to our customers, keeping revenue initiatives as vibrant as they were in this past quarter."
 
On a consolidated basis, revenues were $2.02 billion versus $1.96 billion a year ago with operating income of $177 million compared to $212 million in first quarter of 2002. Operating income at the Company's international terminal business was $15 million, $4 million above 2002. First quarter consolidated operating income also included executive retirement expenses of $16 million.
 
On February 27, CSX completed the conveyance of its domestic shipping unit, CSX Lines, to the Carlyle Group. The pretax gain of $127 million will be recognized over 12 years which equals the duration of CSX's vessel subleases to the venture.
 
CSX Corporation, based in Jacksonville, Fla., owns the largest rail network in the eastern United States. CSX Transportation Inc. and its 34,000 employees provide rail transportation services over a 23,000 route-mile network in 23 states, the District of Columbia and two Canadian provinces. CSX Corporation also provides intermodal and global container terminal operations through other subsidiaries. More information is available at the company's website, .
www.csx.com
 
This press release and other statements by the Company contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act with respect to, among other items: projections and estimates of earnings, revenues, cost-savings, expenses, or other financial items; statements of management's plans, strategies and objectives for future operation, and management's expectations as to future performance and operations and the time by which objectives will be achieved; statements concerning proposed new products and services; and statements regarding future economic, industry or market conditions or performance. Forward-looking statements are typically identified by words or phrases such as "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "project," and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement. If the Company does update any forward-looking statement, no inference should be drawn that the Company will make additional updates with respect to that statement or any other forward-looking statements.
 
Forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, and actual performance or results could differ materially from that anticipated by these forward-looking statements. Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by these forward-looking statements include, among others: (i) the Company's success in implementing its financial and operational initiatives, (ii) changes in domestic or international economic or business conditions, including those affecting the rail industry (such as the impact of industry competition, conditions, performance and consolidation); (iii) legislative or regulatory changes; and (iv) the outcome of claims and litigation involving or affecting the Company. Other important assumptions and factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements are specified in the Company's SEC reports, accessible on the SEC's website at and the Company's website at .
www.sec.gov
www.csx.com
 
CSX CORPORATION
 
500 Water Street
15th Floor, C900
Jacksonville, FL 32202
http://www.csx.com
 
Contacts:
Adam Hollingsworth
 
Fredrik Eliasson
(904) 359-3305
 
The accompanying unaudited financial information should be read in conjunction with the Company's 2002 Annual Report on Form 10-K and any Current Reports on Form 8-K.
 
CSX Corporation and Subsidiaries                                                                                                                                  Quarterly
Flash
 
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENTS
 
(Dollars in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)
 
 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
 
 
 
 
 
CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENTS
(Dollars in Millions)
 
 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(Dollars in Millions)
 
 
BUSINESS SEGMENTS (Unaudited)
(1)
 
Quarters Ended Mar. 28, 2003, and Mar. 29, 2002
(Dollars in Millions)
 
 
SURFACE TRANSPORTATION TRAFFIC AND REVENUE
(1)
Loads (Thousands); Revenue (Dollars in Millions)
 
 
 
 
SURFACE TRANSPORTATION OPERATING RESULTS
 
Surface Transportation revenue increased $85 million or 5 percent from last year's first quarter. Operating expenses increased $110 million compared to the first quarter of 2002. This increase was primarily due to higher fuel prices, operational inefficiencies due to severe winter weather during 2003 and increased personal injury claims. Expenses were offset by $13 million of fuel surcharges billed to customers.
 
 
Merchandise
 
Merchandise revenues in the first quarter were up 6 percent on a 3 percent volume growth. All markets, except phosphates and fertilizers, showed year-over-year improvements.
 
 
Automotive
 
Automotive revenues grew $8 million or 4 percent over the prior year quarter. Growth was driven by increased vehicle production while extended linehauls resulted in yield improvements. Light truck and remarketed vehicles revenues are up year over year due to shifts to sports utility and crossover vehicles and aggressive manufacturer incentives.
 
Coal, Coke and Iron Ore
 
Abnormally harsh winter weather adversely affected lake loadings, as lakes were frozen and, therefore, inaccessible. Additionally, weakness in exports continued due to the reduced competitive standing of United States coal in the international market. These two factors more than offset the strength in utility coal shipments that occurred in the latter part of the quarter.
 
Intermodal
 
 
 
 
expenses were up $10 million in the first quarter of 2003 versus prior year. The Company experienced higher crew costs during the first quarter of 2003 due to inflation, higher volumes and costs related to the slowdown of the network caused by weather issues during the quarter. Expenses were also affected, upon the adoption of SFAS 143, "Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations," by the inclusion of approximately $2 million of costs relating to the removal of retired crossties from the system that were previously provided for through depreciation expense.
Labor and Fringe
 
expenses increased $23 million period over period, primarily due to increased personal injuries and derailments and other costs relating to the weather in the first quarter of 2003. Expenses were also affected, upon the adoption of SFAS 143 by the inclusion of approximately $2 million of costs relating to the removal of retired crossties from the system that were previously provided for through depreciation expense. Increased volumes at CSX Intermodal also affected this cost category this quarter.
Materials, Supplies and Other
 
were relatively flat, decreasing $1 million to $86 million in 2003.
Conrail Operating Fees, Rents and Services
 
increased $5 million, primarily due to increased car hire expenses caused partially by the network slowdown relating to abnormally harsh winter weather.
Building and Equipment Rent
 
costs were up $11 million over the prior year due to increased volumes at CSX Intermodal.
Inland Transportation
 
expense increased $8 millionnet primarily due to asset additions. Reductions in depreciation expense relating to the discontinuation of accruals for the removal of crossties upon the adoption of SFAS 143 were offset by the impact of reductions of certain asset lives as part of a group depreciation life study.
Depreciation
 
expenses were up significantly in the first quarter of 2003 as compared to 2002. Fuel prices increased expense by $50 million, but the net impact on operating income was $37 million since $13 million of fuel surcharges were billed to customers. The remaining $4 million increase was the result of volume and efficiency issues related to the severe winter weather during the first quarter of 2003.
Fuel
 
 
RAIL OPERATING STATISTICS
(1)
 
 
 
SURFACE TRANSPORTATION FUEL STATISTICS
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL TERMINALS
 
OPERATING RESULTS
 
International Terminals operating revenue decreased to $56 million for the 2003 quarter, from $58 million in the prior year quarter. This decrease was primarily a result of the discontinuance from the Transpacific trade by one of the major Hong Kong customers.
 
Operating expenses decreased to $41 million for the quarter, from $47 million in the prior year quarter, due to cost reduction initiatives implemented during the second half of 2002 and decreased volumes.
 
Operating income increased to $15 million for the quarter, from $11 million for the prior year quarter.
 
OPERATING STATISTICS
(1)
 
 
 
 
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS (Unaudited)
 
(Dollars in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts) (All Per Share Amounts Assume Dilution)
 
 
 
EBITDA (Unaudited)
 
Quarters Ended Mar. 28, 2003 and Mar. 29, 2002
(Dollars in Millions)
 
This computation of Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization (EBITDA) is presented because management believes it is a widely accepted financial indicator used by investors and analysts to evaluate companies on the basis of operating performance. This is not considered to be better information than is available in the Company's publicly available reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and does not conform with generally accepted accounting principles. CSX owns a 42 percent undivided interest in Conrail Inc., and operates over a portion of the Conrail territory under the terms of an operating agreement. Conrail loans its excess cash to its owners under loan agreements at market interest rates. The calculation of EBITDA combines CSX and Conrail financial data for analytical purposes only and is not intended to suggest that CSX has control over Conrail's operations.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EMPLOYEE COUNTS BY SEGMENTESTIMATED
 


